Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Cardiff University
 Unit of Assessment 26: Modern Languages and Linguistics
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Unit Context
 As for REF2014, UOA26 includes staff researching in Modern Languages and Welsh from two
 Schools based in the College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences. We share a distinctive
 interest in applied languages and in interdisciplinary, transnational research. A major development
 in 2014 was the creation of a new School of Modern Languages (ML), bringing together staff from
 the School of European Languages, Translation and Politics, staff specialising in languages
 pedagogy from the Centre for Lifelong Learning and colleagues in Japanese Studies from Cardiff
 Business School.
 This shift away from an exclusively European focus and the School’s involvement in the AHRC-
 funded ‘Transnationalizing Modern Languages’ project (2014-2017) provided the catalyst for a
 major review of research and teaching. The School recognised the need to shift to a transnational
 paradigm in order to equip staff and students with the intellectual toolkit necessary to address
 phenomena associated with global mobility, the pressures of globalisation and the evolving
 meaning of the post-national. Welsh researchers share ML’s understanding of the transnational
 as a concern with the circulation and translation of ideas, images and forms of expression between
 cultures. ML has subsequently invested in Arabic, Chinese, Polish and Portuguese, as well as
 Translation Studies. Along with Welsh, researchers work on 11 different language areas (Arabic,
 Chinese, Catalan, French, German, Italian, Irish, Japanese, Polish, Portuguese, Spanish), placing
 the Unit in a strong position to address the agenda of transnational modern languages.
 1.2 Research Strategy
 Our combined objectives set out in our submission to REF2014 were to:
    •   Develop a sustainable community of PGRs and increase our intake of international PGRs.
        The Unit has grown its total cohort to 30 research students, with 40 successful completions
        since 2014 by comparison with eight in REF2014. It has boosted its intake of externally
        funded students by over 50% in this assessment period and increased its international
        student numbers drawn from 20 nations.
    •   Significantly grow our income from grants. Our total for this cycle is £1,179,523 compared
        to £796,115 for REF2014, an increase of 48%.
    •   Extend our research base through strategic investment in teaching and research
        appointments at all levels to expand the Unit’s research FTE (our staff numbers have
        expanded by 15) and develop emerging areas of research excellence, including translation
        studies (see section 2).
    •   Contribute to the health of the discipline by developing our ECR culture. Attracting post-
        doctoral funding was a key ambition of the Unit. We secured five Leverhulme Early Career
        Research Fellowships worth £309,083, a 100% increase on the previous REF period. 26%
        of the Unit’s staff during this cycle were appointed as ECRs.
 The 35 researchers in the Unit are organised around five key areas of expertise facilitating
 interdisciplinary collaboration and transnational research. The groupings bring together staff at all
 career stages, including PGRs and ECRs (indicated with *) and some colleagues contribute to
 more than one theme. The success of this framework is evidenced by research funding (detailed
 by theme in section 3.2) and significant impact outcomes:
    •   Transnational Cultural and Visual Studies (16 FTEs and 13 PGRs) encompasses those
        working in Translation Studies identified in our REF2014 submission as a strategic growth
        area. The AHRC-funded Transnationalizing Modern Languages (TML) project has
        advocated reconceptualising translation as a continuum of mono/multilingual
        communication practices (Polezzi). Other work in translation explores Arabic retranslation
        as a microcosm of real-world translation practices (*Khalifa); analyses translation’s


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        influence on how literature travels (Wren-Owens); demonstrates the relevance of
        postcolonial translation studies to Eastern European literatures (Goluch); highlights the
        interconnections between performance studies, theatre studies and translation studies and
        explores multimediality in adaptation studies (Marinetti, Griffiths). Work in visual studies
        addresses transnational dimensions of television co-production (*Chung), socialist visual
        culture (Hodgin), expressions of minority identities across film and literature (Prout,
        Whitfield) and postcolonial film (Langford). *Hammond’s work investigates the design,
        trade and consumption of fabric in contemporary Francophone Creole cultures and
        *Ramadhani Mussa works on post-colonial, multicultural Italian identities.
    •   Literature and Literary Criticism (6 FTEs and 3 PGRs) comprises colleagues working on
        short fiction and creative criticism (Marks) and children's literature (Rosser), setting the
        Welsh language in comparative international context. Theoretically informed analysis of
        medieval literature is an area of strength (Foster Evans), including analysis of the
        relationship between medieval Welsh and English literature (*Callander). Expertise here
        extends to nineteenth and twentieth-century poetry and critical analysis (Altenberg, *Ifan).
    •   History and Heritage (10 FTEs and 4 PGRs) is a new area of strategic development since
        2014, with senior appointments bringing experience of working with the museum sector
        and generating impact in this area. History and heritage of conflict in the transnational
        context is a particular strength: Clarke works on the memory of victimhood and the
        relationship between the heritage of conflict and soft power, while Diamond and Gorrara
        explore the links between visual narratives (photography and graphic novels/comics) and
        memories of war. Further work addresses the history of Atlantic crossings and slavery
        (*Nelson, *Sanjurjo), Japanese translation and the reception of scientific texts (Meade),
        and the impact of globalisation on the construction of heritage in China (*Wang). Parker’s
        current project investigates the transnational legacy of 1848 revolutionary Heinrich Simon.
    •   Global Language-Based Area Studies (7 FTEs and 8 PGRs) embraces ML projects that
        study the culture, politics and societies of clearly demarcated areas, while also paying
        attention to transnational developments. Feldner and Vighi have been key voices in
        international debates on the future of global capitalism. Other work focuses on the Catalan
        nationalist movement within an evolving European context (Dowling), the spread of radical
        French thinking on work and a reassessment of the legacy of the Situationist International
        (Hemmens), the interlinkages between French trade unions and European directives on
        social dialogue (Parsons), and both the multilateralisation and the increasing regional
        focus of French-led peacekeeping missions in the Sahel (Cumming). Impactful research
        on mentoring shows how bi- and multilingualism are now central to language education in
        Wales (Gorrara).
    •   Linguistics and sociolinguistics, including language policy and planning (3 FTEs and 7
        PGRs) groups together research expertise in language policy and planning and coheres
        around the Language, Policy and Planning Research Unit (LPPRU) in the School of Welsh
        with significant impact. Interdisciplinary work examines the office of the Language
        Commissioner and the concept of linguistic justice (Mac Giolla Chríost), the
        Hispanicisation of Welsh in Patagonia (Rees), and language acquisition and transmission
        (Evas, Morris, Rees).
 1.3 Future Research Strategy
 The Unit seeks to enhance the work of these research groupings and contribute to the ongoing
 development of transnational modern languages through collaborative and cross-disciplinary
 projects and researcher development. We will continue to lead the field in transnational modern
 languages and further extend the scope of our geographical interests. We will build on our ECR
 culture and deepen our existing research and PGR supervision collaborations by expanding our
 international networks, collaborative projects and exchanges. We propose to draw on expertise of
 colleagues within Cardiff University Press (Altenberg) to prepare staff for changes to open access
 monographs. We will continue to attract external funding and have plans to diversify our funding



                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sources beyond traditional UKRI funders and increase the number of researchers at all career
 stages making successful grant applications.
 Initiatives within our research groups which will underpin delivery of this strategy are to:
    •   increase research capacity in languages pedagogy and multilingualism, including the
        creation of a hub in the School of Welsh (Morris). Ongoing research into the acquisition of
        Welsh and the teaching and learning of Welsh will contribute to a new shared master’s in
        Additional Language Acquisition. We will also extend the research-focused activities of the
        MFL Student Mentoring Project (Gorrara).
    •   build on the success of our visiting scholars programme (39 researchers in this REF period)
        and our extensive collaborations with non-academic partners to grow the Unit’s research
        networks and grant applications with an emphasis on ECR leadership and PhD
        collaborative awards. This will include projects on the heritage of slavery (*Hammond),
        memory politics in war and peace museums (Clarke) and prison publishing in the UK and
        South America (Whitfield).
    •   progress projects on linguistic justice (Mac Giolla Chríost), the European Short Fiction
        Network and ERC-funded project on youth engagement in European language
        preservation, including work on Welsh-language children's literature (Rosser).
    •   transnationalise our PhD research and create two new PhD pathways: PhD by practice in
        Translation and Cultural Studies and PhD by publication. We will also build on our new MA
        in Global Cultures, which is a conduit to our PhD programmes, with a further cross-
        disciplinary MA in Global Heritage Studies with other Schools in the College.
 1.4 Impact Strategy
 Further to the success of the impact submission in REF2014, we have embedded a robust
 approach to generating impact. The introduction of a workload allocation dedicated to impact
 activities and targeted funding has resulted in an exponential growth of impact-related activity
 across the Unit. The majority of our researchers engage beyond the academy with strong
 pathways to impact. We have had success with College seedcorn funding (£11,895) and the
 University’s ESRC Impact Accelerator Account funds (£37,328) allowing Cumming, Diamond,
 Gorrara, Prout and Mac Giolla Chríost (£3,010 shared with Cardiff School of Law and Politics)
 to progress key dissemination work for tangible impact outcomes (see section 4).
 The Unit is committed to co-production with creative partners across our areas of expertise.
 Colleagues have developed partnership working with a range of domestic and overseas cultural
 policy makers and museum and media professionals. Close working relationships exist with
 national, UK-level and international bodies, such as Cardiff Council, the Welsh Assembly, the
 Welsh Book Council, Welsh National Opera, Welsh National Theatre, Arts Council Wales, Cadw
 (the Welsh Government’s historic environment service), museums in the heritage sector both in
 the UK and abroad, such as National Museum of Wales and the Musée de la Libération de Paris.
 In 2016, Polezzi co-produced an interactive/immersive exhibition across five sites (Rome, London,
 New York, Melbourne and Tunis) which communicated the findings of the TML project. Altenberg
 and Prout contributed to the design and content of the Lakes International Comic Arts Festival
 2015, and Prout collaborates with Welsh and Spanish comic artists visualising minority identities.
 In 2017, he worked with comic artists to create an exhibition on issues of social care and care of
 the elderly in Cardiff and produced a website entitled ‘All Is Not Well’. Diamond’s collaborations
 with media and museum professionals disseminating her research on the Second World War in
 France is an impact case study.
 Key impact work also derives from our sustained engagement with law makers and policy actors
 in Welsh-language legislation, public policy and practice. Welsh research has transformed Welsh
 Government policy in a number of fields, including language transmission (Evas, Morris), Welsh
 language pedagogy (Morris, Rees), the practices of national organisations such as the Welsh
 Books Council (Rosser) and the National Centre for Learning Welsh (Morris, Rees), and
 language law (Mac Giolla Chríost). ESRC-funded work on minority languages and language



                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 rights has informed policy deliberations at UK Parliamentary and European levels as indicated in
 Mac Giolla Chríost’s case study.
 We also work extensively with educational professionals and policy makers in ML language
 promotion. Polezzi collaborates with University of Namibia, University of Zambia, University of
 Kyambogo Uganda, California State University, Long Beach and, in 2017, led Translation Studies
 staff in the creation of a Massive Open Online Course ‘Working with Translation’ on the
 FutureLearn platform, followed by over 46,000 people from 180 different countries. Such work
 informs partnerships with education policy makers concerned about falling numbers studying
 languages in schools. Polezzi’s policy statement ‘Reframing Language Education for a Global
 Future’ and her participation in the ‘Salzburg Statement for a Multilingual World’ as part of the TML
 team made recommendations on language sensitisation. Gorrara’s MFL Student Mentoring
 Project has resulted in boosting ML language take up at GCSE in Wales and England and is an
 impact case study.
 1.5 Future Impact Strategy
 As impact outcomes tend to be fluid, during the coming REF cycle, the Unit will support ongoing
 projects as well as fostering nascent projects and horizon scanning for the future. It will encourage
 staff to follow up opportunities at local, regional, national and international levels. The Unit will
 embed knowledge exchange and non-academic partners into its activities by asking each area of
 research expertise to nominate relevant stakeholders to be their impact advisors. We will provide
 colleagues with a programme of social media training to enable them to reach a wider range of
 stakeholders. The Unit has committed to:
     • build on our shared working in relation to engagement with schools by supporting
         languages, especially Welsh, in the new curriculum for Wales (due for launch in 2022);
         contribute to developing school resources and continuous professional development for
         ML teachers in the primary sector; work with Routes into Languages Cymru to create a
         network of Language Champion School Governors; support international languages (ML)
         in secondary schools through mentoring, and generate research that will inform Welsh
         language policy (Cymraeg 2050), including work on Welsh-language reading tests.
     • encourage ECRs to embed impact into research plans by offering funding support and
         targeted advice, including for our project on Atlantic slavery involving three ECRs which
         promises significant impact outcomes (*Hammond, *Nelson, *Sanjurjo).
 1.6 Open Research
 All academic and professional services research management staff have been trained by
 University library services staff on funder access requirements and all of our submitted staff have
 ORCID iDs. Our Unit has achieved full compliance for open access for the entire census
 period, exceeding REF requirements. At Cardiff, we lead in this area with Altenberg as the chief
 Academic Officer for the Monograph Commissioning Panel of Cardiff University Press, an OA
 publisher. Eleven of the Unit’s outputs have gold open access.
 Research integrity training is mandatory for all academic staff and PGR students. The Unit has
 two dedicated research ethics officers (for Welsh and ML) who each convene a School committee
 and who also act as research integrity leads attached to the University’s Open Research Integrity
 and Ethics Committee. In both ML and Welsh, the Ethics committee comprises eight staff
 members across all career stages, including an ECR, a member of research staff outside the
 School and an external member. In ML, the external advisor is a member of the senior leadership
 team in a local further education college and, in Welsh, it is the Head of the Welsh Language
 Legislation Branch in the Welsh Language Unit in the Welsh Government. Committees assess
 project applications from undergraduate (year abroad, final year dissertation) and postgraduate
 (taught and research) students through to all research staff, and any teaching-focused projects
 with a research element. When necessary, the committees insist on changes to projects to ensure
 compliance with ethical and legal frameworks. For example, the committee closely scrutinised
 Whitfield’s work in a local prison and made sure his project adhered to appropriate ethics
 processes. When research is sensitive and involves subjects with links to proscribed organisations
 (Mac Giolla Chríost) or vulnerable groups such as children (Morris), expert advice is sourced
 from relevant external bodies.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People
 2.1 Staffing Strategy
 The Unit’s staffing strategy is linked to our ambition to deepen and extend our five areas of
 research expertise which are enriched by a transnational ethos that values diverse ideas. We take
 action to ensure that we employ a range of academics at all career stages and from a range of
 backgrounds. In line with our REF2014 strategy to make strategic appointments and extend our
 expertise in Translation Studies, the Unit made three appointments (two ECRs and one professor)
 in this area (*Khalifa, Meade, Polezzi).
 In anticipation of the retirement and departure of members of staff in the area of Welsh linguistics
 and sociolinguistics, two members of the Unit (Morris, Rees), employed as research assistants in
 REF2014, became Category A members of staff, boosting expertise in this area. The appointment
 of a lecturer in medieval literature (*Callander) and an early career academic in literary theory
 (*Ifan) in Welsh in 2019 further developed the Welsh literature and literary criticism research area.
 In line with our current strategic priorities (see section 1.3), staff recently recruited to ML
 demonstrate a commitment to its transnational vision and have expanded its expertise beyond
 Europe. Appointments made in Chinese, Japanese and Portuguese include Meade on the role of
 translation in the development of Japanese science, *Wang and *Chung on the globalisation of
 Chinese heritage and culture and *Nelson and *Sanjurjo on the transatlantic slave trade. Other
 appointments with transnational interests include *Hammond who works on Haiti and French
 colonialism, Polezzi and *Ramadhani Mussa on Italian diaspora, Clarke on the memory of
 disputed border territories in Poland, Pakistan and Armenia, and Whitfield on drug cultures in
 South America. Investment in translation studies was a strategic response to PhD demand for
 translation in Arabic-related contexts (*Khalifa). A further three professorial appointments (Clarke,
 Diamond, and Parker) have brought contacts with non-academic partners, including museums
 (On Flanders Fields, Ypres and the Musée de la Libération de Paris). Diamond’s impact
 experience has been central to ML’s strategy since REF2014, supporting the development of
 nascent impact projects, two of which have successfully matured for this REF.
 In a conscious effort to promote equality and diversify in our staff base, we have instituted gender
 parity on interview panels and reworded recruitment materials to encourage a diverse applicant
 field. This has contributed to the appointment of eight women and five men, as well as a greater
 ethnic diversity, range of backgrounds and internationalism in the Unit. We strive for parity in
 leadership roles which are now more equally divided between women and men, with women
 having held or holding key leadership roles across the Unit, including as Head of School (Davies,
 Gorrara, Griffiths, Langford), Deputy Head of School (Diamond, Polezzi, Rosser, Wren-
 Owens), Director of Teaching and Learning (Naylor, Wren-Owens), and Director of Research
 and Impact (Diamond, Polezzi).
 2.2 Progression and Promotion
 Our commitment to diversity and inclusion means that we are uncompromising in our endeavour
 to make our Unit a great place to work for all, whatever one’s gender, race, ethnicity, sexual
 orientation, age or religion. We recognise the substantial barriers that exist to participation and
 wellbeing that intersect across protected characteristics and are working to combat them. We
 ensure that routes of progression for academic staff from lecturer to senior lecturer, reader and
 professor are open, fair and equitable. Internal promotion panels are systematically inclusive of
 male and female professors and line managers are trained to recognise high performance,
 advising and mentoring on promotion opportunities accordingly.
 The Unit mobilises the University’s performance development reviews (PDR) processes (see
 Institutional Statement 3.2.4) to identify staff development needs and as a tool to monitor and
 encourage readiness for promotion. New staff and postdoctoral research staff complete their
 probationary period prior to undergoing PDR. Probationary staff have regular meetings during the
 probationary period (three months, five months, nine months) as well as informal meetings with
 their line manager and probation manager. Annual research planning meetings are held with the
 Director of Research and Head of School where they set short-, medium- and long-term research
 targets. These discussions feed into PDR meetings when line managers take care to consider
 staff wellbeing and work/life balance issues in the setting of research objectives to ensure that

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 goals are achievable and that colleagues have adequate support. All staff also have a research
 mentor. Senior staff mentor junior staff and meet their mentees at least four times a year. This
 mentoring process ensures staff feel supported throughout the year and provides a mechanism
 for them to raise issues, including those relating to workload outside of formal line management.
 In preparation for the REF, a research reading group was convened composed of senior
 colleagues who used University guidance and training to evaluate quality. In order to capitalise on
 the skills gained in this reading process, the emphasis shifted over time to a more developmental
 approach. Working drafts were submitted for constructive feedback, allowing colleagues to
 improve their submissions and, in several cases, this aided promotion. For example, Wren-Owens
 mentored two ECRs, supporting them to implement suggestions made by the reading group which
 then allowed their articles to be placed in peer-reviewed journals (*Khalifa, *Ramadhani Musa).
 During this REF cycle, 40% of staff have gained promotion, with three being promoted more than
 once: five moved from lecturer to senior lecturer; six from senior lecturer to reader; and three
 gained a promotion to personal chair. These promotions have shifted the seniority profile leading
 to the Unit’s current emphasis on the recruitment of ECRs to support succession planning. The
 Unit has appointed eight ECRs; three were Leverhulme Fellows ensuring research continuity
 (*Hammond, Hemmens, Whitfield), one was a teaching and scholarship lecturer on a temporary
 contract (*Nelson) and five others were appointed outright, two on the University’s flagship
 Disglair programme (see Institutional Statement 2.1.5) (*Callander, *Chung, *Ifan (Disglair),
 *Khalifa, *Sanjurjo (Disglair)). At a senior institutional level, in 2019, Gorrara was the first
 University Dean of Research Environment and Culture, with a portfolio including a focus on
 research-only and ECR staff (2019-21).
 Staff satisfaction is high. The institutional staff survey results show 81% positive staff satisfaction
 (well above the averages for both the University and the College) and this is further evidenced by
 low turnover rates across the Unit. Eleven colleagues have more than 15 years in service.
 The opportunity to develop a profile for research leadership is open to everyone. For example, two
 Leverhulme Fellows (Bassi and Hemmens) and an ECR (*Khalifa) have led research groups,
 sat on Research Committees, and acted as academic leads for visiting scholars (Marks, Meade
 and Whitfield), enabling these ECRs and more junior colleagues to gain leadership experience.
 By encouraging early career staff (as well as PhD students) to participate actively in the
 organisation of research and to contribute to the elaboration of the Unit’s research strategy, we
 are implementing an inclusive approach that ensures diversity and opportunity within our research
 culture.
 The Unit pays particular attention to the development of ECRs. Over and above the support,
 training and development provided by the University (see Institutional Statement 3.3), ECRs are
 given additional support for the duration of their probation period in the form of a protected,
 personal budget of £3,000 per annum for three years. ECRs have the option to accelerate
 promotion from grade 6 to grade 7 should they fulfil the criteria early. Atkin chose promotion to
 senior lecturer, whereas Meade opted to retain probationary status in order to access additional
 research funds. In this REF cycle, our ECR community has included our Leverhulme postdoctoral
 fellows (Bassi, Hemmens, *Hammond, *Ramadhani Mussa, Whitfield) who have contributed
 to workshops and interacted with our postgraduate research community, organising reading and
 writing group activities (Bassi, *Hammond). The Unit is alert to EDI issues in relation to ECRs’
 need for travel and provides additional financial support when requested and justified.
 Seven colleagues have participated in the Cardiff Researcher Programme for staff employed on
 research-only contracts, which includes workshops, online modules and one-to-one coaching in
 65 topics (see Institutional Statement 3.3). Seven colleagues have also participated in the
 University’s Cardiff Futures development programme (see Institutional Statement 3.2.4), led by
 the Vice Chancellor, for ‘rising stars’ (Atkin, Evas, Griffiths, Hennemann, *Khalifa, *Wang,
 Wren-Owens). Griffiths has since progressed to become Head of Modern Languages and Wren-
 Owens to Director of Postgraduate Research in Modern Languages.




                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3 Funding Research and Allocating Dedicated Research Time
 The Unit sets aside £20,000 annually for research and training, also supporting costs arising from
 travel for research, conference attendance, archival/library research, copyright fees or
 impact/engagement activities. Staff can draw on the research and training budget to support
 pathways to research impact and impact activity itself as in the case of Diamond’s partnership
 with a French museum set out in her impact case study. Many of our staff training workshops have
 focused on our strategic priorities (see section 1.2) designed to boost output quality and increase
 grant capture. Some were delivered by staff in the Unit. Topics included writing and peer-reviewing
 research grants (Polezzi), co-authoring (Clarke), using social media to promote research, Open
 Access and journal editing (Altenberg). Impact related sessions have shared best practice, as
 well as mainstreaming and showcasing REF-facing impact case study work. Gorrara presented
 on schools’ engagement and Diamond on working with the museum sector. Bespoke Welsh-
 medium training is available.
 The Unit operates the University’s flexible workload allocation model which protects research time.
 Research leadership and research management are recognised in the model, as are external
 research engagement and leadership activities (e.g. sitting on external panels of expertise, journal
 editorships and participating in advisory panels: see section 4.1 for further details). In 2019, three
 members of staff were relieved from academic administration to complete projects, such as a
 monograph (Feldner, Prout, Vighi). Impact and engagement receive a specific workload
 allocation and staff qualify for additional workload points if their involvement in a project
 corresponds to School strategy. This allowed Cumming to progress his work on the monitoring
 and evaluation of non-governmental development organisations (NGDOs, see section 4.2).
 Staff are encouraged to take advantage of the Cardiff University undergraduate research
 opportunity project (CUROP) scheme offering eight-week paid placements for the completion of
 research project. Staff mobilise these placements to build research capacity and links to impact
 while students gain research skills. Their experience sometimes leads them to pursue
 independent research. During this REF cycle, the Unit was awarded 27 placements. Examples
 include Vardopolou’s compilation of spreadsheets of the global translations of Tabucchi’s works
 for Wren-Owens enabling analysis of translation trends for a chapter of her submitted monograph
 on ‘Mapping Global Translations of Tabucchi’. Pearce and Creamer supported Morris’s research
 into analysing Welsh learners' speech.
 Research/impact leave operates both at University (see Institutional Statement 2.1.5) and School
 level across the Unit and has made it possible for colleagues to be relieved from administrative
 and teaching duties to devote themselves to research for extended periods. School panels,
 reflecting diversity and gender equality, convene to select applications. Twenty members of staff
 across the Unit have been awarded research leave ranging from six months to two years since
 REF2014. Colleagues mobilised leave in a variety of ways: to complete monographs (Griffiths,
 Wren-Owens) or substantial articles (Cumming, Gorrara, Marinetti) and undertake fieldwork
 abroad (Parsons). School leave was also made available to a colleague needing to spend time
 abroad to progress an impact project in a Parisian museum (Diamond). In 2019, the Unit gained
 two ECR University-wide Disglair posts; one enabled a colleague to prepare a successful AHRC
 grant on prison writing (Whitfield), another for the completion of a monograph and the preparation
 of a grant proposal on short fiction and creative criticism (Marks).
 2.4 Research Students
 The Unit has doubled its PGR numbers in this REF cycle from an average cohort of 15 students
 to 30 students, establishing a sustainable research community with a regular intake of six students
 per year. Our PGRs have been recruited from across 20 countries and 20 languages over the last
 seven years. Over half of those we recruit are international students. The degree to which studies
 are undertaken through the medium of Welsh or English is tailored to the individual. While some
 come post-MA, a proportion are mature students adding diversity of age as well as background to
 our PGR community.
 The Unit has increased its success with external funders, including AHRC DTP and ESRC DTC,
 by comparison with REF2014. We led on five South West and Wales (SWW) AHRC DTP co-
 supervisions, two outright AHRC studentships, and an AHRC collaborative award with the BBC

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on radio adaptation. A total of 10 Wales ESRC DTC studentships were shared between ML and
 Politics, five were collaborative awards with partners including the Welsh Government, European
 Trade Union Institute, and Arts Council of Wales. Other PGRs secured a variety of funding awards:
 two held Cardiff University President’s Research Scholarships; one secured an International
 Research Student’s Scholarship; an internal bursary for a project on translation, adaptation and
 localisation of comics; six were awarded Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol scholarships; other funders
 include Chilian, Algerian, Saudi Arabian and Irish governments, Iranian University, the Jack Kent
 Cooke Foundation and the Nordic Federation of Public Administration. In 2016, Beaney won
 Cardiff University’s Ursula Henriques Scholarship for a MPhil, positioning her to secure AHRC
 DTP funding subsequently. Bursaries from the Sasakawa Foundation, amounting to £30,000,
 were allocated to Hayes for his work on a cultural analysis of communication technologies in
 contemporary Japan 2014-2016, and for Hall on gender relations, parenting and education in post-
 modern Japan in 2016-2017. Our students received over £35,000 of supplementary funding from
 international sources. Two further collaborative awards are an AHRC doctoral studentship with
 the Imperial War Museum and the School of Journalism, and an ESRC doctoral studentship with
 the School of Law and Politics, involving the Flanders Fields Museum, Belgium (commencing
 Autumn 2020).
 Supervisors share best practice on effective supervision, monitoring processes and chairing vivas.
 The Unit aims for a model of 50/50 joint supervision. Where expertise allows, we integrate junior
 staff in supervisory teams so that they gain supervisory skills and experience. PRES scores of 90-
 100% satisfaction confirm the quality of supervision as does the over 400% increase in completion
 rates from eight to 40 across this REF cycle. The Unit’s 100% compliance with robust progress
 monitoring has been central to supporting timely submission. Students work to key engagement
 points when they report on their progress. From year 1 onwards, a ‘mini-viva’ review is conducted
 by an academic outside the supervisory team, allowing them to learn what to expect from the viva.
 Directors of Postgraduate Research monitor students in regular one-to-ones and support their
 self-organised well-being activities (sports groups, writing retreats). In Covid-19, the Unit fostered
 an environment of transparency, providing clear and frequent communications to students to
 alleviate anxiety.
 PGRs are integrated into all aspects of our research culture. They gain practical experience as
 PGR representatives on the Board of Postgraduate Studies, on research committees and as
 deputies supporting the research leads of our five areas of expertise. We offer students dedicated
 workspaces to encourage their presence on campus, so they are available to participate in
 research activities. Funding is available at School and University levels for workshops as well as
 from external funders. Events include a British Association for Applied Linguistics, a Cambridge
 University Press-sponsored seminar on new pluri-lingual pathways for integration (2016,
 Higham); a session at the University’s ESRC Festival of Science on raising bilingual and
 multilingual children in Wales (2017, Pankakoski); £500 from the Institute for Modern Languages
 Research for a workshop on ‘Transnational Memory, Translation and Adaptation’ (2018,
 Warmsley) and a collaboration of three PGRs were awarded £1,000 from the Creative
 Multilingualism strand of the AHRC Open World Research Initiative to organise a conference with
 researchers, policy makers and schools (2019, Arfon, Jepson, Pankakoski).
 This census period has seen a shift towards online and in-house specialist training, giving students
 more flexibility. Each student’s training needs are assessed individually and updated regularly
 throughout their doctoral journey. Tailored workshops have included article writing, the HE sector
 beyond Europe, how to get published, and creating impact from your research. Welsh-medium in-
 house training is available. Students supported by the AHRC SWW DTP can take up training
 offered by partners beyond Cardiff. Those funded by the ESRC DTC have access to workshops
 offered by the Wales Institute of Social and Economic Research and Data and major annual
 training conferences where students access sessions on research methodologies across a large
 interdisciplinary spectrum. The quality of the Unit’s training is recognised by its inclusion in the
 AHRC DTP/ESRC DTC training programmes.
 PGRs have partnered with senior staff to gain experience of, and training in, impact. Diamond
 facilitated high calibre placements for Sené at Like a Shot productions making the documentary
 ‘Witness to War’ for the Discovery channel, and for Warmsley at the Musée de la Libération de

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Paris. The Unit’s success in getting PGRs into research-related careers is evidenced by our
 destination data. PGRs who completed during this REF cycle went into University teaching posts
 in the UK (Liverpool, Swansea, Cardiff) and abroad (Ó Conaill in Cork and Heyderian in Iran), as
 well as securing postdoctoral positions funded by H2020, ESRC and AHRC (e.g. Sené).
 2.5 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 Based on feedback from our Athena Swan application in 2018, we are working to create as
 inclusive an environment as possible, with a view to a further application. One of the lessons learnt
 in collating the data was that we need to monitor carefully our PGR intake, as well as staff
 recruitment and promotions, to ensure gender equality. Since our application, we have enshrined
 our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusivity in our approach to recruitment and career
 progression. Our Heads of School have developed mainstreaming strategies that have increased
 our male PGR student intake from 29% to 43% and improved promotion outcomes for our male
 colleagues, with two successful promotions from lecturer to SL and one successful promotion from
 SL to reader in the past two years.
 EDI is a standing item for all our committees, and equality and diversity events are held each year,
 including the annual Equality and Diversity lecture in ML (in 2014, Laura Miles, Bradford College,
 Chair of University and College Union's LGBT Committee, spoke on 'Transgender Oppression and
 Resistance’). The minuting of all meetings available online guarantees transparency. Gender
 parity is practised on School promotion panels. In committees where key decisions around
 research are made, where possible, members with intersectional protected characteristics are
 included. An appeal process is in place for all decision-making committees to guarantee
 transparency and fairness.
 Every effort is made to hold research events on different days and at varying times so that
 colleagues juggling caring responsibilities can attend. No meetings are held after 16:00. The Unit
 is flexible about staff and student absence during term time for research purposes, as long as
 appropriate cover is arranged. In allocating research funds, the need for people with caring
 responsibilities to take more expensive time-appropriate flights is acknowledged. The Unit
 routinely considers cases for working adjustments for all categories of staff. Return to work
 meetings are held with the line manager and referrals are made to occupational health where
 appropriate. Stress risk assessments are carried out where pressures of work have been cited as
 contributing to absence. Maternity leave returners have a meeting with Heads of School and
 keeping in touch days can be used for research. Generous workload allocations are made in cases
 where colleagues need support with managing long-term illness or caring responsibilities. One
 colleague secured permission to respond to emails only at certain hours of the day and was given
 support with scribing. The Unit also accommodates staff needing single occupancy space for
 breast feeding and expressing milk at work, as well as for private religious observance.
 The Unit has followed the University’s REF2021 Code of Practice in order to ensure an inclusive
 REF preparation process. Gender parity has been ensured on REF reading groups assessing
 outputs. Reviewers have attended training to address issues of unconscious bias and inclusion,
 with reviewing processes robustly monitored. The Institutional Code of Practice has been applied
 robustly in relation to the selection of REF outputs to ensure an equitable distribution across career
 stages and research areas.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Research Income
 The Unit’s 48% increase in research grant capture by comparison with the last REF period reflects
 its success in attracting funding from a diverse range of funders including: £248,415 (AHRC),
 £477,983 (Leverhulme), £83,032 (Welsh government) and £288,096 (ESRC). This demonstrates
 that initiatives implemented by the Unit during this cycle have achieved positive outcomes. Senior
 colleagues were encouraged to engage actively with UKRI via Peer Review Colleges (Griffiths,
 Polezzi, Vighi), helping cascade knowledge about successful grant applications through the Unit,
 via research mentoring conversations and PDRs. The experience of senior staff is also passed on
 in regular 'research encounters' that focus on specific funders and development of ideas for
 projects. Senior colleagues also offer targeted feedback on grant proposals regularly. ECRs and

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 junior colleagues have developed networks focused on cross-College collaboration where we
 have critical mass in specific fields (e.g. *Hammond on the cultural heritage of slavery).
 Internal showcasing of successful projects via the website and School-based research newsletters
 has helped to share good practice acquired from regular exchanges between Directors of Impact
 from cognate disciplines. Email updates on funding opportunities and training are provided, both
 centrally and by discipline-specific research officers. Staff can access our dedicated discipline-
 specific expertise for support with research grant writing. Similarly, for expertise relating to applied
 research and impact applications, the Unit can draw on a specialist University impact team. Each
 School’s research leadership team has integrated impact into a Director of Research and Impact
 position to streamline research and impact. One-to-one discussions are held with staff during the
 initial planning stages of their research to ensure that impact development is embedded in their
 project design. Staff report on their impact activities at their annual research meetings, allowing
 for promising projects to be identified. An example is Whitfield’s work on prisoner publishing.
 Pitched during one of these meetings, it was taken forward for active development subsequently.
 These meetings offer colleagues an opportunity to raise research-related EDI issues. Outcomes
 to address them have included those listed in section 2.5. Workload adjustments or changes to
 working patterns can also be made.
 Our ambition to boost the ECR culture, set out in our 2014 research strategy (see section 1.1),
 has been highly effective. Our five Leverhulme Fellowships (£309,083) represent a 100% increase
 in post-doctoral funding compared to the previous cycle. Matched funding support from our
 College helped us gain our first two Leverhulme Fellowships in 2014-2015 (Hemmens, Bassi)
 followed by three further successes (*Hammond, Whitfield, *Ramadhani Mussa). The projects
 reflect the growing consolidation of our transnational interests beyond Europe, including Bassi
 (2014-15) ‘Translating Gay Liberation’: the Negotiation of Sexual Identities and Political Struggle
 between the United States and Italy’ and *Ramadhani Mussa (2018-2019) on ‘Language, Mobility
 and Identity among the Zigula (Somali Bantu)’. In 2020, we successfully secured new post-
 doctoral funding to attract two Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fellowships on Italian culture in higher
 education and on Polish gender narratives (Chojnicka and Chinanese). Three of our Leverhulme
 Fellows secured permanent lecturer posts in the Unit and produced monographs (*Hammond,
 Hemmens, Whitfield). Bassi went on to a lectureship at Yale University.
 3.2 Income Relating to Research Themes
 Both Literature and Literary Criticism and Linguistics and Sociolinguistics as areas of expertise in
 the Unit have been successful in collaborating with others on significant research projects. These
 include the participation of Evas and Morris on the AHRC/ESRC-sponsored project on a national
 corpus of contemporary Welsh (2016-2020; £1.8m; £38,000 to the Unit), led by Knight (Cardiff
 UOA27). This built upon research led by Mac Giolla Chríost on the teaching and learning of the
 Welsh language (2010-2012; total award value £303,000). Rosser is participating in the University
 College Dublin European Research Council-sponsored project on youth engagement in European
 language preservation (2020-2025; total award value €1.27m; £3,500 to the Unit). Further work in
 these research areas has included completion of the ESRC-sponsored project (£343,000; 2012-
 2015) on the office of the language commissioner in international contexts (Mac Giolla Chríost).
 Applied research in the School of Welsh has continued to attract sponsorship from non-UKRI
 bodies, including Welsh Government monies (£54,000) to research the influence of social and
 psychological factors on the inter-generational transmission of the Welsh language (2015-17).
 Public policy implications were taken forward by Evas who was seconded, and then took up a
 permanent position, with the Welsh Government. This area has significant potential to grow
 research income via collaborative, international partnerships with the Irish Government (2020-
 2022; £76,000) for work on linguistic justice in the Irish context (Mac Giolla Chríost).
 Applied research is particularly apparent in Global Language-based Area Studies, including a
 Leverhulme Project (Cumming, £90,842) in collaboration with Chatham House and Portsmouth
 University on the nature of and drivers behind France’s military operations in Mali and the Western
 Sahel. It showed how France legitimated its interventions through strategic narratives and the
 concept of coalition-building. Cumming also secured funds from the ESRC IAA (2015-2017;
 £2,848) for his monitoring and evaluation toolkit for NGDOs which will be a future impact case
 study. Gorrara obtained substantial Welsh Government and HEFCW funding for her MFL Student

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mentoring Project: £1,109,602 (2015-20). Designated research funding came on stream with a
 new grant of £230,000 (from March 2020). The project is the basis of an impact case study.
 Whitfield’s collaborative project with University of Surrey (2017-2019), dealing with ‘Prisoner
 publishing: supporting rehabilitation and reform through innovative arts-based programmes’ in the
 UK and Mexico attracted AHRC follow-on funding (2020-2021; £78,696; £43,618 to Cardiff). It
 promises to deliver research and impact outcomes for the next REF cycle with an AHRC-funded
 BBC documentary in preparation.
 Transnational Cultural and Visual Studies has generated research with important implications for
 the future ML landscape. Polezzi’s research funded by the AHRC’s ‘Translating Cultures’ theme
 and the UKRI’s Global Challenges Research Fund has been central to ‘Transnationalizing Modern
 Languages: Mobility, Identity and Translation in Modern Italian Cultures’ (2015-2017, £1,490,812;
 £137,141 to Cardiff) followed by ‘Transnationalizing Modern Languages: Global Challenges’
 (2016-2018; £187,527; £147,929 to Cardiff). The project developed strands on Italian-American
 and Italian-Australian cultures, along with translation, multilingualism and health communication
 involving inter- and trans-disciplinary collaboration with Cardiff University’s Phoenix Project, the
 School of Medicine and the University of Namibia’s School of Languages. The notion of ‘language
 indifference’ she developed is a key finding of the AHRC’s ‘Translating Cultures’ scheme. Atkin
 secured £16,439 for an AHRC funded network project on ‘Translating the literatures of small
 European Nations’ (2014-2017; £149,023) exploring Bosnian, Catalan, Czech, Dutch, Maltese,
 Polish, Portuguese, Swedish and Serbian case studies. Its findings challenged both the narratives
 of uniqueness that arise from discrete national approaches and the narrative of marginalisation
 that prevail in the study of world literature.
 Central to the History and Heritage research area is work with museums. Diamond’s co-working
 with curators enabled her to secure two ESRC IAA grants (2017-2020; £30,500) for advisory and
 curatorial work in Paris on the Second World War, with travel paid by the museum (see impact
 case study). Clarke is visiting researcher on the Mae Curie RISE project ‘Memory Across Borders:
 Dealing with the Legacy of Disputed Territories (DisTerrMem)’ (€533,600; to January 2022). Other
 externally funded research includes Meade’s ESRC collaboration with Cardiff University’s History
 department on ‘The Japanese scientist in Japan and in the world: de-centering the history of
 Science’ (2018-2020; £23,346; £10,457 to Cardiff) and Parker’s ongoing Leverhulme project
 (£354,525) on ‘Double Agent: Heinrich Simon’s Constitutional Mission in Neo-Absolutist Prussia’
 will enhance understandings of the 1848 revolution in Germany (to October 2022). Dowling is
 part of a consortium of Spanish historians from universities in Barcelona and Valencia who have
 secured €30,000 from the Spanish Ministry of Science and Innovation on ‘State and National
 Dynamics in Spain 1931-1978’ (2020-2023).
 3.3 Academic Infrastructure
 The University’s Special Collections and Archives is of significant value to researchers in the Unit.
 The Welsh language holdings of the children's literature collection and the Salisbury collection of
 c.13,000 books of Welsh and Celtic interest have been crucial to Rosser's monograph on 19th
 century children's literature in Welsh ('Darllen y Dychymyg' - Eng. 'Reading the Imagination'). The
 photo-magazine collections (The War Illustrated, Picture Post) informed Gorrara’s research on
 photography and reconstruction after the Second World War. Publications on Spanish residential
 spaces in comics (Prout) and work on Argentine representations of the Falklands War (Altenberg)
 draw on the Santander Collection of Hispanic Comics and Graphic Literature, which has attracted
 interest from comics specialists at KU Leuven, one of Cardiff’s strategic partners. The Barbier
 archive, a collection relating to a Victorian era Franco-British family centring on Paul Barbier, the
 first professor of French at the University, has inspired a collaborative project on the history of
 University-level French teaching with other scholars of the history of modern languages teaching
 in the UK (including Diamond).
 Research projects in ML have access to facilities that have been funded by the Goethe Institute,
 the Spanish Embassy Department for Education, Beijing Normal University and the Confucius
 Institute. The Centre for Education Technologies at Cardiff and FutureLearn have provided e-
 design expertise for the Translation Studies MOOC. Gorrara’s research has benefited from the
 knowledge and expertise of learning technologists at Cardiff who contributed to the development
 of an e-platform for impact work with schools in England (see impact case study: co-developer

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mosley). She has also worked with learning technologists supporting Hwb, the Welsh
 Government’s e-learning platform to support a post-16 Covid-19 languages recovery project, May-
 July 2020. Both Gorrara and Wren-Owens have acted as academic leads for Routes into
 Languages, securing £90,000-£100,000 funding p.a. to support languages outreach in Wales.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Our Contribution to the Disciplinary Research Base
 Colleagues make significant contributions to the sustainability and vitality of the discipline. The
 Unit hosts high profile conferences regularly with 38 events in this REF period held in the UK,
 Europe and beyond. The Unit is alert to the need for gender and career stage balance in panels,
 plenaries and panel chairs. Conference organisers were asked to respect this for the major
 international subject conferences we have hosted: French Studies (2015), The Society for
 Hispanists (2017), the 9th Celtic Linguistic Conference (2016), the 11th UK Language Variation and
 Change Conference (2017). The Unit secured external conference support for subject specific
 work in 2019 for ‘Photography and the Languages of Reconstruction after the Second World War
 1944-1949’ (£2,098, IMLR; £750, Learned Society of Wales) and in 2020 for ‘Fluid Images-Fluid
 Text: Comics mobility across time, space and artistic media’ (£1,000, IMLR) and ‘(Re)Creating
 Modern Languages: Conversations about the Curriculum in UK Higher Education’ (OWRI/AHRC;
 £3,543).
 We actively encourage our staff to hold leadership positions as essential research drivers of the
 discipline. Colleagues engage directly with the publication of new research taking on roles as
 journal editors, for example, Llên Cymru, The Translator, and New Readings, editing special
 issues and sitting on editorial boards, including Gwerddon, The Translator, Journal of Multilingual
 and Multicultural Development, Language. Staff referee widely for 40 academic publishers
 (including Oxford University Press, Routledge, Manchester University Press) and over 100
 journals across a range of disciplines (including Studia Celtica, British Journal of Sociology,
 International Journal of Bilingualism, Gender and History), reflecting our cross-disciplinary
 engagement. In 2018, Altenberg was the recipient of one of Liverpool University Press’s Awards
 for Outstanding Journal Reviewers. In addition, 11 staff edit book series, including Feldner
 (Bloomsbury’s ‘Writing History’), Diamond and Gorrara (‘French and Francophone Studies’ for
 University of Wales Press, with 17 volumes published so far), Marks (‘Gender Studies’ for
 University of Wales Press), and sit on book series editorial boards (e.g. Vighi, Bloomsbury’s ‘Film
 Theory in Practice’ series). Staff provide endorsements for monographs and edited volumes in the
 field (e.g., Diamond wrote five in this REF period). Staff support decision-making about research
 funding by acting as referees for ESRC, AHRC Peer Review Colleges and the British Academy
 and the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Polezzi received the AHRC Gold Standard letter in 2019 and
 is a member of the AHRC Strategic ODA College. Externally, staff members referee for Austrian
 Science Fund, Irish Research Council, Swiss National Science Foundation, Belgian National
 Research Council, the Slovenian Research Agency and the Icelandic Research Fund.
 In taking on key roles in professional/subject associations, our staff are able to influence
 developments relating to the Unit’s research in the wider humanities landscape. For example,
 Gorrara is Chair of the University Council of Modern Languages and Wren-Owens is the Wales
 representative. They lobby for the value of languages in society, the economy and international
 relations. *Khalifa is an executive member of the African Association of Translation Studies.
 The significance of our staff’s expertise in their field is evident through their service as PhD
 examiners at 28 universities, including 20 in the UK and eight overseas, such as the Sorbonne,
 Barcelona, Santiago, Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznàn, Toronto, Auckland and Sydney. Staff
 gave 155 invited addresses around the world with plenaries/keynotes at major subject association
 conferences and have held visiting appointments: Cumming (Fellow at the Collegium de Lyon),
 Gorrara (KU Leuven), Prout (University of Passau), Polezzi (Monash, Princeton, UNZA), Mac
 Giolla Chríost (Princeton, Oxford), and Morris (Adam Mickiewicz University, Poznań). Staff
 achievement has been recognised through their election as Fellows of the Learned Society of
 Wales (Diamond, Foster Evans, Polezzi) and as member of the Gorsedd of the Bards at the
 National Eisteddfod (Foster Evans). The 2014 Sir Ellis Griffiths Memorial Prize for the best work


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in Welsh on authors writing in Welsh was awarded to Marks for ‘Pe gallwn, mi luniwn lythyr’: golwg
 ar waith Menna Elfyn (University of Wales Press, 2013).
 This wide range of contributions provides a solid basis for the Unit to fulfil the ambitions set out in
 the future research strategy to play a leading role in the ongoing development of transnational
 modern languages (see 1.3).
 4.2 Our Societal and Economic Contribution
 Staff in the Unit interact with stakeholders in a wide range of advisory roles:
        Influencing government organisations and policy makers:
 Evas had a two-year secondment to the Welsh Government, accountable to the Minister for
 International Relations and the Welsh Language, to lead on the development of Welsh language
 public policy. Foster Evans acted as member and then chair of the Welsh in Education Strategic
 Advisory Board (2017–2019); was member of the Welsh Government's Education Minister's
 Advisory Group on the Welsh Medium Education Strategy (2012–2015), member of the Welsh
 Government Informal Language Use Working Group (2013–2016), member of the Welsh
 Government GCSE Welsh Advisory Group (2013–2015) and member of the Welsh Language
 Commissioner’s Place Name Panel. Gorrara is an expert adviser to the National Assembly for
 Wales within the framework agreement for the provision of research and briefing services in
 relation to Brexit. Polezzi co-authored policy statements, including the ‘Salzburg Statement for a
 Multilingual World’ (2018) (see section 1.4). Gorrara sits on the Welsh Government’s Global
 Futures steering group for ML (2015–2022).
        Advising cultural institutions and media professionals
 Working with writer Diana Griffiths and BBC producer Pauline Harris, Griffiths was academic
 consultant for the award-winning year-long Radio 4 adaptation of Emile Zola’s works. She advised
 on the pitch; fed into music production and sourced academic speakers for the accompanying
 documentary with Glenda Jackson. Griffiths continues to work with the BBC, pitching queries and
 academic sourcing. Prout collaborates with comics festivals and graphic artists. He organised a
 two-week exhibition of comic art at the Norwegian Church’s Dahl Gallery (May 2018). His ‘All is
 Not Well’ project secured ESRC IAA funding (2016-2017: £3,000) creating a new subset of graphic
 medicine genre: comics about caregiving. The twelve strips commissioned represent the first
 aggregation in British sequential art of issues for family and professional caregivers. Between
 2018-2019, Marinetti, as academic consultant for a Welsh National Opera project
 entitled Migrations, advised executive producer, Maris Lyons, on how to represent migration
 stories with an awareness of the multilingual and multicultural experiences of the migrant self.
 Diamond contributes input on France during the Second World War for documentaries, reality
 shows and fictionalised representations of the period and provides consultancy and on-screen
 appearances for ‘Who do you think you are?’. Foster Evans worked with Rondo Media on a series
 on the history of the Welsh language for S4C. *Hammond’s anticipated Arts Council Wales
 sponsored exhibition, ‘Cloth/Ffabrig/Twal’, with BayArt Gallery, Butetown, Cardiff, including
 participating artists based in Haiti, Jamaica and the UK, has been postponed due to Covid-19.
        Improving outcomes for NGDOs and charities
 Prout works with disability charities and is a member of the British Pain Society Patient Liaison
 committee. Polezzi runs writing workshops with community groups/migrant writers and, during
 Covid-19, has worked with Gorrara to create research partnerships in Namibia to support
 disadvantaged communities overseas to access vital health messaging in indigenous languages.
 Cumming’s research enabled him to: i) identify obstacles preventing smaller NGDOs from
 undertaking monitoring and evaluation (M&E); and ii) develop the ‘1-2-3 method’ which equips
 NGDOs to engage in M&E. Cumming has created a website and electronic toolkit (or step-by-
 step guide to M&E) so that his 1-2-3 method can be widely used by Welsh and other NGDOs. It
 is incorporated into Hub Cymru Africa training practices and embedded in Welsh Government
 funding guidelines. *Khalifa advises on the use of languages as an effective tool of change and
 engendering peace in India.



                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Working with education professionals
 Rees is a board member of a British Council Wales project on Welsh language in Patagonia and
 worked with the National Centre for Learning Welsh on resources for the new school curriculum
 in Wales. Polezzi and her AHRC grant colleagues influenced the design and implementation of
 curricular reform in Scotland and Wales and collaborated with schools/HE institutions and
 educators in the UK, the US, Namibia, Zambia, and Uganda, advising on training programmes for
 specialist translators and interpreters. *Khalifa offers cultural awareness courses for local schools
 in Cardiff on the Arabic language and culture. Gorrara works with the four educational consortia
 in Wales to support languages in schools, including the Seren network for more able and talented
 students, and schools’ outreach in partnership with Oxford University. Gorrara is also working
 with Qualifications Wales on language qualifications for the new school curriculum in Wales,
 injecting a multilingual ethos into cross-curricular learning for languages. During the Covid-19
 lockdown, Meade supported new digital projects for pupils in years 12 and 13 in Wales that
 encouraged language learning.
 Polezzi’s research on translation practices in multilingual environments informs the Massive Open
 Online Course ‘Working with Translation’, which she co-ordinated and co-designed. In 2020, the
 course was placed in the 200 best free online courses of all time. It has exceptional retention and
 satisfaction rates, with an average drop out of less than 5%. The course aims to develop an
 understanding of the full range of translation practices and strategies in multilingual social contexts
 for specialist and non-specialist audiences. User feedback evidences medium-term impact both
 at personal level and across working environments, including adult education, public institutions
 and private companies. Specific attention has been paid to the needs of users from the Global
 South, with adapted versions including locally relevant material in collaboration with researchers
 from the University of Namibia.
 In line with our future impact strategy (see section 1.5), these collaborations provide a wide pool
 of potential stakeholders who could act as nominated impact advisors for each of our research
 areas of expertise.
 International exchanges are important to the Unit. Our visiting fellows programme has been a
 valuable tool for building projects with colleagues overseas. The Unit hosted 39 fellows in this REF
 period from Australia, Namibia, Zambia, US, China, Spain, Morocco, and Canada. Funded
 international visiting scholars hosted in Cardiff include Edwards (Adelaide) French Studies
 Honorary Visiting Research Fellow 2018, and Klobucka (Dartmouth) on a £2,260 visiting
 Fellowship award from the Association of Hispanists of Great Britain & Ireland. Kymlicka (Queen’s
 University, Canada) and Baer (Kent State) were supported by Cardiff’s incoming visitor
 fellowships. In February/March 2020, we hosted Jimaima (Zambia) on a prestigious
 Commonwealth Fellowship to work on curriculum design and development in translation, language
 and communication for the Zambian context.
 In terms of broader European collaborations, the School of Welsh has played a leading role in the
 development of networks in the areas of short fiction (KU Leuven, Université d’Angers and Edge
 Hill University), and children’s literature, in particular, participating in a project on youth
 engagement in European language preservation 1900 – 2020, focused on the Irish, Catalan and
 Welsh languages (University College, Dublin and Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona). ML is also
 part of ResNet, a network of European Resistance museums (including Russian and Polish
 museums) and their advisors.
 Further afield, the Unit collaborates with the Universities of Monash and Sydney, the Centre for
 Contemporary Marxist Aesthetics at Zhejiang University, Queen’s University Canada, Auckland,
 Macquarie University, Princeton University, Moncton and the Language and the United Nations
 Study Group. An ECR project on antislavery arts and heritage and the challenges facing museums
 exhibiting colonial heritage and black history will benefit curators and educators in the UK and
 overseas (*Hammond, *Nelson, *Sanjurjo). Research leaders in the Unit will work with them to
 elaborate a major funding bid.
 The Unit is outward facing and proactive in contributing to public and media debates. In the context
 of the Catalonian independence movement, Dowling has been cited in radio, television, print and
 online media, nationally and internationally, including Argentina, Australia, Brazil, South Africa, the

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 USA and Canada. His contributions include acting as a panellist on the BBC Radio 3 discussion
 programme Free Thinking (March 2015) and a live appearance on the BBC Breakfast Show
 (October 2017). Other contributions are an opinion piece in the Financial Times and as panellist at
 the Battle of Ideas Festival, London (November 2019). Welsh colleagues’ contributions to
 broadcast, print and online media include appearances on ABC Big Ideas (Australia), ITV News,
 BBC (Welsh medium and English medium), S4C, Institute for Welsh Affairs, ANews (Turkey), O’r
 Pedwar Gwynt, Golwg, Golwg 360, National Eisteddfod andsluggerotoole.com (the leading
 political blog in Northern Ireland). Diamond writes obituaries for The Guardian. Rosser (2016)
 and Gorrara (2018) appeared at Hay Festival Wales. Other staff have participated in film and
 discussion events organised at Chapter Arts Centre in Cardiff linked to their research (Diamond,
 Gorrara, Polezzi, Prout) and have published articles in The Conversation (Diamond, Evas,
 Foster Evans, Gorrara, *Hammond, Mac Giolla Chríost).
 As we move into the next REF cycle, our ambition is to continue to lead languages research,
 above all, in a transnational frame, promoting our conviction that intercultural communication and
 stakeholder outreach must be at the core of our responses to the key societal challenges facing
 humanity.




                                                                                            Page 15
