Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Warwick

 Unit of Assessment: B11 Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 This submission is led by the Department of Computer Science in the Faculty of Science,
 Engineering and Medicine (FSEM), and includes two researchers from the Centre for
 Interdisciplinary Methodologies (CIM) in the Faculty of Social Sciences, and one researcher from
 the Institute for Global Sustainable Development (IGSD) in the School for Cross-Faculty Studies.
 An overview of the Faculties and Departments of the University of Warwick is in REF5a-1.6. Our
 staff base comprises 46 research and teaching academics, 38 postdoctoral researchers, 12
 teaching-focused staff and two software engineers, supported by 16 administrators and five
 technicians.

 Our core strengths include: advancing knowledge in algorithms, logic, data science, high
 performance computing and artificial intelligence; solving challenges in the areas of nuclear safety,
 citizens’ participation in public life, intelligent vehicles, law enforcement, and personalised
 healthcare; and contributing to the economic development and global competitiveness of the UK
 in high tech industry. Our outputs and impact case studies illustrate these core strengths and
 reflect the University’s overall vision of “Excellence with Purpose” (REF5a-2.1).

 Computer Science at Warwick is renowned internationally for the quality of its research, and was
 recognised nationally as 1st for outputs and 2nd for impact in the REF 2014 rankings. We compete
 globally to recruit the best researchers and PhD students, creating an inclusive, outward-looking
 and sustainable research environment. Research is central to our culture: our teaching is
 research-led, and teaching-focused staff are members of research themes.

 Research themes

 Computer Science research at Warwick is organised into four themes: Theory and Foundations;
 Data Science, Systems and Security; Artificial Intelligence and Human-Centred Computing; and
 Applied Computing. Through this structure, we can ensure critical mass in key areas, and devolve
 decision-making and resources in matters of research. This has proved beneficial in: mentoring
 and developing PhD students, postdoctoral researchers and junior academics; identifying funding
 opportunities and winning grants; and integrating with wider research taking place cross-campus,
 via interdisciplinary research centres (REF5a-2.9.4), and Global Research Priorities (GRPs –
 REF5a-2.9.1). The organisation is depicted in Figure 1, with further details in Table 1.

 Theory and Foundations (ThFo) researchers work on hard problems in the fundamentals and
 applications of algorithms, computational complexity, discrete mathematics, logic and game
 theory, operating at the highest level of the international research community in theoretical
 computer science. Led by Czumaj with deputy Lazić, this theme is staffed by three Professors,
 five Readers and Associate Professors, five Assistant Professors, and one Senior Research
 Fellow. Czumaj heads the interdisciplinary DIMAP centre (Table 1).




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




         Figure 1. Research themes, interdisciplinary research centres, and GRPs

          DIMAP      Discrete Mathematics and Its Applications
          WDSI       Warwick Data Science Institute
          CIM        Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies
          IGSD       Institute for Global Sustainable Development
          SBIDER     Systems Biology and Infectious Disease Epidemiology Research
          MathSys    Mathematics for Real-World Systems

                       Table 1. Abbreviations occurring in Figure 1

 During this REF period, the theme has been expanded by seven strategic appointments in
 combinatorial optimisation and dynamic algorithms (Bhattacharya, Sridharan), complexity,
 cryptography and quantum computing (Gur, Oliveira), and discrete mathematics and logic
 (Chistikov, Efthymiou, Mütze). Members have brought in two ERC grants, a UKRI FLF, a Royal
 Society URF and seven EPSRC grants; they have published 26 papers at the most prestigious
 conferences in the field, FOCS and STOC, including a Best Paper Award at STOC 2019; and
 have been elected President of the European Association for Theoretical Computer Science
 (Czumaj) and Fellow of the American Mathematical Society (Kráľ). The theme contributed
 31 outputs to this REF.




                                                                                     Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Data Science, Systems and Security (DSSS) researchers develop new techniques for data
 management and analytics, data mining, statistical machine learning, high performance
 computing, networks and performance evaluation, and cyber security. They tackle practical
 problems in areas including sustainable cities, aerospace engineering, nuclear safety, secure
 communication, and electronic voting. Led by Triantafillou with deputy Hao, this theme is staffed
 by four Professors, six Readers and Associate Professors, two Assistant Professors, and one
 teaching-focused senior colleague. Cormode is Warwick’s ATI University Lead (page 5) and
 coordinates WDSI (Table 1). Ferhatosmanoglu directs the EPSRC CDT in Urban Science.

 The theme has been strengthened by seven strategic appointments in: data science and systems
 (Ferhatosmanoglu, Triantafillou), data mining and statistical machine learning (Damoulas, Yu),
 high performance computing and performance evaluation (Mudalige, Mukhopadhyay), and cyber
 security (Hao). Members have won significant prestigious funding including two ERC grants, an
 ERC Proof of Concept grant, a Royal Society Industry Fellowship, and ~£2M worth of high-profile
 partnership projects with the Atomic Weapons Establishment (AWE), Huawei and Rolls Royce.
 Cormode was awarded the 2017 Adams Prize by the Cambridge Faculty of Mathematics. The
 theme contributed 22 outputs to this REF.

 Artificial Intelligence and Human-Centred Computing (AIHCC) researchers focus on artificial
 intelligence in the engineered and social worlds, using discoveries in multiagent systems,
 ubiquitous computing, natural language processing and visualisation to solve real-life challenges
 in areas such as intelligent vehicles, cyber-physical systems, mental health, rumour verification,
 and geography and ecology. Led by Procter with deputy Griffiths, this theme is staffed by four
 Professors, six Readers and Associate Professors, one Assistant Professor, and three teaching-
 focused senior colleagues. Porto de Albuquerque heads IGSD (Table 1), co-heads the Warwick
 Institute for the Science of Cities, and is the Warwick lead of the international Centre for Urban
 Science and Progress (CUSP) in London. McInerny and Turkay are members of CIM (Table 1).

 The theme has been strengthened by seven strategic appointments in game theory and
 autonomous agents (Tran-Thanh, Turrini), ubiquitous computing (Wen), text mining and natural
 language processing (Y He), digital geography and geographic information science (Porto de
 Albuquerque), and data and information visualisation (McInerny, Turkay). Research has been
 supported by a portfolio of funding including a Royal Society Industry Fellowship, a £2M EPSRC
 partnership project with Jaguar Land Rover, a £1.2M Turing AI Fellowship, and ~£2.5M from UKRI
 GCRF, ESRC and NIHR. The theme contributed 18 outputs to this REF.

 Applied Computing (AppCo) researchers develop new methods in image and video analysis,
 machine learning, bioinformatics and computational neuroscience, seeking alignment with
 applications to people identification, early cancer detection, personalised healthcare, cell biology,
 and psychiatric and neurological treatments. Led by Rajpoot with deputy Timofeeva, this theme
 is staffed by six Professors, two Readers and Associate Professors, three Assistant Professors,
 and one teaching-focused senior colleague. Members have leadership roles in the MathSys and
 SBIDER centres (Table 1). Rajpoot also heads the newly formed interdisciplinary Tissue Image
 Analytics centre, linked to the Health GRP.

 The theme has been expanded by four strategic appointments in applied machine learning and
 bioinformatics (Bretschneider, Minhas, Raza), and signal and information processing (Guha).
 Members have brought in a £2.3M Innovate UK project on computational pathology, a £1.4M EU
 H2020 project on multimedia forensics, and a number of BBSRC, MRC, NHS and NIHR grants.
 The theme contributed 21 outputs to this REF.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Strategy for research and impact

 Early in this REF period, both the Department and the University underwent a strategy renewal,
 initiating a period of investment and growth. Our refreshed strategy, from 2016, encompasses
 and builds on the objectives set out in our submission to REF 2014, of (1) pursuing interdisciplinary
 research in order to benefit society, (2) developing new computing science techniques and
 methods of application, and (3) engaging in knowledge transfer with government and industry. It
 expresses an increased ambition, following the rapid advances we made in the period 2014-16.
 CIM (REF5a-2.9.4) and IGSD (REF5a-2.9.3) were created around the same time (in 2012 and
 2014 respectively), extending the reach of Computer Science across the University.

 Research and impact in the Department are overseen by the Research Strategy Committee, which
 is chaired by the Director of Research, and includes the Director of Impact, the Heads and Deputy
 Heads of the research themes, a representative of Early Career Researchers (ECRs), Warwick’s
 ATI University Lead (page 5), and senior members of Research and Impact Services (R&IS –
 REF5a-1.7). Equality, Diversity and Inclusion is overseen by the Athena SWAN Working Group,
 our postgraduate research by the Postgraduate Research Committee, and our links with industry
 by the Industrial Advisory Board. All four committees report to the Departmental Steering
 Committee. Integration and alignment with University strategy are ensured through the
 participation of the Head of Department and the Director of Research in the FSEM Research and
 Innovation Forum. This structure is depicted in Figure 2.




                    Figure 2. Committees overseeing research and impact

 Our strategy is articulated by and taken forward through the seven work strands below, which
 align with the University research strategy (REF5a-2.2). By implementing it, we have won £15.8M
 in research income during this REF period, compared with £6.1M during the previous one. Part
 of this increase is linked to expansion (from 24.4 FTE staff submitted in REF 2014 to 41.6 FTE in
 REF 2021), however our performance in measures such as annual research income and doctoral
 and postdoctoral populations, has outstripped this growth in staff (Figure 3).


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




       Figure 3. Growth per FTE staff from REF 2014 to REF 2021: research income in
     the last year of the period, and PhD students and postdocs in post on census date

 Work Strand I. Support, foster and showcase the talent and ambition of all our researchers.

 We attract, foster and retain academics by means of reduced workloads for ECRs, a sabbatical
 policy, a transparent promotion scheme, and rewards for senior staff that are commensurate with
 the Oxford-Cambridge-London triangle. We encourage and support staff, via our workload model,
 to pursue fellowships, awards, and leadership roles. We also celebrate their achievements, which
 in this REF period include: 14 fellowships from EPSRC, ERC, Leverhulme, Royal Society, Turing
 AI Fellow, Turing Research Fellow and UKRI Future Leaders Fellow schemes; four Wolfson
 Research Merit Awards; Presidency of the European Association for Theoretical Computer
 Science (Czumaj); and Adams (Cormode), Shimon Even (Gur) and Philip Leverhulme (Kráľ)
 prizes.

 Work Strand II. Undertake world-leading research at the forefront of knowledge.

 During this REF period, our Departmental and research theme seminar series, our workshops and
 our visitors programme have featured talks by recipients of the Turing Award, the Nevanlinna Prize
 and the Gödel Prize. The worldwide reach of such programmes, together with our support for
 researchers to attend leading conferences, embeds an international perspective in the Unit.
 Regular reading groups within the themes, where senior and junior members meet to discuss
 latest international advances in their fields, further underpin our culture of excellence. Ten out of
 92 outputs in this REF submission won best paper awards, demonstrating the success of this
 approach.

 Work Strand III. Spearhead research with relevance for impact and innovation.

 Our theme structure facilitates a pipeline from theoretical advances through to impact and
 innovation. Key to this pipeline is our relationship with the Alan Turing Institute (ATI), of which
 Warwick is one of five founding partners. The ATI links theoretical and applied researchers in all
 four themes with real-world problems and data. We encourage and enable colleagues to serve
 on its Board of Trustees (Jarvis), as ATI University Lead (Cormode), Deputy Programme Director



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Damoulas) and Interest Group Organisers (Liakata, Procter, Triantafillou).        Twelve of our
 academics have held ATI Fellowships.

 Work Strand IV. Cultivate world-class interdisciplinary research communities.

 We foster interdisciplinarity because we recognise that global challenges cannot be tackled by
 research in Computer Science alone. We facilitate joint academic appointments, and we
 encourage and enable staff to lead in the University’s interdisciplinary research centres and GRPs,
 e.g. DIMAP (Czumaj, Kráľ), MathSys (Bretschneider, Timofeeva), SBIDER (Bretschneider),
 Tissue Image Analytics (Rajpoot), Cyber Security (Wen) and the Warwick Institute for the Science
 of Cities (Jarvis, Porto de Albuquerque, Procter). This approach has helped ensure an impact
 pipeline, including future case studies. Of these, the most advanced are based around the
 recovery of high streets during and after the COVID-19 pandemic (Damoulas, ATI), electronic
 voting (Hao, Cyber Security GRP), intelligent vehicles (Griffiths, with Psychology and Warwick
 Business School), the management of flooding in Brazil (Porto de Albuquerque, IGSD), and the
 deployment of computational pathology in the NHS (Rajpoot, Tissue Image Analytics centre).

 Work Strand V. Pioneer state-of-the-art accessible research infrastructure.

 We take pride in our technical and organisational research infrastructure, at the heart of which is
 our specialist team of five technicians. We work with the University to develop the Technicians’
 Commitment (REF5a-3.3), which provides transparent opportunities to progress to professorial-
 grade roles, and supports professional registration and appropriate credit for authorship on
 research outputs. In order to pool technical expertise, extend access to equipment, and maximise
 the utilisation of facilities such as cooled server rooms, our senior technicians collaborate with
 colleagues in the Scientific Computing Research Technology Platform (RTP – REF5a-4.3), central
 IT Services, and other University departments.

 Work Strand VI. Communicate our research to provide leadership and influence in the global
 knowledge economy.

 We work with the University Press Office in order to disseminate our research to global audiences.
 Recent high-profile stories include the use of machine learning for the discovery of exoplanets
 (Damoulas) and a breakthrough in understanding the spin states of quantum-entangled particles
 (Chistikov and Paterson). The integration of teaching-focused colleagues into our research
 environment has allowed us to engage with a wide range of audiences (page 22), including the
 general public.

 Work Strand VII. Build an income and partnership platform to sustain and grow our world-leading
 activity.

 Securing external funding is a key component of our research strategy. Research themes hold
 termly meetings to identify funding opportunities, and run internal peer reviews of proposals. In
 the period 2019-2020 alone, our Assistant Professors won £900k from the UKRI FLF scheme
 (Gur), £620k in Royal Society URF funding (Oliveira), and ~£600k in EPSRC grants
 (Bhattacharya, Oliveira, Sridharan). Our administrative staff work closely with central University
 colleagues to ensure the successful delivery of projects and nurture relationships with funders.
 Our technicians run secure laboratory and computing facilities which sustain research
 programmes requiring high levels of confidentiality and security, including £560k of postdoc and


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    PhD work with AWE (DSSS theme), and £3.8M for the Cooperative Car (page 20) and ASiMoV
    (page 20) projects, during this REF period.

    Impact case studies

    Impact of high performance computing (HPC) research on the UK and international HPC
    industry – This case study is centred on the growth and achievements of Allinea Software Ltd, a
    spin-out based on and nurtured through HPC research by the DSSS theme.

    High performance computing for national nuclear security – Resulting from partnerships
    between the DSSS and the UK AWE and the US National Nuclear Security Administration, this
    case study captures the economic and national security impact of HPC research.

    Impact of image analysis research on fingerprint biometrics and multimedia device
    fingerprinting – Underpinned by image analysis research in the AppCo theme, this case study
    reports economic and societal impacts of the spin-out Warwick Warp Ltd and the company Biosite
    Systems Ltd, the patented Forensic Image Analyser (sold by Forensic Pathways Ltd) and a
    licensed Sensor Pattern Noise tool.

    Impact of user-generated content analytics on national broadcast news and independent
    fact checking – Centred on the BBC Radio “Five Live Hit List” and the Full Fact “Live” software,
    this case study reports the impact on society, culture and public policy of novel user-generated
    content analytics work by the AIHCC theme.

    Impact described in the second case study was supported by a £10k Warwick Impact Leave
    Scheme award (Jarvis), and in the fourth by a £46k Warwick EPSRC IAA award (Procter) – see
    REF5a-2.7.

    Openness and integrity

    Our approach to integrity runs through all work strands, underpinning our research strategy. We
    routinely invite scrutiny and collaboration by working openly. This also supports our impact
    agenda, since we achieve significant uptake by non-academic users by engaging with open
    source initiatives.

    Research Dissemination – As well as depositing all research outputs in the Warwick Research
    Archive Portal (WRAP – REF5a-2.10), we commonly release pre-prints in widely used external
    public archives (e.g. arXiv, bioRxiv, Cryptology ePrint Archive). We also push for books to be
    accessible openly, such as Hao’s CRC Press volume1 and Cormode’s CUP book2. We make data
    open wherever possible, e.g. the Warwick-JLR Driver Monitoring Dataset and the Road
    Classification Dataset3, the Gland Segmentation Challenge Contest at MICCAI 20154, and the
    HER2 Scoring Contest in conjunction with Nottingham Pathology 20165. Hao’s open-source
    implementation for the J-PAKE protocol formed the basis for the subsequent industrial
    implementation of J-PAKE by ARM, Google, Mozilla, Openssl etc. We have initiated widely-read

1
  https://www.realworldevoting.com/
2
  http://dimacs.rutgers.edu/~graham/ssbd.html
3
  https://www.dcs.warwick.ac.uk/dmd
4
  https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/dcs/research/tia/glascontest
5
  https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/dcs/research/tia/her2contest

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wikipedia articles about our research results, e.g. av-net, ov-net, YAK, J-PAKE, and contributed
 to open standards such as IETF RFCs, e.g. RRC 8235 and RFC 8236, based on our research
 results. We participate in open competitions, for example the computational pathology Multi-organ
 Nuclei Segmentation and Classiﬁcation Challenge 2020, which our Tissue Image Analytics centre
 won (Rajpoot).

 Reproducibility – Chairing the reproducibility committee of the Proceedings of Very Large
 Databases since 2018, and contributing to the similar effort within the ACM SIG on Management
 of Data since 2015, Triantafillou has instigated changes to international peer review processes to
 make code and datasets available for scrutiny. As Program Co-Chair of EMNLP 2020, Y He
 introduced a reproducibility checklist to the paper submission process, for the first time in the
 history of NLP conferences. Damoulas won “Most Reproducible Paper of ACM SIGMOD 2016”,
 and Damoulas and Liakata won two out of three “Turing Reproducible Research Champion”
 awards in 2018.

 Research integrity – The legal and ethical underpinning of our research is ensured through the
 University’s ethics review processes and compliance mechanisms, and the training that all
 researchers undergo as part of their induction such as the Epigeum research integrity training
 (REF5a-2.11). Beyond these institutional requirements, Computer Science embeds a culture of
 research integrity by including ethics experts as key members of our project teams wherever
 relevant. For example, several colleagues in the Department work with Professor Tom Sorell,
 Head of the Interdisciplinary Ethics Research Group in the Department of Politics and International
 Studies. Sorell is a member of the Tissue Image Analytics centre (page 20) and chaired the ethics
 review board for the IDENTITY project (page 20).

 Vision towards 2030

 We will continue pursuing the seven work strands presented above, inspired by the six strategic
 priorities of the University (REF5a-2.1), which are highlighted in the following vision.

 Computer Science at Warwick stands on the threshold of an exciting new era. Our trajectory since
 the RAE 2008 is clear and consistent. Having always had a global outlook, we have now become
 more integrated and collaborative across the University; we have increased the size and quality
 of our research base according to a number of key measures; and we have built new partnerships
 leading to significant impact. Other disciplines are rapidly recognising the value that Computer
 Science can bring to their own areas of enquiry, e.g. using data science and artificial intelligence
 to make transformative interdisciplinary advances. Indeed, Computer Science is regarded as
 key to the University’s STEM Grand Challenge (REF5a-4.2).

 Over the next ten years, we will seize the opportunity to open up innovative areas of discovery
 such as quantum cryptography and computing, robots as experimental scientists, and smart
 factories, working side by side with colleagues in Physics, Chemistry and Engineering in the new
 £300M+ interdisciplinary Science Precinct. Building also on our established and emerging areas
 of disciplinary and interdisciplinary excellence, we will enhance collaborations, especially with
 Mathematics, Statistics, Life Sciences, Medicine, CIM and IGSD, strengthening research
 directions in algorithms, explainable artificial intelligence, data science, cyber security, natural
 language processing, computational social science, agent technology, image and video
 processing, computational pathology and bioinformatics. Spearheading and supporting the
 institutional strategies, we expect to grow further by at least 30% in this period.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We will nurture existing partnerships such as those with AWE and Rolls Royce, and we will
 realise the benefits of activities that are currently at an earlier stage of development, leading to
 impact of global reach and significance in urban analytics, flood management, electronic voting,
 intelligent vehicles, and the diagnosis and personalised treatment of cancer.

 By 2030, with our research embedded across the institution, we envisage Computer Science at
 Warwick continuing to lead the way nationally, extending our world class reputation to new
 fields. We will continue to foster our ethos of excellence with impact through an open,
 egalitarian and supportive research environment, in which ideas flow bottom-up, resources are
 devolved, and success is rewarded.

 2. People

 Our research and impact strategy relies on supporting and rewarding people who make up
 Computer Science at Warwick, and we are committed to implementing the principles of the revised
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, of which the University is a
 signatory.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion

 The Department was re-awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze in 2019, and we are committed to an
 ambitious action plan to take us to Silver in 2024. The Head of Department is a member of the
 institutional Athena SWAN Self-Assessment Team. We embrace the Race Equality Charter,
 which provides a framework for identifying and overcoming systemic and cultural barriers for
 minority ethnic staff and students, and improving the representation, progression and success of
 such staff and students. We promote the Dignity at Warwick policy to ensure that all members of
 the Department are treated fairly and with dignity and respect, and that bullying and harassment
 are not tolerated.

 We strive to ensure equality of opportunity at all career stages, from student admissions and
 outcomes, through to staff recruitment and promotion. Meetings and research seminars take
 place in family-friendly hours, and support is offered for childcare at conference attendance. We
 ensure full accessibility for disabled colleagues, including research students, for Departmental
 activities. We support flexible retirement and provide office space for emeritus colleagues, who
 are integrated into research themes and participate in externally-funded research.

 Our embedding of ED&I is reflected in the composition of the committees overseeing research
 and impact (Figure 2). Steering Committee consists of five men and four women, or seven
 academic and two support staff; Research Strategy Committee is chaired by a woman, and
 consists of nine senior and two junior staff; and Postgraduate Research Committee includes five
 senior and three junior staff.

 Supporting wellbeing

 We promote wellbeing through University-wide provision such as The Big White Wall, a Digital
 Mental Health Service, providing staff and students with support at all times. We publicise our
 Employee Assistance Programme (EAP), which is free of charge to staff and PhD students.




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 During this REF period, the Department has invested in social facilities including refurbishing staff
 and student common rooms, furnishing spaces for break-time activities, and purchasing board
 games and a bean-to-cup coffee machine. Twice a week, we have coffee breaks with free
 refreshments, which integrate academics, support staff, and PhD students. Every year, we
 typically hold three all-staff meetings preceded by shared lunches, two away days focused on
 strategic topics, a Christmas lunch, and a summer barbecue followed by outdoor games.

 To maintain cohesion and provide support during the COVID-19 pandemic, we organised twice-
 weekly online coffee and tea breaks, social gatherings using a virtual environment, and an online
 team for communication and advice among staff and PhD students when working on campus. We
 also assisted members in need with provision of office-standard furniture in their homes, and
 equipment for effective remote working.

 These efforts are bearing fruit: in the past three biannual staff engagement surveys, the
 engagement score for Computer Science has been on average 5% higher than across the
 University.

 Staffing policy and recruitment approach

 During this REF period, we have refreshed our staffing strategy and policies in order to address
 the rapidly developing nature of our subject, including new interactions with other disciplines and
 novel application domains, and a rapidly shifting funding landscape. Our approach takes into
 account the ambitious growth plan articulated in our strategy renewal in 2016, and addresses the
 fierce competition for excellent staff, both with other universities nationally and internationally, and
 with other employers of highly skilled computer scientists. We recognise that, historically, our staff
 base has been less diverse than sector benchmarks, and we have sought to redress this by
 embedding ED&I in every aspect of our strategy.

 Our staffing policy has two pillars, which together secure the vitality and sustainability of our
 research environment. The first of these focuses directly on our researchers and ensures that
 they are integrated into research themes which cover the discipline as broadly as possible while
 preserving research excellence, and which provide fruitful platforms for engaging with emerging
 interdisciplinary research agendas. The themes are nurtured so that they (1) facilitate sustainable
 career pathways and effective mentoring schemes for their members, (2) are well resourced by
 external income and internal investment, and (3) are sufficiently cohesive to support vibrant
 programmes of reading groups, seminars, workshops and visitors. In doing so, we recruit early
 career researchers who are building an international profile through fixed-term postdoctoral project
 work, and research and teaching academics to whom we offer indefinite contracts in order to
 provide security for the independent pursuit of excellence.

 The second pillar focuses on support for our researchers. We ensure that staff who undertake
 research are complemented by a smaller number of selected teaching-focused staff. In this REF
 period, we have boosted the research themes by five senior and nine junior teaching-focused
 colleagues, through a mixture of recruitment and internal promotion. This has helped us maintain
 teaching excellence in the context of higher student numbers, while preserving research capacity.
 We benefit from a team of specialised technicians on indefinite contracts, who have an appropriate
 mix of hardware and systems expertise, and a team of skilled administrators with a range of
 expertise from research finance to project management to doctoral training, who have indefinite
 contracts unless directly employed on a project. The increased scale and complexity of operations
 in the Department, including collaborative working with colleagues across the University and the

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sector, has been addressed by introducing more structure and capacity into professional support
 teams, investing in training and development, and recognising the skills of senior staff through re-
 grading.

 The level and focus of new academic positions are decided by the Steering Committee, in line
 with Departmental and University research strategies. Our recruitment processes for academic
 staff, postdoctoral researchers and doctoral students are merit-based, with global reach. The
 overarching criterion is excellence, with flexibility in how it is demonstrated over the research and
 impact spectrum. All posts are widely advertised, taking advantage of social media and networks
 such as Women in Machine Learning.                    Advertisements encourage candidates from
 underrepresented groups to apply, using inclusive wording and highlighting our flexible and part-
 time working policies. All Departmental researchers at the same grade or higher are invited to
 participate in shortlisting. Training in Unconscious Bias and GDPR is a prerequisite for this, and
 panel members are also trained in Effective Recruitment and Selection. Panel membership is
 rotated across research themes, and the “all-male panel” is banned. The selection process has
 been expanded in this REF period to include teaching and research presentations, and more one-
 to-one meetings with a cross section of staff. Successful candidates are offered an internationally
 competitive salary, plus family relocation expenses.

 We facilitate joint appointments, of which we currently have two with the Department of Statistics
 and one with Mathematics. Three colleagues submitted in this Unit are based in CIM and IGSD.

 Outcomes of the staffing policy

 We have increased the breadth and connectedness of our research themes by expanding the
 three groupings with which we started this REF period into four themes. Specifically, “Systems
 and Software” has been superseded by the DSSS and AIHCC research themes. This has been
 achieved through a mixture of senior recruitment (Ferhatosmanoglu, Hao, Triantafillou – all DSSS,
 and Y He – AIHCC) and the integration of a senior academic from IGSD (Porto de Albuquerque –
 AIHCC). We have supported collaboration, and the pipeline from discovery to impact, by
 expanding into cryptography through the appointment of Hao, and Gur (ThFo). This development
 has resulted in a major grant and feeds into a future impact case study about electronic voting.
 The appointments of Minhas and Raza (both AppCo) have boosted our interdisciplinary work with
 Warwick Medical School and University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire, resulting in the
 establishment of the Tissue Image Analytics centre and also leading to a future impact case study.
 The appointment of Mudalige (DSSS) has been key in sustaining the nuclear security impact case
 study.

 During this REF period, 14 out of 25 appointments have been at Assistant Professor level, spread
 across the themes, ensuring an excellent pool of junior staff for succession planning.
 24 appointments have been from outside Warwick and 11 from outside the UK, showing that we
 are able to compete globally for the best candidates and attract them to Warwick – previous
 affiliations include Berkeley, EPFL, Goethe Frankfurt, ICR London, IIT Kanpur, Imperial, NYU,
 Oxford, TU Berlin, TU Vienna. During this REF period, we have increased the number of female
 professors from zero to three (one of whom is teaching-focused), evidencing an approach to
 staffing that encourages diversity and rewards excellence wherever it is found.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support for junior academics and postdoctoral researchers

 Junior academics receive a competitive package of support from the Department and their
 research theme, for equipment, travel and hosting visitors. They have an academic mentor in the
 Department, normally the head of their research theme, with whom they have termly meetings to
 review progress and obtain advice. They benefit from reduced teaching and administrative loads,
 starting at 50% of standard and increasing gradually over their period of probation, which is
 normally for five years and during which they have annual probationary meetings with the Head
 of Department. They have opportunities to supervise PhD students, and contribute to the life of
 the Department through acting as deputies to leadership roles (e.g. Director of Student
 Experience).

 Postdocs have regular meetings with their PI. Where a researcher is recruited on a more junior
 grade because they do not yet hold a PhD, they are upgraded automatically on conferral of the
 PhD. They are eligible for further promotion based on merit. Postdocs benefit from tailored
 development courses from Warwick’s staff development unit, Organisational Development, and
 careers advice through a University forum for research-active staff. For those who are aiming for
 an academic career, the Department optionally provides flexible teaching opportunities agreed
 with their PI, where this is compatible with their funding. In this REF period, our postdocs have
 progressed to academic positions at institutions including Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona,
 Birmingham, Bristol, City, Derby, Goldsmiths, Krakow, Liverpool, Universidad Panamericana
 Mexico City, New South Wales, Queen Mary, Ulm, Victoria, Warsaw, York, and to industrial
 appointments at companies including Creavo Medical Technologies, Huawei, Majestic12, NATS,
 Oxbotica, and Veridium.

 Staff development and promotion

 All new academics and postdocs receive a bespoke induction, covering key aspects of working at
 Warwick such as local financial and IT regulations, with informal sessions on teaching and
 personal tutoring in the Department. They are allocated a mentor within the Department (available
 to all colleagues, including senior staff). We encourage uptake of the Warwick Leadership
 Programme, and for female colleagues, the national Aurora programme run by Advance HE. We
 work within the University’s Personal Development Review framework to offer structured career
 development support annually for all colleagues.

 Promotion for academics is on the basis of merit, via a transparent set of criteria, and is available
 equally for part-time and full-time staff. Women and other underrepresented groups are
 particularly encouraged to apply, and Assistant Professors are supported to apply for early
 completion of probation and consequent promotion to Associate Professor.

 Out of 46 research and teaching academics in this submission, eight have been promoted to
 Associate Professor, five to Reader, and six to Professor during the past REF period. Together
 with our successful recruitment and low attrition rate, the profile of our research and teaching staff
 shows steady growth, alongside maintaining a balanced seniority profile (Figure 4).




                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




               Figure 4. Composition of research and teaching academic staff

 Workload, leave and flexible working

 Our approach to workload is designed to ring-fence space for research and impact activities, while
 ensuring that teaching and other activities that contribute to the life of our community are
 appropriately resourced. We operate a flexible workload model which takes into account research,
 teaching, impact/engagement, and collegiality/management. Colleagues receive credit for
 interdisciplinary teaching and for supervision that crosses departmental boundaries. Staff on full
 fellowships are relieved of all standard duties, apart from teaching approximately one half module
 of advanced courses, in order to help disseminate their research and build their groups.

 All academic staff are eligible for one year of sabbatical leave for every six years of service. We
 also facilitate leave to accept a research award (e.g. Fijalkow at University of Bordeaux, Rajpoot
 at Qatar University), part-time contracts to allow colleagues to take up appointments in industry
 (e.g.: Feng, Institute of Science and Technology for Brain-Inspired Intelligence at Fudan; Wen,
 Samsung AI Research Centre at Cambridge), and external consultancies and directorships
 (working with 13 start-ups, corporations and government agencies in this REF period). We support
 academics to apply for impact leave, and to bid for awards from the Higher Education Innovation
 Fund and the Impact Acceleration Accounts (cf. page 7). We encourage academics returning
 from parental leave to take up the Warwick Academic Returners Fellowship (REF5a-3.4), and we
 support USS members to take up Flexible Retirement.

 Research students

 We attract world-leading PhD students to the Department, and have grown the PhD population in
 Warwick Computer Science from 51 in 2012-13 to 130 in 2019-20 (Figure 5, left). The growth
 has been encouraged by investment in studentships from Departmental and University funds
 (current annual levels approximately £900k and £300k, respectively). We also offer externally-
 funded opportunities, such as CDT positions (typically co-funded with industry), iCASE awards


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and other scholarships (e.g. the philanthropically funded Feuer International Scholarships in AI).
 Industry-funded studentships have come from JLR (five), AWE (four), Intel (two), Rolls-Royce
 (two), AT&T, GE Omnyx, IBM, Microsoft, and Philips Healthcare, among others. Promising taught
 students can gain research experience through on-campus paid summer internships and the Data
 Science for Social Good summer programme. We hold briefing events to demystify the PhD
 process, with an emphasis on appealing to a diverse audience. Consequently, the quality of
 applicants is high. In 2020, 10% of the University’s prestigious Chancellor’s International
 Scholarships were awarded to students in Computer Science, even though this Unit contributes
 only 3.5% of Warwick staff submitted to this REF.




    Figure 5. PhD populations (left) and conferrals (right) during the assessment period

 During this REF period, the postgraduate research (PGR) community has been brought together
 organisationally and physically. Building on the success of the interdisciplinary Urban Science
 CDT hosted in Computer Science, all PhD students are inducted into a Departmental CDT
 structure. This ensures a uniform approach to excellent training and peer support for all members.
 It is led by a Deputy Head of Department (Ferhatosmanoglu), and supported by a full-time
 Postgraduate Research Manager. In addition to their supervisor, each PhD student has two
 advisors who offer independent guidance. PhD students are frequently co-supervised with
 different departments, most notably CIM, Engineering, Statistics and Warwick Manufacturing
 Group (REF5a-1.6), enabling a diversity of disciplinary views. In such cases, the fractional
 supervision contributions of our Unit are used when computing the PhD conferral numbers (Figure
 5, right). Every student in the Urban Science CDT collaborates with an external partner, and many
 other PhD students have similar collaborations, leading to internships (e.g. Amazon, IBM, Palace
 of Westminster, Tableau and Yahoo) and placements at top research centres (e.g. Berkeley,
 INRIA, Loria). Eight PhD students have taken up enrichment years at the ATI. PhD students have
 won four University teaching awards in 2014-20, and in 2019 the Department received the first UK
 Facebook PhD Fellowship (supervisor Damoulas). Together with our postdocs, PhD students
 benefit from dedicated laboratory and social spaces built in 2018, annual away days, annual
 Faculty and Departmental research prizes, opportunities to teach (with appropriate training), our
 annual PhD conference, extensive training addressing scholarship and impact, personal
 development workshops on issues including imposter syndrome and self-sabotage, and full
 maternity leave offered by the Department. PhD students receive competitive stipends and a

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 personal budget of £2k per year for equipment and travel. Most Warwick PhDs progress to
 postdoctoral careers in research-focused organisations (e.g. ARM, AWE, GCHQ, Google, Intel,
 LANL, LLNL, MPI) and universities (e.g. Charles Prague, Harvard, ICR London, Imperial, IST
 Austria, Oxford, York, WPI).

 Construction of the REF submission

 Our REF submission was developed in line with the University’s agreed Code of Practice (CoP –
 REF5a-3.5) by a five-person gender-balanced working group (three male, two female) consisting
 of the Head of Department, a senior professor, academic colleagues responsible for outputs and
 impact, and the Head of Administration. The Head of Administration’s role was specifically to
 ensure adherence to the CoP at all times. All members of the group undertook REF-specific ED&I
 training to mitigate against unconscious bias (REF5a-3.7). The overarching criterion for selecting
 research outputs and impact case studies was excellence. Candidate publications were
 discussed in individual meetings of the working group with each eligible researcher, and assessed
 in collaboration with the heads and deputy heads of the research themes and the head of CIM, as
 well as through external reviews by 15 eminent UK academics. Before external review, all relevant
 colleagues were invited to comment on potential conflicts of interest, further mitigating against the
 possibility of bias.




          Figure 6. Mean numbers of submitted outputs per researcher by category

 This approach has resulted in a good balance of outputs being selected across research themes
 and academics of different ethnicities and genders (Figure 6, which includes the leavers in this
 submission, who are two staff in the ThFo theme).




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income strategy

 Delivering on our research and impact plans entails an ambitious growth strategy for income. We
 need resource in order to achieve the capacity required for larger projects, and to fund the
 specialist infrastructure needed to move into new areas (such as those involving HPC and AI) and
 maintain collaborations with industry. Funding for visits and exchanges, including for postdocs
 and PhD students, is key to our ability to play a full part in the international research community.
 The ability to employ a healthy population of postdocs and PhD students provides capacity and
 underpins the future sustainability of our discipline. The vibrant environment that we have built
 attracts excellent people, including those bringing prestigious independent fellowships to Warwick
 (e.g. Gur, Hao, Kráľ, Oliveira), which allows us to further invest in our research environment. Our
 resourcing strategy is based on maintaining a virtuous circle of investment, funding success, and
 re-investment.

 New opportunities are flagged by Research Strategy Committee and R&IS (REF5a-1.7), who
 assist with bid development. Research themes play a key role in ensuring that the quality of bids
 is excellent, by peer-reviewing applications and mentoring junior colleagues in funding strategy.
 Within Computer Science, we run a research incentive scheme, whereby 50% of any surplus on
 an award is allocated as discretionary funding for the PI’s theme, to be spent flexibly to support
 the development of new research initiatives. This represents an investment of approximately
 £450k per year in Departmental funds. Activities are further pump primed by engaging with
 University schemes such as those operated by the Institute of Advanced Study (IAS – REF5a-
 2.9.2) and Warwick Ventures (WV – REF5a-2.8). Computer Science recently hosted an IAS-WV
 Early Career Innovation Fellowship which has developed into a further funded impact-focused
 post. The Department has helped secure major awards and ensure their success by contributing
 studentships (e.g. ASiMoV – page 20), Assistant Professorships (e.g. PathLAKE – page 20),
 equipment and facilities such as data storage (e.g. Y He’s newly awarded Turing AI Acceleration
 Fellowship).

 By implementing this strategy, we have succeeded in (1) securing £15.8M in research income
 during this REF period, compared with £6.1M during the previous one, (2) continuing throughout
 this REF period the monotonic pattern of growth in annual overall research income (Figure 7) that
 we also had during the previous one, and (3) increasing research income per submitted FTE to
 £79k in 2019-20 from £71k in 2012-13. A by-product of our strategy is resilience in the context of
 the evolving funding landscape. In particular, through growing our engagement with the ATI over
 the past four years we have benefitted from over £1M in research income within the “UK
 government bodies and charities” category, and we have developed new relationships with
 external funders of research, such as the Food Standards Agency.

 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

 The theme discretionary funds provide flexibility to fund PhD students, bridge appointments of
 postdocs, organise events, support visitors and interns, and cover equipment and travel expenses.
 Supported by themes, our researchers (including PhD students) attended on average two
 international conferences or workshops organised at Warwick annually over this REF period, and
 collaborated with over 70 academic and industrial visitors from over 20 countries.



                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                 Figure 7. Research income totals by category of funder (£k)

 At University level, we engage with WV to create commercial routes to impact for our research
 outcomes where appropriate. For example, building on research of Hao, we filed a patent on
 auctioneer-free e-auctions in 2019, and plan a spin-out to bring e-voting to market in 2021.
 Working with WV, we secured £15k of iCure funding to support a 3-month training programme to
 prepare one of our Research Fellows to become CTO of a forthcoming spin-out.

 We are able to draw on institutional infrastructure such as R&IS (REF5a-1.7) to support the
 development and delivery of large and complex collaborative projects, including dealing with
 specialist IP, ethics and insurance issues, negotiating consortium agreements, and managing
 post-award administration. We also encourage and facilitate the development of such projects
 locally by providing suitable administrative leadership, for example, for the IDENTITY project
 (page 20).

 The EPSRC CDT in Urban Science, the EPSRC CDT in Mathematics for Real-World Systems,
 and the Warwick CDT in Computer Science, through which most of our PhD students are
 supported, have all promoted and facilitated collaborations with business, industry, and the public
 and third sectors. Approximately one third of our population of 130 PhD students are fully or
 partially funded by such organisations.


                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Specialist research infrastructure and facilities

 Our physical infrastructure is modern, bespoke and cohesive. Most researchers in our Unit are
 housed either in our purpose-built four-storey Computer Science Building, adjacent to the Warwick
 Mathematics Institute and the Department of Statistics, or in the new interconnected £27M,
 3,700m2 Mathematical Sciences Building. The new building opened in October 2018 and was part-
 funded by a £2M donation from the Wolfson Foundation. It represents a significant investment by
 the University, reflecting its vision of growth for its world-class mathematical sciences research.

 The Computer Science Building has three air-conditioned server and communications rooms with
 a total area of 85m2, containing a Slurm batch cluster with GPU nodes, over 20 high-power multi-
 GPU workstations, and over 250 high-specification Linux workstations with solid-state home
 storage. The Mathematical Sciences Building houses the Turing wing, where we accommodate
 visiting researchers from the ATI; SBIDER, to which we contribute a suite of rooms used by
 researchers and PhD students from Computer Science, Mathematics and Life Sciences; CDT
 study and social spaces; a large PGT laboratory and seminar room; and state-of-the-art video
 conferencing facilities.

 In order to support our computational pathology impact pipeline (page 20), we led the specification
 and procurement of a £400k 2-petaflops DGX-2 deep learning AI supercomputer featuring
 16 NVIDIA V100 Tensor Core GPUs, and a £280k IBM Elastic Storage System with initial capacity
 of 1.2 petabytes and with a dedicated IBM Spectrum Discover data lake management system.
 The Department also contributed financially to this equipment. This has enabled us to win a further
 £1.7M in NHS capital funding for PathLAKE Plus: upscaling our supercomputing and storage
 capabilities allowing us to build a unique global facility in computational pathology which will cover
 46% of the population of England and Wales.

 We contribute to the Scientific Computing RTP, both financially and through technical
 collaboration, in order to support our HPC impact pipeline. This facility hosts a hybrid system
 containing 14,336 x86 compute cores which reach a combined performance of approximately
 0.5 petaflops, and an OpenPower component for large scale in-memory analytics. It represents
 a £3.2M capital investment by EPSRC, with a further new award of £3M for a Tier 2 HPC machine
 serving the Mid+ consortium and enabling massive ensemble computing.

 ED&I is an important consideration in the design and evolution of our facilities. Our buildings
 provide gender-neutral, single-sex, and accessible toilets. Mobility issues or other adjustments
 are taken into account when allocating and fitting out offices, and we provide all equipment
 necessary for working from home. Since working with COVID-19 restrictions, our technicians have
 increased the number of CPU cores available for remote access from 80 to 280, and integrated
 them into a new load balancing system. This has been particularly important in ensuring equality
 of access for older colleagues and those in other high-risk groups.

 Future plans

 An important component of our research funding strategy is to encourage applications for longer
 larger grants which include significant buy-out for PIs and funding for postdocs, providing stability
 alongside capacity. Examples of recently awarded projects include two five-year Turing AI
 Acceleration Fellowships (Damoulas, Y He), with a total value of £2.4M, starting early in 2021. In
 our near-term pipeline are four UKRI FLF applications and two EPSRC fellowships.


                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A second component is to continue to bid for significant funding for collaboration with industry.
 This will further develop our relationships with existing industrial partners and initiate new
 relationships, ensuring that the potential impact of our work is fully realised. For example, we
 expect to extend our research programme with Huawei (Triantafillou), and we have recently won
 a grant from WM5G (Ferhatosmanoglu) with new commercial partners Blacc, Immense,
 one.network and O2.

 We will continue to support the Warwick CDT in Computer Science, funded jointly with industry,
 in order to further nurture interdisciplinary collaborations and further develop PGR relationships
 with external partners, in preparation for the next UKRI CDT call.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Effective research collaborations are central to our pursuit of excellence. We collaborate in order
 to ensure that our research stays at the forefront of our discipline worldwide, that it remains fresh
 and relevant, and that it can achieve the scale and reach needed to make a real difference to the
 research base, economy and society. We lead in global academic networks, maintaining close
 links with colleagues at top universities in the UK and overseas, through joint research projects,
 shared supervision of PhD students and other collaborative activities such as the joint organisation
 of conferences. We maintain a number of strategic partnerships with the users and beneficiaries
 of our research and other stakeholders, which enrich our research environment by giving us
 access to real-world problems and data, and which offer routes to impact. We develop these
 partnerships partly through targeted engagement with external organisations, and partly through
 public engagement. Research-led outreach ensures the future sustainability of our discipline. We
 achieve this by inspiring young people and supporting computer science in schools, by recruiting
 the best taught and research students, and by maintaining close links with our alumni working in
 research-intensive organisations.

 Arrangements and support for research collaborations

 Our workload model ring-fences time for developing joint research proposals, and provides
 flexibility to engage in critical collaborative research activities even when these coincide with
 teaching or administrative duties. Our research incentive scheme (page 16) ensures that all
 colleagues have funding to attend conferences and workshops, and to visit national and
 international collaborators.

 Exemplar: theoretical computer science – Collaboration is a defining characteristic of our
 research in theoretical computer science, which is led by the ThFo theme and takes place within
 the interdisciplinary DIMAP centre (Table 1). Established by a £3.8M EPSRC Science and
 Innovation Award (2007-2014), and bringing together researchers from Computer Science,
 Mathematics and Business, DIMAP has won over £10M of further funding, including prestigious
 awards from ERC (six), UKRI FLF (two), RS URF (two), and Leverhulme RF schemes. During
 this REF period, DIMAP has hosted over 20 conferences or workshops, featuring Nevanlinna Prize
 and Turing Award speakers such as Goldwasser, Kleinberg, Shamir and Valiant. ThFo also
 established the Highlights of Algorithms international conference series, held since 2016 in Paris,
 Berlin, Amsterdam, Copenhagen, and (virtually) Zürich, through the Interest Group on Algorithmic
 Foundations of Information Technology (IGAFIT) of which Czumaj is a founding member. The
 outputs contributed by the ThFo theme to this REF are results of collaborations with co-authors
 from 37 institutions in 15 countries, including Berkeley, CMU, École Polytechnique, Google


                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research New York, IMSc Chennai, TU Munich, ENS Paris, MPI Saarbrücken, Technion, Vienna,
 Warsaw and ETH Zürich.

 Exemplar: digital forensics – Our digital forensics programme, led by the AppCo theme, is a
 second exemplar of effective collaboration. During this REF period, our digital forensics
 researchers attracted £3.2M of funding from the EC, EPSRC, DSTL and the Royal Society, with
 an explicit focus on collaboration. In particular, the EU H2020 RISE project “IDENTITY” (Li, £1.4M)
 enabled knowledge transfer among research institutions and private companies about
 methodologies for identification in a forensic context. The research focused on imaging device
 identification for multimedia forensics, and on people identification for biometric forensics, across
 a network of 16 organisations from 14 countries in Europe, Asia, Australia, North America and
 South America. Our dedicated project manager ensured that over 80 secondments took place
 globally within a four-year period, involving early career and experienced researchers.

 Development of impact and consequent enrichment of our research environment

 Relationships with key users are nurtured, often starting with small-scale activities such as co-
 funding a PhD student, and developing into large collaborative programmes funding multiple
 students and postdocs and involving industrial, academic and third-sector partners.

 Exemplar: intelligent vehicles – Developed from an iCASE studentship with JLR on detecting
 and modelling the current cognitive workload of a driver, enabling personalisation of the driver
 assistance and safety systems for the current driving conditions (2011-2015), the partnership with
 JLR led by Griffiths (AIHCC theme) has led to another iCASE studentship, a RS Industry
 Fellowship, and a £2M “The Cooperative Car” EPSRC-JLR TASCC five-year award. Involving
 three PhD students and six postdocs in Computer Science, Psychology and Business
 departments at Warwick, and working with Intelligent Systems and Human Factors groups at JLR
 Research, the project is enabling vehicles to cooperate with each other, with centralised control
 and data archival facilities, and with urban transport infrastructures. It has also developed
 methods for assessing the human perception and acceptance of autonomous vehicle features,
 such as highway self-driving, in different traffic and road conditions, which will enable
 manufacturers to appropriately tune autonomy systems.

 Exemplar: HPC work with Rolls Royce – Building on £550k of PhD and postdoc funding from
 Rolls Royce, and two Royal Society Industry Fellowships with Rolls Royce, in 2018 Jarvis and
 Mudalige (DSSS) secured £1.8M through the EPSRC and Rolls Royce Prosperity Partnership
 “Computational Science for Advanced Simulation and Modelling of Virtual Systems (ASiMoV)”. A
 collaboration with Bristol, Cambridge, Edinburgh and Oxford universities, it is the largest HPC
 focused research project in the UK in recent times, worth £14.7M in total over five years, and aims
 to achieve the world’s first high-fidelity simulation of a complete gas-turbine engine during
 operation, simultaneously including the effects of thermo-mechanics, electromagnetics and
 computational fluid dynamics.

 Interdisciplinary research, and responding to national and global challenges

 We address national and global challenges by undertaking interdisciplinary work with clear paths
 to impact, engaging with the University’s GRP networks (REF5a-2.9.1).

 Exemplar: computational pathology – Rajpoot’s research programme (AppCo), which has
 grown into the Tissue Image Analytics (TIA) centre linked to the Health GRP, is associated with

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust’s global leadership in digital and
 computational pathology. The work was seeded by a PhD studentship with GE Omnyx on “IHC
 Stained Slides of Serial Sections” (2013-2016) and a Warwick EPSRC IAA award “Computerised
 Profiling for Improved Diagnosis and Stratification of Oral Cancers in the Indian Subcontinent”
 (2016-2017). Rajpoot’s involvement in the Warwick team was instrumental in Omnyx’s decision
 to locate their UK technology demonstrator site at UHCW. Subsequent PhD studentships from
 Philips PathXL with MathSys (Table 1) and from Intel with ATI (page 5) increased the capacity of
 Rajpoot’s group, gave access to further real-world problems and associated data, and extended
 relationships with industrial and NHS partners, leading to a range of opportunities for impact. The
 resulting outputs and developing impact led to the award of £570k of MRC grants, and £2.3M from
 Innovate UK to lead the computational arm of the “Pathology image data Lake for Analytics,
 Knowledge and Education (PathLAKE)” project (2018-2021), a national Centre of Excellence on
 AI in pathology. The £15M project, conducted by a consortium involving our local UHCW trust as
 the project lead as well as teaching hospitals and universities at Belfast, Oxford and Nottingham,
 and also Philips, Nvidia and four SMEs, is meeting the UKRI ISCF challenge “Data to early
 diagnosis and precision medicine”. Most recently, the work of the TIA centre on highly accurate
 classification of cancers has been complemented by a new collaboration with GSK, currently
 funding three PhD students, seeking to extend the application domain to personalised medicine.

 Exemplar: management of flooding in Brazil – Porto de Albuquerque (AIHCC and IGSD –
 Table 1) has developed a programme of research across three different grants: “UK-Brazil
 Collaboration on Leveraging Crowdsourced and Sensor Data to Support Decision-Making towards
 Urban Resilience” (PI, EPSRC GCRF, £50k, 2016-2017), “Global Health Unit on Improving Health
 in Slums” (Co-I, NIHR, £6M, 2017-2021), and “Waterproofing Data: Engaging Stakeholders in
 Sustainable Flood Risk Governance for Urban Resilience” (PI, ESRC GCRF, €1m, 2018-2021).
 This has led to the development of: (1) a participatory design methodology to enable low-income
 communities to co-design data collection tools and generate high-quality geospatial data, (2) a
 novel conceptual modelling framework to support data-driven decision-making, and (3) an
 innovative geocomputational data integration method which enables the incorporation of citizen-
 generated data to support flood monitoring. These developments have been used by Brazil’s
 National Centre for Monitoring and Alerts for Natural Disasters (CEMADEN) to improve the speed,
 accuracy and operational effectiveness of the information it supplies to organisations throughout
 the country. It also enabled flood-prone, low-income communities in Brazil to generate flood-
 related data and gain access to early-warning systems. This research is being continued via a
 Global Research Translation Award (co-PI, UKRI GCRF, £370k, 2019-2021) and project "URBE
 Latam: Understanding Risks and Building Enhanced Capabilities in cities of Latin America" (PI,
 UKRI GCRF, £900k, 2019-2022), expanding the geographical scope within Brazil and to
 Colombia.

 Wider contributions to economy and society

 Further exemplars have been facilitated by our support for impact through engagement with the
 ATI, as well as through schemes such as Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and IAS-WV (REF5a-
 2.8 and REF5a-2.9.2) Early Career Innovation Fellowships.

 Exemplar: contributions through cyber security and human-centred computing – Based on
 research funded by ERC and Innovate UK, Hao (DSSS) led the first successful trial of an end-to-
 end verifiable e-voting system for polling station voting in Gateshead during the May 2019 local
 elections, and is the PI of a follow-on Royal Society project (£210k, 2018-2021) whose goal is to
 bring this technology to bear on voting systems in India. Another contribution to public life is from

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Procter’s work (AIHCC) in collaboration with Cardiff, De Montfort and Oxford, and sponsored by
 ESRC and Google, which has fed into the UK Government’s Online Harms White Paper. Procter’s
 research with Oxford, funded by NIHR and TSB, has contributed to the development of the Non-
 adoption, Abandonment, Scale-up, Spread, and Sustainability (NASSS) framework, which is being
 delivered as a toolkit through the mHabitat co-design, digital innovation and inclusion team hosted
 by Leeds and York Partnership NHS Foundation Trust, and has been used in teaching by the NHS
 Digital Academy. A further contribution in the health domain is an ongoing study of Liakata
 (AIHCC) in collaboration with the Warwick spin-out Clinvivo on NLP techniques for predicting the
 progression of dementia by analysing patients’ speech or writing, which has been adopted by the
 West Midlands Clinical Research Network.

 Exemplar: societal impact with the ATI – Much of the Unit’s work in collaboration with the ATI
 is directly socially beneficial. We pioneered bringing the Data Science for Social Good summer
 programme to the UK in collaboration with the ATI, face-to-face in 2019 and online in 2020,
 bringing together participants from around the world over three months to learn data science skills
 and apply them to real world problems. This delivered actionable insights and tools for six socially-
 minded organisations (Homeless Link, Ofsted, WMCA, Cochrane, Paraguay National Directorate
 of Public Contracting, and the World Bank). The program spans departments, including Computer
 Science (led by Cormode, DSSS and ATI University Lead), Mathematics, Statistics, Business and
 CIM. A second ATI example is Project Odysseus (PI Damoulas, DSSS), which builds on
 spatiotemporal statistics. The original focus was air quality monitoring in cities, funded by GLA,
 but in March 2020, the team pivoted to address their efforts to the monitoring of human activity
 during lockdown. Project outputs are now part of a package available to high street managers
 that also includes anonymised and aggregated people counts from mobile phone providers and
 spend data. In the short to medium term, the impact is that borough staff across London are able
 to make better-informed decisions about how they reopen the high streets safely. In the longer
 term, it feeds into the more strategic work to support high streets to adapt and recover post COVID-
 19. A third example is the “Advanced Analytics in the UK Food & Drink Sector” project (2019-
 2020, PI Procter, AIHCC), which has provided the Food Standards Agency with a state-of-the-art
 summary of the latest developments and issues in the application of advanced data analytics to
 food safety and authenticity for improved system trust.

 Research-led outreach and engagement

 Our schools outreach programme aims to increase the participation of underrepresented groups
 in computer science. We develop sustained relationships with local schools, for example
 PlayCodeShare enables primary and secondary schools to explore a new creative model of
 teaching programming. Our researchers contribute to summer schools, such as Headstart (2014-
 2016) and Sutton Trust (2018-2020). We have been providing Continuing Professional
 Development (CPD) to teachers on behalf of the National Centre for Computing Education
 throughout this REF period. Leeke (DSSS) serves as a scrutineer and exam writer for AQA
 Education.

 We contribute to public outreach events (e.g. Festival of the Imagination 2015, Cheltenham
 Science Festival 2015, British Science Festival 2019, IF Oxford 2020, A Slice of Science 2020),
 and to Faculty and University research showcases (e.g. Industry Days, to which local and regional
 companies are invited). We also support our research projects in their public engagement
 activities, such as the PathLAKE (page 20) Masterclasses, CPD accredited by the Royal College
 of Pathologists, and aimed at computer scientists, engineers, data scientists, and pathologists, to
 gain familiarity with data science techniques for solving computational pathology problems.

                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    Indicators of influence, contribution and recognition

    Editorial Board memberships – In total 29, including: Editor-in-Chief of SIAM Journal on Discrete
    Mathematics and Managing Editor of Advances in Combinatorics (Kráľ); Associate Editors of ACM
    Transactions on Database Systems (Cormode), IEEE Security & Privacy (Hao), IEEE Transactions
    on Learning Technologies (Joy), Information Processing Letters (Lazić); Editors of Performance
    Evaluation (Ciucu), Psychological Medicine (Feng), Service Oriented Computing and Applications
    (Griffiths), Health Informatics (Procter), Medical Image Analysis (Rajpoot), Computers and
    Graphics (Turkay), Multimedia Tools and Applications (Yu).

    Fellowships6, prizes and awards – Selected list: ACM Fellow (Cormode), EATCS Fellow and
    President (Czumaj), AWE William Penney Fellow and TRL Academy Fellow (Jarvis), AMS Fellow
    (Kráľ); Adams Prize (Cormode), Shimon Even Prize (Gur), Philip Leverhulme Prize (Kráľ), Roger
    Cotton Prize (Rajpoot); Imre Simon Award (Cormode), Wolfson Research Merit Awards (Cormode,
    Feng, Rajpoot, Sviridenko), IBM Faculty Award (Czumaj, Liakata), Georg Forster Research Award
    (Ferhatosmanoglu), ITC Rising Scholar Award (Mukhopadhyay), EuroVis Young Researcher
    Award (Turkay).

    National and international committee memberships – Selected list: Chair of the Maestro
    Advanced Grant panel at the Polish NCN, Chair of the LMS Computer Science Committee, UK
    Computing Research Committee (CRC) (Czumaj); Advisory Committee for the National Science
    and Technology Research Council of Turkey (Ferhatosmanoglu); Executive Committee of the
    Association for the Advancement of Affective Computing (Guha); SafeToC (Gur); Computer
    Science panel of the Czech Science Foundation and Dénes König Prize Selection Committee
    (Kráľ); Natural England Science Advisory Committee (McInerny); UKRI GCRF Strategic Advisory
    Group (Porto de Albuquerque); Board of Directors of the International Foundation for Autonomous
    Agents and Multiagent Systems (Tran-Thanh); ADAPT Centre review panel of Science Foundation
    Ireland (Procter); REF 2021 Sub-panel 11 and UK CRC (Triantafillou).

    Conference leadership roles – These include: Steering Committee members of Annual
    European Symposium on Algorithms, Highlights of Algorithms, and International Colloquium on
    Automata, Languages and Programming (ICALP) (Czumaj), ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete
    Algorithms (SODA) (Kráľ), Medical Image Understanding and Analysis (Rajpoot),
    ACM/USENIX/IFIP International Middleware Conference (Triantafillou); Advisory Board members
    of Proceedings of Very Large Databases (Cormode and Triantafillou); President of the European
    Congress on Digital Pathology 2019 (Rajpoot); Programme Committee Chairs of SODA 2018 and
    ICALP 2020 Track A (Czumaj), Highlights of Logic, Games and Automata 2018 (Jurdziński),
    Canadian Discrete and Algorithmic Mathematics Conference 2019 (Kráľ); Programme Committee
    Co-Chairs of International Conference on Cryptology in India 2019 (Hao), Conference on Empirical
    Methods in Natural Language Processing 2020 (Y He), International Symposium on Mathematical
    Foundations of Computer Science 2020 (Kráľ); Open Practices Chair for IEEE VIS 2019, 2020
    (Turkay).

    Invited keynotes – Over 120 conference and workshop invited talks, including: Highlights of Logic,
    Games and Automata 2019 (Chistikov); International Conference on Analytical and Stochastic
    Modelling Techniques and Applications 2016 (Ciucu); ACM SIGMOD-SIGACT-SIGAI Symposium

6
 Fellowships that are research grants are covered elsewhere in this template, see e.g. Work
Strand I on page 4.
                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on Principles of Database Systems 2015 and ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed
 Computing 2018 (Cormode); IEEE International Conference on e-Business Engineering 2013
 (Griffiths); SIAM Conference on Discrete Mathematics 2018 and International Conference on
 Random Structures and Algorithms 2017 (Kráľ); IARCS Annual Conference on Foundations of
 Software Technology and Theoretical Computer Science 2019 (Lazić); International Statistical
 Ecology Conference 2014 (McInerny); SPIE Digital Pathology 2020 (Rajpoot); Eurasia Graphics
 2014 (Turkay).

 Invited tutorials for doctoral students – These include: 14th Summer School on Modelling and
 Verification of Parallel Processes (online), Grenoble, France, 2020 (Chistikov); German-Israeli
 Workshop and Winter School on Algorithms for Big Data, Tel Aviv, Israel, 2017 (Czumaj);
 Efficient algorithms in game theory, optimization and data science, Aachen, Germany, 2015
 (Englert); IX Escuela de Verano en Matemáticas Discretas, Valparaíso, Chile, 2014, 9th PhD
 Summer School in Discrete Mathematics, Rogla, Slovenia, 2019, AlgoMaNet School, Brno,
 Czechia, 2020 (Kráľ); EPSRC Sustainable Approaches to Biomedical Science: Responsible and
 Reproducible Research, Oxford, UK, 2019, Visualization Summer School, Beijing, China, 2019
 (Turkay).




                                                                                         Page 24
