Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of Salford

Unit of Assessment: 33

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Unit context and structure
Music, Performance and Film research at Salford has been characterised in this cycle by
exploratory creative practices, technological innovations, collaborations with industry and
community partners, as well as a number of invitations to external researchers and stakeholders
across our disciplines to be part of our findings and their impacts. Research in these areas is a
longstanding strength at the University, with RAE/REF submissions since 2001. For our 2021
submission, the Unit is comprised of researchers in the following areas:

    •   Music: 5.8 FTE, including research in composition, interactive music technology,
        recording, instrument interfaces and popular music (Brissenden, Hart, Spelman,
        A.Williams, B.Williams, Wise)
    •   Performance: 6.85 FTE, including research in interactive, intermedial, small scale,
        applied and comic performance, technical theatre and digital curation (Adams,
        Matthews, McCormick, Sant, Scott, Talbot, Wilkie, Wilson, Zezulka)
    •   Film: 3.0 FTE, including research in Chinese language cinemas, self-reflexive European
        filmmaking and the industrial formation of Marvel Studios (Flanagan, Kosmidou, Willis).

This active and collaborative group of researchers has contributed 5 books, 5 edited collections,
28 journal articles, 28 book chapters and 15 Practice as Research (PaR) projects to their
respective disciplines during this REF cycle, as well as 20 individual compositions - 3 premiered
by the BBC Philharmonic (A.Williams) and 9 studio CD recordings including for Blue Note
(B.Williams).

Music, Performance and Film research is located within the Arts, Media and Communication
Research Centre (AMCRC), which supports and governs research activities across the School of
Arts, Media and Creative Technology (SoAMCT). Both the School and Centre have supported
the recruitment and development of staff, leading to growth in the number of researchers
submitted to this assessment (18 individuals in 2021, compared to 12 in 2014) and a vibrant,
open and collegiate research environment has emerged from the University’s investment in
research-active staff in our areas. This has resulted in hosting large-scale academic conferences
(Theatre and Performance Research Association Annual Conference 2017 – over 300 visiting
researchers), plus a range of smaller scale symposia and events. A strong feature of research in
Music and Performance has been the development of PaR, supported by the establishment of
an interdisciplinary research group: the PaR Centre of Excellence.

Research strategy and achievements 2014 – 2020
The strategy articulated in the REF2014 submission to UoA 35 (Music, Drama, Dance and
Performing Arts) was to intersect with the establishment of MediaCityUK - an event which placed
Salford at the centre of one of the largest hubs of digital content creation in the world. The
strategy aimed to take advantage of this opportunity in order to develop collaborations and
partnerships, opening up research opportunities and income sources to create impactful
outcomes through innovations with emergent technologies, furthering knowledge as to how the
‘digital turn’ impacts on, and is transforming, our disciplines.

This strategy has been implemented across the areas of research submitted here. In Music and
Performance in particular, research in digital culture and its applications has been a significant
area of development. Across all three areas, collaborative partnerships have been established
during this cycle and will sustain beyond 2020, for example with the BBC Philharmonic, HOME
Arts Centre and Ridiculusmus Theatre. Research income has also diversified, with funding from
sources including the British Academy, Wellcome Trust, Maltese Government, Arts Council
England and British Film Institute. This in turn aligns with the current University and School

                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
strategic focus on industry collaboration and research that engages with the new possibilities
and challenges of the digital age.

In Performance, a notable example of the digital focus is Scott’s research, exploring the
intersection of digital and performing practices, which since 2014 has contributed 10 outputs to
the discipline, including articles, PaR, book chapters and a monograph. Equally, Sant’s research
in digital curation and documentation of live events and establishment of the Digital Curation Lab
at Salford are a key part of research in this area. Also, in the performance area, a subject-
specific aim from 2014 was to develop research in the area of interaction and participation in
performance. This has been furthered through research conducted by Adams, Matthews,
Talbot and Wilson, including a chapter by Talbot developing ideas about intimacy and risk in
immersive performance, an article by Wilson and PaR produced by Adams and Matthews.
There is also a continuation of successful research in clowning and comedy, which develops
from outputs Talbot submitted in 2014 and has been supported through the recruitment of
Wilkie (editor of Comedy Studies journal since 2014), whose research contributes significantly to
the discipline both through original writing and edited collections of essays. Other themes have
emerged through recruitment of research-active staff following REF2014, including
McCormick’s work in applied theatre and ageing/dying, which resulted in the key text Applied
Theatre: Creative Ageing and Zezulka’s research, which addresses often overlooked areas of
our field in the processes of collaboration and creation in technical theatre and design.

Music research has shown clear growth in areas related to digital creativity and industry
collaboration. At the same time, key areas of strength for Music, which in 2014 were in popular
and critical musicology and in composition, especially for classical ensembles, have continued to
flourish. The British and Irish section of IASPM (The International Association for the Study of
Popular Music) held its conference in 2019 in Salford; Salford popular musicologist Wise
collaborated with Visiting Professor Philip Tagg in founding the Network for the Inclusion of
Music in Music Studies; and Popular Musicology has become a cross-disciplinary area through
collaboration with researchers from other Units in hosting the Purple Reign International
Conference on Prince in 2017 at the University, in collaboration with Middle Tennessee State
University. Spelman also collaborated on an edited collection with researchers from the School
on The Arena Concert. Composition for classical ensembles continues in strength, but emphasis
has shifted away from brass and wind music towards contemporary classical genres. A new
strand in interactive technologies and new musical interfaces has emerged in the work of
Brissenden and Hart/A.Williams.

Film studies is a well-established area of research at Salford and has developed in significant
ways during this cycle. A core strand of engaging and impactful research has been pursued by
Willis through his ongoing role as Senior Visiting Curator: Film at HOME Arts Centre in
Manchester. In addition to this, Flanagan and Kosmidou have published widely during the
period. Notably, Flanagan’s co-authored book The Marvel Studios Phenomenon was published
by Bloomsbury in 2016 and described as ‘an important industrial analysis and history’ by the
Historical Journal of Film, Radio and Television. In addition, Kosmidou has published a range of
outputs, which cross film and cultural history, with a focus on cinematic representations of civil
war, while also engaging in local-authority funded workshops in public schools in Greece that
addressed the use of film in teaching.

Future research directions
Moving forwards, the strategy for the Unit is to develop research that opens up new areas of
scholarly study, through exploring innovations in creative and technological practice and through
collaborations with stakeholders across our disciplines, both nationally and internationally. The
following are key areas of focus:
     • the intersection of emerging digital technologies and performance/creative practice
        (Music and Performance)
     • exploring marginal and overlooked identities and practices in music, performance and
        film making (Music, Performance and Film)
     • participatory, collaborative and interactive music and performance practices (Music and

                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Performance)
    •   PaR in music and performance, including documentation and dissemination (Music and
        Performance).

This strategy aligns with the direction of the School, which changed its name from the School of
Arts and Media to the School of Arts, Media and Creative Technology in 2020, signalling a
concerted move towards research and teaching that engages with emerging technologies in
creative ways. In addition, our strategy is informed by Salford City Council’s Culture and Place
Partnership, established in 2020, which aims to prompt significant changes in the next cycle,
specifically through cultural activity and its ‘intersections with other industries and strategies,
needs and aspirations across the city’. As much of our research is through creative practice in
this City, and with our campus at the heart of proposed changes to cultural and physical spaces
in Salford (see Section 3), we envisage our strategy being developed in tandem with this
partnership that includes the University, Arts Council England and Salford City Council.

Research impact achievements and future impact strategy
Our collaborations with industry and community partners prompt focus on real-world applications
of research. The expertise in Music and Performance in researching through creative practice
leads to outputs being publicly shared with non-academic audiences, addressing questions in
the making and presenting of creative work and its intersection with new technologies, health,
climate change and urban environments.

Our REF3 submission has arisen from Music, reflecting the established nature of music research
and the reach of our partnerships. A.Williams’ work on non-standard accents in classical
singing culminated in his opera with Ian McMillan: The Arsonists. This work received national
media attention and led to several similar projects including 5 new commissions by professional
music ensemble, Psappha, and a translation into a Yorkshire accent of The Barber of Seville.
B.Williams’ work in producing and engineering GoGo Penguin’s CDs for Blue Note received
worldwide airplay and sparked a new genre name - ‘acoustic electronica’ – whilst also changing
practices for capturing and recording the jazz trio. Both case studies demonstrate substantial
reach to diverse audiences and reflect the strength of our researchers’ creative expertise and
exploration of innovative techniques, which attracts collaboration with industry partners. These
research projects reach into a range of spaces, changing audience perception and awareness,
creative practice and generating a legacy of findings that can be taken up and used by other
practitioners, extending their impact on the discipline’s future.

Support to generate impact from our research is provided by a School Impact Coordinator, who
works with researchers to develop annual impact action plans, with 5 currently in place for
research taking place within this Unit. Internal funding has also resulted in music research with
impact that will develop into the next cycle, notably Hart's and A.Williams’ Paynter project,
which developed an interactive digital platform for collaborative composition and B.Williams’
Low 4 recording studio - a project with the potential for considerable impact on music venue
infrastructure in the Manchester/Salford region.

In Performance, research impact is currently being tracked through a range of projects including:
    • Adams’ ongoing research, where performance practice intersects with current scientific
        thinking about water resource management, leading to greater engagement with, and
        understanding of, conservation and environmental issues (submitted as part of REF3 in
        UoA12).
    • Matthews’ work on VR documentation, influencing professional practice in capturing
        small-scale performance work
    • McCormick’s Death, dying and performance project, demonstrating impact in shaping
        and shifting attitudes towards the subject
    • Talbot’s virtual clown project, employing combinations of digital technologies and clown
        practice to improve the wellbeing of isolated individuals

These projects are united in their explorations of new, hybrid modes of performance practice,

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
offering fresh ways of making and presenting that have the potential to influence industry
practice while also benefitting their audiences and other stakeholders.

Impact in the area of Film is mobilised through the research-informed curatorial practices of
Willis, in collaboration with HOME and a range of other organisations, including the British Film
Institute, Hong Kong International Film Festival, Cervantes Institute and International Anthony
Burgess Foundation. Through his work with HOME, co-curating and programming 23 special film
seasons, the annual Viva Spanish and Latin American Film festival and retrospectives, including
tours around the country and over 200 public facing events, Willis’s research has shaped
viewing habits for cinema-goers in Manchester and beyond. His collaborative work has directly
informed programming practices at HOME and other venues where the seasons and events
have been shown. In addition to this, Kosmidou’s ongoing work in the use of civil war films in
schools and their integration into learning materials, informing teaching practice in this area.

Supporting interdisciplinary research
The PaR Centre of Excellence, convened by Matthews and Scott, prompts interaction between
different disciplines in its focus on research conducted through creative practice. The PaR
Centre supports and makes visible this work, as well as fostering connections between practice-
based researchers across SoAMCT. This was evidenced in a recent exhibition of PaR for the
University Festival of Research in July 2019, which included public exhibits of work by
practitioners in Media, Music, Dance, Creative Writing, Visual Arts and Performance. The
Festival of Research was established in 2018, as an annual event to support the visibility of
research across the University and has proved a valuable space for sharing and exchanging
outputs, ideas and processes for our researchers. The Digital Curation Lab, directed by Sant, is
an interdisciplinary centre, focused on digital modes of creation and curation - a place for all
University of Salford activities associated with the field of Digital Humanities to be brought
together in a collaborative environment. Though newly formed (in 2019), the lab is already
opening up opportunities for sharing research through internal and external events, as well as
supporting postgraduate study in related areas and hosting the Digital Research in Humanities
and the Arts (DRHA) conference in September 2020. In addition to these ongoing research
projects, which are developing impact in a range of ways, projects also involve collaboration with
colleagues in the areas of science and health research, including the Salford Institute for
Dementia and Ageing.

Promoting research integrity and an open research environment
To support research integrity, new ethics processes and digital infrastructure have been
established during this cycle. In a development of the existing processes that were in place for
ethics approval, researchers across our Unit now review ethics applications, with Chairs of
Ethics Committees liaising with panel members in relation to all aspects of ethical conduct. This
shared responsibility for ethical research practice is an important part of ensuring research
integrity.

Throughout this period, researchers in this Unit have engaged in practices that contribute
strongly to an open research environment: firstly, leads of research groups work closely with
colleagues in scholarly communications and research data management to disseminate policy
and good practice. This includes liaising on Open Access issues specific to PaR outputs and
feeding this into relevant consultations (e.g. UKRI). Secondly, all researchers in the Unit have
ORCID identifiers that are linked to the institutional repository, making their research outputs
more easily discoverable and accessible. Thirdly, a major innovation in open research practices
has been led by our researchers via an open online database of PaR established in 2017, using
the University’s data management platform, Figshare.

In contrast to previous REF cycles, all those who research through creative practice have
Figshare accounts for disseminating outputs. Through the work of the PaR Centre of Excellence,
processes, workflow, guidance and training have been established to enable use of this platform
and now all research conducted through creative practice is open, searchable and accessible for
other researchers, through collections including a range of textual and audio-visual materials. To

                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
date, researchers in this Unit have published 15 PaR outputs in this way and our PaR page on
Figshare has accrued 60,096 views and 12,086 downloads, attesting to how much this research
is being viewed and accessed in the 3 years since it was established.
2. People

Staffing strategy
Investment in people has been core to developing the research environment in this Unit since
2014. Seven of the nine performance researchers whose work is submitted in REF2 have been
hired since the last REF (Matthews, McCormick, Sant, Scott, Wilkie, Wilson, Zezulka), as a
direct result of a staffing strategy of recruiting research-active staff. They joined Talbot and
Adams to form an active and engaged group of early and mid-career researchers. All staff are
employed on permanent contracts, supporting the sustainability and stability of research over
this period. Of those that joined as lecturers during this period, two (McCormick and Scott)
have been promoted to senior lecturer, reflecting the recognition offered to the achievements of
research-active staff. In addition, these staff have taken on significant responsibility for
developing the research culture (McCormick – performance research lead; Sant – director of
the Digital Curation Lab; Scott and Matthews – PaR Centre of Excellence conveners and Scott
– Postgraduate Researcher (PGR) Director 2017-19).

Alongside Performance’s strategic investment in research-active staff, Music has maintained and
developed existing strengths in popular and critical musicology and composition and developed
significantly in the area of music technology and recording. We have supported existing
members of staff to become research-active, with three of our submitted staff members
(Brissenden, Hart, B.Williams) gaining PhDs during the REF period. The submission in Film
represents a maintenance of staff numbers researching in this area, alongside the development
of a new generation of film researchers who have joined the University during this period and
who contribute to the new BA (Hons) in Film Production.

Staff support and development mechanisms
Staff are supported in developing their research through a range of strategies, including bespoke
training packages, sabbatical schemes and internal funding, all of which have been vital to
research activity during this period. Not including sabbaticals, £23k of internal funding has been
awarded to support public engagement, generation of impact and conference attendance. In
addition to this, Matthews and Scott both benefitted from the Vice-Chancellor's Early Career
Scholarship – a 2-year programme providing mentorship, training and £2k worth of funding.
Through this scheme, Scott was able to develop PaR in intermedial place-making in East
Salford (submitted in REF2) and supplement this with £1k of HEIF funding, alongside £1.5k of
internal research impact funding to develop the aspects of the research that intersect with
community partners, the Broughton Trust. Matthews combined this internal funding with a grant
from Arts Council England to develop the research project, through which her small-scale
performance piece The Ballad of Isosceles has been developed and documented (also
submitted in REF2). Other researchers in performance have benefitted from University impact
funding, including Talbot (£1.5k for developing outputs from the Virtual Clown project).

The School runs an annual sabbatical scheme, where research-active staff, with outputs that
have been internally peer reviewed at 3* or above, can put forward a proposal for a programme
of research activity. Proposals are reviewed and judged by a panel of senior researchers in the
School, with successful applicants granted 5 months of research leave in the following academic
year. Four researchers within the Unit were awarded sabbaticals to conduct research during this
REF period (Matthews, McCormick, Scott, A.Williams), which have been crucial in the
development of PaR outputs (McCormick – Death, Dying and Performance project, Matthews –
The Ballad of Isosceles, A.Williams – Northern Voices project), alongside written outputs (Scott
– two chapters for Intermedial Theatre (2019)).

Staff can apply for up to £500 per year for conference attendance and those presenting at
events are prioritised. This has enabled researchers to present across the world, offering
keynotes in Australia (University of New South Wales – McCormick), speaking at international

                                                                                           Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
conferences in Stockholm (IFTR – Scott), Helsinki (SAR – Matthews), Utrecht (Society for
Intermedial Studies – Scott) and Tallinn (International Humour Studies Conference – Talbot and
Wilkie). The University support fund is also available to researchers to apply for money to
support pilot project costs and research trips/field work. In Music, B.Williams has been
supported to attend the Art of Record Production conference in 2017 (Stockholm) and 2019
(Berklee, Boston), alongside two researchers at the start of their PhDs. Hart was supported to
attend the Nordic Educational Research Conference in Copenhagen and the Athens Institute for
Education Research conference in 2017, as well as the 2019 British Education Research
Association conference in London.

Supporting the career development of researchers
The alignment of support, workload allocation and mentorship for research activity within the
newly established Salford Academic framework means that those within the Unit who identify
research as a primary part of their career pathway are now supported through a more formal
professional development process, including the three-year plans that are submitted by all
research-active staff. This allocates research workload on a consistent basis relating to an
individual’s past achievements and future plans. Equally, the process outlined in the University’s
Code of Practice for REF2021 is designed to support colleagues from all backgrounds to
develop their research careers. This has been particularly successful in establishing a strong
and active group of ‘next generation researchers’, many of whom have gained new support for
their research through the allocation of time, training and mentorship provided by more senior
researchers in the group. Staff three-year research plans have informed discussions and
objective-setting with line managers within the existing annual Performance and Development
Review process.

Within the research group, a collegiate and supportive environment is generated through
systems of informal peer review, in writing workshops and training specifically for the curation of
PaR outputs. These opportunities are provided through funding offered from the AMCRC to
research groups and has also supported our invitations to senior researchers, such as Professor
Sally Mackey and Professor Robin Nelson, to share their expertise in PaR, which has supported
early career staff in developing processes for disseminating their research effectively.
Researchers meet regularly (at least once a term), to discuss funding plans and specific bids, to
support presentations by staff researchers and to hear external speakers. Furthermore, the
outputs of creative research, in the form of performances, installations, operas and practical
demonstrations, are always well supported and an important part of our thriving research culture.

These formal and informal support mechanisms intersect with centrally supported research
mentorship for all research-active staff, alignment of performance development conversations
with research aims and targets, central research training (as detailed in the institutional-level
statement) and the creation of an environment within the Unit for researchers to develop, refine
and test out research ideas. This includes the aforementioned research seminar series and
collaborations where researchers with more developed profiles work with early career
colleagues, for instance Hart working with A.Williams on the Paynter project and next
generation researchers collaborating with Matthews on her Ballad of Isosceles PaR project.

Ensuring an excellent postgraduate research experience
Supervision in the School is organised in teams, which include a primary supervisor, co-
supervisor and personal tutor. The three points of contact for the student ensure that there is
support for their work and wellbeing, diverse perspectives in play as well as providing crucial
development opportunities for staff new to supervision, through the role of co-supervisor. The
central training, provided by the Doctoral School for postgraduate researchers, is combined with
a School programme of events and seminars, including an annual graduate training week,
opportunities to take part in organising seminars and events, as well as subject-specific content
through masterclasses and research group seminars. There is a School Coordinator of
Postgraduate Research who liaises with the Doctoral School, as well as research group leads
within the School. Postgraduate researchers are integrated into the research events and
activities of the Unit through attending and presenting at these events. They are encouraged to

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
attend external conferences through a School fund that offers them up to £300 a year to support
conference presentation, in addition to central funding. Postgraduate students are given the
opportunity to contribute to teaching and learning at UG and PGT level in the Unit to provide
valuable training experience for those wishing to secure a permanent academic position after
they graduate.

In 2019, the performance pathway at Salford was awarded its first AHRC North-West consortium
Doctoral Training Partnership place and, in 2020, was awarded a second funded AHRC place.
During the census period, Music also benefitted from an AHRC Northwest Consortium funded
PhD studentship for Hart, who is now employed full-time as a lecturer. A further AHRC-funded
place was awarded to Pavel Prokopic for his research in film practice. The award of these four
fiercely competitive and prestigious bursaries demonstrates real growth and development in the
quality of our PGR provision. In addition, all successful candidates pursued PaR projects, which
underlines the expertise of the staff involved in this field. A further AHRC-funded PhD,
undertaken at the University of Manchester, was co-supervised by Willis and explored the
distribution and exhibition of Chinese language films in the UK.

In addition to external funding, the School runs a yearly ‘Pathway to Excellence’ Scholarship.
During this period, it has resulted in 5 doctoral candidates in this Unit being supported. The new
MA in Contemporary Performance Practice (established in 2017) has, alongside the well-
established MA in Music, consistently fed candidates through to apply for and register on PhD
programmes, primarily engaging in PaR methodologies. Equally, the increase in research-active
staff is attracting excellent postgraduate researchers to our subject areas, which in turn enriches
our research culture.

Overall, the number of postgraduate students is high given the size of the submission, with 34
PhDs awarded in the Unit over the census period – more than twice the 15 degrees awarded
during the last REF cycle. We also currently have 9 music researchers registered on the
practice-focused Doctor of Musical Arts programme. This programme is important in recruiting
students from the brass and wind band areas, maintaining our long-standing strength in
performance and composition in this field. In addition, we have successfully implemented a PhD
by distance learning, with four candidates currently studying in this way, all from North America.

Equality and diversity
In embedding inclusion, equality and diversity in our Unit, we actively follow and enact the
University’s vision to ‘create an inspirational, inclusive learning and working environment,
celebrating the diversity of our University community in our everyday conversations’. This is
particularly supported by cross-disciplinary research groupings, such as the ‘Women in
Research’ group - a peer-support network, which operates in the School to create spaces for
research by women to be visible, but also to explore the specific needs of women researchers
and to respond to these with mentoring and training opportunities.

The Unit includes colleagues at a range of different career stages and levels (9 lecturers, 6
senior lecturers, 1 reader and 2 professors). 44% of the researchers submitted to this Unit are
women, nearly double the 25% proportion in the 2014 submission. In addition, nearly a third of
researchers submitted are on fractional contracts, which attests to the support such colleagues
receive for conducting their research. During the production of REF2, an equality impact
assessment determined that 41% of outputs are attributed to women (-3% compared to our staff
submission) and 8% of outputs are attributed to staff from a BAME background (-3% compared
to 11% BAME staff in our submission). We recognise that this reflects our lower proportion of
female and BAME staff at higher grades and that there is still substantial work to be done to
address systemic issues contributing to under-representation of staff with protected
characteristics, which we are committed to addressing in the next cycle.

A factor of our research environment that will support this aim is that many of our ongoing
research projects have equality, inclusivity and diversity designed into them. For example, the
ACE-funded project with Psappha being led by A.Williams will be the first time that Nigerian

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Pidgin has been set to contemporary classical music, featuring the creative writing of one of our
English PhD students. In addition, in January 2020 A.Williams collaborated with PhD student
Rakesh Joshi to create a cross-genre piece for Indian choir and string ensemble to celebrate the
150th anniversary of Gandhi's birth; other PhD projects include a Yoruba opera (for premiere in
2022). A commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion is particularly evident in the recent
Celebrating Women in Global Cinema project, a year-long programme of films and events
curated by Willis and the head of film at HOME, Rachel Hayward, that aimed to ‘explore and
challenge the place and space of female filmmakers from a variety of cultural, social and political
perspectives’.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
Music, Performance and Film researchers have generated £325k of income from a variety of
sources during this REF cycle to support their projects. Within this, £200k is research income in
the scope of REF4b requirements and has been awarded to support five individuals: Talbot’s
virtual clown project; Willis’s curated seasons of films (various written submissions comprising
underpinning research submitted in REF2); Sant’s work with the National Centre for Arts in
Malta; projects examining jazz culture across Europe (Whyton – left in 2015); and work on
developing new mechanisms for collaboration with community cultural and heritage
organisations contributing to urban regeneration within Salford (Slee – left in 2019).

Sant’s work as the Artistic Director of the National Centre for Arts in Malta (Fondazzjoni Ċentru
Għall-Kreattività) has intersected with research into digital documentation and curation, in
collaboration with the Centre, and is supported by funding from the Maltese government. This
project represents a long-term creative partnership with a large arts organisation, where
research meets, informs and impacts on the creative practices created and shown, supporting
our long-term goals to be outward-facing, collaborative and industry-focused in our research. In
his collaborations with HOME and other organisations (detailed below), Willis’s research-
informed curatorial and programming practices have attracted funding from the British Film
Institute to support touring, widening the impact of this work. In addition, funding from the Hong
Kong and Economic Trade Office has supported the dissemination of this practice and the films
curated.

Whyton was PI on a HERA-funded project in collaboration with academics from Denmark,
Norway, Austria and the Netherlands plus the University of East Anglia. The project studied
practices within jazz cultures across these countries to facilitate cultural exchange and
understanding of the variety of identities and traditions within European jazz culture. The aim of
Slee’s AHRC-funded project ‘Building the Hive in Broughton’ was also to create a space for
knowledge exchange, this time between the University and the wider community within Greater
Manchester, to support the development and sustainability of a centre for creativity and the arts
within a culturally diverse community.

External research funding has supported our strategic focus to explore the influence of digital
technologies on our respective creative disciplines. Examples are the British
Academy/Leverhulme award Talbot received to develop virtual clown practices in conjunction
with Claire Dormann (a visiting fellow at the University’s Institute for Dementia and Ageing) and
funding from Arts Council England for Matthews’ PaR in small scale and one-to-one
performance, which developed a strand focusing on Virtual Reality as a mode of documenting
such performances.

Since REF2014, practice-based researchers have received £125k in funding supporting their
artistic practice, and commercial income related to their PaR, not included in REF4b. This
includes £86k of Arts Council England funding applied for by our researchers as individual artists
(Adams, Matthews, A.Williams, B.Williams), reflecting our core strengths in research that is
conducted through making creative work, which is disseminated primarily to non-academic
audiences. This generates both wider impact and significant insights in our areas of speciality.

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Unit has also benefitted from significant contributions in kind, as part of its collaboration with
external partners, including access to space, professional performers and specialist equipment.

Infrastructure and facilities
Music and Performance researchers are physically positioned in the New Adelphi building, a
state-of-the-art facility opened in 2016, representing £55 million of investment in the arts at the
University and comprising technical resources, performing and rehearsal spaces that are vital to
the practice-based research we undertake. Film researchers are located at another specialist
facility – MediaCityUK – where technical spaces and equipment allow for research in media
practices and mediatised performance making.
Situated within New Adelphi is The New Adelphi Theatre, which is a crucial resource for our
practice-based researchers. It also aligns with Salford’s wider Strategy for Creativity, Culture and
Place in its contribution to the city’s ‘vibrant and sustainable creative ecology’, through
programming public events and the connections it is forming with local community groups, such
as DIY Theatre – a company of performers with learning disabilities based in Salford.
Established as a public-facing venue for performance in 2017, the 3 years ensuing have opened
up a range of possibilities for our practice-based performance researchers, with work by Adams,
Matthews, McCormick shown in the venues, alongside wraparound activity related to their
respective research projects and events that have allowed for collaboration between
researchers, industry partners and other academics in the field and for the development of
practice-based findings represented in REF2.

The New Adelphi Building’s facilities mean that the Music directorate boasts the largest
collection of commercial-standard recording studios in the HE sector, with five complete Live and
Control room pairings and a control room attached to an acoustic performance space suitable for
large ensembles. In 2020 work began on converting Peel Hall, a 300-seater concert hall located
on the University’s main Peel Park Campus, to include an acoustic treatment and control room
for orchestras and large ensembles. We also benefit from outside spaces with which we partner
– in particular Low 4 studios which is run by B.Williams. This emphasis on recording has led to
our researchers recording Psappha, the Manchester Camerata, the Manchester Collective, as
well as GoGo Penguin, Everything Everything, Dutch Uncles, and jazz ensembles for the Blue
Note and Gondwana labels. Much of this work has been presented at the Art of Record
Production conference, with 8 papers representing Salford music research group’s recording
PaR over the census period. It has also contributed to the practice-based elements presented in
REF2 and B.Williams’ impact activities (REF3).

As the above testifies, the creation of the spaces and facilities in the New Adelphi building has
had a hugely beneficial impact on research in Performance and Music and feeds directly into our
strategic focus to develop research that furthers creative practices in our area, making use of
emergent technologies in our field, opening these out through the theatre venue and our
activities with local communities. An example of the creative applications of our infrastructure is
a current postgraduate researcher’s work which draws on the capacities of new motion capture
technology and software to conduct research in improvised movement practices. The new
flexible studio theatre space is also regularly used for symposia and research events, alongside
performances by Adams, Matthews, McCormick and Talbot, enabling us to open up the
processes and findings of our research to fellow researchers and non-academic audiences. The
New Adelphi building itself has been employed regularly since its opening to host large research
events such as the 2017 annual TaPRA conference and smaller symposia, such as two Salford
Comedy symposia (2014 and 2015) and the Sick! Festival symposium (2019). Equally, investing
in the New Adelphi Theatre as a public-facing programmed arts venue has opened up the
possibilities for research in this Unit to be visible, impactful and collaborative in its nature.
Moving forward, the theatre programming continues to intersect with staff research and is a
significant longer-term investment that, in the vision of the Salford Crescent Masterplan, helps to
‘celebrate and enhance the area’s wealth of green, blue, cultural and heritage assets and
establish strong physical links between the University campus and surrounding communities’.

The existing infrastructure and facilities at MediaCityUK continue to develop as spaces for our

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research to be conducted and presented. Film research is housed at this campus, where its
associated programmes in film studies and film production take advantage of the specialist
spaces and equipment made available for students and researchers in this area. Specifically, the
Digital Performance Lab has been occupied by Matthews and Scott for PaR performances and
spaces at MediaCityUK continue to be used to exhibit PaR, alongside music and performance
research seminars. Postgraduate researchers also use these spaces for practical experiments
with technology and performance facilitated by the available resources. MediaCityUK is also the
home of the new Digital Curation Lab, which is directed by Sant.

Investment in physical infrastructure and facilities that support us in achieving our strategic aims
is set to continue into the next cycle, as the Campus Masterplan is developed, including the
planned refurbishment of the historic Maxwell Hall as a music and events venue and the opening
of a ‘visioning’ research and innovation facility. This new investment is a key part of Salford’s
Strategy for Culture, Creativity and Place.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaboration and partnerships
Music, Performance and Film research activities are guided by the University’s Industry
Collaboration Strategy. Researchers in the Unit build networks and external partnerships
relevant to their research in a range of ways. A three-day workshop project around VR
performance in 2019 was facilitated by the New Adelphi Theatre and brought industry
practitioners (Lundahl and Seitl) and researchers into an active conversation about immersive
technologies and their use in making art and performance. Another example is Sick! Festival,
where an individual’s research interest (McCormick) aligned with the festival’s theme for 2019
and was brought together under the auspices of the New Adelphi Theatre as part of a joint
symposium, including research presentations and performances.

A key research collaboration and partnership is that between the University and HOME, primarily
activated through the secondment from 2015 onwards of Willis to the role of senior visiting
curator of film at the Arts Centre. This 2 day per week commitment throughout this REF period
facilitated Willis’s research in film and its dissemination through his curation activities at HOME.
Willis’s research (recognised through a promotion from Reader to Professor during this REF
period) is an example of outward-facing, collaborative and industry-focused activity, establishing
a vital, long-term project where film research becomes active and accessible to the public.

Other key collaborations and partnerships are with Ridiculusmus Theatre Company, with whom
Talbot has collaborated throughout this cycle. Acting as co-investigator on a project supported
by £40k of Wellcome Trust funding (2017-2019), this research informed a new production and
tour of socially engaged comic theatre by the company. This also led to four separate
residencies and performances at Salford by the company, contributing to the vibrancy of the
research environment across this REF period. In addition, Talbot’s research in virtual clowning
is aligned with ongoing collaborations with researchers at Edge Hill University, with whom he
developed the State of Play symposium (2018), which explored clowning practice through a
range of events and discussions. The outputs of his interdisciplinary research into virtual and live
‘Elderclown’ practices represent new ways of using comic practices in the context of social care
provision and dementia care, aligning with our strategic focus on both the development of new
modes of creative practice and the opening up of such practices to a diverse range of
stakeholders.

Other collaborations with performance practitioners include Matthews’ work with Adam York
Gregory, as well as Zezulka’s research exploring the processes associated with lighting design,
programming and technical theatre, alongside her longstanding collaboration with the
Association of Lighting Designers and field work with Red Ladder Theatre Company in Leeds.
Zezulka also co-convenes the Performing Light network, an informal network of light scholars
and practitioners across theatre, dance, opera, music and fine art. At the heart of developing
strategic partnerships with practitioners and venues is the New Adelphi Theatre, which supports

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research events and PaR, including Adams’ recent collaborations with Professor Miklas Scholz
(Chair in Civil Engineering at Salford, and Professor in Water Resources Engineering, Lund
University, Sweden), a research project which was supported by the New Adelphi Theatre and
Arts Council England funding. The PaR conducted through this collaboration explores
‘speculative non-fiction' as a mode of presentation through which to weave together scientific
facts and personal stories, exploring our relationship with water in light of the climate crisis.

Music’s partnerships are based around the two core strands of Recording Studies and
interactive music creation. The University has a memorandum of understanding with the BBC
Philharmonic and this has resulted in a concert series – branded as ‘The Red Brick Sessions’ –
taking place in Peel Hall and at the New Adelphi theatre which has included A. Williams’ opera
The Arsonists, commissioned by the BBC Philharmonic in partnership with Salford City Council.
This has developed into a research partnership in the last 2 years (2018-2020), resulting in the
Paynter project, a collaboration between Hart and A.Williams, BBC Philharmonic players, and a
local primary school to create an interactive tablet-based model for collaborative composition.
During the BBC Philharmonic’s Red Brick Sessions, music researchers and students tested BBC
Research and Development’s interactive smartphone-based technology, “Notes”, which is now in
use in the Philharmonic’s Bridgewater Hall concert series. A.Williams is creating content for this
interface, to be investigated as part of a broader study into the language around contemporary
music and audience development. Brissenden and A. Williams have also collaborated with
researchers from the University’s own Acoustics Research Centre on projects for the
Manchester Science Festival and the results of these collaborations can be found in the group’s
Figshare collections.

There are also ongoing collaborations with the Vonnegut Collective, the Manchester Collective
and Psappha. Within the Music Group, the Adelphi Contemporary Music Group provides a forum
for experimental work and works in progress and includes regular contributions by Music
Research group staff (Brissenden, Hart, A.Williams, Wise) as well as regularly featuring music
by postgraduate researchers. In line with our strategic aims, composition has become more
collaborative and interdisciplinary – A.Williams’ compositions have seen collaboration with
researchers from Acoustics, from English and Linguistics, as well as with technologists from
within music (Hart).

Contribution to culture and society
Collaboration with a large-scale international arts organisation (Spazju Kreattiv, Malta) has been
a feature of Sant’s research during this period, where exploration of practices of digital curation,
programming and documentation has also impacted on the programming of events at this
national arts centre and the legacy such events leave behind.

Our research is also embedded in, and impacts upon, local communities in Greater Manchester.
Both Scott’s and Talbot’s practice-based research has been conducted in collaboration with the
Broughton Trust, a local charity engaged in training, support and community development in
East Salford. Here, Talbot has worked with community groups and dementia cafés in developing
his virtual clown project, while Scott conducted a project working with young people and using
digital mixing practices to express and explore relationships with the River Irwell, in the wake of
the floods of 2015. This led to further workshops at community events and to Scott being part of
the Salford Cultural Organisations Network, hosting this group of local creative organisations in
meetings at the University and contributing to Arts Council England bidding. The Red Brick
sessions (A.Williams) are also predicated on engaging the local Salford community with
classical music.

In another Salford-based initiative, a collaborative PhD between the University and the Lowry
Theatre was established in 2019, with the researcher now contributing to the Stage Directions
project, an Arts Council England Youth Performance-funded programme, which focuses on
theatre-making with young people in Salford across 12 schools and 3 community settings.
Through our research activities, we connect with our immediate local community and this is
reflected through Sarie Slee, one of our former dance research colleagues, going on to take up

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the role of Head of Salford City Council’s Culture and Place Partnership. In this role, researchers
from the Unit continue to connect with Slee’s vision for Creativity, Culture and Place, particularly
through the types of ‘place-making’ activities described above.

Contribution to the discipline
Performance, Music and Film researchers at Salford make significant contributions to the
discipline through their wider activities, for example:

    •   As co-convener of the Performance and New Technologies working group at TaPRA and
        co-host with McCormick of the annual conference in 2017, Scott has gone on to be
        elected and serve as conference officer on the executive committee of TaPRA
    •   As co-conveners of the PaR Centre of Excellence at Salford, Matthews and Scott have
        been invited to share their expertise with researchers at various other institutions,
        including the University of South Wales, University of Essex, Royal Central School of
        Speech and Drama and University of Leeds
    •   Scott’s monograph Intermedial Practice and PaR was shortlisted for the TaPRA Early
        Career Research Prize in 2018 and she co-edited a special issue of the International
        Journal of Performance Arts and Digital Media in 2020, when she was also appointed as
        the reviews editor for the journal
    •   Hart has been appointed convener of the Arts Education research strand of the British
        Educational Research Association and was awarded best ECR paper as well as best
        abstract at the BERA (British Educational Research Association) 2019 conference
    •   Flanagan and colleagues were invited to the University of Oxford to talk about Marvel
        Studios, in the wake of the publication of their book on this topic.

Wilkie is a longstanding editor of the journal Comedy Studies (since 2014) and Sant is an
associate editor for the International Journal of Performance Arts and Digital Media and serves
on the standing committee of the DRHA (Digital Research in the Humanities and Arts).
Kosmidou co-edited the Special Issue themed 'Studies in Cultural Memory' for the Journal of
Media and Cultural Politics, published in June 2016 and Willis regularly operates as a visiting
professor at the University of Auvergne. He also co-edits the book series ‘Spanish and Latin
American Filmmakers’, is a founding member of the Chinese Film Forum and along with other
academics and practitioners, curates a series of academic and public-facing events in this area
through the Forum.

Performance, Music and Film researchers peer review for various journals, namely Research In
Drama Education (RiDE), International Journal of Performance Arts and Digital Media (IJPADM),
Theatre, Dance and Performance Training (TPDT), Platform, Contemporary Theatre Review, the
Scottish Journal of Performance, Contemporary Music Review, the Journal of Modern Greek
Studies, the Journal of Media Practice and the BERA Review of Education. In addition to this,
Scott and Talbot review book proposals for Bloomsbury and Routledge and Wilkie for Palgrave
Macmillan.

The Unit has hosted seminars, symposia, research events and conferences (e.g. TaPRA, Sick!
Festival symposium) throughout this REF period, inviting external researchers to present work,
alongside showcasing the research conducted within our research groups. Also, this Unit and its
researchers have responded with resilience and energy to the COVID-19 pandemic and
lockdown, showing our agility and determination to continue our work, looking to digital solutions
to facilitate this. The Performance Research Group Seminar Series went online in April 2020 and
presented six panels with a total of 11 external guest speakers, 9 internal speakers to an
international audience of 250, that included participants from Australia, USA and France.
B.Williams’ collaboration with The Manchester Collective has resulted in the release during
lockdown of their first commercial recording, produced by B.Williams. Meanwhile, A.Williams
has been generating content for individual players of the BBC Philharmonic during lockdown and
his work with Psappha went ahead but shifted online. Finally, in May, Talbot and The
Performance Research Group, in partnership with New Adelphi Theatre and Enableus, Sheffield,
hosted the Ridiculusmus Virtual trilogy, which included specially curated screenings, expert talks

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and discussion.

These continued connections with, and contribution to, the wider research base, related
industries and local communities are part of the collaborative, outward facing focus of our
research, which sustains even when we cannot physically be together. It has resulted in a range
of research events being hosted at Salford, generating a lively open space for research to be
shared and to come into active conversation with that of other researchers in the field. All our
researchers will ensure that this open, generous and collegiate environment for sharing research
continues.




                                                                                        Page 13
