Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: C-13 Architecture, Built Environment and Planning


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Context

The Unit is, as evidenced in previous RAE and REF exercises, a longstanding centre of excellence
across built environment disciplines. Since 2014 we have further enhanced the scale, scope, and
impact of our research through an ambitious growth strategy enabled by targeted investments in
both researchers and high-quality research support. We have doubled our research income and
grown our staff base by a quarter, including doubling the size of our early career researcher
(ECR) cohort and leading innovations in researcher development programmes.

This enables a vibrant and diverse research environment with 79 submitted staff and 25 research
assistants, conducting research characterised by its innovation, interdisciplinary rigour,
international reach; and generating advances in understanding that make substantive contributions
to improving policy, professional practices, and places.

Our growth has been guided by our mission to pursue globally significant, transformative research
into the built environment that significantly advances both academic and professional knowledge.
We are driven by a shared commitment to social justice, diversity, and environmental sustainability,
and we work closely with co-producers and users of our research throughout the world to achieve
these goals.

Our research is widely recognised for its methodological and conceptual originality, and its use of
new forms of data and analysis within a framework that promotes ethics and participation, including
the pursuit of open research.

The Unit is comprised of the School of Architecture, Department of Landscape Architecture,
Department of Urban Studies and Planning (USP), and the cross-departmental, interdisciplinary
Sheffield Urban Institute (SUI), all located within the Faculty of Social Sciences.

Recognising our research strength, the Faculty has prioritised the Unit for significant research
investment. The SUI, founded in 2013, along with the Sheffield Institute for International
Development (SIID), established in 2011, were created to build critical interdisciplinary mass,
required to tackle the complex and multi-faceted challenges of the built environment. Each has
expanded exponentially during the assessment period, with the SUI now securing over £1m in
grant income annually. We recruited a new cohort of professorial research fellows to drive
globally leading interdisciplinary research, further facilitated by thematic clusters within
departments working collaboratively across four broad platforms: ‘Design’, ‘Infrastructures’,
‘Place and Equity’, and ‘Practices’ (see Figure 1).

Our common identity is operationalised through shared research, knowledge exchange (KE) and
postgraduate researcher (PGR) support teams and our projects and studentships combine
colleagues from across and beyond our Unit as co-investigators and co-supervisors. Our
collaboration is overseen by a standing coordinating committee of senior staff. Additionally, we
benefit from our strong influence over Faculty research strategies, with the current Faculty Vice-



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
President, Director of Research and Innovation, and former Faculty PGR Director all based in our
Unit.


                                                           Key    Platforms in black
                                                                  Thematic clusters coloured for
                                                                  each department/institute




                   Figure 1: Our Interdisciplinary platforms and thematic clusters

1.2 Delivery of REF 2014 ambitions

In REF2014 we articulated our vision: to provide a vibrant, world-class research environment for
outstanding staff and PGRs, enabling them to address the global challenge of creating built
environments that sustainably facilitate economic, human, ecological, and technological
development, whilst fostering inclusive and diverse communities, and promoting social justice. We
identified three specific growth opportunities and each of these is now established as an area of
excellence. Our strength in co-production and big data includes sector-leading work on co-
production (Perry) and new innovations and techniques in visualising data (Rae, Pryce). Our
excellence in housing policy and design is underpinned by our co-directorship of the ESRC UK
Collaborative Centre for Housing Evidence (CaCHE), and a suite of further ESRC, EPSRC and
EU-funded projects. The enhancement of our excellence in international development has been
achieved by Unit staff having leading roles in the Sheffield Institute for International Development,


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
securing large-scale research funding, including over £1.1m from the Global Challenges Research
Fund (GCRF). We articulated six ambitions for this assessment period, which have all been
delivered. We have:

   •   Increased the quality and number of our academic staff and PGRs. Our research-
       active staff base has increased from 76 in 2014 to 104 in July 2020, with growth at all
       career stages. This has enabled us to both build further critical mass in existing areas of
       excellence and to establish capacity in targeted new fields of strength. The average value
       of our research income per submitted staff member rose by 64% from £17,189 in 2013/14
       to £28,202 by 2019/20. We have increased the number of PGRs from 33 starters in
       2014/15 to 38 in 2018/19, many securing competitive studentships, particularly from the
       ESRC.

   •   Provided intellectual leadership, guidance, and support to enable all staff to realise
       their research potential. Our field-leading development infrastructure for ECRs combines
       universal intensive mentoring with peer-led support mechanisms and annual cohort
       disciplinary training programmes. Transformative outcomes include the grant value of
       projects initiated and led by our ECRs rising from £13k in 2014 to £332k in 2019.

   •   Secured a greater volume and a higher quality of research funding. Total research
       income is now £13.7m (up 110% from £6.5m in REF2014), with an annual increase from
       £1.4m in 2013/14 to £2.2m in 2019/20. Our UKRI funding has increased to £9.3m (from
       £2.7m in REF2014) and more than doubled annually from £719k to £1.6m. We have also
       diversified our funders, with a total of 65 supporting our research, including the European
       Research Council (ERC), charities, municipalities and governments around the world.

   •   Built links with key partners and stakeholders to facilitate co-production of
       knowledge and enhance its impact on industry, policy, and practice. We work closely
       with a wide range of external organisations, including the Bank of England, the UK Ministry
       of Housing, Communities and Local Government, the Royal Institute of British Architects,
       the Royal Town Planning Institute, and the Wildlife Trusts.

   •   Developed the interdisciplinary and international dimensions of our research. Our
       investment in the SUI and SIID and our cohort of professorial fellows has driven the
       expansion of our interdisciplinary research. The SUI has secured £5.5m in research
       income since 2014 and currently has three staff members simultaneously holding ERC
       fellowships. We have extended our global scope and collaboration to the extent that the
       majority of our funded research projects now include international components.

   •   Continued to provide sector-leading doctoral training. We have contributed extensively
       to the ESRC White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP), including supporting the
       development of a dedicated Cities Environment and Liveability Pathway. Pryce is a Director
       of the ESRC Data Analytics and Society Centre for Doctoral Training. We deliver two Marie
       Sklodowska-Curie Innovative Training Networks and PGR training for the Royal
       Horticultural Society.

1.3 Future strategy

Our aim is to ensure that our unit continues to be a globally recognised centre leading research
that significantly advances knowledge about designing, creating and enhancing sustainable, just
and thriving built environments. To achieve this, we will:


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Build on our institutes and platforms as primary mechanisms for producing world-
       leading interdisciplinary research, utilising the Faculty’s identification of built
       environment research as an investment priority to build further critical mass in areas
       including: planning and public health; critical real estate; big data and the visualisation and
       simulation of change in the city; understanding human-centred socio-technical systems;
       and transforming public connection with, and control over, built and natural landscapes.

   •   Increase the scale of our international collaborations, already evidenced by growing
       numbers of joint funded projects and co-authored outputs, and specifically further
       strengthen our partnerships in China, Columbia and East Africa.

   •   Lead collaborations with the Chartered Institute of Housing, Landscape Institute, Royal
       Institute of British Architects, Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and the Royal Town
       Planning Institute in order to establish the built environment professions at the
       forefront of embedding open, ethical and replicable research utilising the new
       opportunities of big data, AI and innovative methodologies.

   •   Invest in our team of knowledge exchange professionals to maximise the impact of
       our research. We will lead new initiatives to establish exemplar programmes of community
       engagement that support holistic interventions enhancing the built environment and embed
       the Knowledge Exchange Concordat in our work.

   •   Establish new Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs) that facilitate interdisciplinary
       studentships, supervised by teams across and beyond our three departments. They will
       forge collaborations between our disciplines and with non-academic users and equip a new
       generation of researchers with the novel conceptual and methodological tools required to
       address the fundamental global challenges facing the built environment.

   •   Continue to build one of the strongest groupings of built environment early career
       researchers in the world, further developing sector-leading, cross-disciplinary training
       programmes that will equip them to work across disciplinary boundaries; to engage
       collaboratively across the globe and with diverse users of their research. We will engender
       the skills and aptitudes needed to lead ambitious, complex, and responsive research
       programmes required to solve society’s greatest problems.

   •   Develop sector-leading training and support programmes that embed a new
       understanding of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI). This culture will be understood
       by all as essential to an excellent research environment and inherent to the research
       process and its outcomes. It will be evidenced through the recruitment and career
       progression of our staff and PGRs; the foregrounding of EDI in the design and delivery of
       research processes; and further diversification of the partners in, and beneficiaries of, our
       research.

   •   Lead responses to the challenges facing our built environments, including COVID-19,
       and intersecting threats to human health, prosperity, and environment. Using our
       interdisciplinary expertise and collaborations we will generate knowledge to inform the
       response of organisations and communities, and by leading the development of innovative
       methods, concepts and ethical frameworks, we will sustain world-leading research in the
       context of future global pandemics.

The vitality of our unit is driven by our focus on interdisciplinarity and impact.



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.4 Interdisciplinarity

We are deeply committed to interdisciplinary research, because we recognise that understanding
and enhancing built environments involves tackling complex challenges that require conceptual
and methodological contributions from a wide range of fields, often in new and innovative
combinations. Our staff have disciplinary backgrounds and expertise in architecture, economics,
environmental psychology, environmental science, housing studies, international development,
landscape architecture, planning, real estate, politics, social policy, sociology, urban design and
urban studies. We have provided new opportunities for interdisciplinary working, including:

   •   Creating significant new vehicles for interdisciplinary research and exchange. The
       SUI’s function is to build interdisciplinary teams collaborating on large-scale international
       research tackling the most complex problems of urban environments. The SIID similarly
       seeks to address fundamental challenges in development through interdisciplinary
       engagement, including 15 scholars from our Unit as fellows and a bespoke Cities theme
       (led by Meth). The UK Centre for Housing Evidence (CaCHE), co-directed by Watkins, is a
       £5m, five-year investment with an explicit interdisciplinary remit to address the
       contemporary housing crisis.

   •   Appointing a new cohort of interdisciplinary research leaders through our innovative
       professorial fellowships scheme (Castan Broto, Lancione, Perry, Rae) and through ECR
       fellowships combining disciplines including sociology and urban studies (Burgum) and
       engineering and housing studies (Sousa).

   •   Undertaking interdisciplinary research projects on key built environment global
       challenges, including urban water management, housing for an ageing society, connecting
       wellbeing and nature, culture and climate change, and energy and place.

   •   Developing collaborative initiatives to combine different disciplinary perspectives on key
       urban issues, including the Sheffield Water Centre which brings together scholars from
       engineering, geography, landscape architecture, urban studies and planning; and major
       collaborations with the Department of History to explore urban change and the Department
       of Physics and Astronomy to understand urban climates.

   •   Promoting PGR studentship projects with interdisciplinary supervision teams through
       the White Rose DTP. These students have been funded via network awards and the
       Grantham Centre for Sustainable Futures.

These mechanisms have enabled us to secure an increasing number of research grants for
major interdisciplinary projects, including Improving Wellbeing through Urban Nature (NERC
£1.05m) and Community Energy and Sustainable Energy Transitions (GCRF, £1.3m). We have
also secured funding across the UK research councils (AHRC, EPSRC, ESRC, NERC) and
won major interdisciplinary research fellowships from the ERC (Castan-Broto, Lancione, Silver)
and Leverhulme (Tyszczuk). The increasingly interdisciplinary endeavour of our scholarship is
demonstrated in the proportion of such outputs included in this REF2021 submission. We are also
building the next generation of interdisciplinary researchers through a growing portfolio of
PGR studentships combining concepts and methods from different disciplines, guided by multi-
disciplinary supervision teams.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.5 Impact

In 2014, we stated our ambition to ‘further develop our links with key partners and stakeholders to
facilitate the co-production of knowledge and to enhance its impact on industry, policy and
practice’. We have achieved this as a result of an impact and KE strategy that ensures our
research informs real world change. We seek to partner with those who are responsible for
addressing key global challenges in the built environment, so that they can draw on our research
and expertise, ensuring positive outcomes for those living and working in cities and their wider
regions. Our strategy is founded on five pillars:

   1) Prioritising world leading research: transformative and ambitious research achieves
      impact of the strongest reach and significance. Cumulative programmes of funded research
      are vital to enabling this.

   2) Developing an impact culture: the strongest impacts can only be achieved when impact
      is planned from the early stages of the research cycle. We resource and support the
      prioritisation of impact activities, enabling field-leading impacts to develop, with the
      framework of the University’s Academic Career Pathway that identifies impact as one of its
      key pillars.

   3) Fostering strategic partnerships: policy and professional routes to impact are fostered
      through long-term partnerships with key research user groups, including government and
      professional bodies such as the Chartered Institute of Housing, Landscape Institute, Royal
      Institute of British Architects, Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and the Royal Town
      Planning Institute.

   4) Meaningful co-production: a world-class impact strategy must recognise the value of
      engagement with communities across the globe. We have developed leading models of co-
      production with international research users, resulting in meaningful impacts benefiting
      communities and localities around the world.

   5) Investing in impact: we have built a team of expert KE and partnership support
      professionals and they have driven the provision of training, mentoring and resources for
      our researchers, and ensured the targeted allocation of funding to enable the maximisation
      of impact from our research. This includes a full-time Impact Associate providing
      dedicated support to our Unit.

All our submitted case studies exemplify these pillars and are based on extensive funded research
programmes, co-designed and delivered in partnership with non-academic research beneficiaries.
The diverse forms of our impact include:

   •   Influencing national policy and legislation in the fields of lighting (Fotios), open data
       (Rae) and housing (Watkins).

   •   Utilising technological developments to shape industry and government standards and
       regulations in lighting (Fotios) and sound (Kang) in the built environment.

   •   Informing major urban infrastructure innovations and developments (Hitchmough,
       Rae).

   •   New economic development, and commercialisation, including spinout companies
       specialising in urban landscape management and urban greening (Dunnett, Hitchmough),
       as well as wider partnerships with leading industry bodies (Chang, Stevenson).


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Fostering open research, public information and engagement (Rae).

   •   Internationalisation of impact, including in Australia, China, France and the United States
       (Dunnett, Hitchmough, Petrescu, Rae).

We have prioritised co-production, developing new models of effective engagement (Perry). We
have used research council funding to work in partnership with organisations including Derby
Museums, Manchester Health and Care Partnerships, the Royal Town Planning Institute and
Sheffield City Council, and marginalised groups and communities in the UK (Inch), Europe
(Lancione, Petrescu), and extensively in the Global South, including projects in South Africa (Meth,
Perry) and East Africa (Horn, Silver).

We have extensive engagement with policymakers, who have used our research, for example to
set standards for practice (Fotios, Petrescu). Our Crook Professional Fellowships programme
funds co-produced projects between researchers and policymakers in a range of built environment
organisations, while the CaCHE Policy Fellows Programme enables researchers and practitioners
to jointly seek solutions to housing challenges. We have utilised secondments of staff and PGRs to
deepen engagement with key partner organisations (Tait at Sheffield City Council, Westling at
DEFRA). Castan Broto is a lead author for the International Panel on Climate Change and through
a suite of DFID/FCDO funded projects, we have significantly informed policy making in Uganda
and Nigeria.

1.6 Open research and research integrity

We are committed to ensuring that our research findings are available as widely and freely as
possible. We have led the development of new open access journals, including the Radical
Housing Journal (co-led by Lancione), Field, and Buildings and Cities (Stevenson) and Regional
Studies, Regional Science (Rae, Hincks). Our Unit has undertaken significant work to make new
urban data accessible to the public, ensuring that it is published openly, and we have invested
substantial funding to enable Unit staff to publish in OA formats, prioritising support to ECRs.

To ensure maximum discoverability of our research, we aim to put all outputs in White Rose
Research Online, our shared repository with Leeds and York (green route). The 1,058 outputs
deposited over this assessment period were downloaded 138,000 times. This is our preferred
route, ensuring equity in publishing opportunities regardless of available funding; we also publish
outputs in fully OA journals, or hybrid where required for funder compliance.

Our culture of research integrity is promoted through an explicit focus on open discussion of
research methods, rigour, and practice. This is designed to encourage and support researchers to
use new and exploratory methodologies with confidence. Initiatives have included:

   •   Workshops organised by the SUI and SIID have enabled important debate on the ethics
       of international research.

   •   Support for PGRs has been extended through initiatives such as the UKRI-Newton funded
       Sheffield-Witwatersrand PhD Training Partnership. This allowed ECRs to explore the
       ethical challenges inherent in researching complex urban issues in the UK and
       internationally.

   •   Leading innovation and enhanced practice on just and ethical approaches in co-
       produced research through major projects including Jam and Justice and Stories for
       Change (Perry).


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Our Urban Education Live initiative has explored critical junctures between universities
       and communities, while the Westfield project within USP enabled reflection on research in
       deprived neighbourhoods, winning an RTPI award.

Research integrity is a key element of our induction, probation, training, and professional
development programmes, complemented by mentorship and supervision, enabling a thorough
understanding of project design, authorship and publication, data management, and dealing with
conflicts of interest. It is within this framework that our ethical review processes are situated,
ensuring every research project requiring ethics approval is assessed by at least three colleagues.




 2. People


2.1 Staffing strategy

The recruitment and development of excellent research and support staff is key to the vitality
and sustainability of our unit and the delivery of our research strategy. Since 2014, we have both
increased our cohort of researchers and further developed innovative programmes of support,
resulting in a greater number of large, multi-disciplinary grants and prestigious early career
fellowships. Our staffing strategy has six key objectives. We aim to:

   •   Recruit high-quality researchers at all career stages.

   •   Invest in the future of our disciplines, creating an interdisciplinary environment for ECRs to
       flourish and become leaders.

   •   Target recruitment in order to extend and deepen existing areas of excellence and to
       expand into new fields of research, allowing further internationalisation, increased
       interdisciplinarity, and methodological innovation.

   •   Provide guidance, support, resources and expert training and skills development to all our
       researchers.

   •   Foster an environment that promotes EDI.

   •   Create clear pathways and frameworks for career development.

Growing our staff base

The number of research-active staff in the Unit has grown in this assessment period from 76 to 104
(79 submitted staff and 25 research assistants). We have increased the quality and reach of our
research, by doubling the number of research-specialist staff from 17 to 40. Since 2013 we
have aimed to establish a vibrant ECR community. The proportion of postdoctoral researchers
has grown from 18% to 27% of our research staff base, while the total number of research-
active staff between the ages of 25 and 39 has grown by 72% between 2013 (22) and 2019
(38).




                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Post                                               Proportion of total research complement
 Postdoctoral researcher/junior research fellow     31%
 Lecturer/research fellow                           24%
 Senior lecturer/reader/senior research fellow      24%
 Professor                                          21%

Table 1: Proportion of total research complement

We have increased the number of early career fellowships within the Unit from 0 in 2013 to 13 in
2020, with all our fellows supported by an innovative cohort-based programme of training and
development.

We have also grown the international scope and relevance of our research. The proportion of
overseas staff has risen from 8% to 13%, and the diversity of our staff has also increased. The
implementation of training for senior staff overseeing recruitment processes, and close work with
advisors on the wording of job descriptions and advertisements, have resulted in a growth in the
number of our minority ethnic research-active staff from 3 in 2013 (4%) to 20 (19%) of our total
research-active staff, while 5% have declared a disability, compared to 0% in 2013. Our research-
specialist staff are evenly balanced in gender terms (52% female).



         450

         400

         350

         300

         250
  £000




         200

         150

         100

         50

          0
               2014         2015      2016         2017      2018        2019        2020

Figure 2: Value of research funding won for independent research by ECRs (2020 figures to July
2020)

2.2 Supporting our researchers

Enabling our staff to realise their potential requires the provision of development pathways and the
support to become established researchers and, subsequently, leaders. Departmental, Unit and
Faculty strategies, running in tandem with University-wide policy and programmes, have clarified
criteria for promotion, and expectations of staff at different grades.



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
As described in REF5a, in 2018 the University of Sheffield introduced its Academic Careers
Pathways (ACP), delineating expectations for staff at different grades and clarifying criteria for
promotion. University-wide training, in the shape of the small-group Sheffield Leader
programme, has enabled staff to develop their leadership skills since 2014.

A dedicated Faculty Research Leadership initiative supports mid-career staff through a programme
of shadowing, workshops, and networking opportunities. Since 2016, the Faculty’s professorial/
senior research fellowships enable the fellows to combine their research with a dedicated
leadership development programme. The four fellows in our Unit (Castan Broto, Lancione, Perry
and Rae) have between them secured £5.4m in research funding, including two ERC Starting
Grants.

The SUI enables staff to dedicate all their time to research and impact, while in our three
departments, teaching and research (T&R) staff are allocated a minimum of 40% ring-fenced time
for research and impact, organised through a transparent Work Planning Framework. Staff are
supported in research planning and review; mentoring; funding and training; and collective
peer-led development.

   •   All research-active staff are supported in long-term strategic planning, based around 3-
       year plans for funding, outputs and impact and the tailored individual support required to
       achieve these, with six-monthly meetings with Directors of Research to review progress.
       This is complemented by the annual Staff Review and Development Scheme (SRDS),
       which utilises the ACP framework to agree annual objectives and the resources, training
       and advice needed to deliver them. All new lecturers are assisted to produce three-year
       plans within their probation period, with the Faculty Director of Research and Innovation
       providing individualised feedback on each plan and linking them to appropriate support
       mechanisms.

   •   Research-active staff, at all grades, are assigned a mentor to provide advice and guidance
       on their research, writing and impact activities. Colleagues on probation are similarly
       assigned a probation advisor to undertake this role. In addition, colleagues may access
       the University mentoring programme and we regularly provide further specialist
       mentoring, enabling experienced researchers to provide support for colleagues targeting
       specific funding schemes, or being PI on a major grant for the first time. The Unit
       implements the University’s Code of Practice on Mentoring and all colleagues are
       encouraged to engage proactively with the University’s development programme for
       mentors.

   •   All these planning and mentoring mechanisms are coordinated with our research hub, and
       department Directors of Research in order to ensure effective provision of training. This
       includes staff accessing expert methods training delivered by the Sheffield Methods
       Institute, located within the Faculty and formerly directed by two Unit members (Pryce,
       Rae); and new training in response to identified staff development needs; for example, on
       scaling up research projects, data protection and EDI.

   •   This coordination enables the effective allocation of research and impact funding resources.
       Personal funding for conferences, event attendance, and externally- provided
       training is available for all staff in the Unit. In Architecture and Landscape Architecture,
       research clusters provide funds for staff to present and publish their work, whilst ECRs are
       given £1k to support conference attendance. In USP, all T&R staff are provided with £800
       annually to support conference attendance. Further funding is available through
       departmental research stimulation funds. This has enabled staff to attend international

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       conferences, with outcomes including the publication of special issues of journals arising
       from conference sessions. Colleagues involved in preparing large-scale grant applications
       can access the Faculty research stimulation fund to facilitate collaboration and consortia-
       building.

   •   Collective, peer- led development is an essential element of our support. Focused
       workshops, reading groups and critical friends sessions are a vital feature of our research
       environment. In addition, monthly ‘Brown Bag’ seminars facilitate the early presentation of
       work in progress and emerging ideas in a supportive context.

Study leave is available to all T&R staff within the Unit. It is used strategically for three primary
purposes: facilitating the production of world-leading outputs; enabling the development of
major research funding applications; and creating the capacity to maximise the impact of
our research. Study leave is usually for the period of one semester, with objectives linked to our
strategic aims, and is based on a detailed plan of outcomes and required support that is approved
by the Faculty Director of Research and Innovation. Since 2014, 28 teaching and research staff
have taken study leave, leading to the completion of over 50 publications and 16 major
research applications. For example, Stevenson produced her RIBA-published book on housing
fit-for-purpose, while Connelly visited refugee camps in Jordan to scope an interdisciplinary project,
which was subsequently funded (£0.7m, GCRF). These study leave periods are complemented by
the provision of shorter periods, maximising our capacity to respond dynamically and flexibly to
opportunities. For example, they have enabled the submission of applications to UKRI rapid
response research funding calls; or facilitated coordinated activities with our partners to seize time-
critical opportunities to achieve influence and impact from our research.

2.3 Supporting user engagement and impact

We support staff to maximise their engagement with the users of their research and thereby to
maximise the impact for its beneficiaries. Impact is a priority area in the ACP framework, placing
it at the core of our research ambitions. We have:

   •   Employed a full-time Research and Impact Associate who provides expert and
       dedicated support to priority projects (including all our submitted case studies) and
       develops and implements impact and KE training initiatives across the Unit. We also
       employ a KE and Impact Fellow within the Collaborative Centre for Housing Evidence.

   •   Utilised funding, including Impact Accelerator Account (IAA), HEIF, GCRF and the
       University’s Public Engagement Fund to resource knowledge exchange activities, ensuring
       that such funding is targeted to those projects with the strongest potential of achieving
       substantive reach and significance.

   •   Delivered training with a range of programmes and workshops provided by the University.
       Specialist workshops have been dedicated to developing international impact, which have
       proven particularly useful for GCRF projects. Unit staff (Castan Broto, Robinson) have
       participated in intensive policy engagement training delivered in partnership with the
       Institute for Government.

   •   Ensured capacity through the strategic use of study leave and other targeted periods of
       reductions in teaching and administration workloads to enable colleagues to maximise
       impact outcomes.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Embedded user engagement and pathways impact into all our projects, with expert
       input from our KE team to all grant proposals and co-designing many applications with non-
       academic partners.

2.4 Supporting ECRs

We have significantly increased our postdoctoral research community through success in
prestigious fellowships competitions and through building opportunities into major funded
research projects. We have secured funding from the British Academy (Cahtterai); Leverhulme
(Baker, Burgum, Emery, Sawyer, Verbeek); ESRC Postdoctoral Fellowships (Antaki, Hoddy,
Hoole, Kaufman, Yi); GCRF Fellowships (Cawood); Newton International (Mosselson); the Urban
Studies Foundation (Higgins) the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission (Daniel); and a UKRI
Innovation Fellowship (Sousa). This success is facilitated by our Visiting Fellowships Scheme
which identifies future world-leading researchers and enables them to undertake short visiting
fellowships in our Unit in order to collaboratively develop their applications to these schemes.

Our postdoctoral research associates have been supported by project funding from the EPSRC
(Chapman, Cheal, Robbins, Skelton, Soto, Westlng, Tomkins); ESRC (Bimpson, Houghton, Hickie,
Huang, McNeill, Moore, Mukweyda, Preece, and Slade); NERC (Sefton), EU (Choe, Kenyon);
Marie-Skłodowska Curie (Aletta, Margaritis) and the Royal Horticultural Society (Chalmin-Pui) .

Our postdocs have produced monographs for Routledge (Burgum, Mosselson), chapters in edited
collections for Cambridge University Press, Palgrave, and Springer, and have published in the
most respected journals in our disciplines including Energy and Buildings, Environment and
Planning, Geoforum, Global Environmental Change; Housing Studies; International Journal of
Urban and Regional Research; Journal of Building Performance Simulation; Journal of Digital
Landscape Architecture; Landscape Research; Landscape and Urban Planning; People and
Nature; Town Planning Review; Planning, Theory and Practice; Urban Geography; and Urban
Studies. Purvis’s paper in Sustainability Science was the winner of the 2019 Most Outstanding
Article Award.

Mosselson secured the Chancellor’s Fellowship at Edinburgh, Hoddy gained a fellowship at Lund
and several others are continuing in research associate posts at Birmingham (Hoole), Durban
(Houghton), Exeter (McCalman), Hong Kong (Choe), Manchester (Lockhart), Reading (Wargent),
Sheffield (Mario-Diaz; McNeil), Sheffield Hallam (Bimpson), University of Central Lancashire
(Kenyon) and Utrecht (Baibarac, McCrorie) as well as teaching associate positions at Glasgow
(Kaufman). Our ERCs have become lecturers at Birmingham City (Burgum), Liverpool (Moore),
and Witswatersrand, South Africa (Mukwedeya), as well as a senior lecturer at Northumbria
(Skelton), associate professors at Birla Institute of Technology, India (Nadigama) and the Indian
Institute of Management, Chennai (Thampi). Westling is now in the science research team in
DEFRA.

The University is a signatory of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers. The Unit seeks to embed the Concordat’s principles of environment, employment,
and career support in its approach. Consequently, a Director of ECR Development (Lancione),
works with the ECR community (around 20 scholars annually from across our three departments
and the SUI) to deliver an innovative programme of interdisciplinary career and development
support to develop impact, strategies for publication, collaboration and understanding academic
promotion. All our ECRs have designated mentors. The Inclusive Societies Early Career
Support Network, convened by Atkinson, also delivers an annual interdisciplinary cohort



                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
development programme. In addition, the ECRs convene their own Critical Friends Group, which
meets regularly to provide peer review for papers and research bids.

ECRs shape department activities through their representation on the Research Committees and
EDI Committees of our departments and they have organised key research dissemination
activities, including public research seminars (Herman, Higgins, Sawyer) and internal ‘brown bag’
seminars (Preece, Wang).

Our ECRs have already made significant contributions to their disciplines, including holding key
roles in learned societies. Three current and recent ECRs are members of the Housing Studies
Association Executive Committee (Burgum, Bimpson, Lucas), one (Uttley) is Associate Editor for
two journals (PlosONE and Indoor and Built Environments), and three have published edited
collections and special issues (Higgins and Burgum with Manchester University Press and
Keskin in Town Planning Review). They have also secured prestigious research awards, including
three ERC Starter Grants (Castan-Broto; Lancione, Silver), an ESRC New Investigators Award
(Horn), a UKRI Innovation Fellowship (Sousa), and an ESRC Future Leaders Fellowship
(Goodfellow).

2.5 Supporting PGR students

A vibrant community of excellent PGRs is essential to our research ambition and Unit staff have
made significant leadership contributions to major PGR initiatives. Watkins was inaugural director
of the White Rose DTP and Flint is a member of its Academic Quality Committee, Pryce is a
director of the Data Analytics and Society Centre for Doctoral Training and Williams was PGR
Director for the Faculty, while Cameron advised the Royal Horticultural Society on the design and
launch of its PGR programme.

Our graduate school remains one of the largest built environment PGR centres in the UK and is
currently home to an internationally diverse cohort of 145 PGRs from over 30 countries. We have
sought funding for studentships that ensures the excellence of our PGRs, enables us to increase
the diversity of our cohort and facilitates new partnerships. We have secured highly competitive
studentships from the White Rose DTP, the White Rose Centre for Arts and Humanities, the Data
Analytics and Society CDT and the Grantham Centre for Sustainable Futures. We have also used
major research grant awards to fund linked studentships, including Welfare Conditionality (ESRC)
and Radical Housing Transformations (ERC) and have secured prestigious China Scholarship
Council studentships. We have built our portfolio of international funding partners, including the
CAPES Foundation in Brazil, Chongqing University and Harbin Institute of Technology,
Commonwealth studentships and the Saudi Ministry of Housing.

 Year                             Students graduating with a       Students graduating with a
                                  PhD                              professional doctorate
 2013                             22.5                             0
 2014                             29.0                             0
 2015                             34.3                             1.0
 2016                             25.0                             0
 2017                             27.5                             0
 2018                             27.0                             0

Table 2: PGRs graduating by doctoral type (fractions show shared supervision with another unit).



                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Since 2014, we have enhanced our PGR training in several ways. We have developed new CDTs
and DTPs, most notably the White Rose DTP, a collaboration of seven universities led by the
University of Sheffield which has established a cross-institutional community of PGRs, with training
on a shared ‘Cities, Environment and Liveability’ pathway, which includes events,
interdisciplinary and discipline-specific discussion, and international seminars with visiting
speakers. The current and previous deputy directors of the pathway are both based in our Unit
(Powell, Pill).

Students in the Unit are supported through other CDTs, including nine students who receive a
further three months of funding to undertake additional training through the Grantham Centre for
Sustainable Futures, The Unit also hosts two Marie Skłodowska-Curie Innovative Training
Networks in the School of Architecture, with 30 students benefiting from a network of 16
universities. Additionally, our PGRs access bespoke methods training delivered for the Faculty by
the expert team of the Sheffield Methods Institute. We have further strengthened our
departmental-level PGR training, with bespoke modules including collaborative writing
workshops, and guidance on career development. We build strong cohort identities and
interactions, including ensuring engagement between PGRs at different stages of their studies,
and across our departments.

Interdisciplinarity, international collaboration and impact are at the heart of our training and
support for PGRs. We led two ESRC multi-institutional network studentships awards
(Atkinson, Lombard) and we have secured ESRC-funded collaborative awards, enabling our
PGRs to gain further bespoke non-academic training from partners including the Chartered
Institute of Housing, Sheffield City Council and Wessex Housing. Our PGRs have also benefited
from placement schemes with the Royal Horticultural Society, Transport Research Laboratory
and the UK Parliament. Several of our PGRs have, through the Crook Public Service
Fellowships programme, worked with senior practitioners and policymakers on joint research
projects leading to new policy briefings. Ball produced a new parents training guide that is now
used by Sheffield City Council, Hughes developed a series of online resources for community-led
housing and Beckett was seconded to the Housing Studies journal to assist in developing a new
database. The East-West Studies PGR Group provides an interdisciplinary forum through
seminars and lectures to share and advance new ideas in architecture and landscape architecture
between East Asia and Europe.

Williams led the UKRI-funded Developing Research Capacity for Inclusive Urban Governance
partnership between Sheffield and Witwatersrand, South Africa, enabling a cohort of 20 PGRs to
undertake exchange visits and intensive bespoke joint training programmes. We have also led
international PGR summer schools (for example Inch with the University of Florence) and
participated in Social Sciences-STEM PGR project collaborations through the Grantham Centre.

PGR recruitment and supervision are key pillars of the ACP framework and in the Unit, staff at all
career stages are supported to undertake supervision and to secure studentships. The
University has introduced mandatory training for supervisors and a programme of continuing
collective reflection on PGR provision. Peer support networks, online modules and discussion
workshops ensure the sharing of best practice and our School of Architecture introduced an
innovative code of supervision practice, including principles for co-authorship and research
collaboration.

Our PGR community is fully integrated into the life and research environment of our unit, with
extensive involvement in our seminars and discussion groups and formal representation on
dedicated PGR committees as well as research committees. USP established the role of PGR
Director of Doctoral Development, enabling a senior colleague to co-produce a series of

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
discussion groups and initiatives with our PGRs that have addressed issues including decolonising
research and strategies for publication. All our PGRs are given opportunities to regularly present
and discuss their work at department-wide all-staff informal sessions.

We encourage our PGRs to make strong wider contributions to our disciplines, including organising
three annual conferences on architecture manifestos, lighting, and landscape architecture
research.

PGR student welfare is a priority for the Unit. In addition to at least two supervisors and an
independent personal tutor, PGRs have access to a variety of support mechanisms, including a
University-funded wellbeing advisor. Doctoral students are members of departmental EDI
committees, and these have coordinated interventions to promote the welfare of PGRs during
the COVID-19 pandemic; providing externally delivered wellbeing training, providing laptops and
hosting additional online communal events.

Our PGRs have benefited from the University’s publication bursary initiative, providing three
months additional post-viva funding to facilitate the production of journal articles and monograph
proposals. Our Unit proactively encourages co-authorship between PGRs and supervisors;
based on the co-produced principles of collaboration developed by our School of Architecture.
Since 2014, 31 publications have been authored by current or former PGRs based on their
doctoral work with articles in journals including Urban Studies (Wan), Environmental Policy and
Practice (Calman) Journal of Cleaner Production (Wian) and chapters in edited collections for
publishers including Palgrave Macmillan. PGRs are supported to present at the leading national
and international conferences and Morales won Best Congress Paper at the Association of
European Planning Schools conference in 2017.

Our PGRs have progressed to prominent positions in the academy, policy, and practice. Morales is
now a professor in Mexico, and our doctoral graduates have secured assistant professorships in
Bahrain, China, Germany, Malaysia, South Korea, Nigeria, Turkey and the United States and
senior lectureships in Denmark, Jordan and at Sheffield Hallam and the University of the West of
England in the UK. Many of our PGRs have been appointed to postdoctoral research and
fellowship positions including in the UK at Bristol, Manchester, and Sussex and internationally at
universities including Guanajuanto, Lund, Singapore Management, SWPS Warsaw and Tongii.

Reflecting our emphasis on maximising the societal benefits of our research, one of our former
PGRs (Young) is now the KE Manager for the ESRC UK Centres for Collaborative Housing
Evidence. Beckett was our Unit’s Impact Associate before recently becoming the Impact Manager
for Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences at UCL, while Faulkner is Conflict and Security Research
Advisor at the FCDO.

Many of our PGRs have become influential in built environment policy and practice, including
becoming a partner in the award-winning Peynore and Prasad Architects; Director of Xanxi
Planning and Research Consultancy, China: Head of Horticulture at the Oman Botanic Garden;
Horticultural Director at St Andrews Botanic Garden and holding senior positions at Barclays Bank
and the Iraqi Prime Minister’s Office.

2.6 Equality, diversity, and inclusion

The Unit has a shared commitment to create more equal, diverse, and inclusive built and
natural environments and this can only be achieved if we enact these goals ourselves,
necessitating ongoing review and reflection and working with a wide cross-section of our research
community to identify opportunities to revise and enhance our practice.

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our core objective is to develop sector-leading training and support programmes that embed
a new culture of understanding of EDI. We view this as essential to an excellent research
environment and inherent to the research process and its outcomes. Our commitment will be
evidenced by the recruitment and career progression of our staff and PGRs; the foregrounding of
EDI in the design and delivery of research processes; and further diversification of the partners in,
and beneficiaries of, our research.

We have actively sought to recruit a more diverse group of researchers in the Unit. Since
2013, the number of minority ethnic research-active staff has grown from 3 in 2013 (4% of all
research-active staff) to 20 (19%). 5% of our total research-active staff have declared a disability,
compared to 0% in 2013. We have increased the proportion of our female research-active staff
(now 38%). Increasing this further is a key strategic priority and we have sought a long-term
sustainable approach through ensuring that the majority of ECRs joining the Unit are female. We
access expert input into all of all our job specifications and advertisements to maximise the
inclusion and diversity of applicants; mandating that all staff involved in chairing recruitment (and
promotion) processes have completed unconscious bias training and requiring diverse
representation on recruitment panels.

Our work sits within the University’s framework for promoting EDI. This has informed
recruitment practices, representation on key decision-making groups, support mechanisms, and
wider action on EDI issues. Our Unit proactively supports the University’s Race Equality Strategy
and Action Plan, its initiatives in relation to gender equality, and its policies on disability inclusion
and LGBTQ+ equality. However, we also aim to go beyond these, recognising the individual and
collective roles that we can play in diversifying the professions within which our research is aligned.

Each department within the Unit has an EDI Director, a senior member of staff who either sits on
the departmental Executive Committee or reports directly to the Head of Department and are also
members of the Faculty EDI Committee, encouraging engagement with wider EDI agendas across
the University. The directors chair our departmental EDI Committees, which set strategies and
priorities for EDI work, including with respect to research, and monitor progress against key
objectives. The membership of these committees is deliberately broad, ensuring the participation of
ECRs and PGRs and similarly, we have facilitated greater diversity in our research committees. All
three of our departments have dedicated teams currently preparing a submission for an Athena
SWAN Bronze award, facilitated by significant formal workload allowances.

We audit promotion processes for diversity and use our staff development and review processes
to encourage researchers within protected groups to consider promotion and to ensure that
outcomes take account of periods of leave for caring and parenting responsibilities. We also audit
study leave, and since 2014 over 50% of those benefiting have been female members of staff.

Staff who have caring responsibilities are offered specialist support, including the University’s
flagship Women Academic Returners Programme. This enables women to mitigate the impact of
parental leave on research progression, leading to outcomes such as new research bids being
developed. All staff have the opportunity to work flexibly, and the contributions of part-time
staff (12% of research active staff) are recognised and valued explicitly in promotion and staff
review processes. Staff have access to professional health and wellbeing support, with
additional resources provided over the COVID-19 pandemic, including wellbeing sessions led by
professional advisers.

We seek to engage, critically and openly, with issues of power and exclusion in the built
environment. We foster self-reflection and collective discussion on issues of race, sexuality,
gender, and disability. The School of Architecture has explicit initiatives promoting feminist

                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
approaches to research and practice, including the Feminist School of Architecture (a platform
to cultivate intersectional feminism in UK architecture schools amongst students, graduates, and
staff). It also hosts The Feminist Library, a website celebrating feminist research and practice in
architecture. Stevenson and Samra were chosen to be RIBA Role Models in 2019. Landscape
Architecture have diversified their research reading lists, while Simone has convened an Urban
Institute series of public discussions reflecting on race and its implications for cities.

Our Unit has fully implemented the University Code of Practice governing our REF2021
submission. All members of our coordinating committee completed REF-specific EDI training; and
maximising diversity and protected characteristics were key criteria in our output selection. We
have provided clear definitions of ‘independent researchers’ and provided regular opportunities for
colleagues to understand and, if necessary, challenge our categorisations. We have continually
provided peer feedback to colleagues at all grades, including our postdocs, on all their published
outputs and colleagues are informed of the REF score attributed by our review panel to each of
their outputs. We have used calibration and moderation exercises to ensure that all forms of
output, discipline and methodology were assessed fairly. The University has regularly undertaken
equality impact assessments of our output scoring and attribution, and on our independent
researcher decision-making, and found no evidence of bias. We also ensured awareness of the
institutional process for disclosing equality-related circumstances, with explicit guidance that this
was a confidential decision entirely for an individual to make.




 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


Since 2014 we have built on our strong platform of research funding to achieve a significant step
change in the scale and international reach of our work. We have more than doubled our research
income during the assessment period and now a majority of our projects have an international
component. We have facilitated these outcomes by providing further support to all staff to
undertake ambitious projects and through new enabling infrastructure, most notably our
interdisciplinary research centres, including the Sheffield Urban Institute.

3.1 Research income

Securing grant funding is a key pillar of our research strategy, enabling us to undertake innovative,
interdisciplinary research at a scale that has social impact and makes a distinctive intellectual
contribution. Our funding strategy aims to:

   •   Achieve a diverse portfolio of projects supported by a range of funders, with an emphasis
       on rigorously peer-reviewed funding schemes, including UKRI, GCRF and ERC.

   •   Obtain a funding balance between individual scholarship such as fellowship and team-
       based projects.

   •   Facilitate large-scale interdisciplinary and multi-method projects capable of addressing
       fundamental social problems at scale and use these major research investments to
       generate capacity for transformative societal impact.

   •   Provide an expert professional research support infrastructure for grant capture, providing
       extensive knowledge of funding schemes, enabling partnership collaborations and
       coordinating rigorous peer-reviews of all proposals.


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Ensure that all staff have short- and medium-term objectives for grant capture, appropriate
       to their discipline and career stage.

Targeted investment to significantly enhance our capacity has included the establishment of
the Urban Institute, appointing five interdisciplinary professorial research fellows and
embedding a dedicated research hub supporting all three departments to maximise collaboration
and coordination. We have clear frameworks and expectations for staff in relation to research
funding complemented by comprehensive support for staff to pursue innovative and ambitious
research projects. We proactively utilise departmental pump-priming funds, enabling researchers
to scope out projects, collect preliminary data, and establish links with collaborators. Grant
proposals go through a rigorous process of peer review and UKRI proposals further benefit from
assessment by the Faculty Review Panel. These mechanisms have resulted in:

   •   Total research income rising 110% from £6.5m over REF2014 to £13.7m in this
       assessment period; UKRI income tripling from £2.7m to £9.3m.

   •   Income increasing per annum from £1.4m in 2013/14 to £2.2m in 2019/20; UKRI income
       doubling from £719k to £1.6m.

   •   The value of new grant awards more than doubling from £690k in 2013/14 to £3.6m in
       2019/20 with the average value rising from £26k to £85k.

   •   The number of specialist research staff (research associates and fellows) growing by more
       than 100%, from 17 to 40.

The growth in our research income and particularly our success in securing UKRI funding, is
illustrated in Figure 3 below.

We expect and support our staff to increase the scale and scope of their research programmes as
they progress through their careers, with larger awards being a primary mechanism for achieving
this and we have been successful in this goal, as demonstrated in Table 2.


 Academic grade/title                                  Average total research grant award
                                                       value per head
 Research Associate/Junior Research Fellow             £61k
 Lecturer/Research Fellow                              £63k
 Senior Lecturer/Reader/Senior Research Fellow         £219k
 Professor                                             £385k

Table 2: Average total new grant award value per head by grade (2014-2020)




                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


          3,500

          3,000

          2,500

          2,000
  £000s




          1,500

          1,000

           500

              0
                    13-14       14-15       15-16       16-17       17-18       18-19       19-20
                                                         Year

               UK Research Councils, RS,BA                  UK Charities
               UK Government                                UK Industry/other
               European                                     Non-EU

                                    Figure 3: Annual research income

3.2 Funding to engage research users

We have funded engagement with research users through six key mechanisms:

   •       Invested in expert support teams, providing extensive specialist advice and resources for
           communications, partnerships and events, as well as a Unit-specific Research and Impact
           Associate.

   •       Won Higher Education Innovation Fund, Impact Accelerator Account, Industrial
           Strategy Investment Fund and GCRF Partnership Fund resources to ensure that the
           key findings from major research projects achieve influence on the understandings,
           policies, practices and outcomes of key partner institutions across the public, private and
           third sectors in and beyond the UK.

   •       Secured external secondments enabling staff to co-design and secure impact from
           research (including with the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, the
           Department for Work and Pensions, the Noise Abatement Society and Sheffield City
           Council); and utilising visiting scholarships for industry partners to work directly in our
           departments, including Tina Saaby, Chief City Architect, Copenhagen and Greg Peynore,
           Peynore and Prasad, London.

   •       Set up key international partnerships, connecting our work to global debates and
           generating substantive impact. For example, the R-Urban project (EU Life, Petrescu) led by
           researchers in the School of Architecture, uses co-produced research to enhance urban
           resilience, bringing ecological, economic, and social benefits to deprived neighbourhoods
           across Paris and London, with the outcomes attracting multiple prestigious awards,

                                                                                                Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       including from the Innovation in Politics Institute (2017). Additionally, the £6.3m
       Horizon2020 Conexus project exploring nature-based infrastructure, led from Landscape
       Architecture, now involves 29 international partners across Europe and South America.

   •   Secured the UK Collaborative Centre for Housing Evidence (CaCHE) - a £5m UKRI-funded
       investment co-directed by Watkins, with participation from a further five Sheffield-based
       researchers). It offers a 5-year multidisciplinary platform, working with 14 institutions,
       including the RTPI and CIH. The Centre employs a dedicated full-time impact officer who
       has delivered a suite of high-profile policy briefings and events and built a research user
       network enabling housing stakeholders to co-produce the Centre’s research programme.
       Policy fellowships have facilitated practitioners and policymakers to work directly with Unit
       researchers on projects aimed at addressing specific policy and practice challenges. The
       Unit also submits robust evidence to national Government reviews, including the Letwin
       Review and research on valuing planning obligations (Crook).

   •   Developed a portfolio of large-scale projects focusing on co-production of policy. The
       ‘Realising Just Cities’ project, funded by Mistra Urban Futures and led by Perry, has
       generated a platform for interaction and co-production between the cities of Sheffield and
       Manchester. This has led to events including the 2018 Manchester Green Summit (with
       1200 participants) and work with local governments in the UK, South Africa, and Kenya on
       strategies to support the delivery of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The project
       heavily influenced the decision of the Local Government Association to support these
       Goals.

3.3 Facilities

All three departments have had extensive refurbishment since 2014 and the SUI is situated in
bespoke space within the Faculty’s interdisciplinary research centres hub, facilitating further
collaboration with other research centres. Our research is supported by substantial investment in
computing and IT equipment, including high-specification capacity to enable sector-leading work
on big data, GIS mapping and modelling. Each department and the SUI has a dedicated IT support
officer. We ensure that all our PGRs are centrally based within our departments with their own
refurbished workspaces. We have also secured investment in bespoke research infrastructure that
has significantly enhanced our capacity since 2014. This includes the Lighting Lab with a scale
model road apparatus, funded by the EPSRC and Highways England, a new research
glasshouse for Landscape Architecture and an innovative virtual reality studio in USP. Our Unit
utilises Faculty and University investments, for example our selection as a site of an ESRC-
funded Safepod enabling access for researchers to new databases previously unavailable due to
data security concerns. We also co-designed and benefit from access to the data generated by the
£1.8m EPSRC Urban Flows Observatory sited at the University and using cutting edge sensory
equipment to map energy, climate, and resource usage across the city of Sheffield and are
represented on its Advisory Board (Flint). The SUI will be located from 2022 in the interdisciplinary
research hub space in the brand new £94m Social Sciences Building.




                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


A central element of our mission is to draw on our diverse research strengths to work with a range
of partners to positively inform and produce societal impact. We have significantly increased our
international partnerships and developed new and innovative means of co-producing research,
which has led to significant impacts both in the UK and internationally.

4.1 Our strategy

Developing substantive and meaningful collaborations with academic, policymaking, and
community partners is critical in creating built environments that are sustainable, inclusive, and
diverse. Our strategy is underpinned by:

   •   The recognition that built environment problems are frequently global, and that we
       need to work with international partners to understand the dimensions of these at scale,
       whilst developing nationally and locally sensitive solutions.

   •   An understanding that sustainable solutions to built environment problems require
       interdisciplinary approaches, in collaboration with academic and policy/practice
       communities across a range of fields.

   •   An orientation to meaningful collaboration and co-production of research with
       communities and the public, recognising the need to integrate social justice into our work.

We have sought to enact three strategic priorities:

   •   Investment in major research centres, scaling up our capacity to engage with a range of
       stakeholders

   •   Prioritisation of international partnership work to produce long-standing engagements
       outside the UK, including focused projects with partners in Australia, China, South America,
       and sub-Saharan Africa.

   •   Development of staff capacity to engage productively with a wide range of communities
       and partners, expertly supported by impact associates and Faculty engagement and
       partnerships managers.

4.2 International collaborations

Most of our projects over the last seven years have an international partner and focus and we have
conducted funded collaborative research with academic partners in 19 European countries and
a further 20 countries across the Americas, Africa, Asia, and Australasia.

In establishing our unit as a key hub in a global network of built environment research and
scholarship, we have hosted residential visits from more than 40 academic visitors from 20
different countries, and our staff have undertaken more than 70 academic visits to overseas
universities in 25 countries.

We undertake extensive engagement with places in the Global South, and in understanding the
connections and disjunctions between these contexts and those of the Global North. 15
researchers in the Unit are fellows of SIID and have used its extensive platforms, networks and
formal partnership agreements in collaborative research and impact projects around the world as

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
well as benefitting from SIID’s partnership training programmes. Several of these staff have
received funding from bespoke University GCRF resources, ringfenced for international partnership
building and impact projects.

We have benefited from the work of the Faculty International Partnerships Team, who build,
develop and support partnerships with leading institutions and organisations across the world. The
Faculty Global Engagement Plan 2016-2021 established a portfolio of priority partnerships,
including for our Unit, with funding provided to pursue these links, such as a major collaboration
with South American scholars and new links with Javeriana University, Colombia. This has
generated an ESRC-AHRC Network Award on security and territory in Colombia (Lombard); A
Horizon 2020 award on Urban Nature in Latin America (Wild) and urban water management in
Bogota (Rojas-Bernal); and an ESRC New Investigators grant (Horn) working with communities in
the region.

Funding from the Worldwide Universities Network and GCRF has allowed us to develop projects
with the Federal University of Minas Gerais, Brazil (Nawratek, Silvestre, Horn), and a PGR
Network Award from the ESRC White Rose DTP supports our collaborative work with researchers
at the Universities of Leeds and York on Latin American issues, alongside a major Horizon 2020
RISE Contested Territories network (€2.2m, Horn, Lombard, Silvestre, Habermehl).

Similarly, we have expanded links with researchers and universities in Sub-Saharan Africa. We
secured ESRC-Newton funding for a PGR Training Partnership to provide bespoke training to
over 20 PGRs from Sheffield and Johannesburg. We lead the ESRC-funded ‘Living the
Peripheries’ project, working with academics from South Africa and Ethiopia, which led to the
GCRF ‘Youth Futures’ project; we are researching drone usage in Africa (Marvin, British
Academy); investigating transcultural understandings of climate change in South Africa (Peng),
and we organised the Realising Just Cities Conference in Cape Town (Perry, Mistra Urban
Futures). Further links have been made with the University of Addis Ababa, Makerere University,
Uganda, and the University of Lagos, leading to the £2m GCRF-ARUA project on Managing Urban
Conflict.

We have also developed substantive collaborations in Asia, including working with Tsinghua
University, China on projects in relation to older people’s housing (Hadjri, Huang). We lead
interdisciplinary projects with partners in China on biodiverse urban planting (Hitchmough, Lange),
and have formal links with Chongqing University, including a PGR exchange.

4.3 Institutional and interdisciplinary collaborations

Our commitment to develop interdisciplinary research to understand and support sustainable urban
change is evidenced by the establishment of the Sheffield Urban Institute (SUI) in 2013. It has
grown to a team of over 20 core and affiliated staff working in eight cross-disciplinary thematic
clusters including automation, infrastructures, climate urbanism, marginality, and justice and has
secured £5.5m in research funding since its formation.

The Unit has led several major interdisciplinary projects, including Improving Wellbeing through
Urban Nature (NERC, £1.3m) which draws together landscape architects, ecologists, real estate
researchers, and health researchers to investigate how the natural environment can support health
and wellbeing. We also host a major project on housing for older people (ESRC, ANR, NSFC
€1m), working with public health specialists and architects in China, France, and the UK.

In addition to the SUI and SIID, staff in the Unit are involved in other multidisciplinary University
research institutes and centres. The Sheffield Water Group (led by Sharp), has stimulated

                                                                                                Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
interdisciplinary projects at the interface of engineering, design, and social science, including two
funded by the UK Climate Resilience Programme (£880k) on co-production of infrastructure and
working with communities to test rainwater harvesting in Hull. Cawood’s GCRF Fellowship involves
collaboration with Water Aid (Bangladesh) to investigate urban water usage, and four staff (Buck,
Robinson, Marvin and While) are members of the Sheffield Energy Research Institute. Two Unit
members (Pryce and Rae) have been directors of the Sheffield Methods Institute which has
secured significant UKRI and other funding to drive cutting edge methodological innovation and
pioneer advanced methods training to researchers, PGRs and research users across social
science disciplines.

4.4 Impact and contributions to economy and society

Our impact strategy utilises transformative research programmes, strategic relationships, and
individual opportunities for our staff to generate transformative impacts on the economy and
society. We are maintaining and further developing local, national, and international relationships
with the policymakers, professional bodies, industry actors, and third sector organisations, who are
key drivers of change within the built environment. As an interdisciplinary unit, our strategic
partners are purposively diverse, including:

   •   National governments, policymakers and agencies, including the Department for
       International Development, the Department for Food, Environment and Rural Affairs, the
       Department for Transport, the Department for Work and Pensions and the Ministry of
       Housing, Communities and Local Government, the Northern Ireland Executive, the Scottish
       Government and the Welsh Government and government agencies including the
       Environment Agency, Historic England, Natural England and the Northern Ireland Housing
       Executive.

   •   Local and regional governments including the City of Beijing, City of Melbourne Council,
       Gothenburg City Council and Sheffield City Council.

   •   Professionals and Professional bodies including the Charted Institute of Housing,
       Landscape Institute, Royal Institute of British Architects, Royal Institution of Chartered
       Surveyors and the Royal Town Planning Institute.

   •   Companies and NGOs including the National Trust, Royal Horticultural Society,
       Rightmove, South Yorkshire Housing Association and the Wildlife Trust

   •   Local communities and those who represent them including An Even Better Arbourthorne,
       the Carbon Coop, Greater Manchester Centre for Voluntary Organisations and Westfield
       Big Local.

We foster these partnerships through organisational- and individual-level engagement and
collaboration to:

   •   Raise our Unit’s reputation for research excellence to encourage stakeholder
       engagement. Transformative and ambitious research achieves the strongest reach and
       most significant impact. We therefore provide extensive professional support for staff to
       develop cumulative programmes of funded research.

   •   Encourage individual researchers to develop continuing project-level relationships
       with varied stakeholders. We offer study leave and periodic reductions in teaching and
       administration workloads to allow staff time for engagement and emphasise the importance
       of knowledge transfer and co-production.

                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
This has enabled us to simultaneously lead and set research agendas while continually shaping
our research to stakeholders’ needs. The two strands are mutually reinforcing: strong collective
relationships with key stakeholders allow opportunities for individual- and project-level
engagement, while individual- and project-level collaborations strengthen inter-organisational
relationships for impact.

4.5 Working with our research partners

We seek real-world influence by embedding a culture of impact in our work with our key groups of
stakeholders.

National governments, policymakers, and agencies

   •   Watkins’ work in relation to the economic value of planning has informed the UK
       Government in its design of mechanisms to capture land value, including the Community
       Infrastructure Levy

   •   In 2019, Sharp was one of nine academic ‘thought leaders’ invited to present to senior
       policy officers in the Environment Agency and DEFRA in their ‘Joint Water Evidence
       Programme’. Her evidence informed the writing of the Environment Bill.

   •   Cameron was invited by DEFRA to present on the ecosystem services of gardens to the
       UK All-Party Parliamentary Horticulture and Gardening Group and advised on the UK
       Horticulture Innovation Programme.

   •   Stevenson was an expert advisor to the Technology Strategy Board’s Building Performance
       Evaluation Programme

   •   Crook and Henneberry presented evidence to an inquiry into Land Value Capture run by
       the House of Commons Select Committee for Housing, Communities and Local
       Government.

   •   Inch presented evidence on behalf of Planning Democracy to the Scottish Parliament’s
       Local Government and Regeneration Committee in 2017, which was then cited during
       debates on new planning legislation in the parliament.

   •   Crookes and Tait acted as academic advisors to the Labour Party Planning Commission.

   •   Woolley contributed to an All-Party Parliamentary Group statement on Fit and healthy
       childhood and children’s play. Her work was subsequently used by the national
       government-funded organisations CABE Space and Play England, in publications,
       presentations, media releases and articles. Woolley’s work is now used to inform
       playground design in the UK and internationally, including in South Africa.

Local and regional governments

We have long-running partnerships with Sheffield City Council, leading to significant research into
and influence over the city’s greenspace, which includes:

   •   Surveys on greenspace and local park usage (Brindley).

   •   Improving Wellbeing through Urban Nature project (Jorgensen and colleagues).

   •   Place-keeping (Dempsey).

                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Grey to Green, a project for urban greening that has influenced other UK cities and that led
       to sustained engagement between Dunnett and Green Estates Ltd, including the
       establishment of Pictorial Meadows, a seed sales and consultancy business based in
       Sheffield, providing local employment opportunities. Over 200 councils, hundreds of
       commercial organisations and individual households have bought seed products from
       Pictorial Meadows, providing new wildflower inspired displays across the country, each with
       local ecological benefits.

   •   Work on the design of older people’s housing, which has been influential in shaping policy
       and informing guidelines in Cornwall and South Wales as well as Sheffield (Hadjri, Tait).

   •   Leading research and consultation by academics in USP and Landscape Architecture for
       Sheffield’s successful Future High Streets Fund bid, winning £15.8m to transform the city
       centre.

Beyond Sheffield, we have collaborated widely with many local and regional authorities, including
internationally in countries such as Australia and China.

Professionals and professional Institutes

The Crook Public Service Fellowships Programme encourages timely, cutting-edge, co-
produced research with industry professionals. Partners to date include the Centre for Progressive
Policy, Chartered Institute of Housing, Hackney Council, Making Every Adult Matter Coalition,
Metro Dynamics, Newcastle City Council, and the Royal Town Planning Institute. Crook, Flint,
Powell, Robinson, Rae, Hincks, and Keskin have been engaged on these projects.

A similar scheme run through CaCHE has linked our researchers with leading figures in housing
and urban policy, including Public Health England and the Institute for Public Policy Research. This
has led to collaborative research informing reports on Valuing Planning for the Royal Town
Planning Institute (Watkins).

The profile of our researchers means that they staff technical committees, boards, and
councils. Crook has served on the Board of the Royal Town Planning Institute, is the Privy Council
appointee on the Architects Registration Board and was deputy chair of the Construction Industry
Council. In the field of architecture and construction, Chang has served as a member of British
Standard B/518 Structural Timber, British Standard B/525/5/Structural Use of Timber, acting as UK
Principal Expert to EN 16929:2015 European Standard Committee, and UK Principal Expert to
CEN/TC 124/WG3 European Standard Committee and Fotios is member of BS5489 committee for
road lighting.

Companies and NGOs

We have strong links with companies and NGOs. For example, Stevenson’s empirical research on
housing performance has led to partnerships with key industry actors including a top 10 UK
house builder, Crest Nicholson. Her research suggests ways to improve the quality of life for
housing inhabitants, and to mitigate climate change impacts by improving housing performance
and design. It has led to changes to both building performance evaluation (BPE) guidance
and to organisational procedures used by policymakers, consultants, design teams, and house
builders/managers. Other collaborations with the housing sector include advising the Sheffield
Housing Company (Peng), and partnering with South Yorkshire Housing Association on a Marie
Curie ITN programme (Hadjri).



                                                                                           Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We have close links to the Royal Horticultural Society (RHS): Dunnett is Ambassador for the
RHS ‘Greening Great Britain’ campaign, and Cameron and Clayden co-authored the RHS
‘Gardening in a Changing Climate’ report and designed and constructed a follow-on demonstration
exhibit for the RHS Chatsworth Garden Show.

Sustained engagement between Green and Blue Infrastructure (GBI) researchers and
environmental and water organisations has been influential on both policy and practice. For
example, our work on the design and evaluation of GBI has influenced the South Yorkshire Green
Infrastructure Strategy and the Sheffield Waterways Strategy. Work on incorporating GBI in
developers’ decision-making (Payne) has improved built environment professionals’ understanding
of the barriers and complexities of user uptake of GBI and facilitated the integration of GBI science
into built environment practice. This work feeds into the continuing development of B£ST, a tool for
evaluating and valuing SUDS-based GBI investments that is widely used by water companies,
local authorities, and private consultancies

Communities and localities

The Unit seeks to understand the ways that communities relate to place, and the social justice
implications of poorly designed and managed places. The Jam and Justice Project (Perry)
developed a 15-person action research collective in Greater Manchester to develop new models of
governance and devolution in urban areas. It had direct and widespread influence, including the
development of community-owned energy supply. Its success was such that Andy Burnham,
Mayor of Greater Manchester, recommended further co-production initiatives in other local
authorities.

Student-run ‘Live Projects’ in the School of Architecture led to a JPI Urban Europe Project (led
by Butterworth) with partners in four EU countries. This investigated the potential of using ‘urban
rooms’ to allow communities, NGOs, schools, businesses, and municipalities to shape urban
development.

USP researchers set up a project in the Westfield area of Sheffield, bringing together researchers,
students, and residents to develop plans for the neighbourhood. This enabled the community to
draw down the initial £300k of a £1m Big Lottery award. The project led to an international
conference in 2015, and visits from the Director of the Netter Centre for Community-University
Partnerships at the University of Pennsylvania.

Internationally, we have worked with a range of organisations at a community level. In Cali,
Colombia, Lombard’s work has enabled a local NGO, Asomevid, to raise key questions about
peace building in urban neighbourhoods, including a televised debate. In Lebanon, Rishbeth has
worked with community groups to investigate how open space can be used to develop harmonious
relationships between sectarian groups. In India, Dempsey, with colleagues from the Centre for
Environmental Planning and Technology, has worked with local NGOs in Ahmedabad to secure
greater access for residents to riverside spaces following redevelopment. In Africa, work by Silver
with the Slum Dwellers’ Federation in Uganda and by Horn and King with the Slum Dwellers
International in Kenya has enabled enhanced data on housing conditions, and new models for co-
produced work with NGOs.

4.6 Engaging the public

We host extensive public engagement activities to raise local, national, and international
knowledge of our organisational and individual research achievements and agendas. Researchers


                                                                                             Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
have publicised their work through a variety of media, including national and international television
channels, national newspapers, and online platforms and blogs.

We use festivals to raise the profile of our work. For example, we have exhibited at the annual
ESRC Festival of Social Science (Atkinson, Brindley, Burgum, Clayden, Crookes, Dempsey, Meth,
Nisha and Robinson), the Oslo Architecture Triennale (Tyszczuk), the Festival of the Mind (Lange,
Cameron), the Festival of Wellbeing (Jorgensen), the Off the Shelf Festival (Atkinson, Flint
Stevenson), the Festival of Debate (Atkinson), and the Glastonbury Festival (Burgum). Lancione’s
film on evictions in Bucharest has been screened over 30 times and made an official selection
three times, including at the Melbourne Documentary Festival. Pilav has used the Un-War Space
Lab in eight international exhibitions to demonstrate how landscape alterations aid survival during
conflict. Each department and the SUI have a dedicated team working to raise public awareness of
research activities, using a combination of web, social media, and events.

Cameron, Claydon, Dunnett, Hitchmough and Jorgensen have raised awareness amongst policy
makers and the general public of the benefits of private gardens (ecosystem services, positive
human health and wellbeing impacts). This has helped householders to apply new approaches in
their own spaces. Dissemination has occurred via numerous publications in horticultural journals
and TV appearances on popular gardening programmes.

4.7 Contributions to the vitality and sustainability of our disciplines

We are leading influencers of academic discourse in our areas of expertise. We have organised 20
major international conferences, including:

   •   Elsevier’s inaugural Urban Transitions Global Summit (Robinson).

   •   The 28th session of the Commission Internationale d’Eclairage (Fotios).

   •   The European Environment Agency International Conference (Lange).

   •   The UK-Ireland Planning Research Conference (Tait).

We have also delivered 47 keynote lectures, including at the World Expo in Milan (Lange), the
Petrocultures International Conference (Tyszczuk), the Congres Français de Thermique
(Robinson), and the Wales Housing Research Conference (Payne).

We play a leading role in publications. Our staff are Editors-in-Chief of four journals: Housing
Studies; Human Figurations; Lighting Research and Technology, and Regional Studies, Regional
Science. They are associate editors of a further 10 journals and members of the editorial boards of
another 38. We have guest edited five journal special editions and edited three book series since
2013.

Our staff influence research funding programmes. They are members or chairs of 15 research
council panels. Robinson chaired the Scientific Advisory Board of JPI Urban Europe, leading the
preparation of its Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda.

Members of our Unit influence policy and professional practice by shaping national and
international standards and are members of eight standards committees, including the British
Standards Institute (BSI), the European Committee for Standardisation (CEN) and the International
Commission on Illumination (CIE). We also act as scientific advisors (6 advisory roles) and as
Trustees for 13 organisations).



                                                                                             Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The excellence of our academic research and research by design has been recognised through
four ‘Best Journal’ and five ‘Best Conference Paper’ awards, and seven design awards. These
include ‘Best Paper’ prizes in Urban Studies (Silver, 2018) and the International Journal of Urban
and Regional Research (Goodfellow, 2018).

We have received awards from professional institutions, including the Royal Institute of British
Architects President’s Award for Research (Katz), the Royal Town Planning Institute (RTPI) Award
for Research Excellence (Crook, Henneberry, Slade), the RTPI ECR Award (Wang), the RTPI Sir
Peter Hall Award (Rae, Crook), the Royal Scottish Geographical Society Bartholomew Globe
(Rae), and the International Commission on Illumination (CIE) Waldram Gold Pin Distinguished
Services Award (Fotios). Crook was appointed a CBE for services to housing and charitable
governance in 2014. Hitchmough was elected a fellow of the Kew Guild and three of our staff (Flint,
Robinson and Watkins) were elected to the Academy of Social Sciences.




                                                                                          Page 28
