Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Cardiff University
 Unit of Assessment 1: Clinical Medicine
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1.Context and structure
 Cardiff University (CU) UOA1 staff reside within the School of Medicine (SoM), one of seven
 schools in the College of Biomedical and Life Sciences (CBLS). Prioritising support for
 discovery science, clinical translation and experimental medicine, UOA1 comprises research in
 cancer, immunology, infectious and immune-mediated diseases and genetic disorders.
 Initiatives introduced since REF2014 have catalysed the integration of computational methods
 in our research, fostering new interdisciplinary collaborations in precision medicine,
 neuroimmunology, immune-oncology, and neonatal infections.
 Fig-1. Infrastructures and enablers supporting our strategic priorities


         Systems Immunity Research Institute                                                 GW 4 Partnerships

        European Stem Cell Research Institute                                               Wales Cancer Bank

                    Project Sepsis                                                            Wales Gene Park
                                                                     EN
                                                       CH


                                                                        AB
                                                     AR




          Hodge Centre for Neuropsychiatric                                           Advanced Research Computing at
                   Immunology                                                                     Cardiff
                                                                           LER
                                                   SE




                                                             UoA1
                                                 RE




             Dementia Research Institute                                               Clinical Innovation Partnership
                                                                                 S



                                                          CLINICAL
                                                     Centre for Trials Research

                                                  HCRW Biomedical Research Units

                                                      Wales Cancer Trials Unit

                                                Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre

                                                   Welsh Clinical Academic Track



 We work closely with the Welsh Government, NHS Wales, industrial partners and other
 stakeholders. University-led initiatives and inward investments from UKRI, the charitable sector,
 industry and international funding agencies have catalysed strategic investments in personnel,
 collaborations and enabling facilities and infrastructures (>£204M; Fig-1). These have energised
 our research environment, creating a multi-disciplinary identity for clinical research in Cardiff
 University that include collaborations with colleagues returned in UOA3, UOA4 and UOA5.
 Examples include:
 A. UK Dementia Research Institute Centre (2017; £23M with UOA4)
 B. Systems Immunity Research Institute (2015; £4.5M)
 C. Hodge Centre in Neuropsychiatric Immunology (2016; £1M with UOA4)
 D. Project Sepsis (2018; £5.5M)
 E. Centre for Trials Research (2015; £12.3M with UOA3)
 F. Medicine Discovery Institute (2017; £14M with UOA4)
 G. Health & Care Research Wales (HCRW; totalling £38.5M) funding NHS-linked resources




                                                                                                                         Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2. Delivery of research strategy from REF2014
 Overarching strategic aims from REF2014 focussed on four key areas designed to strengthen
 interdisciplinary research within clinical medicine.
 A. Increase research performance. Since REF2014, new initiatives have enhanced the
    scientific and career aspiration of our staff (Section; S2) and led to:
     i. Enhanced research productivity and quality. We published 2,914 articles with a year-on-
        year increase in publication outputs since REF2014.
     ii. Increased competitiveness for extramural grant capture. totalling £148.8 million since
         REF2014 (S3).
    iii. Recruitment of strategic academic appointments. 24 new tenured appointments and an
         increase in REF returned staff (from 59.01 in REF2014 to 86.9 FTE).
    iv. Promotion of early-career researchers (ECR). First academic appointments: 11;
        independent career fellowships: 5; initial early-stage career fellowship holders: 17 (S2).
     v. Increased matriculation of research students. Sustainable postgraduate schemes have
        increased PGR numbers by >130 students (S2).
 B. Enhance computational and mathematical expertise. Our submission includes 11 new
    appointments in bioinformatics, biostatistics or mathematics [All REF2021 outputs flagged as
    interdisciplinary in our submission showcase research with computational scientists] (S3.2).
    The Systems Immunity Research Institute, Sêr Cymru Chair in Systems Medicine, and
    Wales Gene Park (renewed; 2019) catalysed the use of computational methods in our
    clinically applied research. Membership of ELIXIR UK, which promotes best practices and
    analytical resources in bioinformatics, evidences our expertise in this area. Access to
    University supercomputing infrastructures (ARCCA; Advanced Research Computing@Cardiff,
    see REF5a), and Supercomputing Wales has provided bespoke training programmes for
    early career and postgraduate researchers (MRC BioMed Doctoral Training Partnership;
    S2.4) and accelerated international partnerships (e.g., Biomedicine Discovery Institute;
    Monash University, Australia).
 C. Promote clinical translation and innovation. Cross-disciplinary research and training
    essential for clinical innovation and impact were prioritised through strategic investments.
    These included funding schemes via MRC and NIHR initiatives and dedicated support for all
    stages of translational research (S3.3). The SoM hosts a Clinical Innovation Partnership
    between CU and Cardiff and Vale University Health Board (CAVUHB) linking industry and
    the NHS. This partnership assisted over 170 projects, and in 2018 secured European Regional
    Development Funds (EDRF) to establish a Clinical Innovation Accelerator (ACCELERATE;
    totalling £24M with Trinity St. David’s and Swansea University), providing development funding
    for novel clinical diagnostics. Our expertise in diagnostics is further evidenced by membership
    of a UKRI Knowledge Transfer Network, involving six other UK centres, and recognition as
    an Innovate UK Centre of Excellence for Precision Medicine. To foster links between
    academics, healthcare professionals and industry, CU and CAVUHB secured ownership of the
    Cardiff MediCentre Business Incubator Facility on the hospital campus (£3M; CU). The
    MediCentre currently houses twenty companies (e.g., Alesi Surgical, Q-Chip, Synexus Clinical
    Research) and provides the necessary infrastructure to support health research and co-
    production (S3.3).
 D. Improve delivery for experimental medicine. Adhering to a ‘patient pathway’ approach, we
    work with government agencies, academic institutions, healthcare professionals, industry and
    patient stakeholders to address societal challenges affecting the health and wellbeing of
    people (S4). Creation of the Centre for Trials Research (CTR) through the amalgamation of
    three UK registered Clinical Research Units has streamlined the delivery of clinical studies
    (S3.4). Enabling infrastructure funding from HCRW (£6.8M) and Cancer Research UK
    (CRUK; £5.5M) supports 161 members of staff offering professional services, data analysis,
    quality assurance and regulatory oversight. All clinical studies are conducted in partnership
    with the CAVUHB, and NHS Wales, and adhere to governance frameworks that guide clinical

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    trial design and the use of medical devices (S3.5). This framework enhanced the sustainability
    of our trial capability and resulted in an average of 32 new studies per year evaluating the
    prevention, diagnosis and treatment of diseases across the human lifespan.
 1.3. Open research strategy and identification of societal impacts
 Prioritising research addressing societal challenges affecting the health and wellbeing of people,
 our research strategy provides opportunities for all career stages (S2). Programmes introduced
 since REF2014 include enhanced support for grant development through a College of Experts
 comprising senior academics with relevant experience with major funders and initiatives designed
 for ECRs (S2.5, S4.5). Recognising the use of big data in clinical medicine we prioritised
 investments in people and resources to enable systems medicine approaches (S2.3, S3). This
 strategy secured external funding for new interdisciplinary initiatives, fostering several new areas
 of endeavour (e.g., neuroimmunology, neonatal infections).
 To underpin our strategy, we endorsed policies and practices ensuring governance, ethics, and
 scientific integrity (S3.5), and embraced Open Science initiatives (e.g., the San Francisco
 Declaration on Research Assessment; DORA, see REF5a) that enhance our research impact
 (S4.6). These include submission of datasets to digital repositories (e.g., Gene Expression
 Omnibus), the preprint publication of articles in specialist archives (e.g., medRχiv) and our online
 library resource (ORCA). UOA1 researchers (Clarke, Cooper, Fry, Sampson, O’Donnell) also
 manage and curate open access resources (e.g., Human Gene Mutation Database) for practicing
 clinicians, patient groups and researchers. Recognising the importance of our research to society,
 we use staff development review processes (S2) to generate an overview of projects delivering
 societal or emerging societal impacts (31 projects were identified during this assessment period).
 Annual interactive workshops raised impact awareness and supported the early development of
 case studies including ways to articulate the impact of our research. These were open to all career
 stages and attracted 34 UOA1 staff in 2019.
 Projects delivering impact were monitored by Local SoM Impact Champions, with support from
 the University’s Research, Innovation & Enterprise Services (see REF5a). Requests for additional
 help in impact case development were reviewed at a monthly SoM REF committee (Female:10;
 Male:15). These included resources to gather health economic data, costs for open access
 charges for underpinning publications and dedicated administrative support for impact authors,
 many of whom perform extensive clinical duties.
 The sections below highlight the key objectives prioritised for our research themes following
 REF2014. Descriptions evidence how each theme has met or exceeded these ambitions.
 Research delivering case studies in our submission are annotated IMPACT CASE.
 1.4. Delivery of a research strategy for Cancer and Genetics
 Research focuses on the prevention and early diagnosis of cancers, the discovery of new
 treatments, early-phase clinical trials of novel therapies, and advances in personalised
 interventions. With interests in haematological malignancies, solid tumours, and genomic
 medicine, researchers work with NHS Wales and the Wales Cancer Partnership and benefit from
 an overarching CU Integrated Cancer Research (CUICR) strategy. This initiative encourages
 interactions with commercial and third sector organisations and contributed to the All-Wales
 Cancer Research Strategy (CReST Cymru; 2019), which informs our continued strategic
 direction for cancer research.
 Objectives for Cancer and Genetics
 1. Align clinical and discovery science to enable interdisciplinary cancer research.
 2. Enhance our research capabilities through closer integration of University and NHS
    infrastructures into an overarching organisation for cancer research.
 3. Recruit and develop cognate groups to focus our research activity.
  4. Enhance the infrastructure for translational research, including participation in major national
     and international programmes.



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Achievements against the objectives for Cancer & Genetics
 Inward investments from NIHR, MRC, CRUK, Marie Curie, Bloodwise, HCRW and other public
 and charitable funders support discovery research, clinical investigations, and studies in primary
 and community care. These activities are underpinned by strong infrastructures linking to the NHS
 and enabling facilities. Entities include the Wales Cancer Research Centre (Canolfan Ymchwil
 Canser Cymru; £7.5M), CTR, the Marie Curie Palliative Care Centre (£2.1M) (administered by
 UOA1; Adams, Chester, Noble) and the PRIME Centre prioritising the prevention and early
 diagnosis of cancers (linking to our UOA3 submission). These structures facilitate efficient patient
 care and therapy benefiting from major investments in the Wales Research and Diagnostic PET
 Imaging Centre (PETIC; £16.5M), and the CU University Brain Imaging Centre (CUBRIC;
 £44M, linking to our UOA4 submission) (S3).
 The Wales Cancer Research Centre supports our research of Haematological malignancies
 (e.g., AML) [IMPACT CASE]. This centre nurture’s interdisciplinary research involving nurses,
 clinical academics, pharmacists, pathologists and biomedical scientists from across Wales,
 employing 41 full and part-time staff members. Clinical trials benefit from the Phase-1 Clinical
 Trials Unit at Velindre Hospital, the NIHR Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre (Chester;
 >£1.5M), and the CRUK Cancer Trials Unit (renewed in 2018; Adams, £5.5M). These entities
 provide the necessary infrastructure to investigate molecular abnormalities associated with
 leukaemia and pre-leukaemia (Baird, Darley, Fegan, Ruthardt, Tonks) and the selection of drug
 candidates for fast-tracked testing in clinical trials (Jones, R., Knapper, Ottmann).
 Researchers of solid tumours investigate the molecular and genetic basis of gastrointestinal,
 colorectal, breast, and urological cancers, and cancers of the head and neck (Cheadle, Dolwani,
 Sampson). These include studies of tumorigenesis, metastasis and tumour progression (Clayton,
 Errington, Tabi). Investments in enabling polyomic and imaging technologies support cancer
 research in UOA1. These include one of the most advanced PET imaging centres (PETIC) in the
 UK, which provides clinical assessments of cancers and brain disorders for the NHS, and novel
 imaging modalities for discovery research and innovative clinical trials (Adams, Chester, Jones,
 R., Kynaston, Mason, Staffurth). Collaboration with the Rutherford Cancer Centre (in Newport)
 also provides access to the UK’s first high-energy proton beam therapy centre for cancer treatment
 (opened in 2019). These advanced technologies support the delivery of personalised care for
 patients with life-threatening cancers (Barrett-Lee, Mason, Staffurth) [Objectives 1,2,4].
 Delivering societal benefits that impact the diagnosis of inherited disorders and cancer, colleagues
 in medical genetics contribute to the UK-wide CRUK Stratified Cancer Medicine Programme,
 and our facilities are a centralised Technology Hub for the genetic screening of cancer mutations.
 These include archiving genetic mutational datasets from patient cohorts involved in clinical trials
 and population studies. Examples include:
       i.    The 100,000 Genomes Project in Wales (Sampson)
      ii.    The Wales Cancer Bank (Sampson, Mason)
      iii.   The British Isles Rett Syndrome Survey (Clarke)
      iv.    International repositories dedicated to the monitoring of brain malformation (Fry),
             polyposis and gastrointestinal cancer syndromes (Sampson)
      v.     Annotation of disease-associated inherited genetic variation (Human Gene Mutation
             Database, Cooper). [IMPACT CASE].
 Our research informed the implementation of the Welsh Government’s £6.3M Genomics for
 Precision Medicine Strategy through leadership in translational genomics (Wales Gene Park;
 £6M, and MRC funded 100,000 Genomes Project in Wales; £1M). The Wales Gene Park,
 providing essential infrastructures in next-generation sequencing and bioinformatics, deliver high
 quality genetic and genomic health research through the NHS All Wales Medical Genomics
 Service. [Objectives 1,2].
 These resources have enabled pioneering advances in clinical innovation (S3.3). For example,
 assays for the study of global DNA repair (Reed), telomere assays in clinical diagnosis (Baird) and
 the use of oncolytic viruses in cancer therapy (Parker). Here, activities benefit from programme

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 awards from CRUK (Baird, Parker), grants from the BBSRC and National Institute of Health (USA),
 and leadership in cancer trials (Adams, Chester, Mason) with CRUK, MRC and international
 partners. [Objectives 3,4].
 Our research has improved the standard of care for patients with rare diseases. In response to
 the UK Strategy for Rare Diseases, the Welsh Government outlined a plan, including £3.4M from
 the MRC and Welsh Government to establish the Wales Genomic Medicine Centre. This virtual
 centre links activities of the Wales Gene Park, the NHS All Wales Medical Genetics Service and
 expert academics across Wales supporting patients with rare diseases, their families, and the use
 of genomic data in healthcare. Working within the Welsh Implementation Plan for Rare Diseases,
 our researchers pioneered clinical advances in the treatment of tuberous sclerosis and mTOR
 signalling disorders (Sampson, Tee) [IMPACT CASE]. [Objectives 2,4].
 1.5. Delivery of a research strategy for Infection, Immunology & Inflammation
 UOA1 researchers investigate chronic diseases, persistent and resistant infections and
 mechanisms of immunity. Addressing global health challenges affecting both higher- and middle-
 low-income countries, we boast a broad research portfolio covering a diverse group of human
 diseases sharing common inflammatory or immune mechanisms. Founded on collaborations
 between discovery scientists and clinical academics, the theme received a strategic CU
 investment to establish the Systems Immunity Research Institute (£4.5M; 2015). This initiative
 transformed our research base, creating a bespoke, highly integrated platform delivering systems
 immunology and systems medicine research. Further international recruitment and collaborations
 involving the Wellcome Trust, Welsh Government, the EDRF, MRC and charitable benefactors
 increased our research capabilities and catalysed new partnerships in clinical neuroscience,
 psychiatry, and cancer.
 Objectives for Infection, Immunology & Inflammation
 1. Frame a distinctive identity for interdisciplinary research in Cardiff University.
 2. Fully embed computational and mathematical expertise into our research framework.
 3. Use genomics, lipidomics, metabolomics and proteomics to underpin discovery and
    translational science.
 4. Build capacity in neuroimmunology, immune-oncology, viral infections, and multimorbidity.
 Achievements against the objectives for Infection, Immunology & Inflammation
 The Systems Immunity Research Institute attracted inward investments to support computational
 approaches. For example, the relocation of the LIPID MAPS gateway from UCSD to Cardiff
 University (co-hosted with the Babraham Institute, Cambridge) following the award of a Wellcome
 Trust Biomedical Resources Grant (£1.3M; O’Donnell), and the Sêr Cymru Chair in Systems
 Medicine (£5.5M; Ghazal) (S3.2). Capabilities in systems medicine benefit from a vibrant research
 partnership with the Biomedicine Discovery Institute at Monash University (led by Rossjohn).
 This university collaboration (established 2017) supported the integration of our in-house
 computational expertise with parallel resources in the Biomedicine Discovery Institute (e.g.,
 Monash Bioinformatics Platform, the Medical Genomics Facility). This interaction led to staff
 exchange through a Rutherford Fund Strategic Partner Grant (Universities UK; £150K), and
 development of a joint PhD scheme between the Systems Immunity Research Institute and the
 Biomedicine Discovery Institute. Eleven co-authored outputs from the two institutions are
 evidenced in our submission. [Objectives 1,2].
 Infection researchers investigate host-pathogen interactions, immune surveillance and the basis
 of anti-microbial resistance. Recognition of excellence includes two Wellcome Trust Investigator
 awards (Price, Taylor), a Wellcome Trust Senior Fellowship (Humphreys), and inward investments
 for viral immunology (Humphreys, Ladell, Price, Stanton, Wang), innate immunity (Labeta, Raby,
 Taylor, Triantifilou), the development of novel vaccines and diagnostics (Stanton, Eberl,
 Humphreys, Parker), and studies of antibiotic resistance (Spiller, Toleman, Walsh). These include
 national clinical trials of antibiotic therapy in premature babies (Kotecha; MRC, NIHR) and the
 monitoring of infections in mothers and infants in middle-lower income countries (Walsh–
 BARNARDS; Gates Foundation). We are also lead participants in the UKRI funded COVID-19

                                                                                           Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Immunology Consortium (Gallimore, Humphreys, Morgan, Price, Stanton, Wang) and employ
 computational methods to track sepsis in neonates (Ghazal, O’Donnell– Project Sepsis).
 [Objectives 1,2,3].
 Immunology research includes studies of T-cell immunity (Eberl, Jones, SA., Ladell, Moser,
 Price, Sewell), autoimmunity (Dayan, Wong), cancer immunology (Ager, Gallimore, Godkin,
 Martin, Sewell), immune cell trafficking (Ager, Moser), and antigen recognition (Rossjohn,
 Rizkallah, Sewell). Evidence of excellence includes a renewed Wellcome Trust Investigator Award
 (Sewell), and leadership of a Wellcome Trust Collaborative Award with Imperial College London
 and the University of Reading to identify superior vaccines against infections and cancer (Godkin,
 Gallimore). [Objectives 2,3,4].
 Investigators engaged in inflammation research explore the molecular and cellular basis of host
 immunity, tissue inflammation, and chronic disease progression. Funding supports research in
 cardiovascular disease, kidney disease, arthritis, diabetes, neuroinflammation, dermatological
 diseases and wounds. Research strengths include the complement system (Morgan), cytokine
 receptor biology (Choy, Ghazal, Humphreys, Jones, SA.), innate immunity (Morgan, Taylor),
 lipidomics, coagulation and immunometabolism (Collins [IMPACT CASE], Ghazal, O’Donnell).
 This group holds two Wellcome Trust Investigator Awards (Martin, Taylor), an ERC Advanced
 Grant (O’Donnell) and renewed programme grant funding from the British Heart Foundation
 (O’Donnell) and Versus Arthritis (Jones, SA). Support for neuroimmunology links our research to
 the Neuroscience and Mental Health Research Institute and the MRC Centre of
 Neuropsychiatric Genomics and Genetics (both UOA4). These interactions resulted in the
 Hodge Centre of Neuropsychiatric Immunology (£1M) and the award of our UK Dementia
 Research Institute (£23M), which investigates genetic traits of immune regulation that impact
 dementia (S3.1). Two immunology researchers hold UK-DRI programme grants (Morgan, Taylor;
 £3M). New staff recruitments in this area will continue to integrate neuroimmunology in our
 research portfolio [Objectives 1,2,3,4].
 1.6. Delivery of a research strategy for Translational and Experimental Medicine.
 As the largest academic group involved in clinical research in Wales, UOA1 colleagues work with
 NHS partners to deliver drug trials and complex interventions, cohort studies (e.g., the evaluation
 of disease mechanisms and treatments), and inquiries that inform policies and practice (S3.4).
 These include studies of solid and blood-borne cancers, infections and investigations in the young.
 Objectives for Translational & Experimental Medicine.
 1. Unite the management of clinical trials under one umbrella structure to maximise quality,
    reduce governance risk, and streamline procedural processes.
 2. Align current clinical trial activity against our research strengths in the SoM and CBLS.
 3. Enhance our study portfolio through increased numbers of UKCRN registered clinical trials.
  4. Promote activities that encourage a broader integration of discovery science findings and
     methodologies into clinical trial design.
 Achievements against the objectives for Translational and Experimental Medicine.
 Creation of the CTR enhanced the sustainability of our clinical studies by maximising the use of
 existing data, improving trial efficiency and enabling innovative trial designs [Objective 1,2].
 Examples include AML18 (£2.64M) and AML19 (£3.2M) (CRUK; Adams), the FAKTION (Astra
 Zeneca, CRUK; Jones, R.) trial of an aromatase inhibitor in postmenopausal women with breast
 cancer, the testing of cetuximab in oesophageal cancer (SCOPE1 trial, CRUK; Stafforth), and
 interventions for prostate cancer (ProtecT, Stampede, CRUK, MRC; Mason) [IMPACT CASE].
 Trials also benefit from multidisciplinary workings between basic, clinical and community-based
 researchers and include studies of under-researched conditions, e.g., in paediatrics, childhood
 health, and rare diseases (Fry, Ingram, Kotecha, Sampson). Examples include national trials of
 antibiotic therapy and lung function in premature babies (AZTEC; £2.1M, RHiNO; £1.45M;
 Kotecha) and the THESUS (£0.7M; NIHR Health Technology Assessment Programme; Ingram)
 trial of hidradenitis suppurativa management [IMPACT CASE]. [Objective 2,3].


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Clinical impact arising from our pre-clinical research include immunotherapy interventions for type-
 1 diabetes (MonoPepT1De trial; Dayan), and a Phase II study, funded by the Experimental Cancer
 Medicine Centre (TaCTiCC; TroVax® and Cyclophosphamide Treatment in Colorectal Cancer),
 describing the first translational study in solid epithelial tumours to originate from our cancer
 immunology research (Adams, Godkin, Gallimore, Jones, R.).
 Clinical research is enhanced by enabling infrastructures funded by HCRW and charities. These
 include links between the Wales Kidney Research Unit (led by Fraser) and the Kidney Research
 UK funded National Unified Renal Translational Research Enterprise (NURTuRE) in the
 University of Bristol. Through NURTuRE, UOA1 researchers are evaluating the basis of chronic
 kidney disease in 3,800 clinical samples (Bowen, Fraser, Philips, Steadman, Meran). We
 contribute to the Type-1 Diabetes Immunotherapy Consortium and the INNODIA platform,
 which advances clinical trials in adults and children with new-onset type-1 diabetes. We link with
 the Diabetes Research Unit Wales (Uned Ymchwil Diabetes Cymru) and SAIL (Secure
 Anonymised Information Linkage; Swansea University) to conduct immunology research within
 large scale epidemiological, genetic and data linkage studies (Dayan, Taylor, Wong). For example,
 the INDUCE study designed to inform antibiotic prescribing decisions for diabetic foot ulcer
 infections, the EDDY study implemented to enhance the early detection of type-1 diabetes in
 children and young people, and the USTEKID trial of biological drugs in type-1 diabetes and
 psoriasis (£0.85M NIHR EME Programme). Cohort studies are led through the Early Arthritis
 Experimental Treatment Centre (Choy, Jones, SA). This includes a six-centre UK consortium
 study (MATURA; led by Queen Mary University London) evaluating biological drug responses in
 rheumatoid arthritis (totalling >£5.5M; MRC and Versus Arthritis) and studies with industrial
 partners (e.g., Pfizer, Roche, NovImmune, Mestag Therapeutics). [Objective 2,3,4].
 1.7. An integrated research and impact strategy for the next five years
 We propose an ambitious programme to increase the delivery of transformative interventions
 relevant to the diagnosis, stratification and treatment of patients with chronic illness and related
 co-morbidities. Embracing interdisciplinary approaches, we will:
 A. Enhance existing areas of excellence by prioritising activities that deliver impactful research
    for patients and the community. Specifically, we will:
      i.    Promote translational and reverse-translational research to identify mechanisms and
            potential new therapies relevant to pathologies that pose significant threats to global
            health in infectious and inflammatory diseases, cancer, mental health and associated
            multimorbidity.
     ii.    Synergise cross-disciplinary links between clinical and discovery science to catalyse
            improvements in health and care outcomes. We will focus on the causative links between
            chronic pathologies and multimorbidity to capitalise on new opportunities arising from our
            successes in psychoneuroimmunology, immuno-oncology and viral immunology.
     iii.   Align studies in population medicine with existing multi-disciplinary strengths in discovery
            research, clinical translation and precision medicine. Harnessing expertise in population
            medicine (Adams, Ahmed, Dolwani, Wilheim-Benartzi, Noble), we will increase
            engagement with HCRW infrastructures, SAIL, and GW4 Alliance partners in Bath,
            Bristol, and Exeter (e.g., ALSPAC, MRC Integrated Epidemiology Unit). We benefit from
            in-house resources (e.g., £1.4M; HealthWise Wales, Dolwani) including a new
            (December 2020) HCRW COVID-19 Evidence Centre (£3M in UOA3), evaluating the
            diagnosis, care and community-based procedures affecting patients with COVID-19.
     iv.    Enhance clinical impact and innovation via initiatives such as ACCELARATE, the Joint
            CU/CAVUHB Research and Development Office (Director; Dayan), and
            co-development of a new University Hospital of Wales campus (S3.4).
 B. Foster academic-industry partnerships (exemplified by the Wales Cancer Partnership,
    ACCELERATE) to enhance clinical innovation and impact. CU recently purchased (£14M) a
    10-acre plot of land adjacent to the university hospital campus. A planned redevelopment of
    the land is under review with the CAVUHB to provide new research, education and hospital
    facilities across the entire site. Benefitting from resources available through the UK

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Government investment in the Cardiff Capital Region City Deal (£1.2bn), this initiative will
     harness essential expertise to advance the use of artificial intelligence in precision medicine.
 C. Enhance the career opportunities of clinical and non-clinical ECR, postgraduate students and
    all colleagues involved in our team science research. Specifically, we will adopt equality,
    diversity and inclusion (EDI) initiatives to promote equity in career progression (S2).
 D. Expand global networks and collaborations that enrich our research environment and are
    founded on existing working relationships. The links between the Systems Immunity
    Research Institute and the Monash Biomedicine Discovery Institute (Australia) exemplify this
    approach.
 Increase stakeholder engagement with national and international government agencies,
 policymakers, charities, commercial partners, non-government organisations and public and
 patient insight groups (S4).
 2. People
 2.1. Promoting equality and diversity
 CU offers a respectful and inclusive working environment for all (see REF5a). Adhering to these
 values, we adopt qualities and behaviours that extend beyond issues of gender and advocate
 support for staff irrespective of race, creed, disability, sexual orientation or socio-economic
 background. For example, we actively contributed to the formulation of the BMA Racial
 Harassment Charter for Medical Schools, and lead an all-Wales group, which ensures the
 dignity and wellbeing of BAME staff and students in higher education and during clinical
 placement. We continue to work closely with organisations including the BMA, Health Education
 and Improvement Wales and CAVUHB to embrace values that promote EDI amongst our staff
 and students.
 2.2. Establishing a supportive workplace
 The SoM promotes a positive working culture, supported by our Athena SWAN Bronze Award
 (2018, with plans to apply for Silver in 2021). Over 90% of staff and students believe the SoM
 provides a collegial and friendly workplace where people are valued and respected. A diverse,
 gender-balanced EDI committee (Chair; Wong) representing all career pathways oversee our SoM
 commitments to equal opportunities. New positive interventions include:
 A. Cultural and attitudinal changes essential for sustainable gender equality. These
    include:
       i. Workshops for women (including mentoring circles), designed to increase awareness of,
          and confidence in applying for, the University’s Personal Promotion scheme saw a 20%
          increase in successful applications. Moreover, senior female academics in UOA1 hold
          prominent leadership roles in the SoM (Ager, Errington, Gallimore, O’Donnell, Williams,
          Wong).
      ii. The introduction of appropriately equipped family rooms for infant care and increased
          education around menopause in the workplace.
      iii. Increased recognition of the challenges facing part-time staff (e.g., difficulties associated
           with caring commitments during the early morning, mid-afternoon and evenings).
           Directives ensure meetings are scheduled between 10:00 and 15:30 and are limited
           during school holidays (including half-term).
      iv. New policies support EDI principles and commitment to a work-life balance. Application
          packs for all new appointments contain equal opportunity monitoring forms, with all
          vacancies considered for flexible working. We use gender decoding software in our
          recruitment advertisements and the composition of shortlisting and interview panels is
          always made with EDI in mind. Senior management and HR Advisors meet all new
          appointees to discuss the University’s Positive Working Environment, which has gender
          equality and protected characteristics as core elements. These include signposting to



                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          university networks (e.g., Black Minority Ethnic+; University Carers; Enfys LGBT+;
          disability & dyslexia support) (see REF5a).
       v. To support colleagues with clinical commitments, all academic seminars are advertised
          two months in advance and scheduled between 12:00 and 15:00.
 B. Establishing a caring society. To safeguard mental health and individual wellbeing, we have
    introduced initiatives led by expert practitioners covering diet, physical activity, spirituality and
    mindfulness. The provision of wellness days during the COVID-19 pandemic helped reduce
    anxiety and unseen pressures from increased virtual communications. The importance of this
    approach was particularly evident following bereavement. During this REF cycle, we sadly
    lost two young colleagues. Their deaths had a significant and long-lasting impact on the
    research community. Staff counselling was offered and worked with the families to support
    memorial services and the naming of dedicated ECR and postgraduate awards.
     Details of available programmes are accessible via the university intranet and tailored towards
     an individual’s needs. For example, our ECR network offers a forum designed to share
     personal experiences and communicate the professional needs of ECR colleagues to senior
     management. These include HR guidance, grant opportunities, increased funder
     engagement, training, and career development schemes such as the MRC interactive career
     framework.
 C. Adopting values that enhance EDI. Adhering to national (Welsh Government, GMC,
    Academy of Medical Sciences, Royal Colleges, Right commissioners) and international
    (WHO, Nuremberg Code, Declaration of Helsinki) frameworks we have introduced practices
    to support flexible working and provide designated areas for prayer and quiet reflection.
    Additional schemes support postgraduate research (PGR) students with maternity, paternity
    and adoption leave, and staffing uncertainties arising through BREXIT. We are equally
    cognisant of the needs of staff returning from parental leave or other imposed absences and
    strive to ensure equity and enabling objectives in line with individual needs.
 2.3. Staffing strategy and staff development
 The SoM continually reviews University HR policies and procedures to ensure fairness and
 inclusivity. Adopting institutional Workload Modelling policies, we annually review workload
 allocations with staff and line managers to ensure transparency, consistency and fairness across
 all academic career pathways. Since REF2014 we have equally focussed on improving dignity in
 the workplace for those with protected characteristics (S2.2). All staff undertake mandatory online
 training in EDI and unconscious bias (2020, 80% of SoM staff had completed/renewed EDI
 training). Completion of these modules is essential for staff involved with recruitment panels,
 internal grant-awarding committees and membership of our SoM REF committee.
 All research staff undertake an annual performance development review (see REF5a).
 Achievements based on publications, research funding, postgraduate supervision, teaching,
 leadership and management, and external peer esteem are reviewed with line managers to
 prioritise objectives and expectations for the following year. This ensures staff on T&R and R-only
 pathways have equitable allocations of time for research, grant development and appropriate
 recognition for managerial or citizenship activities (e.g., EDI, Impact, Innovation, and
 Engagement). This includes the identification of development courses that enhance research
 excellence, creativity and leadership. Courses are tailored towards all career stages and include
 the Professorial Leadership Programme, providing Professors with opportunities to influence
 the governance and strategic direction of the University.
 Decisions on recruitment, retention and promotion are transparently adjudged using defined
 criteria. Adopting formal processes, applications are evaluated by a senior SoM review panel
 (female:5; male:5; including BAME:2) and transferred to the University’s Academic Promotions
 Committee for external evaluation. Thus, ensuring the strategic fit with the research objectives of
 the School, support for research excellence and equity for all staff. Of the non-professorial staff
 returned as Lecturer or above in REF2014 (Female:9; Male:20), 86% have since been promoted
 to Senior Lecturer (Female:4; Male:0), Reader (Female:1; Male:5) or Professor (Female:4;
 Male:10).

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since REF2014, we prioritised new staff appointments (24 tenured positions including 13 ECR) in
 areas of emerging research excellence. To bolster our expertise in computational methods we
 appointed eleven new faculty (including five MPSS staff) with expertise in systems medicine
 (Ghazal), bioinformatics (Angelopolous, Zhou), biostatistics (Watkins, Wilheim-Benartzi), and
 mathematic modelling (Szomolay) (S3.2). We provided staff with opportunities to enhance our
 capabilities in clinical translation and innovation (e.g., ACCELERATE has invested in 26 research
 associates and 12 project management specialists, £3.1M). These include long-term
 secondments with external partners (e.g., GSK Immunology Network in Stevenage; Triantafilou,
 K; Triantafilou, M, and the Sanger Institute in Cambridge; Humphreys). Reciprocally, visiting
 scholars from Africa, Australasia, Europe, North America and South America further supported
 knowledge exchange (e.g., Rutherford Fund Strategic Partner Grant).
 2.4. Postgraduate research training
 The SoM delivers effective and sustainable doctoral training programmes. Currently, 170 (22 staff
 members) students are registered for higher degrees (152 PhD, 13 MD and five MPhil) in UOA1.
 Improvements in progress monitoring and academic mentoring transformed the overall experience
 with 97% student satisfaction with their supervision (2019 PGR student survey). Most PhD
 students are on three-year programmes, and on-time submission rates increased from 87%
 (REF2014) to 100% during this current REF cycle. We are increasingly investing in four-year
 programmes that build on existing schemes (e.g., Systems Immunity PhD Studentships provide
 advanced bioinformatics and computational training [totalling 12]).
 New internal schemes and funding from external national and international programmes supported
 226 PhD, 40 MD, and 14 MPhil students during the assessment period (see below). These
 increased UOA1 PGR numbers by more than 130 students (186% increase since REF2014)
 equating to 2.65 PGR students per academic FTE (greater than the Russell Group median of 1.56
 for Clinical Medicine).
 A. How we support non-clinical training. The SoM PGR Office oversees the recruitment,
    monitoring and assessment of our PGR programme, including:
     i. Projects funded by UKRI, charity sector (e.g., British Heart Foundation), Welsh
        Government, NHS Wales, and university-led schemes.
     ii. International programmes (e.g., Marie Sklodowska-Curie Actions schemes) currently
         support 14 students from across Europe and other parts of the world with the proportion
         of international students remaining consistent since REF2014 (8%).
    iii. MRC/GW4-BioMed Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP)– in collaboration with the
         universities of Bath, Bristol and Exeter, we develop the next generation of medical
         researchers. Of the 76 studentships awarded to date, 15% were supervised by UOA1 staff.
    iv. Industrial collaboration awards. Since REF2014, we saw a 40% increase in third sector
        studentships in science and engineering (three BBSRC) and European Social Funds (e.g.,
        10 Knowledge-Economy Skills Scholarships).
     v. PhD allocations via an annual SoM studentship competition (typically six per year).
 B. How we support clinical training. Training for the next generation of medical researchers
    and clinical academics is central to our UOA1 ethos. We host two clinical academic training
    programmes and support MD studies as follows:
     i. Welsh Clinical Academic Track (WCAT). This programme equips clinical trainees to
        conduct translational research as independent investigators. Fellows study through a
        supernumerary lectureship programme. This framework provides a three-year PhD
        training scheme, dedicated research time (20%), and mentoring through to the completion
        of competency-based accreditation. The Unit hosted 19 WCAT fellows during this REF
        cycle (from 51 awarded in all medical disciplines across Wales).
     ii. Wellcome Trust GW4-Clinical Academic Training (GW4-CAT). Supporting early-career
         medical, veterinary and dental graduates this programme provides multidisciplinary PhD
         training in population health, cardiovascular sciences, neuroscience, mental health,

                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        infection, immunity and repair, cancer and molecular cell biology. A three-year fully funded
        PhD period is followed by intensive post-PhD support and mentoring towards
        intermediate/senior fellowships and career academic posts. Nine of twenty studentships
        are supervised by UOA1 staff.
    iii. The General Practice Specialty Training Programmes support GP training towards the
         MRCGP exam (60 trainees/year).
    iv. New processes improve the experience of our MD students. These allowed increased
        enrolment (maintaining a 100% completion rate) from 23 to 49 MD students.
 C. How we encourage the next generation of researchers. We prioritise the training of next-
    generation clinical and non-clinical scientists through intensive mentoring from the earliest
    opportunity. Our Medical Students engage with programmes designed to promote
    research-led teaching and case-based learning. These include laboratory-based taster days,
    extended placements, intercalation programmes, and initiatives endorsed by the Academy of
    Medical Sciences and the Wellcome Trust (e.g., INSPIRE). We also benefit from the CU
    Research Opportunities Programme (CUROP). This University-led initiative funds summer
    placements and provides a practical laboratory experience for motivated undergraduates from
    across the University. Through these programmes, we sponsored 248 students during this
    REF cycle. We also hosted 238 student placements through an active ERASMUS programme
    and provided additional short-term research secondments for 155 international students and
    fellows from other countries.
 2.5. Creating opportunities for ECR
 We embrace a culture of fellowship mentoring and encourage a community spirit that creates
 career opportunities for ECRs (S2.3). These include restrictions on teaching allocation that may
 impinge research productivity and access to dedicated resources and structures for BAME staff
 led by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor. In UOA1 ECRs have access to institutional programmes that
 provide courses on research management, scientific integrity, personal development and
 leadership (see REF5a). The Cardiff Researcher Programme provides tailored training
 opportunities for all university ECRs and includes schemes run via the CU Research Staff
 Association and Cardiff Futures (see REF5a). Many of our ECRs also engage with external
 organisations, societies (e.g., British Immunology Society) and charities (e.g., Versus Arthritis,
 Kidney Research UK). They benefitted from career programmes spearheaded by the Academy of
 Medical Science (e.g., Springboard), and the Welsh Crucible; an award-winning initiative (Times
 Higher Education Awards, 2013) designed to nurture the future research leaders of Wales (S4).
 The SoM has a respected and long-standing track record of supporting the careers of ECRs. In a
 report provided by the MRC Training and Career Group (11/2012) our ECR policies and practices
 were highlighted as an example of good practice and were used to inform recommendations to
 universities on the employment of fellows. Building on these successes we enhanced peer review
 and interview preparations for all ECRs applying for fellowships or similar (e.g., MRC New
 Investigator Research Grants). We use a College of Experts comprising senior researchers (n=49
 in SoM; 13 external) who hold either major awards or serve on grant-awarding panels (S4.5).
 Particular attention was given to schemes that support the early transition of post-doctoral
 researchers to fellowship programmes (e.g., Sir Henry Wellcome Post-Doctoral Fellowship,
 BBSRC Discovery Fellowship, MRC Skills Fellowship, Versus Arthritis Clinical Training
 Fellowship, HCRW Fellowships) (n=17; female:8; male:9). Recognising the wider career
 opportunities available to our ECRs, we encourage post-doctoral fellows to participate in
 extramural development programmes. These include teaching accreditations (e.g., Advance HE;
 Associate Fellows) and funding for training secondments (S2.3). We have invited external
 speakers to talk about their careers in higher education management, scientific journalism (e.g.,
 editors from Nature Immunology, Nature Reviews Immunology), funding agencies (e.g.,
 programme managers from MRC, Versus Arthritis), and industry (e.g., GSK, IMEC).
 A. How we promote ECR development. UOA1 ECRs access institutional programmes that
    enhance skills and awareness in research management, scientific integrity and leadership.



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     i. Early Career Fellowship Support. The University runs a six-month programme twice a year
        offering workshops and peer review interactive training for ECRs with the potential to
        secure external funding (e.g., Future Leader Fellowship scheme). Activities include grant
        writing, peer review networks, and interview preparations.
     ii. Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF). UOA1 has benefitted significantly from our
         third cycle of Wellcome Trust ISSF funding (2016-2021; £7M). This initiative significantly
         invests in ECR training and funding (The SoM secured almost 60% of the allocated
         awards) (see REF5a).
    iii. Future Leaders in Cancer Research (FLiCR). Established in 2016, this initiative invested
         £50,000 to support our most promising cancer researchers via dedicated CU bequests
         (West, Zabkiewicz).
    iv. The Hodge Centre for Neuropsychiatric Immunology. Funding fellowships, concept
        development and the appointment of a Lecturer in Neuropsychiatric Immunology, the
        Centre supports cross-disciplinary projects designed to train scientists versed in
        neuroscience and immunology.
     v. Systems Immunity Research Institute. Embedded faculty with expertise in bioinformatics,
        biostatistics and mathematical modelling support ECRs wishing to develop advanced
        computational skills in systems biology and precision medicine.
 B. Portfolio of ECR awards. UOA1 researchers include 19 ECRs on senior, intermediate or
    introductory level fellowships. We supported the transition of a further 10 ECRs to internal
    academic appointments. These are summarised as follows:
     i. Fellowship awards–including awards from the Wellcome Trust (Senior Fellowship, two Sir
        Henry Dale Fellowships, Sir Henry Wellcome Postdoctoral Fellowship and Springboard
        Award), MRC (Career Development Award, Clinician Scientist Fellowship, MRC Skills
        Fellowship), NIHR (two NIHR Doctoral Fellowships), Versus Arthritis (Career Development
        Fellowship, Clinical Training Fellowship), BBSRC (Discovery Fellowship), Kidney
        Research UK (two Career Development Fellowships), Prostate Cancer UK and HCRW.
     ii. Internal appointments– we appointed nine ECRs to tenured academic (Female:3; Male:3;
         Humphreys, McLaren, Raby, Watkins, West, Zabkiewicz) or clinical academic (Female:1;
         Male:2; Ahmed, Meran, Ingram) positions during this assessment period.
    iii. Awards for early-stage academic staff– includes to two MRC New Investigator Research
         Grants (Stanton, Bonnet) and a Wellcome Trust Springboard Award (McLaren).
 2.6. How we sustain staff development in prioritised areas
 Newly introduced initiatives support people in areas of strategic importance or research
 excellence. Recognising the demographic of our research base we prioritise investment in young
 investigators and early-stage academics (S2.4; S2.5). This is evidenced by the career progression
 of ECR (holding early or intermediate level fellowships) reported in our REF2014 submission. Of
 the 18 ECR included in our UOA1 return, 10 have since acquired senior fellowships, moved to full-
 time academic appointments (either in Cardiff or elsewhere– e.g., Bristol, Belfast, Newcastle,
 Swansea), or secured full time employment in industry or higher-level university administration.
 Thus, our research environment offers a vibrant and dynamic workplace to nurture the next
 generation of researchers. Moving forward we will adopt the following mechanisms to sustain and
 promote staff development:
 A. Our centres of excellence, biomedical research units and institutions will provide development
    awards to encourage interdisciplinary research (e.g., studentships, small project grants), staff
    mobility and knowledge exchange.
 B. Investments in computational infrastructure (e.g., ARCCA, Supercomputing Wales) and
    dedicated strategic appointments (administered by the SoM) will furnish our capabilities in
    systems medicine and digital health (S3.2). These enablers will provide UOA1 faculty with
    the platforms to respond to specific funding calls including doctoral training programmes (e.g.,
    Wellcome Trust, Marie Curie).

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 C. Encourage closer engagement with our European and International support office to enhance
    researcher success in European and global initiatives. Since REF2014, the SoM saw a 164%
    increase in EU funding and includes UKRI/HEFCW GCRF and Newton awards (S3.1).
 D. Use our new research facilities and infrastructures to drive community-building activities
    including roadshows, and workshops. This approach is reflected by the numbers attending
    organised annual symposia. For example, attendance at the annual Infection and Immunity
    meeting grew from 113 to 248 delegates over the last five years. Such activities have led to
    more formal research entities such as the Hodge Centre for Neuropsychiatric Immunology,
    CUICR and a virtual grouping with interests in optical imaging; Vivat Scientia.
 E. Work with our Development and Alumni Relations team to prioritise philanthropic investments
    in people. Current examples include the Hodge Centre for Neuropsychiatric Immunology
    (£1M; supporting fellowships and PhD studentships), the Wales Heart Research Institute
    (£600K; supporting two new academic appointments), and funding dedicated to Cancer
    Immunology (£800K) and Arthritis (£100K; supporting PhD studentships).
 F.   University travel scholarships and bursaries will support students and post-doctoral fellows
      working in clinical medicine, e.g., the Cardiff Institute for Tissue Engineering and Repair
      Young Investigator Award, and bequest awards (ranging from £200-£5,000) including the
      Michael Banfill Scholarship, the William Morgan Thomas Fund, the Davey Fund and the Tom
      Owen Memorial fund. Other university-specific travel scholarships foster collaborations with
      strategic partner institutions– including formal university partnerships (e.g., KU Leuven) and
      CBLS-led or project-specific interactions (e.g., Monash, Boston University) (S4.1).
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1. Research income and enabling structures
 Our research income showcases a rich portfolio of awards from various sources. Staff benefit from
 technologies, infrastructures and facilities that catalyse discovery science, clinical translation and
 innovation, and experimental medicine. All UOA1 researchers have access to a dedicated
 administrative team in the SoM research office. Comprising project managers, grant coordinators
 and data analysts, this team works closely with applicants and the senior school management to
 develop bids, review performance and identify strategic priorities. This approach:
 A. Enhanced research income per FTE– we prioritised support for grant preparation, mentoring
    and rigorous peer review utilising colleagues with experience of serving on external grant
    panels or successes with major funders (S4).
 B. Created a balanced portfolio of funding– our research includes awards from research
    councils, UK charities, overseas development funds, NHS, and partnerships with industry.
 C. Fostered cogent research teams with the best possibility of success– we have identified
    opportunities for new funding and worked with colleagues within the wider university and
    beyond to co-develop applications.
 Fig-2. Comparison of grant income attributed to UOA1 in REF2014 and REF2021

  REF2014                                         REF2021
                                                                              Other                       100%               Other
      EU commission                                     EU commission                                                        EU commission
                          Other                                  £6.925M      £2.238M
            £2.62M                                                                                                           Industry
                          £0.545M
                                                      Industry
       Industry                                       £10.62M
       £8.67M                                                                                                                Government
                                                                                                                             (including NHS Wales)
                  £83.72M           Charity funders
                                    £32.4M                             £140.06M                                              Research councils
  Government
      £39.1M                                                                            Charity funders
                                                 Government                             £63.91M
                      Research councils
                      £12.25M                         £39.1M                                                                 Charity funders

                                                                    Research councils
                                                                    £17.27M                                  0
                                                                                                                 2014 2021



                                                                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 During this REF cycle, we saw a 68% increase in research income (REF2014: £83.7M; REF2021:
 £140.1M) from research councils, industry, and overseas sources (see Fig-2). Our average
 research income now equates to £1.6M per FTE. These include 51 awards valued at over £1M
 from across the Unit. Our current grant portfolio shows funding commitments through to 2027
 (totalling £8.4M in projected income). Here, the value of grants commenced in 2019 (before
 COVID-19) totals £51.8M and equates to 163 active awards.
 New facilities and infrastructures enrich our environment and catalyse interdisciplinary research
 in neonatal sepsis, dementia, psychological disorders, autoimmunity, infectious diseases, and
 cancer. Successes include the Sêr Cymru Chair in Systems Medicine (£5.5M; Ghazal), four
 Wellcome Trust Investigator Awards (Martin, Price, Sewell, Taylor), three Wellcome Trust
 Collaboration Awards, and an ERC Advanced Grant (O’Donnell). We also hosted ten programme
 grants from the UKRI (Morgan, Taylor) or charity sector (e.g., CRUK, Versus Arthritis, British Heart
 Foundation; Baird, Gallimore, Godkin, Jones, SA., O’Donnell, Parker).
 Investments in computational resources through the Systems Immunity Research Institute and
 Wales Gene Park enhanced the external perception of our research and increased grant capture.
 A £4.5M university investment in the Systems Immunity Research Institute generated an extra
 £56.7M in grant income, with 319 researchers in CBLS now interested in collaborative research
 involving immunology, infection or inflammation.
 Initiatives including the Hodge Centre of Neuropsychiatric Immunology (£1M) and the HCRW
 Brain Repair and Intracranial Neurotherapeutics Unit (£2.76M), enhanced our research in
 neuroimmunology (S1.5). As part of a national MRC-led initiative (totalling £290M) into the causes
 of dementia, we are major participants in the Cardiff Dementia Research Institute (£23M; Morgan,
 Taylor). The Dementia Research Institute comprises a £3M laboratory refurbishment (winning a
 2019 S-Lab award from the UK Science Park Association), providing a flexible working
 environment for laboratory and computational research.
 UOA1 researchers in cancer and autoimmunity benefit from PET Imaging (PETIC; £16.5M), state-
 of-the-art MRI facilities (CUBRIC £44M), and proton beam technologies (Rutherford Cancer
 Centre) (Ager, Barrett-Lee, Chester, Choy, Staffurth) (S1.4). Established with a £16.5M award
 from the Welsh Government, PETIC provides routine clinical positron emission tomography for
 patients in Wales with various forms of cancers and brain disorders. PETIC links with the NHS
 oncology services in the Velindre Cancer Centre and offers advanced medical PET-CT imaging
 (£1.8M upgrade; 2017). Working with the Rutherford Cancer Centre, we use the latest IBA
 ProteusONE machine (£10M; Welsh Government). This unique resource will support our future
 oncology research and is the first high-energy proton beam therapy centre in the UK.
 The sections below describe how our infrastructures and facilities support the priorities identified
 in S1.2.
 3.2. How we have enhanced our computational capabilities
 UOA1 researchers benefit from Cardiff’s high-performance computing, specifically ARCCA and
 Supercomputing Wales (Welsh European Funding Office; £5.65M). Our new high-performance
 Hawk supercomputer (an HPE Apollo 9000 system; 2019) is one of the most powerful
 supercomputers in UK Higher Education. ARCCA provides a bespoke infrastructure for research
 of disease mechanisms and patients with complex diseases (e.g., virtual research computing, data
 archiving, and data visualisation). This resource allows detailed analysis of next-generation
 sequencing, lipidomic, metabolomic and proteomic datasets.
 We are members of ELIXIR UK (comprising 15 other UK universities). This EU-led initiative
 manages, and safeguards data generated through the open science framework and unites
 Europe’s leading life science organisations. Led by the Systems Immunity Research Institute,
 ELIXIR enables users in academia and industry to access services vital to their research. Here,
 we manage the LIPID MAPS gateway (an accredited £1.3M ELIXIR resource funded by the
 Wellcome Trust; O’Donnell) and curate the Human Gene Mutation Database (Cooper; IMPACT
 CASE) with Qiagen (S4.6). Working with colleagues in our UOA5 submission, we also contribute
 to the MRC Cloud Infrastructure for Microbial Bioinformatics (£7.6M) platform. This
 partnership with Warwick, Birmingham, Swansea, Bath and Leicester universities, and the

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Quadram Institute provides free cloud-based computing, storage and analysis tools for academic
 microbiologists across the UK (e.g., UK-COG; COVID-19 Genomics UK Consortium).
 UOA1 researchers contributed to the development of the Genomics for Precision Medicine
 Strategy (£6.3M). This Welsh Government initiative underpins our genomics research conducted
 via the Wales Gene Park (£6M; HCRW). Hosted by the SoM, the Wales Gene Park collaborates
 with the All-Wales Medical Genomics Service to conduct clinical studies of genetic disorders (e.g.,
 MRC 100,000 Genomes Project in Wales, £1M). Working with ARCCA, the All-Wales Medical
 Genomics Service established a new computational facility (WREN) for clinical diagnosis in Wales.
 With a capacity to support future advances in sequencing technologies and changes in clinical
 need, WREN will facilitate new research involving the SoM and NHS Wales.
 3.3. How our infrastructures and facilities catalyse clinical innovation
 Delivering clinical innovations (S1.2) impacting patient diagnosis and treatment we are an
 Innovate UK Centre of Excellence for Precision Medicine and member of a related UKRI led
 Knowledge Transfer Network comprising Belfast, Cardiff, Glasgow, Leeds, Manchester and
 Oxford universities. Several new initiatives enhance the societal and economic reach of our UOA1
 research:
 A. The Clinical Innovation Partnership quadrupled early-stage funding for clinical translation
    (totalling >£10.4M). Confidence in Concept and Proximity to Discovery schemes (>£2M
    since 2014) and NIHR Invention for Innovation awards promote co-production between
    clinicians, healthcare professionals, researchers and the commercial sector. Awards
    supported the development of novel therapies (e.g., Immunocore), diagnostic tools (e.g.,
    Mologic Ltd), medication monitoring systems (e.g., Diabetes Care Technology Ltd) and pre-
    clinical and early clinical evaluation studies (Bowen, Eberl, Hughes, Weeks, Williams).
    Examples of innovations arising from our research include:
      i. TeloNostiX, a spin-out from CU, pioneered development of a Single-TElomere Length
         Analysis (STELA) assay for cancer patients. This technology has prognostic utility in
         various solid, and haematological malignancies. Two robust patent filings underpin this
         technology, and a high-throughput version of the test is in commercial development
         following inward investments from Innovate UK and CRUK (Baird).
     ii. 3D-DIP-Chip is a genomic assay designed to screen the genetic safety profile of novel
         therapies (e.g., HDAC inhibitors). The technology was commercialised with Agilent
         Technologies and several pharmaceutical companies (e.g., GSK, Unilever, Astra
         Zeneca)adopted the platform in their drug development programmes (Reed).
 B. The ACCELERATE initiative (Lead: Weeks; £8.4M Cardiff) was established in 2018 (S1.2).
    This initiative supports 34 projects involving collaborations with >70 commercial enterprises,
    four with CAVUHB, Velindre Cancer Centre and various schools in Cardiff University (e.g.,
    Architecture, Dentistry, Engineering, Healthcare Sciences and Pharmacy).
 C. In 2017, CU secured ownership of the Cardiff Medicentre business incubator facility on
    the University Hospital of Wales campus (£3M). To foster collaboration and co-production we
    established an advisory Clinical Innovation Multidisciplinary team to review project
    development. Since its inception, 11 companies hosted by the MediCentre grew to the point
    of relocation or acquisition. Combined acquisitions total >£30M and the centre is currently
    home to >20 biotech companies.
 D. Translational virology research has benefitted from an embedded Cat-3 laboratory in the
    SoM, which allows the study of physiological models relevant to pathogen control, disease
    and immunity. This unit remains the only Cat-3 barrier facility in Wales and supports the
    Public Health Wales response to the COVID-19 pandemic (S4.2).
 3.4. How we streamline translational and experimental research
 Access to larger initiatives equivalent to NIHR support for clinical research (e.g., through NIHR
 Biomedical Research Centres) is more limited in Wales. UOA1 researchers have, however,
 secured infrastructure funds to enable experimental medicine research. These entities foster


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborations between clinical specialities and our discovery scientists to generate societal
 impacts. Notable examples include:
 A. Laboratory and clinical research into the causes of pathology and the basis of multimorbidity
    in chronic disease benefit from several entities. These include HCRW biomedical research
    units (>£16M), the Early Arthritis Experimental Treatment Centre (£0.8M) and the Centre for
    Biomechanics and Bioengineering (£2M; with colleagues in UOA3, UOA5, UOA12) funded
    by Versus Arthritis and the Wales Heart Research Institute. In cancer, investments in the
    Wales Cancer Research Centre and the Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre facilitated
    £28.2M in additional grant income and fostered collaborations with AstraZeneca, Bristol
    Myers Squibb, Novartis and Leo Pharma.
 B. The CTR enhanced delivery and governance of clinical studies including evaluations of
    interventions, diagnostics and medical devices (S3.5). Awards generated through the CTR
    annually exceeds £13.5M. In the past three years, the CTR conducted 96 clinical studies. The
    average value of each award is £789K (54% of this income comes to CU).
 C. Strengthening partnerships with NHS Wales by establishing a Joint Research Office with the
    CAVUHB. With an integrated team of staff overseeing arrangements for researchers’
    contractual status, research governance and ethics, funding and financial governance, this
    office streamlines procedures affecting clinical research (£0.75M; led by Dayan). Key
    infrastructure partnerships include the Advanced Therapy Treatment Centre (Innovate UK),
    shared clinical research facilities and portfolio studies. CU and the CAVUHB jointly host the
    first in Wales Paediatric Clinical Research Facility (2017). Ghazal holds an honorary
    contract with the NHS through this initiative to promote studies of neonatal sepsis. A 12-bed
    clinical research facility located adjacent to our cancer and immunology research
    laboratories supports trials in cancer, infectious diseases and immune-mediated conditions.
    These include therapies pioneered by UOA1 researchers (e.g., novel immunotherapies for
    cancer and autoimmune diseases such as type-1 diabetes and psoriasis, Godkin, Dayan,
    Ingram).
 D. Our precision medicine research benefits from interdisciplinary investments in health
    informatics (e.g., NHS Digital), data repositories, biostatistics, and pharmacy. For example,
    the Wales Kidney Research Unit (Uned Cymru I Ymchwil yr Arennau) connects world-leading
    nephrology research to patients, practicing clinicians and NHS services (£2.45M; HCRW).
    The Wales Kidney Research Unit is hosted by the Systems Immunity Research Institute and
    supports the clinical evaluation of kidney disease and linked health informatics in the SAIL
    Database in Swansea (Fraser, Meran, Philips).
 E.   The CU Biobank. This purpose-built ISO9001:2015 accredited facility (opened; 2019) can
      archive 900,000 biological samples (£1.5M investment in build costs and equipment).
      Working with CAVUHB, the facility provides essential infrastructures for the linkage and
      coordination of human samples for research purposes. The repository currently hosts eight
      pre-existing biobanks (e.g., Wales Cancer Bank, Wales Kidney Research Tissue Bank).
 F.   Our translational research further benefits from joint and honorary appointments between
      NHS Wales, Public Health Wales and CU (S4.3).
 3.5. Policies and practices underpinning research governance
 CU and CAVUHB provide a single integrated academic and NHS review procedure for the ethical
 evaluation and approval of clinical and non-clinical research. Clinical studies adhere to strict rules
 and regulations that safeguard researchers and patients and ensures both research excellence
 and data integrity. These include adherence to national and international directives for clinical
 trials (2001/20/EC), the use of medical devices (93/42/EEC), frameworks for health and social
 care research, clinical trial ethics and the use of medicines in patients. All SoM research involving
 human samples is overseen by our Human Tissue Act Compliance team and conducted under a
 Hub Research Licence (No. 12422).
 Staff in UOA1 adhere to a strict Research Integrity and Governance Code of Practice (see REF5a),
 which ensures all research is delivered safely, responsibly, and to expected standards (S1.3).
 Adhering to the principles outlined by DORA, our processes promote best practices in research

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 assessment and reproducibility. These include:
 A. Development of standardised bioinformatic pipelines and data archiving for polyomic datasets
    (e.g., ELIXIR).
 B. A more streamlined evaluation and monitoring of clinical research.
 C. UOA1 researchers benefit from Central Biotechnology Services, providing an accredited
    (ISO9001 and 17025) facility for biomedical technologies. This includes training in advanced
    technology methods (e.g., next-generation sequencing, mass spectrometry, microscopy, flow
    cytometry, data visualization).
 D. Opportunities for all staff to attend advanced training courses (e.g., Wellcome Genome
    Campus Advanced Courses, EMBO courses and workshops).
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 UOA1 researchers promote patient-centred care through clinical and non-clinical collaborations,
 impactful interactions with NHS colleagues, and industry. Extramural activities within the Unit
 enhanced the delivery of societal and economic benefits arising from our research. For example,
 the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) is internationally recognised as the gold standard
 criteria for the evaluation of dermatological conditions (licence revenues are £3.5M for this REF
 period) [IMPACT CASE].
 Eight HCRW biomedical units jointly funded with Welsh Government support the clinical impact
 and reach of our research in infection, cancer, mental health and chronic diseases. The SoM leads
 five of these entities (Wales Cancer Research Centre, National Institute for Mental Health, Wales
 Centre for Primary and Emergency Care Research, Wales Kidney Research Unit, Brain Repair
 and Intracranial Neurotherapeutics Unit) and we play active roles in the others (Centre for Ageing
 and Dementia Research, Diabetes Research Unit Cymru, National Centre for Population Health
 and Wellbeing Research). These structures facilitate interactions with NHS Wales and foster
 closer working with healthcare professionals, patients and families.
 Our discovery research displays significant potential to advance clinical medicine. In cancer
 immunology, our pioneering research of conventional T-cells opened the prospect of a ‘universal’
 therapy for various cancer types (led by Sewell). Our environment benefits from close ties with
 NHS facilities and infrastructures, including our research of cutting-edge treatments e.g., proton
 beam technologies (Staffurth, Barrett-Lee), immunotherapies (Gallimore, Godkin, Ladell, Sewell,
 Price, Rossjohn) and profiling of rare (Cooper, Dolwani, Sampson, Tee) and infectious (Eberl,
 Labeta, Stanton, Walsh) diseases. Project Sepsis is an example of this synergy. Applying
 computational methods to the study of lipids, metabolism and functional genomics, Project Sepsis
 links with the NHS paediatric clinical facility and intensive care units to develop new interventions
 for sepsis (Ghazal, Kotecha, McLaren, O’Donnell). We continue to encourage NHS links via our
 new research entities in neuro-immunology, diagnostics and precision medicine.
 4.1. Collaborations with Higher Education Institutions
 A. International. CU has strategic partnerships with key international academic institutions (see
    REF5a). Our international collaborations further extend beyond these relationships,
    evidenced by co-authored publications, student exchanges, honorary appointments (e.g.,
    Morgan; Spinoza Professorship, universities of Amsterdam and Utrecht, O’Donnell; University
    of the Republic of Montevideo, Spiller; University of Western Australia) and sustainability
    through shared renewable research grants and European consortia awards (£32.9M;
    equating to a 52% increase in funding since REF2014). Key exemplars include an ERC
    Advanced Grant (£2.29M; O’Donnell), fellowships through the Marie Sklodowska-Curie
    Actions schemes, various clinical consortia (e.g., £5.84M AML-related trials; Adams) and our
    partnership with Monash University. Additional examples include:
      i. Membership of three Marie Curie Initial Training Networks. Led by Amsterdam (EuTRiPD),
         KU Leuven (ArthritisHeal; strategic university partner) and Barcelona (DOCTIS
         Consortium), these training programmes drive research into causes of immune-mediated
         diseases through broad-based collaborations with clinicians, academics and industrial
         partners.

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     ii. Researchers in UOA1 benefit from international partnerships with leading Chinese medical
         research institutions– Peking University (Honorary appointment; Jiang), Capital Medical
         University, Sun Yat-sen University and Yiling. This initiative supported a successful MRC
         New Investigator Research Grant (Bonnet).
    iii. Our international collaborations extend beyond traditional boundaries of research-led
         partnerships and showcase projects designed to alleviate poverty and promote health in
         lower-income countries. Examples include BARNARDS and the Phoenix Project (two
         Times Higher Education Awards in 2017) with the University of Namibia. BARNARDS (Bill
         and Melinda Gates Foundation; £3.6M) assesses the negative impact of antibiotic
         resistance on neonatal morbidity and mortality in Bangladesh, Ethiopia, India, Nigeria,
         Abuja, Pakistan, Rwanda and South Africa (Spiller, Toleman, Walsh).
 B. National. Partnerships with other UK universities include interdisciplinary programmes
    supported by the MRC (e.g., the Dementia Research Institute, Morgan, Taylor; MATURA,
    Choy), CRUK and EU sponsored stratified medicine programmes, Wellcome Trust
    Collaborative Awards (Godkin, Humphreys, Morgan, Stanton), the COVID-19 Immunology
    Consortium (Leads: Gallimore, Humphreys) and resources such as ELIXIR and CLIMB.
    Working with GW4 Alliance partners further enhanced the breadth of research delivered by
    UOA1. This initiative nurtures complementary research between our institutions and an initial
    investment of £2.8M in 87 collaborative GW4 communities generated £35.8M in research
    income (2019 data). Programmes relevant to our UOA1 submission include:
       i. Wellcome Trust GW4-CAT. (S2.4).
      ii. MRC/GW4-BioMed DTP. The programme funding 54 postgraduate students over three
          years (£3.3M MRC; £1.3M GW4) (S2.4).
      iii. Shared facilities and infrastructures. These include the GW4 facility for high-resolution
           cryo-microscopy (Bristol) and shared functional imaging resources (e.g., multi-photon
           microscopy in Bristol; micro-PET/CT and MRI in Cardiff).
      iv. The GW4 Crucible attracts 30 competitively selected future research leaders and
          provides opportunities to enhance career development.
 4.2. Industry engagement
 We engage with industrial partners involved in the development of clinical diagnostics, drugs and
 clinical devices (S3.3). These include:
 A. Joint appointments and secondments with the pharmaceutical sector (e.g., GSK Immunology
    Network, Triantafilou, K; Triantafilou, M).
 B. Training schemes (e.g., BBSRC Case awards, European Social Funds) (S2.4; S4.1).
 C. Working partnerships through initiatives (e.g., ACCELERATE).
 Industrial partnerships underpin research affecting the diagnosis, stratification and treatment of
 patients. These range from large pharmaceutical companies (e.g., Ferring Pharmaceuticals,
 Genentech, GSK, Janssen, MedImmune, Novartis, Pfizer, Qiagen, Roche, UCB) to smaller
 biotech organisations (e.g., Mestag Therapeutics, NovImmune SA, BioVitrum, Viropharma) and
 manufacturing CROs (e.g., Biovian, Finland, Lonza, UK). Our links include participations on
 industry-led advisory boards overseeing the development of new therapies targeting complement
 (e.g., GSK, Alexion Pharmaceuticals), cytokines (e.g., Chugai, EUSA Pharmaceuticals, Janssen,
 Roche, Sanofi-Regeneron), lipid mediators (e.g., Gilead Sciences) and immune signalling
 pathways (NovImmune SA, Pfizer) (Choy, Jones, SA., Morgan, O’Donnell). Our advisory
 involvements with the pharmaceutical sector informed the testing of biological drugs in COVID-19
 (e.g., eculizumab, siltuximab, tocilizumab), and were significant in recommending eculizumab for
 patient care. We also worked with industry to test novel devices (Creo Medical) and preventative
 interventions designed to reduce COVID-19 transmission (Venture Life) using our Cat-3
 containment facility (Humphreys, O’Donnell, Stanton, Weeks).
 We work with industrial partners to advance technologies arising from our research (S3.3). Novel
 diagnostics for infectious diseases and cancers (Baird, Bowen, Eberl, Kynaston, Labeta, Weeks),

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 methodologies used in drug development programmes (Reed) and the curation of genetic
 mutations (Cooper) benefitted from collaborations with Agilent Technologies, Astra Zeneca, GSK,
 Mologic Ltd., Unilever and Qiagen.
 4.3. Linking with CAT-C staff
 The SoM hosts 124 CAT-C staff (female:53; male:71) and includes five Visiting Research
 Fellowships. These appointments provide access to library resources, research infrastructure and
 laboratory space for the completion of specific projects.
 Those engaged in longer-term projects are appointed Honorary Research Associates (n=25),
 Honorary Research Fellows (n=21), Honorary Senior Research Fellows (n=21) or Honorary
 Distinguished Fellows (n=2). Appointees typically hold a three-year tenure and applications are
 reviewed and evaluated by a SoM committee (Female:4; Male:2). Individuals making substantive
 contributions to our research environment receive Honorary Visiting Professor (n=5), Honorary
 Distinguished Professor (n=2) or Honorary Professor (n=10) titles. For example, Professors
 Stephen Jolles (Consultant Immunologist, University Hospital of Wales) and Matthew Wise
 (Consultant Intensive Care Specialist) play leading roles in our COVID-19 research and clinical
 investigations of rare genetic disorders and infectious disease. Other examples of how our
 honorary staff engage with UOA1 researchers include:
 A. Provision of training and mentoring for early-stage clinical academics. For example,
    collaborations between UOA1 staff and CAT-C appointments support the supervision and
    delivery of WCAT, GW4-CAT, and MD training schemes.
 B. Clinical studies involving patient recruitment, clinical trial design, implementation and
    management, and sample collections from patients. These include co-authored publications,
    grant initiatives (e.g., UK-COG, 100,000 Genomes Project in Wales) and involvements in 80%
    of the impact case studies in our UOA1 submission.
 C. Support for clinical facilities and infrastructures (e.g., HCRW resource units, the Experimental
    Cancer Medicine Centre), the administration of tissue and samples deposited in registered
    biobanks (e.g., Wales Cancer Bank), NHS diagnostic facilities (e.g., NHS All Wales Medical
    Genomics Service) and initiatives administered through our joint research and development
    office with CAVUHB (£0.75M investment).
 D. Strengthening visible links between university colleagues and clinicians or health care
    professionals working within the community (e.g., HealthWise Wales).
 E. Enhancing collaborative links with international university partners (e.g., joint supervision of
    PhD students).
 F. Continued engagement of former University staff re-located to other institutions. These
    appointments ensure the completion of outstanding projects and continued supervision of
    ongoing students and staff.
 4.4. Scientific recognitions
 UOA1 staff participate in international advisory boards, academic societies, and have received
 recognition for their research. These enhanced staff profiles have improved our engagement with
 government, stakeholders and other decision-making entities. Examples include:
 A. Professional service staff participation on the Athena Swan National Review Committee.
 B. PhD students and ECRs received prestigious training fellowships or conference awards for
    their research (e.g., the British Society of Immunology, the International Cytokine and
    Interferon Society, British Society of Haematology, the UK CLL Forum, Keystone Symposia).
    Indeed, several now hold key roles in professional societies ranging from career advice,
    conference organisation, and PhD or ECR representation groups.
 C. Senior roles in academic societies (e.g., British Society of Immunology [Ager; Chair of Forum,
    2018, Eberl; Trustee], British Society for Gene and Therapy [Parker; Chair, Early Career
    Development and Collaboration Committee], International Cytokine & Interferon Society
    [Jones, SA; Development Committee; Meeting Committee], International Complement

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Society [Morgan; Past President], UK Cell Adhesion Society [Ager; Past President]).
 D. Clarivate Analytics identified one of our staff as among the world’s most highly cited
    immunologists (Rossjohn). Publications by three of our researchers (Humphreys, Moser,
    Sewell) were in the top-10 most downloaded citations in The Journal of Immunology for 2018
    and 2019.
 E. Various honours and recognitions (e.g., Order of the British Empire [OBE, Mason, Walsh,
    Weeks; MBE, Jiang], Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Awards [O’Donnell, Walsh],
    Fellow of the Royal Society of Biology [Jones, SA, O’Donnell, Price], Dorothy Hodgkin Lecture
    [Diabetes Research UK; Wong], Honorary Society Memberships [Finlay; former staff],
    National Clinical Bronze Award [Adams]).
 F. Increased numbers of staff received fellowships from learned societies (e.g., Member of the
    Academia Europaea [Morgan; 2016, O’Donnell; 2020, Piquet; former staff 2017], Fellow of
    the Academy of Medical Science [Ghazal; 2015, O’Donnell; 2020, Rossjohn; 2017], Fellow of
    the Academy of Medical Educators [Ingram; 2014], Fellow of the Learned Society of Wales
    [O’Donnell; 2015, Price, Rossjohn, Wilkinson; former staff, all 2016, Jones, SA, Mason,
    Moser, Wong, Weeks; all 2019, Sampson; 2020], Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians
    [Ingram; 2017], Principle Fellow of Advance HE [Williams; 2019]).
 4.5. Positions of influence
 Staff work with Welsh Government to affect policy change or decision-making processes. These
 include senior stakeholder groups advising policy decisions. For example, CReST Cymru
 (Chester), and the Genomics for Precision Medicine Strategy (Sampson). During the COVID-19
 pandemic, researchers contributed to national committees steering the societal response to the
 disease in Wales (Sampson; Welsh Scientific Advisory Committee for Welsh Government,
 Humphreys, Stanton; COVID-19 Scientific Advisors to Peter Halligan [CSO], Stanton; International
 Intelligence Committee). We also shape national policies on healthcare provision for people with
 terminal illnesses through our Marie Curie Palliative Care Centre (Lead: Noble; one of two centres
 in the UK). Others serve on the Welsh Higher Education Brussels board, which encourages
 Welsh interests in European initiatives and partnerships (Jones SA., O’Donnell). Relevant to our
 support for clinical medicine, we steered activities that enhance academic clinical research,
 including:
 A. Protected sessions (up to 40% FTE) for NHS staff to develop collaborative research, e.g.,
    through the South East Wales Academic Health Science Partnership fostering links between
    universities, funding bodies and industry.
 B. Match-funding for research applications (e.g., £1.8M for PET-CT).
 C. Recruitment to portfolio studies, local and multi-centre clinical trials, and biobanking (e.g., the
    Wales Cancer Bank).
 D. Funding for patient & public involvement and engagement.
 E. Technology transfer to NHS diagnostic laboratories and clinical services (e.g., translation of
    complement diagnostics to create a UK Centre for Complement assays).
 In this REF period, we increased the number of researchers working with funding agencies and
 external stakeholders:
 UK Government
 UKRI (BBSRC; Tonks, Pool of Experts for Main Panels A-D, MRC; Jones, SA., [Wilkinson, retired];
 Infection & Immunity Board, O’Donnell; Deputy Chair, Population & Systems Medicine Board;
 Deputy Chair, Non-Clinical Training & Career Development Panel, Jones, SA, COVID-19 Agile
 Panel), NIHR (Chester; Clinical Research Faculty Select Committee, Choy; Advanced Fellowship
 Panel), HCRW (Jones, SA., Co-Chair, Dayan; Research for Patient & Public Benefit Panel, Jones,
 SA., Deputy-Chair; All-Wales Prioritisation Panel).




                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Charities
 British Heart Foundation (Morgan, Chair; Chairs and Programme Grant Committee), Cancer
 Research UK (Adams, Barrett-Lee, Chester, Mason; various clinical review panels, Gallimore;
 Science Committee, Vice-Chair; Immunology Expert Review Panel), Diabetes UK (Wong;
 Scientific Review Committee), Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation (Wong, Chair; Scientific
 Review Committee), Kidney Research UK (Bowen, Fraser Co-Chair; Research Grants
 Committee), Versus Arthritis (Jones, SA., Vice-Chair; Disease Sub-Committee). Wellcome Trust
 (Humphreys; Basic Science Interview Committee, O’Donnell; Biomedical Resource & Technology
 Development Committee, Moser; Henry Dale Fellowships, Godkin, Humphreys, Moser, Sampson;
 Ad hoc Investigator Award interview process).
 International agencies
 CNPq Brazil (Wong), French National Funding (HCERES; Moser), Irish Cancer Society (Chester;
 Clinician Research Leadership Award), Gallimore, Chair; Biomedical Funding Panel); Health
 Research Board Ireland (Jones, SA., Chair; Investigator Led Projects, Chair; Trials Methodology
 Research Network Review Panel, Joint Select Funding Committee), Marie Curie Fellowships
 (O’Donnell), NIH (USA) (Ghazal; Scientific Advisory Board for NIH NIAID, Wong; emphasis panel
 review of Diabetes), Research Grants Council Hong Kong (Wong; Biology & Medicine Panel),
 Science Foundation Ireland (Gallimore).
 Editorial Board Memberships
 Chief Editors (Moser; Frontiers in Immunology, Cooper; Human Genetics, Ingram; British Journal
 of Dermatology), Emeritus Editorships (Topley; former staff, Peritoneal Dialysis International),
 Associate Editorships (Clayton; Exosomes, Fegan; British Journal of Haematology, Gallimore;
 Immunology, Morgan; Molecular Immunology, European Journal of Immunology, Parker, Stanton,
 Wong; Scientific Reports, Wong; Frontiers in Immunology; Current Molecular Medicine, Jones,
 SA., O’Donnell; Journal of Biological Chemistry; Function, Jones, SA; Signals-BMC, O’Donnell;
 Lipid Research, Function).
 Clinical Advisory Groups
 Joint Research Office (Dayan; Director, CU/CAVUHB), UK Clinical Review Panels (Barrett-Lee;
 NCRN/NCRI Breast Cancer Clinical Study Group, Collins; UK-CRN Non-Malignant Haematology
 Specialty Group, Mason; NCRN/NCRI Prostate Cancer Clinical Study Group), Senior stakeholder
 appointments (Sampson; International Scientific Advisory Board to the Tuberous Sclerosis
 Alliance (USA), Medical Advisor to the Tuberous Sclerosis Association, Jones, SA; Versus
 Arthritis, Senior Stakeholder Committee), European Organisation for Research & Treatment of
 Cancer (Mason; Chair, Independent Data Monitoring Committee).
 National Advisory Groups
 BSI and NCRI (Ager, Gallimore, Joint Committee; UK-wide strategy for cancer immunotherapy),
 Genomics England (Sampson; Scientific Committee), Health & Care Research Wales (Dayan,
 Morgan, Sewell, [Topley, former staff]; Senior Faculty, Health & Care Research Wales),
 UKRI/NIHR/AMS (Morgan; MRC Council, O’Donnell (Multimorbidity Steering Group, Jones, SA,
 Fraser; Multimorbidity scoping group), Versus Arthritis (Jones, SA; Centre Review Panel,
 Committee Restructuring Review Panel), Wellcome Trust (Humphreys; Immune System in Health
 and Disease Expert Review Group).
 4.6. Open science and engagements
 Embracing policies that promote Open Science (e.g., DORA; see REF5a) we manage open
 access repositories, infrastructures and facilities with direct benefits to researchers, NHS services
 (e.g., All Wales Medical Genetics Service) and patients. Notable examples include the Human
 Gene Mutation Database curating genetic information on 275,716 human polymorphisms and
 LIPID MAPS (S3.2). In 2020, LIPID MAPS was accessed over 1.5 million times and supported
 69,357 international researchers. Through this platform, users obtain free access to a suite of
 databases, software tools, statistical methods, and educational resources for lipid research. Our
 Open Science initiatives also extend into our undergraduate programmes. We proudly publish The
 British Student Doctor Journal (ISSN:2514-3174; official journal of the Academy of Medical

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Educators); an open access academic journal led by CU medical students, which publishes
 medical student-generated, peer-reviewed articles impacting UK clinical practice (Editorial Board:
 Ingram).
 Research infrastructures and facilities support our commitment to engagement, involvement and
 participation. Lay faculty members are engaged in all our discovery and clinical programmes and
 have become an integral component of our research environment. Through new initiatives such
 as the Hodge Centre for Neuropsychiatric Immunology, we introduced activities that look to break
 boundaries between clinical specialities or research in defined diseases. In this regard, we deliver
 an integrated approach to public and patient involvements. For example, the Systems Immunity
 Lay Faculty (female:2; male:5; Eberl) consists of individuals passionate about science and health-
 related matters. The Faculty supports the communication and accessibility of all our research in
 cancer, infectious diseases, and complex immune-mediated or degenerative disorders.
 Established in 2015, faculty members help prepare grant proposals, impact statements and press
 releases, and input on discussions with stakeholders (e.g., Involving People Network, HCRW,
 NIHR) and other advocacy groups. We use innovative approaches to engagement that promote
 scientific understanding between patients, researchers, and clinical colleagues. For example, our
 Sepsis Engagement Centre (The Goldilocks Ward; Project Sepsis) offers an interactive training
 suite with exhibits and simulations showcasing cutting edge advances in the management of
 neonatal infection. We also deliver medical education programmes (e.g., the Cytokine Signalling
 Forum run by CESAS Medical [awarded Silver medal at the 2016 Digital Education awards], Choy,
 Jones, SA) to supplement continuing professional development for healthcare professionals (e.g.,
 community practitioners, specialist nurses and pharmacists). We host a successful public lecture
 series and embrace initiatives that raise awareness of STEM subjects. Working with schools (Key
 Stage 3 & 4) we run a national, bilingual Life Science Challenge quiz (in Welsh and English) where
 schools participate in a head-to-head knockout competition (annually featuring 34 schools and
 over 150 children).
 Research achievements are disseminated to the general public via charities (e.g., CRUK, Versus
 Arthritis, Kidney Research UK), participations at festivals (e.g., the National Eisteddfod, the Hay
 Festival, the Soapbox Science Festival, Green Man), pop-up events (e.g., Techniquest Science
 Museum) and interactive games (e.g., MacMan, Telomere Crisis developed with the University of
 South Wales). To raise awareness of antibiotic resistance, we transformed an empty retail unit in
 Wales’s largest shopping centre into an interactive pop-up science shop (Superbugs; 2019 funded
 through our ISSF scheme, S2.5). Over 14 days, we welcomed 6,566 visitors and created 1,625
 young antibiotic resistance champions in over 200 schools. Significant research achievements are
 advertised through the University website and newsletters such as ReMEDy (the SoM quarterly
 newsletter), which reaches over 12,000 readers including alumni and stakeholders. Colleagues in
 UOA1 regularly feature in local and national news reports. These include expert opinions for media
 outlets (e.g., BBC Wales, BBC Radio4, CNN) and interviews for news sections in scientific journals
 (e.g., Science, Nature Biotechnology).
 4.7. Summary
 Our research environment has changed beyond recognition since REF2014. Addressing health
 challenges affecting our society today, we present a sustainable and inclusive research
 environment equipped to harness discovery research for future clinical innovation and patient
 benefit. Achievements were delivered through increased investment in research excellence,
 including initiatives that bridge our core research strengths (e.g., immunology, neuroscience). This
 approach has increased our competitiveness for new funding and resources from government,
 industry, and charities. Thus, we are ideally placed to ensure the long-term sustainability of clinical
 medicine in Cardiff University and suitably equipped to deliver health research with direct benefits
 for society.




                                                                                                Page 22
