Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Swansea University

 Unit of Assessment: 26 Modern Languages and Linguistics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Unit comprises 17.5 FTE (headcount 19) researchers and 39 postgraduates in the
 Departments of Welsh and of Modern Languages, Translation and Interpreting (ML), both
 within the University’s College of Arts and Humanities. Our research specialisms include
 language policy, applied linguistics, translation, literature, film and theatre studies, cultural
 studies and creative writing. Our linguistic coverage includes specialists in French, German,
 Spanish, Polish, Arabic and Welsh, as well as multilingualism. Through excellence in research,
 our ambition is to make a difference locally, nationally and globally as we develop cutting-edge
 language tools, change language environments and help communities celebrate cultural
 diversity.

 In a nation where government policy promotes both the daily use of Welsh and the early
 teaching of modern languages, working as a team with shared objectives energises
 researchers to achieve significant cultural and policy impacts. We are proud to work in a City
 of Sanctuary; supporting linguistic and cultural understanding is key in bringing Wales to the
 world and the world to Wales.

 A gender-balanced and diverse team of researchers and specialisms, has allowed us to enjoy
 considerable success in this census period. Notable achievements are:

       a 158% increase in research income on REF2014
       an 81% increase in PhDs Awarded from REF2014
       six new Category-A staff (and nine new research assistants/associates)
       increased interdisciplinary collaborations and demonstrable impact.

 Unit Structure

 The UoA is structured around four outward-looking Research Centres.

 The Language Research Centre supports empirical research into language data and
 processes, producing high-impact applied research in education, government, health, security,
 language policy and translation. It hosts two of our research groups: Applied Linguistics and
 Welsh (ALAW), which focuses on critical language research related to Wales, and the
 Swansea Translation and Interpreting Research Group (STING), which considers how
 technology impacts on cross-language creative work in translation.

 Unique to the UK, our Centre for Contemporary German Culture (CCGC), founded in 1993,
 focuses on contemporary German-language authors and filmmakers and makes an important
 contribution to German Studies in Britain, Europe and North America.

 The Centre for the Comparative Study of Portugal, Spain and the Americas (CEPSAM) is
 the interdisciplinary Luso-Hispanist Hub for Wales, promoting research collaboration and
 public engagement. It continues to be the home for the journal Romance Studies, which was
 founded in Swansea in 1982.

 The Richard Burton Centre for the Study of Wales pursues research into Wales, its
 languages and cultures. It functions as an interdisciplinary research forum for a range of
 individual projects in Welsh cultural studies, including our student-led creative writing group,
 Grŵp Sgwennu Creadigol [Creative Writing Group].



1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A significant research grouping created during the period is the Arabic Research Group,
 established by staff and postgraduate research students to develop interinstitutional links and
 impact around linguistics, translation and interpreting, and cultural studies.

 Research Strategy

 Our strategy has been to build on proven strengths whilst developing a broader spectrum of
 specialisms through targeted appointments. Our goals were to:

    1. facilitate individual scholarly innovation and achievement
    2. foster a collaborative and supportive research environment in support of our agreed
       priorities via our research centres
    3. further develop the impact of our research, recognised as a strength in REF 2014 (7 th
       for ML), through effective partnerships with government, the third sector and community
       groups.

 Progress against each of these goals has been strong.

 Goal 1: Our support for individual scholarly creativity (section 2) has led to the publication of a
 series of specialist monographs (22 books in total for REF2021), as well as articles in
 prestigious journals, book chapters, and edited volumes. Compared with REF2014, this
 submission has a wider range of fields, including translation and creative writing, Arabic, media
 history, comparative literature and theatre, language legislation, and presents for the first time
 datasets in applied linguistics. All colleagues have equal access to research support
 mechanisms (section 3) that have helped individuals to achieve fellowship awards, advisory
 positions on external bodies, membership of local community-based programmes and
 prestigious awards.

 Goal 2: Evidence of our success in nurturing a collaborative and supportive research
 environment can be seen in the activities delivered by our Research Centres and groups. For
 example:

 In collaboration with colleagues at Cardiff, Bangor and Lancaster, ALAW researchers delivered
 the ESRC/AHRC-funded CorCenCC project (Corpws Cenedlaethol Cymraeg Cyfoes/National
 Corpus of Contemporary Welsh). Work in applied linguistics also includes the transnational
 EU-Erasmus+ funded project on Communication Competences for Migrants and
 Disadvantaged Background Learners in Bilingual Work Environments (COMBI).

 STING researchers played leading national and international roles in pioneering techniques
 and applications in computer-assisted literary translation (CALT), spearheading
 innovative working practices and bringing together academics and PGRs in languages,
 translation studies, linguistics, and computer science, alongside professional practitioners.

 CCGC colleagues have delivered a range of activities, including Modern Humanities
 Research Association-funded work on Günter Grass, special issues of Oxford German
 Studies and German Life and Letters, and two new volumes in the Centre’s own book series.
 It regularly holds public events (section 4), and, with CEPSAM, was instrumental in organising
 and delivering the outreach activities of AHRC Open World Research Initiative (OWRI).

 CEPSAM secured funds from British Academy/Leverhulme, Institute of Latin American Studies,
 Institute of Modern Languages Research (IMLR), AHRC’s Language Acts and Worldmaking
 Strand, Spanish Embassy, Camoes and Cervantes institutes and the Spanish and Argentine
 governments. This has allowed it to develop into a national Hub, attract new members and
 produce seminal interdisciplinary monographs on literature and mental health, literary theory
 and social semiotics, and postcolonial theory in Patagonia.


2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Richard Burton Centre produced numerous Welsh-language monographs, including
 scholarly editions of medieval and twentieth century poetry, seminal works on law and
 literature, the history of S4C and multiculturalism in Wales, a series of literary biographies,
 poetry collections and contributions to the Cambridge History of Welsh Literature (co-edited in
 Swansea).

 Goal 3: Our focus on research impact is an integral feature of our strategy and our approach
 and successes are described below.

 Interdisciplinary Research and Impact

 The Unit’s growth in large, interinstitutional projects is a result of its interdisciplinary approach
 to research and its commitment to collaborations with local, national and international
 organisations. This has enabled high impact from core research strengths in language policy
 and cultural studies, with projects intersecting across Modern Languages, Welsh, Applied
 Linguistics and Digital Humanities. Our interdisciplinary work is further enhanced by
 collaborations with Media Studies, Computer Science and the School of Management.

 Our contribution to the AHRC Open World Research Initiative drew on this collaborative
 environment. Working with Manchester, London and Durham on the ‘Cross-Language
 Dynamics: Reshaping Community’ project, we addressed multilingualism and shifting attitudes
 towards languages among policymakers, stakeholders and publics.

 The initiative is also an excellent example of our approach to engaging research users. We
 worked with language-diverse migrant communities in Swansea, providing training events with
 community interpreters and participant research on informal interpreting in women refugee
 therapy groups. We promoted new, cross-community understandings of language and culture
 through multilingual poetry and music events, where celebrated writers appeared alongside
 regional performers. Many new multilingual texts and translations were created, and an
 enduring collaboration was established with Turkish exile theatre professionals. Extending this
 research, subsequent outputs, and a ‘Multilingual Literatures’ conference drawing delegates
 from five continents, identified previously invisible multilingualism in a range of literary
 productions. Further dissemination plans include a conference for Wales A-level teachers in
 partnership with the government’s SEREN network.

 ALAW has a strong focus on influencing language policy, developing close links with Welsh
 Government and with researchers and policymakers in education. CorCenCC produced the
 first comprehensive corpus of contemporary Welsh, which will inform a range of linguistic
 applications for years to come. Its Tiwtiadur is an open access educational resource, as is
 ALAW’s Welsh Government-commissioned review of L2 teaching methods to inform policy.
 Through COMBI, Swansea and partners in six EU countries addressed the communication
 needs of migrants entering bilingual settings; findings were presented at conferences in
 Swansea, New Zealand and the European Commission. Project beneficiaries include tutors
 and learners who now use the open access pedagogical method and toolkit developed with
 the National Centre for Learning Welsh.

 STING’s work in computer assisted translation has impacted practitioner expertise and
 application, bringing together multidisciplinary contributors (critical translation studies, neural
 machine translation, stylometry) and providing app training for practitioners from the Emerging
 Translators Network and other fora, including the European Commission’s European Masters
 in Translation Network. Outreach activities have included an international workshop on the
 ergonomics of translation tools, addressed by officials of the European Commission’s
 Directorate General for Translation.

 Our pioneering online Version Variation Visualisation app (updated 2017 with British
 Academy/Leverhulme funding, collaborators in Bristol, Berlin, São Paulo) has been adopted by

3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a research group at Moscow University of the Humanities, funded by the Russian Foundation
 for Basic Research. An AHRC-funded PhD led to development of a CAT tool which was
 acquired by SDL Trados.

 Research within CEPSAM has included BA/Leverhulme- and EPSRC/CHERISH-DE-funded
 projects involving the co-creation of digital educational resources where indigenous
 Patagonian communities tell their own histories, and the co-design of an open-source digital
 platform enabling them to digitally repossess ancestral records and restore links with their
 cultural and linguistic heritage. These entailed collaboration with Argentinean, Chilean, German
 and UK national institutions. Funding from the Spanish National Research Council also enabled
 collaboration with 72 researchers and playwrights based at universities in Spain, Latin America
 and beyond, focusing on Ibero-American dramaturgy.

 Other examples of our impact include:

       Our input as Technology Co-Chair to the European Masters in Translation Network has
        helped frame postgraduate curricula across the EU. We also collaborate with the
        Network and the European Commission on design and evaluation of technology
        training, especially simulated translation agencies, crucial for the next generation of
        professional translators.

       Our research approach to understanding the Qu’ran feeds into the field of
        deradicalisation, with key partners (section 4). Users of our expertise include the
        Metropolitan Police, the FCO, the UN, NATO, and UK Parliament.

       We create research-based experiences for public benefit by partnering with schools
        and the SEREN network, developing ‘ethical, informed citizens of Wales and the World’
        in line with the New Curriculum for Wales.

       Our impact strategy also sees researchers advising government and holding key
        positions for national institutions such as The Arts Council of Wales and PEN Cymru
        (section 4).

 Our approach to impact is evidenced in our case studies, ‘(Re)Discovering Europeans’ Visions
 of Wales’ and ‘Reversing Language Shift in Wales’. Each has contributed to the Welsh
 Government’s target, 'Miliwn o Siaradwyr Cymraeg'/’A Million Welsh Speakers’ and supports
 multilingualism as envisioned in the Welsh Government ‘Global Futures’ strategy.

 Open Scholarship and Research Integrity (see also REF5a)

 The University’s Open Access policy requires researchers to make research publications
 available on its publicly accessible, indexed repository, Cronfa. CorCenCC resources and
 underpinning datasets are open access, as are our COMBI toolkit, Yr Esboniadur, and Llawlyfr
 Meistroli’r Gymraeg. We comply with Wellcome Trust guidance on fairness in research
 assessment.

 The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and subscribes to
 the UK Research & Integrity Office (UKRIO). Our Vice-Chancellor chairs UUK’s UK Research
 Integrity Forum. Our Research Integrity: A Policy Framework on Research Ethics &
 Governance document (2015) was developed in accordance with UKRIO’s Code of Practice
 and is monitored by our Research Ethics & Governance Sub-Committee. Our Impact Lead is
 Deputy Chair of the University’s Ethics Committee. Research integrity training (via OUP’s
 Epigeum) is mandatory.

 Future Plans


4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We aim to:

       build on the step-change achieved in this census period, continuing to produce world-
        leading and high-impact research in a range of fields. As we respond to the pandemic
        and its effect on communities in a post-Brexit world, the connected agendas of
        linguistic equality, cultural diversity and the well-being of future generations are
        increasingly important to our researchers.

       further explore the theme of Wales to the world and the world in Wales,
        encompassing global multilingual interfaces, diverse settings where migrants enter
        bilingual spaces, complex postcolonial spaces and artistic and economic recovery. The
        interconnectedness of health and heritage and what might be learnt from artistic
        representations exemplify contemporary global issues.

       promote the value of language acquisition and cultural diversity, and their positive
        effects on wellbeing: creating research-based outputs and experiences promoting
        language diversity for public benefit, as in our two case studies. Our ambition is to
        confront the falling uptake of modern languages in UK schools and the demographic
        decline of Welsh.

 ALAW will increasingly intervene in policy via community work, advisory boards and
 government consultations as we develop new projects and promote the impacts of CorCenCC
 and COMBI with our partners. STING will develop the next phase of CALT with UK and
 international academics, professional translators and language industry partners, to maximise
 the benefits of new technologies while promoting the essential human character of culturally
 engaged translation.

 We will continue to explore the role of languages in various communities and will develop a
 focus on comparative theatre, where we have expertise in Welsh, Catalan, Spanish and
 German and links with Turkish exile performers.

 We will further develop the impact capacity of CCGC, CEPSAM and the Richard Burton
 Centre to support research in cultural studies. Arabic and Chinese will be supported to grow in
 importance, enabling us to diversify our reach globally.

 We will continue to develop our Early Career Researchers (ECRs), placing equality and
 diversity at the heart of everything we do. We will seek new links and further strengthen
 strategic postgraduate research partnerships with Oklahoma, Texas and Grenoble, and build
 on CEPSAM’s all-Wales Hub and the links developed within the AHRC’s CDT consortium in
 Celtic Studies.

 2. People

 The UoA comprises 19 Category A submitted staff (all eligible staff, 17.5 FTE) on permanent
 contracts (cf. 21% on fixed-term contracts by REF2014) and 39 research students (8 MAs/31
 PhDs).

 Our staffing strategy seeks to develop high-quality staff, and recruit into the UoA individuals
 who share our ambitions in terms of research excellence and significant impact in languages
 and linguistics. Within a collegial environment, the UoA offers individuals the support and time
 needed to undertake and produce high-impact quality research.

 We have in this census period become more diverse across subjects, languages and
 disciplines, recruiting six research staff to support our strategic goals. Of these, three ECRs
 work on comparative cultural studies: (i) Welsh/Catalan theatre, (ii) Hispanic/comparative


5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 theatre and political cultures, and (iii) language teaching and acquisition in multilingual
 contexts.

 We have also brought three specialists into the UoA to strengthen our expertise in (i)
 challenging perceived thinking in relation to international law and language policy, (ii)
 Anglocentric definitions of multiculturalism, (iii) media history in Wales. Another vital
 appointment is in Arabic Studies, driven by the success of PGT and PGR recruitment in Arabic
 Translation and Interpreting, with expertise in Quranic linguistics and deradicalisation.

 Our UoA’s successes in external grant capture have led to the recruitment of nine research
 assistants/associates to support the delivery and impact activities of projects funded by
 AHRC (OWRI x2), ESRC/AHRC (CorCenCC x2), MHRA (Grass Unkenrufe x2), EU (COMBI),
 Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol (Esboniadur) and Higher Education Academy (pedagogical
 methodology research).

 Our research environment is further enhanced by a number of Honorary Research Fellows,
 both scholars and successful professionals, who share their expertise and participate in UoA
 events. Some former staff are regularly involved with our research activities, be it from their
 new roles (e.g., the Director of the British Centre for Literary Translation (Large), or as Emeriti
 (e.g., Cofiadur and first female Archdruid of the National Eisteddfod Gorsedd (James), General
 Editor of Modern Language Review and elected Chair of the Modern Humanities Research
 Association (Connon)).


 Staff Development

 Staff development is supported at University, College and UoA level. Personalised support
 mechanisms have helped us increase our grant capture and expand our community of research
 assistants, and have supported several staff promotions. Two ECRs from the previous census
 period have been promoted to Senior Lecturer and Associate Professor while three mid-career
 researchers gained Associate Professorships and Professorships. Three lecturers appointed
 in the current cycle have already been promoted to Senior Lecturer.

 As well as being mentored when applying for promotion, staff are supported through biannual
 Professional Development Reviews, an opportunity to discuss and develop research goals,
 monitor progress and consider any training or resource requirements.

 The UoA is committed to nurturing all ECR staff. ECRs have lighter teaching workloads, are
 assigned a mentor to support career development, and are integrated into activities and
 networks. Testimony to the success of the UoA’s mentoring strategy are internal promotions
 and increased grant capture, with two female ECRs awarded the Learned Society of Wales’
 Dillwyn Medal 2020 and a Florence Mockeridge Fellowship. Fixed-term postdoctoral
 researchers were also supported to gain fellowships (IMLR) and secure university positions (at
 Swansea (x2), Panteion, Ruhr-Bochum).

 Directors of Research meet individuals regularly to help plan research and impact activities
 and the UoA REF team supports the unit’s researchers as needed. Regular meetings of all
 UoA members, introduced after REF2014, have deepened collegiality and cross-
 disciplinary collaboration. In this space, individual and collaborative projects are presented
 and discussed, and ideas for events and funding bids explored. This forum has been key to
 increasing our research income, impact activities and PGR numbers. Feedback on draft
 outputs prior to submission has resulted in improvements to output quality.

 A total of 17 UoA staff have been awarded leave in this cycle (9f/8m) to initiate or complete
 projects, prepare grant applications, plan and develop impact. While enhancing the quality of
 our outputs and projects, sabbaticals were also instrumental to both our impact case studies,

6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 enabling core research and impact evidence collection. In addition to formal sabbaticals, UoA
 staff may maximise research productivity by requesting heavy/light teaching semesters.

 COAH provides researchers with a comprehensive package of support, designed to help them
 achieve their research and impact goals (section 3). All staff are entitled to a research day and
 have access to the University’s excellent libraries and archives. Researchers are also
 supported by the Research Hub for Arts, Humanities and Law, who help develop research
 ideas, network, write grant applications, manage them post-award and enhance impact
 (section 3).

 University-level support (see REF5a) is based on the 2008 Concordat to support researchers’
 career development (European HR Excellence in Research badge, renewed in 2017). Training
 courses are mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and include Research
 Integrity & Ethics (compulsory) and Diversity & Unconscious Bias Training (compulsory for staff
 involved in recruitment or REF management) as well as CPD on leadership, supervision skills,
 project management and other research-related areas. Staff have benefitted from University-
 wide schemes promoting interdisciplinarity and innovation through collegial events, funding
 sandpits, mentoring, and project seed funding.

 Postgraduate Research Students

 REF2014 highlighted support for PGRs as a strength of our environment and we continue to
 prioritise this. They are fully integrated into our research culture. We aim to recruit excellent
 candidates with promising research proposals, which are supervised expertly by at least two
 of our researchers.

 Since 2014, the number of PhDs awarded has increased by 81%; we have supervised 24.5
 full- and part-time PhDs to completion (REF4a). These include interdisciplinary projects, co-
 supervised with Media Studies, English Literature, Applied Linguistics (one of them via the
 ESRC Wales DTP), Computer Science and Psychology. MA schemes have proved to be a
 successful preparation for PhD research.

 We have benefitted from the prestigious AHRC Collaborative Centre for Doctoral Training
 Centre (CDT) in Celtic Studies in terms of scholarship awards (five) and research training,
 with another four PGRs based in Bangor and Edinburgh benefitting from interinstitutional co-
 supervision. The UoA also hosted the CDT’s annual training conference in 2018, co-organised
 by staff and students. Membership of the CDT provides our students with access to specialised
 training and supervision from a consortium of 12 universities and three partner institutions.

 We have secured studentships under our University’s strategic co-supervision agreements with
 Université Grenoble-Alpes and University of Central Oklahoma. In addition, we have been
 awarded postgraduate research funding from the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol, Libya Culture
 Office, Maney Publishing, Pantyfedwen Trust, Saudi Arabia Cultural Bureau.

 Supervisors provide mentoring and feedback to develop PGR’s research and publications
 profiles. Induction, supervision and progression meetings are monitored through the
 University’s online system (e:Vision). The College provides PGRs with dedicated workstations,
 a common room, video conferencing facilities, and up to £600 towards research and
 conference expenses.

 Students with disabilities or chronic health conditions are served by dedicated Disability
 Officers at College and University level. A College PGR representative speaks for students at
 a University-level staff-student consultative committee and at the Graduate Research
 Committee facilitated by the College Graduate Centre, led by a Director of Postgraduate
 Research (currently our Impact Deputy Lead). Students co-design their environment and are
 encouraged to contribute to the development of research practices in our UoA.

7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 From induction to graduation, PGRs benefit from a range of skills and career development
 workshops and training. The Graduate Centre organises training and social sessions which
 foster a cross-disciplinary PGR community and staff-student collegiality. The Coleg Cymraeg
 Cenedlaethol and the AHRC CDT in Celtic Studies offer additional specialised training courses,
 residential workshops and annual conferences.

 ALAW’s half-day seminars with external speakers provide opportunities for PGRs (and ECRs)
 to network with policy makers and leading researchers. STING seminars have welcomed
 leading EU officials to discuss professional translation practice in their organisations. Grŵp
 Sgwennu Creadigol students enjoy sharing their work with a Swansea-based Book Club.

 We also support PGR professional development by offering specific training which
 complements University provision as per the Vitae Research Development Framework. PGRs
 gain teaching experience via schemes such as Yr Iaith ar Daith (the Coleg Cymraeg
 Cenedlaethol's national outreach campaign), Routes into Languages Cymru or the Student
 Mentoring Project. PGRs are supported and encouraged to plan and deliver research
 centre/group activities. OWRI's events provided many opportunities, with PGRs undertaking
 administrative support, marketing, translation and interpreting. Student-led programmes
 include STING, Grŵp Sgwennu Creadigol, Arabic Research Group, some CEPSAM events,
 the Annual Symposium in Welsh Studies and the Annual Arts and Humanities PGR
 Conference.

 Additionally, the College Employability Office organises additional skills training and a range
 of internships, including placements in industry. Internally, the Swansea Paid Internship
 Network (SPIN) and Week-of-Work schemes allow students at all levels, including PGRs, to
 work alongside Swansea researchers. A SPIN placement hosted by CCGC enabled a PGR to
 assist the Centre's MHRA Research Associate in creating a section of the University's
 Centenary Exhibition at the National Waterfront Museum devoted to the Centre's longstanding
 Visiting Writers' Programme.

 Student destinations provide evidence that our training equips students for excellence. Notable
 PGR successes include students who:
     developed a CAT tool of major commercial interest which is now integral to the world-
       leading Computer-Assisted Translation tool Trados Studio, where our graduate now
       works as a principal research engineer;
     won prestigious awards: National Eisteddfod poetry Chair (2016); Inter-Collegiate
       Eisteddfod poetry Chair (2019), Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol’s Meredydd Evans
       Memorial Award for Outreach and Gwyn Thomas Memorial Award for Best Essay;
     had work commissioned by Theatr Genedlaethol Cymru
     earned eminent fellowships: Leverhulme Early Career at Edinburgh University; IMLR’s
       OWRI Fellowship in Languages and Communities;
     secured academic positions (at Aberystwyth, Bretagne Occidentale, Bristol, Landau,
       Lodz, Swansea).

 The Richard Burton Centre facilitates the student-led Grŵp Sgwennu Creadigol, with affiliated
 poet-researchers in Welsh engaging regularly with the media and high-profile events. Three
 members were commissioned as BBC’s Bardd y Mis [Poet of the Month], and two won
 Literature Wales’ Poetry Book of the Year Award (2016, 2019). During lockdown, the group
 organised an online poetry slam as part of the Tafwyl Festival, the first of its kind, and new
 video-poems commissioned by the National Eisteddfod, accessible on YouTube.

 Support for PGRs during the COVID-19 pandemic has been a priority. Extensions were granted
 and networks maintained through online coffee mornings and symposia, including our annual
 PGR conference. The library implemented a click-and-collect system, scanned materials upon
 request, and lent laptops to PGRs who needed equipment.

8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Equality and Diversity

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity is intrinsic to the UoA, which is gender balanced (9f/10m). 13
 staff belong to ethnic-national minority groups in UK terms (10 Welsh, 3 BAME); 23% report a
 disability. Nine speak Welsh as their first language; other first languages are Arabic (one),
 French (one), Polish (one), Spanish (three); only four have first-language English. The UoA
 REF Team is gender-balanced (3f/3m) and representative of different career stages (lecturer,
 associate professor, professor). Its selection procedures followed the University’s Code of
 Practice, which emphasises transparency, consistency and accountability, with staff members
 encouraged to read and amend draft documents. In addition, all members of the UoA team
 with responsibility for decisions on the selection of outputs and impact case studies for this
 submission undertook mandatory equality training, including specialised courses on equality
 and diversity and unconscious bias. The submission comprises the one best-quality output
 from each Category A submitted staff member with the balance made up of the best-quality
 outputs from the available pool of eligible outputs that includes outputs of former eligible
 colleagues.

 In line with Swansea University’s commitment to equality of opportunity as recognised in its
 institutional Silver Athena SWAN Charter award, our UoA supports female staff to take pre-
 professorial and professorial responsibilities. Six staff have taken part in the all-Wales Women
 in Universities Mentoring Scheme and one in the Aurora Leadership Programme. UoA
 members are involved in the University’s Mary Williams Group, established in 2013 to support
 women in senior roles – Mary Williams was the first woman in the UK to be appointed Chair of
 French (at Swansea in 1921).

 UoA staff benefit from the University's LGBT+ Staff Network, which holds social events and
 training, and offers confidential support and advice to all staff, not just those identifying as
 LGBT+. These and other practices sustain the University's place in the top 50 of
 Stonewall's Workplace Equality Index and its membership of Stonewall’s Diversity Champions
 programme.

 In line with legislation and best practice, the use of Welsh is promoted across the UoA, by
 facilitation (e.g. providing interpreting at staff meetings) and by ensuring that teaching,
 mentoring or publishing in Welsh receive appropriate recognition and funding. Several
 researchers utilised HEFCW’s funds designed to support publications in Welsh or in Welsh
 Studies at Swansea. Our strategic Welsh-medium appointments in ML during the previous
 cycle have earned the Department a joint flagship standing (shared with Bangor), which has
 reinforced the status of Welsh in attracting funding and PGRs.

 Swansea University’s Strategic Equality Plan (REF5a) aims to improve diversity by making
 available job-shares, flexible working hours and other reasonable adjustments for part-time
 staff. These working arrangements see timetabling and administrative duties adjusted to
 support colleagues with caring responsibilities or specific circumstances (e.g. phased return
 after maternity leave). Staff take advantage of the University’s onsite nursery and childcare
 voucher system.

 During COVID-19, wellbeing surveys helped the University quickly understand the concerns
 and requirements of its staff, and our departmental heads supported our researchers on an
 individual basis. Most members of staff were required to work from home, with researchers
 provided with the necessary equipment. The Research Hub continued to support staff on-line.
 Those needing access to offices for research purposes adhered to strict University procedures.
 Staff supported each other via Zoom meetings. Research webinars such as the Henry Lewis
 Memorial Lecture (2020) proved very popular, as did our online conference on the effects of
 Covid-19 on Welsh (March 2021).


9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Generating research income has helped us achieve our research goals. Our strategy has been
 informed by the research priorities of the AHRC, ESRC, the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol,
 Welsh and UK Government, and the European Research Council. Successful grants have
 helped us produce a range of scholarly outputs and high-impact projects, developing language
 tools for translators and the public, policies for government and language planners, resources
 for schools, museums and libraries, support for refugees and community groups. All
 researchers are expected to regularly bid for external income and this is discussed in each
 PDR meeting. The grant capture of research centres is discussed regularly in the College
 Research Committee.

 In 2015 the University established the Research Hub for Arts, Humanities and Law
 comprising a Hub Manager, Research Development Officer, Research Support Advisor, Bid
 Writer, and Impact and Engagement Officer. The Hub supports researchers to achieve their
 research income targets and assists them in developing and implementing impact activities.
 The Hub runs regular research information and training sessions for staff, supporting them as
 they apply for funds appropriate to their experience, and delivers briefing events for specific
 funding opportunities. A one-to-one 'Blue Sky' mentoring programme has supplemented this
 support with further personalised advice to staff, from individuals' research strategies to specific
 applications. COAH also runs an AHRC advisory board, which includes several members of
 the AHRC peer review college, who help colleagues develop research proposals for the AHRC.
 Successful applicants regularly share their experiences at departmental, research centre and
 UoA meetings.

 As a result of these initiatives, growth in research income has been a significant success
 for the UoA in the period (REF4b), a genuine step-change since REF2014. We have secured
 £866,874 in grants (with research spend exceeding £826,000). Sources of funding include
 Research Councils, charities and government. Key awards include:

        CorCenCC (ESRC/AHRC, £526,218)
        European Travellers to Wales (AHRC, £94,115.94 awarded to Swansea, £42,417
         spent)
        Llawlyfr Meistroli’r Gymraeg and Yr Esboniadur (Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol £42,895
         & £40,000)
        COMBI (EU: EACEA/Erasmus+, £41,348)
        Cross-Language Dynamics (AHRC-OWRI, £95,431)
        Günter Grass Göttinger Ausgabe (MHRA, £42,619)
        Qur’anic Text Linguistics Research Group (SOAS, £20,000)
        Hywel Dafi Critical Edition (British Academy, £14,613)
        Version Variation Visualisation and Settler Colonialism in Patagonia (British
         Academy/Leverhulme, (£9,984 & £8,444)
        Comparative Welsh-Catalan theatre studies (Cronfa Goffa Saunders Lewis, £7,000).


 We also secured a further £1,519,257 from non-HESA-recorded sources, including:
   1. Welsh for Adults (Welsh Government, £839,000)
   2. Tŷ’r Gwrhyd Welsh Centre (Welsh Government, £300,000)
   3. TILT: Training in Languages and Translation (European Social Fund, £280,443)
   4. US-UK Fulbright Commission Fellowship ($35,000)
   5. Digital Memories in Patagonia (EPSRC/CHERISH-DE, £11,904)
   6. National Teaching Fellowship Award (Higher Education Academy, £10,000).




10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Conference grant successes allowed us to network with colleagues around the world,
 strengthening existing partnerships and establishing new ones. Highlights include a SOAS-
 funded Qur’anic Text Linguistics Research Group Symposium (2021, forthcoming special issue
 of Journal of Qur’anic Studies) and our AHRC/OWRI and IMLR-funded CALT training
 workshops (2019) and conference (postponed, 2021). AHRC funding enabled the UoA to hold
 the CLARSACH conference for PGRs attached to the Celtic Studies CDT, providing an
 opportunity to compare the contexts of the Celtic languages across the UK.

 The increase and diversification of grant capture has been aided by the College’s Research
 Support Fund (up to £1,500pa), which supports staff to present at events or to host exploratory
 meetings preparing collaborative projects. The competitive Swansea University Research
 Grant Enabler scheme (SURGE) pump-primes the development of strategic applications such
 as CorCenCC.

 Funding for the dissemination of our research is also offered by the College’s Research
 Environment Fund (up to £1,500 pa per cluster), to organise (sometimes externally match-
 funded) seminars, visiting speakers, workshops and PG training events. Much of this funding
 is channelled through centres and groups.

 Sharing our research and seeing how it impacts communities and government policies drives
 our research. The University has invested in helping researchers plan, monitor and measure
 impact and the UoA benefits from designated research support staff at department, College
 and University level. The College’s Research Impact Fund awards grants to seed or build
 sustainable partnerships with non-academic organisations and groups. This support has
 significantly aided both our Impact Case Studies.

 STING’s Next Generation Human Translation Tools and CEPSAM’s Digital Memories and
 Trajectories in Southern Patagonia were awarded competitive funding by Swansea
 University’s EPSRC-funded CHERISH Digital Economy Centre, which has a focus on using
 digital innovation to generate positive societal impacts.

 The University also offers competitive mobility awards. UoA members have benefitted from
 competitive Strategic Seedcorn Funds to support partnerships with Texas and Grenoble.
 Following a visit by a delegation from Houston University, the UoA formed a partnership with
 Houston’s Arte Público Press and its Recovering the US-Hispanic Literary Heritage Project
 which led to a US-UK Fulbright Fellowship and comparative transatlantic work in
 biculturalism.

 UoA staff have worked closely with colleagues in Translation at Grenoble in the context of the
 European Commission’s European Master’s in Translation Network. Swansea hosted a joint
 two-day translation research planning seminar in 2016, which was followed up by site visits to
 Grenoble and resulted in collaborative PG teaching initiatives and the creation of a jointly
 funded co-tutelle PhD Studentship in Machine Translation. Staff have taken advantage of
 schemes such as ERASMUS+ and Santander Universities to develop networks,
 collaborations or undertake archival research in Europe and beyond.


 Infrastructure and facilities

 The College’s Cultural Institute played a prominent role in facilitating research dissemination
 and engagement in the current cycle. Since 2015 it has been one of a handful of UK hubs of
 the AHRC’s Being Human Festival of the Humanities, and the only one in Wales. This involves
 hosting scores of public research-driven events at multiple venues in Swansea and across
 Wales, and our UoA has been involved every year. The Cultural Institute delivers a range of
 other public events on and off campus, competitions (including the internationally renowned
 Dylan Thomas Prize) and arts scholarships, and was a valuable partner in our OWRI-funded

11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Multilingual Poetry events series in the community. The Cultural Institute’s partnership with the
 Hay Festival has also created opportunities for our researchers to present their work at a high-
 profile cultural event.

 Many of our Welsh-medium outreach events are organised and facilitated by Academi Hywel
 Teifi, which promotes the use of the Welsh language in all aspects of the University's life and
 throughout the region. The Academi helps disseminate our Welsh-medium research and creative
 outputs across Wales, including annually at the Tafwyl cultural festival in Cardiff. It plays a prominent
 role at the National Eisteddfod, one of the largest cultural festivals in Europe, with Swansea
 University the official sponsor of Y Babell Lên [The Literary Pavilion] (2019-2021). This
 televised platform allows the UoA’s staff and research students to publicise their work and
 engage with potential beneficiaries. In 2020, several members contributed to online events,
 delivering lectures and creative performances commissioned by Tafwyl and the National
 Eisteddfod during the COVID-19 pandemic.

 Our staff are regularly invited to contribute to various BBC and S4C programmes, as well as
 periodicals such as Golwg, Barn, Barddas, O’r Pedwar Gwynt, Planet and the New Welsh
 Review. This link between our research and the media press is aided by the University’s press
 office. Public engagement in English is further bolstered by the University’s partnership with
 The Conversation, where we have published articles that have received over 78.500 reads and
 been republished 73 times.

 The University's £32-million investment in the Great Hall (Bay Campus) and a further £2.8
 million in the creation of a dynamic and inclusive exhibition and public space at Taliesin Create
 (Singleton Campus) has facilitated the dissemination of our research and public engagement.
 We have used these and other flexible spaces to host public lectures, creative readings of
 poetry and plays, conferences and school visits, such as those held by one of our case studies,
 ‘(Re)Discovering Europeans’ Visions of Wales’. Student-led workshops and our ‘Lingo Lounge’
 – a weekly informal lunchtime meeting for our community of staff, PGRs and UGs – are also
 held in this versatile space.

 We use the Taliesin Theatre for high-profile public events. Highlights include a screening and
 Q&A with film-maker Andreas Dresen and 150 local school pupils; an evening of performances,
 readings and discussion celebrating the 150 th anniversary of the Welsh landing in Patagonia;
 and the launching of a series of public lectures in partnership with Drama Abertawe.

 As well as making the University an open and inviting place for community engagement, we
 take our research off campus. One such example is the Tŷ’r Gwrhyd Welsh Centre run by
 Academi Hywel Teifi in Pontardawe in partnership with Neath Port Talbot Council. Tŷ’r Gwrhyd
 was created in response to the research findings of our impact case study, 'Reversing
 Language Shift in Wales', which highlighted the link between adult language acquisition and
 community centres.

 In addition to investing in physical spaces to disseminate research, the University has invested
 in specialist equipment and resources. This includes continued investment in the Richard
 Burton Archive, which comprises collections of local, national and international significance.
 We co-supervised a COAH-funded PhD on Raymond Williams and European Thought (under
 consideration for publication by Verso) based on the Raymond Williams Archive, and recently
 catalogued the papers of the Nietzsche translator R.J. Hollingdale with the assistance of a PhD
 student on a College-funded placement. The archive recently added the clipping libraries
 assembled by BBC Wales and S4C to its collection, which will help us develop our expertise in
 this field.

 Another significant University investment is a state-of-the-art interpreting suite (£62,718), which
 has enabled us to work with community interpreters and offer training to professional


12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interpreters in partnership with Cymdeithas Cyfieithwyr Cymru, the association of Welsh
 translators and interpreters. Together with the dedicated translation lab with a range of
 commercial CAT software installed, they are instrumental for our CALT research, workshops
 and conferences.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research networks, partnerships and beneficiaries

 During the census period we have diversified our networks in the UK, Europe and worldwide,
 creating new collaborations and securing funding for major research projects with significant
 impacts for research users and beneficiaries. The selected highlights below illustrate how we
 work with government, the third sector and international researchers to develop high-impact
 research for a range of beneficiaries, including those accessing our open access resources.

 Major international collaborations include trailblazing digital language technology research by
 Rothwell and Cheesman on CALT, with key collaborators in Computer Science at Swansea
 and the Universities of Central Lancashire, East Anglia, Dublin City and Amsterdam.

 In addition to researchers at Swansea, Cardiff, Bangor and Lancaster Universities, the
 CorCenCC project involved an international team of researchers, consultants and advisors
 representing community, industry and academic stakeholders from the UK, Canada, Japan and
 USA. Project advisors included academics from Cambridge and Newcastle Universities and
 other institutions, including Welsh Government’s Welsh language unit, WJEC, Geiriadur
 Prifysgol Cymru (Dictionary of the Welsh language) and the National Library of Wales.

 The European Travellers to Wales project worked with Bangor University and the Centre for
 Advanced Welsh and Celtic Studies (CAWCS), the Welsh Government’s SEREN network,
 with materials produced in collaboration with the National Library of Wales and published on
 Hwb (Welsh Government’s e-platform for schools). Partnerships with Swansea Museum,
 Ceredigion Museum and Bangor’s Storiel gallery were instrumental for dissemination.

 Lublin’s EPSRC/CHERISH-DE-funded Digital Memories and Trajectories in Southern
 Patagonia collaboration has included three indigenous communities and Argentina’s National
 Scientific and Technical Research Council; the Buenos Aires, Patagonia Austral and
 Tierra del Fuego universities; the Education Council and the Ministry of Social
 Development of the Province of Santa Cruz. The project also involves Berlin’s Ibero-
 American Institute; the British Library; the La Plata Museum (Argentina); and the
 Magallanes, Maggiorino Borgatello and Martín Gusinde museums (Chile).

 El-Awa co-convenes a SOAS-funded network of scholars in Qur’anic linguistics based in
 Europe, the USA and the Middle East. Research partners include the Royal United Services
 Institute, educational non-profit 'Combating Jihadist Terrorism and Extremism', Swansea’s
 Islamic Studies Academy and London's CEI Crawley Academy.

 The UoA is also part of a network of 100+ PhDs, researchers, and practitioners, from 12
 European countries, Canada, Hong Kong, Thailand and Nigeria, and including contributors and
 practitioners from the Emerging Translators Network and the European Commission’s 18-
 nation, 83-institution European Masters in Translation Network (EMT).

 Through the EU-funded COMBI project, Swansea collaborated with five international
 partners from multilingual regions in the EU, led by the Fryske Academy in the Netherlands
 and an international advisory board.

 The OWRI project’s Cross-Language Dynamics consortium, in partnership with Manchester,
 London and Durham Universities, fostered close working relationships with cultural and


13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 educational organisations, from local (Volcano community theatre, various community
 groups) to global (PEN International). Building on longstanding links with refugee networks,
 we researched informal interpreting in group therapy (published in the international journal
 Torture), and partnered with PEN to invite ten high-profile cross-language writer/performers
 from the UK and Europe, and Wales-based cross-language writers, for a three-month festival
 of multilingual and translational performances with highly diverse audiences.

 We have further developed our ties with Welsh Government via key advisory positions. Morris
 is Chair of the government's Welsh for Adults Scrutiny Committee; Parry and Brooks serve on
 the government’s Welsh Language Partnership Council; Hallam was appointed by government
 as trustee on the board of the Arts Council of Wales; Higham has advised Welsh Government
 on language policy for asylum seekers and in the health care sector; Preece contributes to the
 Wales in Germany 2021 Stakeholder Steering Group, an initiative to raise the post-Brexit profile
 of Wales. In response to Welsh Government’s concerns during the pandemic ‘about the effects
 of large numbers of second homes ... on some of our communities’, Brooks undertook research
 to produce Second Homes: Developing new policies in Wales.

 We ensure future generations benefit from our research activities by partnering with
 organisations such as Routes into Languages Cymru, the Student Mentoring Project, the
 Welsh Joint Education Committee and the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol and by working
 directly with schools, supporting their ethical citizenship agenda. CCGC illustrates the benefits
 of strong partnerships in its public engagement programme, delivering events with visiting
 writers and filmmakers, partnering with Think German Wales, Literature Wales, the Dylan
 Thomas Birthplace, Cinema&Co and Waterfront Museum, and with funding from Literature
 Wales, the German Embassy and Romanian Cultural Institute, and the IMLR.

 Contributions to research base

 Our researchers provide subject leadership via senior roles on national and international
 professional organisations, subject associations and advisory boards.

 We act as Chair for: Modern Humanities Research Association (Connon); Association for the
 Study of Welsh Language and Literature (Hallam); the Welsh Government's Welsh for Adults
 Scrutiny Committee (Morris); the European Masters in Translation’s Tools and Technologies
 Working Group (Rothwell); HEFCW’s Welsh-medium Modern Languages Panel (Jones); and
 as Vice-Chair (Research) of the University Council of Modern Languages (Preece).

 Researchers also act as Treasurers for British Association of Applied Linguistics (Morris), and
 Association of Translation and Interpreting Programmes in the UK and Ireland (Fernandez-
 Parra).

 We noted above our close ties with the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol, on whose subject panels
 we serve. We are also members of the AHRC Modern Languages Advisory Group (Preece),
 the Advisory Council for Institute for Modern Languages Research (Preece) and the Modern
 Languages Research Association (Connon). We support the Standing Conference of Directors
 of Centres of Latin American Studies (Davies) and as committee members to the Society for
 Latin American Studies (Lublin) and the Formulaic Language Research Network (Fernandez-
 Parra). Rogers is co-founder and Honorary Vice-president of the Société Internationale
 Marguerite Duras.

 Our diverse contributions also include board membership of the Association for Medical
 Humanities (Williams), the British Association for Film, Television and Screen Studies Special
 Interest Group (Rydzewska), and the WISERD (Wales Institute of Social and Economic
 Research) Language, Culture and Identity Group (Morris).




14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Other contributions to key academic organisations supporting our disciplines include
 membership of the AHRC Peer Review College (Preece, Rothwell), the Coleg Cymraeg’s
 Academic Board (Parry), and the REF panel for Modern Languages (Hallam). Our work as
 Chair of Wales PEN Cymru (Cheesman) and as board member of Arts Council of Wales
 (Hallam) seeks to support writers and artists beyond academia.

 Editorial positions and special contributions

 Swansea is home to the international refereed journal Romance Studies, edited by Davies
 and supported by four other colleagues (Jones, Rodgers, Lopez-Terra, Connon). This is a
 major and long-standing contribution to our discipline. Rodgers is also co-editor of the Bulletin
 of the Société Internationale Marguerite Duras; Connon is general editor of Modern Language
 Review and on the advisory board of The Literary Encyclopedia. Lake is co-editor of Dwned.
 Rhys continues to chair the editorial board of Barn and is project manager for Yr Esboniadur,
 an encyclopaedia of Welsh-language literary terms funded by the Coleg Cymraeg
 Cenedlaethol; Brooks was appointed as the project’s first editor. James, the first female
 Archdruid of the National Eisteddfod Gorsedd, continues to serve the institution as its Cofiadur,
 or chief administrator.

 Our contribution via key editorial positions developed in 2021, following Preece’s
 appointment as editor of The Journal of European Studies. This appointment builds upon his
 work as editor for the Leeds-Swansea Series in Contemporary German Literature. Other
 editorial positions include serving the boards of: Angermion (Cheesman); Barn (Hallam, Parry,
 Rhys); Gwerddon (Higham, Parry); Journal of Romanian Studies (Haines); Journal of Qur’anic
 Studies, Journal of Linguistics and Literature Studies, Journal for Islamic and Arabic Studies
 (El-Alwa); L’Érudit franco-espagnol (Davies); Modern Language Review (Connon, Williams).

 Special editorial issues include a Latin America issue of Settler Colonial Studies (Lublin), two
 issues of German Life and Letters (Haines) and co-editing Ysgrifau Beirniadol XXXVII (Hallam).
 Researchers have also judged the Dryden Translation Prize, awarded by the British
 Comparative Literature Association (Davies, Williams), and the prestigious Chair and Crown
 competitions in the National Eisteddfod (James, Llwyd).

 Along with 22 books presented to REF2021, the seminal datasets of CorCenCC and articles
 published in prestigious journals or as funded project reports, the UoA has also contributed to
 several reference works, including:

           The Cambridge Guide to the Worlds of Shakespeare (Cheesman)
           The Cambridge History of Welsh Literature (Hallam, Rhys)
           Das Hans Fallada Handbuch (Preece)
           Dictionnaire Marguerite Duras (Rodgers)
           dramatologia.com (Lopez-Terra)
           The Encyclopaedia of the Qur’an, Blackwell’s Companion to the Qur’an, and The
            Handbook of Qur’anic Studies, DeGruyter’s Handbook of Qur’anic Hermeneutics,
            Oxford Bibliograpies in Islamic Studies, Yale Dictionary of the Qur’an (El-Awa)
           Yr Esboniadur [online encyclopaedia of literary terms] (Brooks, Rhys)
           Literary Encyclopedia (Connon)
           Routledge Companion to World Cinema (Rydzewska)
           Routledge Research Companion to Travel Writing (Jones).

 During the census period we delivered 197 presentations in 29 countries, including 89
 keynotes and invited lectures. Highlights (invited presentations unless noted) include:

        Cheesman: British Council Mexico City BBELT Conference; Max Planck Institute for
         Legal History; Moscow University of the Humanities; Shakespeare Institute
         International Shakespeare Conference; University of Wisconsin-Madison

15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Hallam: British Academy Chatterton Lecture on Poetry; Centre for Advanced Welsh and
         Celtic Studies, Aberystwyth; Mahindra Humanities Centre, Harvard University;
         Recovering the US-Hispanic Literary Heritage Conference, University of Houston
        Higham: European Parliament, Strasbourg; Svenska Kulturfonden/Swedish Cultural
         Foundation, Finland; universities of Auckland and Galway
        Llwyd: First World War commemorative poem, co-commissioned by Literature Wales
         and Welsh Government and read at the Senedd
        Lopez-Terra: Lund University; Paris Ecole Normale Superièure; Uruguay’s National
         University
        Lublin: Friedrich-Schiller-Universität Jena; Salamanca University’s Iberoamerican
         Institute; Universidad Nacional de la Patagonia; Università di Milano
        Morris: Japanese Association of Language Teachers, NYU School of Professional
         Studies, Tokyo Center
        Parry: Barn (current affairs magazine) annual lecture, National Eisteddfod
        Preece: universities of Munich, Notre Dame, Aix-Marseille and Vienna’s
         Kunstuniversität Linz
        Rothwell: universities of Naples and Toulouse; keynotes at European Translation
         Summer School (Rome) and Czech Translators’ Association (Prague).

 We host four prominent memorial lectures: the annual Roy Knight Lecture in Romance
 Studies, the annual televised Hywel Teifi Lecture at the National Eisteddfod, the annual
 Richard Burton Lecture, the biennial Henry Lewis Memorial Lecture, promoting public
 debate on culture and sociolinguistics. Since 2019, a public lecture is sponsored by Drama
 Abertawe; the first was delivered by Sams to mark the society’s centenary.

 CCGC public events included a lecture by novelist Lawrence Norfolk as part of an international
 conference on Günter Grass, and events with Nobel laureate Herta Müller, our former writer-
 in-residence: a reading at the British Library and a translators’ workshop at UCL, accompanying
 an international conference at the IMLR. The Centre will host the 2021 conference of the
 Association of German Studies in GB and Ireland.


 Academic refereeing, external examining and recognition

 During the census period, we peer-reviewed articles for 51 national and international journals,
 and book manuscripts for Cambridge University Press, Oxford World Classics, Routledge, Brill,
 Peter Lang, Palgrave-Macmillan, John Benjamins, Camden House, Indiana University Press
 and University of Wales Press.

 We refereed grant applications for ESRC, British Academy, MHRA, German Academic
 Exchange Service (DAAD), Voltaire Foundation, Swiss National Science Foundation, Austrian
 Academy of Sciences, Croatian Science Foundation (HRZZ), Alzheimer’s Society and the
 AHRC through the Peer Review College.

 We examined 28 PhDs and one DLitt in the UK and abroad, including the universities of
 Western Australia and Brazil's Santa Catarina.

 Recognition of our contribution has led to fellowships from Learned Society of Wales (Parry,
 Preece), UK-US Fulbright Commission (Hallam), and senior fellowships from Higher Education
 Academy (Fernandez-Parra, Rothwell). Notable prizes include the Learned Society of Wales’s
 Dillwyn Prize for ECRs (Higham, 2019), the CAWCS Hywel Dda Prize (Parry, 2020), Wales
 Book of the Year for Poetry (Llwyd, 2019) and Creative Non-fiction (Llwyd, 2020). Llwyd’s
 exceptional contribution to Welsh culture was recognised by a Welsh Book Council special
 award (2018).



16
