Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

The Institution: University of Edinburgh

Unit of Assessment: 32 (Art, History of Art, Design)

 SECTION 1: Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact strategy

 1. Overview

 Art, Design and History of Art brings together a vibrant and internationally-engaged group of
 81FTE researchers (a 91% increase on REF2014) from 3 of the 5 schools within Edinburgh
 College of Art (ECA) and across the practice, history and theory of art and design. What has
 been exceptional about our progress in this REF cycle has been the expansion of our art school
 structure into a dynamic hub of creative innovation proactively invested in how art and design can
 impact the world. This transformation has challenged the borderlines between practice, theory
 and history and made interdisciplinarity integral to our conception of research excellence.
 Practice researchers, humanities scholars and social scientists work alongside each other to
 promote a culture of thinking across disciplines, push the boundaries of creative practice and
 pioneer innovative modes of engagement and impact beyond the academy. Developing our track-
 record of high-profile relationships with industry, museums and government, we are working to
 ensure the place of the University of Edinburgh as a global leader for culture, innovation and
 technology.

 We have made major advancements in funding, outputs and infrastructure. Our exceptional
 funding success has attracted £13m in award value from external funding sources, a sixfold
 increase since REF2014. We have made 29 new appointments, almost trebled the number of
 PhD completions to over 80 in this cycle and invested £25m in our estates. Two major initiatives,
 The Institute of Design Informatics and the Creative Informatics Research and Development
 programme, have been awarded a total of £11.4m. Together with 4 Horizon 2020 grants, 32
 grants from 3 UK Research Councils (AHRC, EPSRC, ESRC) and 13 Leverhulme grants, our
 surge of income has boosted the quality and diversification of our research. This includes the
 publication of 22 monographs in leading international presses, presentation of practice research
 at prominent international venues such as Venice Biennale, Centre Pompidou, Tate, the V&A and
 MoMA and curation of over 15 high-profile exhibitions at venues including the Metropolitan
 Museum of Art, Musee D’Orsay, The Getty, Royal Academy of Arts, National Gallery London,
 The British Museum and the Guggenheim Bilbao. Strategic relationships with major partners
 including Google, Microsoft, Oxfam, Tesco and the NHS and engagement with over 630
 companies have produced global and local economic, cultural and social benefits. Our in-house
 Talbot Rice Gallery has presented 26 exhibitions in this cycle and is a hub of cross-institutional
 research and impact.

 An exciting development in our research environment has been our investment in data-driven
 innovation (DDI). ECA takes a leading role in the University’s strategic ambition to position
 Edinburgh as the data capital of Europe. In 2018 the University won the £661m Edinburgh and
 South-East Scotland City Region Deal (£237m from UK and Scottish Governments), the largest
 ever UK grant awarded to a university. The grant has accelerated the development of our
 expertise in creative tech, data sciences, AI and digital technologies and the adoption of our
 research by industry. We have made extraordinarily rapid progress in these areas in this cycle,
 with the inauguration of the Centre of Design Informatics, which expanded into an Institute in
 2019 and the establishment of Creative Informatics, which has strengthened the national network
 around DDI and generated economic impact. Our position as a world-class institution for DDI will
 be advanced by the University’s Edinburgh Futures Institute (EFI), a £140m initiative opening in




                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2022, geared towards global challenges including data fluency and its role in industry and
 citizenship.




                                    Main Building ECA; Talbot Rice Gallery


 2. Research and Impact Strategy

 Our strategic aims in this REF cycle have been to:
 1. Drive agendas that address major local and global challenges and lead on the intellectual
    advancement of our disciplines.
 2. Build capacity in areas of established research excellence and strategically invest in emerging
    fields, promoting a culture of ‘research without boundaries’.
 3. Develop and diversify the reach and impact of our research across sectors – cultural,
    industrial, financial, health, the digital economy and the third sector.

 To deliver this strategy, we have evolved the structure of our environment. In addition to 29 new
 appointments we have expanded our support provision, including the growth of our ECA
 Research and Knowledge Exchange and Impact (RKEI) office from 2.8FTE to 6.9FTE, and
 invested in civic engagement, entrepreneurship and enterprise through collaborative networks
 with business, industry and commercial partners. New estates support cross-disciplinary research
 at scale (for example, the Bayes Centre - the University’s innovation hub for Data Science and
 Artificial Intelligence). This more energised infrastructure has enabled us to embed a holistic
 culture of research excellence that has encouraged research in all staff. We have also seen an
 increase in interdisciplinary research: interdisciplinary outputs comprise approximately 20% of our
 submission; approximately 50% of our grant awards are interdisciplinary.

 3. Research Themes

 Our research is focused around a set of 8 key problematics: the challenges of the digital age and
 pioneering DDI, new approaches to research through design, expanding contemporary art,
 promoting environmental sustainability, globalising art history, reinventing curatorial cultures, new
 historiographies and theories of art and design, and embracing equalities and diversity.

 i. The Challenges of the Digital Age and Pioneering Data-driven-innovation

 The Institute of Design Informatics has developed unique expertise in the UK in galvanising
 design methods with data science. Their research helps demystify complex technologies such as
 blockchain whilst expanding creative possibilities of technological innovation and driving ethically-
 informed approaches to data. It has catalysed new modes of public and industry engagement
 through collaborative projects across health, culture, mobility, the third sector and finance -


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 including Oxfam, Google, Microsoft, RBS, BBC, Tesco and the NHS (see submitted case study).
 Directed by Speed, their research has contributed to national strategies for DDI. Research output
 has grown around 5 UKRI initiatives sustained by 26 awards totalling £17.8m (£10m to ECA)
 (AHRC, EPSRC, ESRC, EU Council, PETRAS National Centre of Excellence for IoT Systems
 Cybersecurity, SFC) involving participation in 3 EPSRC-funded national Centres with 5 major
 outcomes:
  The £7.8m AHRC Creative Clusters/Creative Informatics award that has spearheaded uptake
   of DDI technologies by the creative industries across Edinburgh and regions.
  Leadership of design methods within the £20m 7-year Advanced Care Research Centre
   (ACRC), a multi-disciplinary research programme and the first of its kind in the UK, innovating
   data-driven approaches to care.
  Increased literacy and adoption of blockchain technologies across transport, banking and
   NGO/charities, leading to involvement in the UK’s leading advanced digital technology
   innovation centre - the £3.8m 5-year EPSRC Centre for the Decentralized Digital Economy
   (DECaDE), with University of Surrey and Digital Catapult.
  Contribution to the three large UKRI projects (£25.3m total) that address privacy, trust, ethics
   and security across the digital economy: PETRAS1 (2016-2019) Cyber Security of the Internet
   of Things; PETRAS2 (2019-2023) Research Centre for Securing Digital Technologies at the
   Periphery (PETRAS); and the developing EPRSC REPHRAIN: Research centre on Privacy,
   Harm Reduction and Adversarial Influence online, led by the University of Bristol and working
   across 12 Universities.
  Educational initiatives towards DDI as a recognised discipline, including a €4.2m Innovative
   Training Network of seven European universities, training the next generation of researchers
   to support the digital transformation of society.

 Research through data-driven and digital technologies is embedded across the Unit. The
 Edinburgh Centre for Data, Culture and Society brings together researchers to investigate the
 role of technology within the humanities. Since its inauguration in 2019, it has hosted 20 seminars
 (572 attendees), 35 training workshops (897 attendees), distributed 10 bursaries totalling £8.6k to
 8 projects and attracted 12 PhD affiliates. Projects include Murray-Rust’s research into human-
 algorithm interactions (£543k EPSRC, EU council, UK charities) which has been presented at
 Tate Modern and the Center for Art and Media, Karlsruhe and Hood’s interdisciplinary work on
 relations between technology and the body (£19k Creative Scotland; £34k Wellcome Trust).

 ii. New Approaches to Research through Design

 We have sustained a strong research culture in glass, textiles, jewellery, fashion and costume,
 illustration, animation, graphic design and interior design. Research through fashion design
 (Ferguson, Burkinshaw) has resulted in major exhibitions such as Beauty by Design (Scottish
 National Portrait Gallery 2014-2015; £20k Royal Society Edinburgh), the first exhibition of
 contemporary fashion design held at the gallery, receiving 146k visitors. Baker’s research into
 performance costume as a means of bridging historical texts with contemporary concerns was
 presented within the prestigious 50th anniversary programme of the Lyceum, the largest
 commissioning theatre in Scotland. Cross’s investment of historic techniques of enamelling for
 contemporary jewellery practice has been presented at international exhibitions and fairs.
 Maclennan has pioneered a new field of ‘forensic jewellery’, working with the Scottish police force
 and forensive teams nationally and internationally to explore how jewellery can help solve crimes.
 Gray’s research through design archaeology has been commissioned and collected by National
 institutions incuding the National Museum of Scotland.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 An emerging area of strength is digital craft. The RAFT research group conjoins innovations in
 digital technologies with established modes of making. An example is Nissen’s Crypto-knitting
 which investigated similarities between knitting patterns and blockchain technology to develop a
 feminist cryptocurrency. Researchers have also forged major international networks. A
 partnership with Craft Scotland, MacDonald’s The Naked Craft Network (£27k AHRC, £32k
 Creative Scotland) brought together researchers in Scotland and Canada in transnational
 dialogue on contemporary craft. Its events attracted over 30k visitors across seven international
 venues and was nominated for a Canadian Museum Association award.




               Burkinshaw, Beauty By Design; Baker, The Iliad; Gray, Recreated Pictish Drinking Horn Mount


 iii. Expanding Contemporary Art Practice

 Our researchers challenge conventions of installation, post-conceptual practice and institutional
 critique. Examples include Froment’s multi-media examinations of little-known cultural histories
 (Sydney Biennale, 2014; Heidelberger Kunstverein, Heidelberg, 2015; Centre Pompidou, Paris,
 2017; The New Museum, New York, 2016); Lauschman’s explorations of the history of
 technology (BBC/LUX; Tate St Ives; Scottish National Galleries; CCA Glasgow), Cruz’s
 navigations of identity at the intersections of conceptual art and autobiography (MUSAC, Leon,
 Spain) and Owen’s rethinking of classical sculpture through erasure and deconstruction
 (Edinburgh International Festival, 2016; National Gallery of Victoria Triennial, Melbourne, 2017-
 18; Cochi Biennale, India, 2016).

 A rapidly growing area of specialism is sound art. Hecker’s research into sound technology and
 installation has resulted in over 5 high profile international exhibitions (Hamburger Bahnhof,
 Berlin, 2016; Museum für Moderne Kunst, Frankfurt, 2016-2017; Kunsthalle Wien, Austria, 2017;
 MoMA PS1, 2015). Collins and O Keeffe drive research on sound and gender through
 international networks and participatory community activities. O Keeffe was founder and is editor-
 in-chief of Intereference. A Journal of Audio Cultures and was commissioned for the 2016 Irish
 Biennale.

 Researchers have expanded the scope of public art. For her work at the interface between
 socialist histories, performance, participation and public sculpture, Walker received a major
 commission for the Baltic Centre for Contemporary Art’s Great Exhibition of the North, 2018
 (£40k Arts Council, Baltic Centre and Museums Northumberland Bait), seen by over 3m people.
 Hunter’s commissions include the design of a war memorial in London’s Southwark in 2018
 (£216k, Southwark Borough Council, Lendlease). Fusco’s Master Rock (ArtAngel commission,
 2015) brought contemporary art to mass audiences through its Radio 4 broadcast, achieving
 record listening figures of nearly 2m.




                                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                       Hecker, FAVN; Froment, Fröbel Fröbeled; Lauschmann, War of the Worlds


 iv. Promoting Environmental Sustainability

 Growing numbers of researchers are involved in international R&D programmes in environmental
 sustainability and biodesign. Hemment has spearheaded ground-breaking projects on citizen
 science with the Met Office and the United Nations and on human-centred design in the flagship
 Internet of Things and Smart Cities programmes in Asia (Singapore Smart nation), UK
 (CityVerve) and the EU (IoT Large Scale Pilots; CREATE-IoT). The citizen-based climate
 research project GROW Observatory (€5.1m Horizon 2020, Dundee 2016-2018, Edinburgh 2019)
 resulted in the first continental-scale Citizen’s Observatory to monitor soil density. It improved
 Earth observation capabilities across 12 countries and led to more sustainable practices. GROW
 was named by the European Commission as 1 of 5 projects representing state of the art in Earth
 observation in Europe (2019) and received numerous awards (Section 4). Project Ukko, a
 collaboration with Barcelona Supercomputing Centre and the UK Met Office, introduced human-
 centred service and data design to the European Commission’s flagship, large scale (€13m)
 Climate Services project, EUPORIAS.

 The Critical Change Research Group brings together researchers in design, anthropology,
 human geography and sociology to develop design solutions for social change. It hosted a
 workshop with the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) Innovation Service in 2019, which was aligned
 with Verhoeven and Martin’s ESRC-funded research (£299k award, £38k to ECA) on sustainable
 energy in refugee camps.

 Matos’ research on marine ecology has invested digital technology to promote ocean literacy,
 safeguard vernacular knowledge and link communities (€230k Foundation for Science and
 Technology Portugal). Her project was chosen as a case-study by Biodiversity for Food and
 Nutrition, an initiative funded by the Global Environment Facility, the world's largest public funder
 of international environmental projects. Roe and collaborators in the Universities of Dundee and
 Cambridge have fostered partnerships with farmers and the brewing industry to create
 sustainable food sources for intensively reared pigs (£15k Leverhulme).




                                           Hemment, GROW Observatory




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 v. Globalizing Art History

 Our world-class strength in the history of art builds on established track-record of excellence in
 premodern, world art history, and modern and contemporary art history. We have the second
 largest group of Asian art specialists in any History of Art department in the UK and have driven
 our commitment to the globalisation of the discipline through publications and high-profile
 exhibitions. O’Neal’s Word Embodied: The Japanese Jewelled Pagoda Mandalas in Japanese
 Buddhist Art (Harvard University Press, 2018) won the prestigious CAA Millard Meiss publication
 fund award, 2018. Sharma’s research on Mughal visual culture, world religions and the global
 migration of iconography contributed to 2 major exhibitions (Empires of Faith, British Museum,
 2017; Imagining the divine, Ashmolean, Oxford, 2017). Anderson has won prestigious prizes for
 her work on Islamic arts and architecture during the age of the caliphs, including the 2015
 Eleanor Tufts Book Award for her book The Islamic villa in early medieval Iberia: architecture and
 court culture in Umayyad Córdoba, which was published in 2013. We also promote the
 globalization of our discipline through cross-University research groups. CHITrA: Connecting
 Histories of Indian and Transregional Art brings together academics from ECA (Sharma, Hollis)
 and colleagues in Social and Political Science to explore South Asian art history and visual
 culture. The Edinburgh Buddhist studies network (co-directed by O’Neal) is shaping the trajectory
 of Buddhist studies in Scotland through events and training initiatives.

 Other notable outputs in history of art include: Burke’s monograph, The Italian Renaissance Nude
 (Yale, 2018) and her high-profile, 2-venue exhibition, The Renaissance Nude (Getty, Los
 Angeles; Royal Academy, London, 2018-2019, 230k visitors), Bolgia’s monograph on Franciscan
 architecture (Reclaiming the Roman Capitol (Routledge, 2017)), Allmer’s monographs, supported
 by a Philip Leverhulme prize, on Lee Miller (Manchester University Press, 2016) and René
 Magritte (Reaktion, 2019), Murray’s monograph on the political use of familial imagery in the
 Stuart dynasty (Imaging Stuart Family Politics, Routledge, 2016) and Trodd’s monograph
 rethinking 20th century art through the lens of technological and media transformations (The Art of
 Mechanical Reproduction. Technology and Aesthetics from Duchamp to the Digital (Chicago
 University Press, 2014)), also supported by a Philip Leverhulme prize.

 vi. Reinventing Curatorial Cultures

 We are expanding and innovating approaches to curation. Thomson and Fowle have shaped
 public and scholarly understanding of Impressionism through prestigious multi-venue exhibitions.
 Thomson’s Monet & Architecture (National Gallery, London, 2018) and Seurat’s Circus Slideshow
 (The Metropolitan, New York, 2017) attracted over 330k visitors. Fowle curated 2 exhibitions that
 received over 518k visitors in total: American Impressionism: A New Vision 1880-1900, 2016/17
 (£600k Terra) (National Galleries Scotland; Thyssen Bornemisza Museum, Madrid; Musée des
 Impressionnismes, Giverny); Inspiring Impressionism: Daubigny, Monet, Van Gogh, 2016/17 (Taft
 Museum, Cincinnati; National Galleries of Scotland; Van Gogh Museum, Amsterdam).

 Fowle and Pulliam were part of the curatorial team of Celts: Art and Identity (The British Museum
 and National Museum Scotland, 2014/15), the first British exhibition on the Celts for 40 years.
 The exhibition received 239k visitors and over 15k catalogue sales and the accompanying book
 was nominated for Current Archaeology Book of the Year 2017. Allmer curated 2 exhibitions at
 The Photographer’s Gallery, London: Taking Shots: The Photography of William Burroughs, 2018
 (82k visitors) and 4 Saints in 3 Acts. A Snapshot of the American Avant-Garde, 2017
 (65k visitors).

 The Talbot Rice Gallery foregrounds exhibitions resonating with the national conversation and
 acts as a platform for cross-University research and knowledge exchange. It has attracted over



                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 143k visitors to its Edinburgh gallery in this cycle, with its touring shows receiving vast audiences
 (Tremble Tremble was seen by audiences exceeding 850k).

 Researchers have also participated in important collaborative cultural heritage projects. Smith’s
 exhibition project, Dead Images (£45k from a Horizon 2020 award, as part of a Europe-wide
 consortium comprising 11 universities) brought together artists, ethnographers and heritage
 stakeholders from 9 EU countries and has shaped museum policy towards contentious heritage
 through the reexamination of their presentation of their collections.




       Fowle, Inspiring Impressionism, Scottish National Gallery; Thomson, Monet & Architecture, National Gallery, London


 vii. New Theories and Historiographies of Art, Design and Culture

 Our research has resulted in monographs with leading presses. Vellodi’s Tintoretto’s Difference.
 Deleuze, Diagrammatics and Art History (Bloomsbury, 2018) analyses the implications of Gilles
 Deleuze’s philosophy for the practice of art history and early modern visual art. Williams’ The
 Architecture of Art History: A Historiography (Bloomsbury, 2018) surveys the relations between
 architecture and art history. Patrizio’s The Ecological Eye. Assembling an Ecocritical Art History
 (Manchester University Press, 2018) presents new interdisciplinary approaches to the
 Anthropocene. Breward’s The Suit: Form, Function and Style (Reaktion, 2016) outlines a history
 of this iconic garment. Martin’s Shipping Container (Bloomsbury, 2016) contributes new
 knowledge of the design history of the shipping industry. Dobson’s Norman McLaren
 (Bloomsbury, 2018) is the first study of the life and work of this Scottish-Canadian animator and
 filmmaker. Mulholland’s Re-imagining the Art School. Paragogy and Artistic Learning (Palgrave,
 2019) outlines a new theory of the art school.

 Vellodi’s book series Refractions: At the Borders of Art History and Philosophy, Edinburgh
 University Press, is constructing new zones of inquiry at the interstices of disciplinary practice.
 Dimitrakaki and Lloyd’s research on political theory, feminism and contemporary art, which
 resulted in a book project, ECONOMY! (2014), sits within a broader spectrum of research
 engaged with gender equality and other EDI issues.

 viii. Embracing Equality and Diversity

 We have built significant research expertise in the field of EDI, including on class inequality
 (O’Brien, Brook), race inequality (Brook), gender studies and feminism (Anderson, Seller,
 Jackson, Dimitrakaki), gender bias in sound and music (O Keeffe, Collins), design and disability
 (Gieben-Gamal, Matos, Richardson), diversity in fashion (Burkinshaw, Breward), inclusive
 Internet of things (Kettley, Pschetz), equity for nonhuman species (Roe) and artists with
 disabilities (Inglis). This growing expertise is shaping our EDI policies and practices (Section 2).




                                                                                                                        Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Burkinshaw founded the ECA Diversity Network in partnership with All Walks Beyond the
 Catwalk, the first UK charity for body image and diversity activism. Recognised as an
 international collaborative and public engagement initiative involving over 10 major stakeholders
 (including The British Fashion Council, RNIB Scotland) it has shaped attitudes towards body
 image and pioneered the introduction of diversity studies within fashion education across HEIs
 nationally and internationally. The Diversity Network Fashion Forum (£20k, Royal Society
 Edinburgh) at the National Museum of Scotland (2018) brought together global industry and the
 public to debate diversity and body image. A related exhibition, co-curated by Burkinshaw and
 Burke, was Beauty By Design. Fashioning the Renaissance (National Gallery Scotland 2019),
 which posed questions about diversity and beauty across past and present and broadened
 accessibility to diverse audiences (the visually-impaired). Burke’s curatorial involvement in The
 Renaissance Nude (Royal Academy; Getty) introduced the gender politics of Renaissance visual
 culture to new audiences in the #MeToo era.

 4. Impact

 Maximising the potential of art and design to contribute to society, economy and culture is core to
 our long-term strategic vision for research. We have:
  Diversifed and expanded our partnerships and networks to drive cooperation, innovation and
   excellence, build resilience and proactively respond to societal challenges.
  Driven civic engagement and social transformation with an ever-broader demographic of
   publics, institutions and community groups.
  Developed industry engagement and contributed to the growth of new businesses.
  Shaped policy review and development.
  Invested research to develop pedagogy.

 We have cultivated relationships with organisations across a broad range of sectors: industry,
 government, museums, cultural associations, festivals, charity, business and community
 stakeholders. Our investment in infrastructure has enabled us to embed impact across research
 design and delivery. A newly created post of KEI Officer has facilitated the identification of impact
 opportunities, project realisation and attainment capture. Professional service support for large-
 scale research initiatives has secured 18 grants over £100k each. Impact development training
 and internal funding has led to sustained projects such as Burkinshaw’s The Diversity Network
 which received £11.5k over 5 years.

 The Talbot Rice Gallery plays an important role in our culture of impact and engagement. Its
 programme engages key national and international issues such as abortion rights, migration,
 sustainability, Brexit and legacies of colonialism (e.g. John Akomfrah/Vertigo Sea, 2018). The
 Gallery regularly conducts work with primary schools, charities and prisons.

 Highlights of our impact activity are captured in our 7 submitted case studies. These include
 economic, cultural and profile-raising impact for museums and the art market and shaping public
 perceptions of art and culture (curated exhibitions by Thomson, Fowle, Hecker, Burke and
 Giblin). Our investment of design thinking to explore the ethics and value of data and DLT
 technologies has shaped industry understanding and led to new business models (Speed,
 Luger). O’Brien and Brook’s work on social inequalities in the creative and cultural industries has
 had policy impact at government level (Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee 2018-
 present) and shaped Arts Council England’s 2020, 10-year strategy, Let’s Create. Hemment’s
 work linked citizens to science, data and policy at global scale to improve the quality of climate
 forecasting. See Section 4 for details of our public and community engagement. We have also


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 driven engagement with industry through consultancy (£827k total) and advisory roles (Section
 4).

 Design Informatics and Creative Informatics have had impact on industry and business through
 partnerships, consultancy and professional engagements that have strengthened our culture of
 innovation and entrepreneurialism, enabling commercialisation opportunities. Speed’s
 consultancy for Tesco Bank generated smart contracts that enabled fairer workload models.

 An award of £7.8m (AHRC, Scottish Funding Council, Edinburgh City Region deal) enabled the
 instigation of Creative Informatics as a 5-year programme to develop an ecosystem of data-
 driven creative industries and talent in Edinburgh and regions. A collaboration with CodeBase
 (the largest UK technology incubator), Edinburgh Napier University and Creative Edinburgh, it
 has driven culture change within organisations, led to data literacy upskilling and catalysed new
 business models. This has benefitted over 190 companies and entrepreneurs, enabled the
 investment of £1.7m for 11 companies and led to the creation of a further 6 new companies. The
 Creative Informatics programmes include 14 Challenge projects, Creative Bridge (148
 participants to date) and Resident Entrepreneur (that supports start-ups developing data-driven
 products and services). The latter has benefitted 36 entrepreneurs, including Superrational Ltd, a
 cloud-based digital rights management company that went on to secure £375k seed-funding
 enabling development of a DDI product called Delic. Creative Informatics works closely with
 Edinburgh Innovations, the University’s commercialisation service, to drive innovation and build
 partnerships, benefitting local businesses including the Edinburgh Festival fringe society and The
 List.

 Our commitment to the civic responsibility of research is demonstrated by our rapid engagement
 with the COVID-19 pandemic to catalyse new work on its effects on culture and society. Projects
 include social inequality in the arts (O’Brien £272k AHRC; £40k ACE; Brook £235k AHRC and
 £7k ESRC), digital performance and the future consumption of culture (Hood, internal funding
 £10k), the use of digital tools to mitigate viral spread (Pschetz, internal funding £73k), ethical data
 collection (Murray-Rust £55k EC, £498k EPSRC) and design innovation challenges in
 entertainment, culture, tourism and travel (Verhoeven, Martin, Speed, £217k Postcode Dream
 Trust, £384k EPSRC, £40k AHRC).

 Our research is publicised through media engagement. Researchers are frequently invited to
 appear on the BBC for their expertise on topics ranging from online identity and data usage to
 #MeToo (Radio 2, 3, 4; BBC World Service; BBC Scotland and TV and press coverage) and
 participate in international engagements (Bolgia: Ràdio Web MACBA); (Collins: Spanish National
 Radio). Our research has been reviewed/featured in top outlets (TLS, Wall Street Journal, The
 Times, Financial Times, Telegraph, London Review of Books, New York Times, The Guardian).

 5. Open Research

 We have proactively invested in our research expertise and infrastructure to create a culture of
 open access (OA) across all modalities, from traditional scholarly publication to practice outputs.

 i. Expertise

 We have research expertise on OA, data management, ethics and privacy. As chief-editor of the
 journal Art History, Warwick led an awareness-raising campaign on the transition to OA
 publishing which led to the securing of key measures from HEFCE. She subsequently acted as
 policy advisor and consultant on OA publishing and third-party image rights to the SFC, HEFCE,
 the British Academy and the Getty Foundation. A national touring programme built upon a unique
 5-year partnership with Tate and National Galleries of Scotland, the Artist Rooms research


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 partnership (Cox, Patrizio, Weikop) innovated models of OA through new modes of public
 engagement and digital research dissemination (Section 4). Luger’s research on data
 governance, consent, privacy and digital exclusion led to involvement in the £39k EPSRC funded
 INTUIT project about health data for HIV sufferers.

 ii. Infrastructure

 Ensuring visibility and OA is at the forefront of our strategy to develop and diversify the reach and
 impact of our research. Academic and support staff (2FTE) regulate procedures, mentor
 colleagues and liaise with the University’s Research Data Service. A Research Outputs
 Administrator maintains our research data repository and OA Compliance. Online platforms (e.g.
 Edinburgh Research Explorer) enable knowledge exchange, projecting a public facing and
 accessible platform for prospective PGR students.

 Embracing the challenges posed by OA to practice-led research - given their diversity of formats
 and media and unconventional dissemination platforms - we have driven the following initiatives:
    Developing repository systems that make publicly available a broad range of research
     outputs. The University research portal (PURE) supports diverse output formats and
     documents final products and output development.
    Developing a portfolio template for practice-led research, which is used for ongoing research
     articulation and documentation and is collated into an OA repository.
    Providing training for diverse research types. Further training is offered in OA Regulations,
     copyright and intellectual property.
    Designing our intranet and social media pages to showcase our research. Enhancing public
     engagement through ease of discoverability and visibility.

 These initiatives have enabled ECA to achieve 97% compliance with the REF OA policy.

 6. Research Ethics

 Our expertise in data ethics, ethics in human-computer interaction and AI (Luger, Murray-Rust,
 Speed, Nissen, Pschetz) informs the way we embed ethics considerations into our infrastructure.
 This research sits within the University’s broader commitment to data ethics as demonstrated by
 the establishment of the Centre for Technomoral Futures (£5m, Baillie Gifford – see REF5a).
 In this cycle we created a new post of Director of Ethics and established an ethics committee with
 responsibility for review of all activities and projects. We have instituted flexible online procedures
 for ethics checks, mandatory for all research applications, and developed ethics training
 programmes for staff and doctoral researchers. This aligns with requirements of external bodies
 such as the Universities UK Concordat for Research Integrity (2020) and UK Research Integrity
 Office's Code of Practice for Research (2009) and has enabled us to embed a culture of integrity,
 responsibility and awareness.

 7. Future Plans for Research and Impact

 We will build on our notable diversity of research excellence across the practice of art and design
 and the humanities, promoting established expertise and strategically investing in emerging
 fields. We aspire to drive the advancement of our disciplines and set a scholarly agenda that
 affirms the vital role of arts and design in society. We will continue to engage with a climate in
 which major global challenges including data and digital literacy, social inequality, cultural
 heritage, healthcare, the climate crisis and sustainable development demand creative and


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 rigorous responses. Our commitment to the sustainability of the arts, creative industries and the
 humanities includes cultivating adaptability to a digital economy through innovative approaches
 (e.g. EFI’s recent £50k award to Creative Edinburgh to develop a new digital skills programme.)

 We will continue to nurture future generations of researchers through new multidisciplinary PGR
 programmes and participation in international schemes such as UNA Europa, an alliance of 8
 European universities in which Edinburgh is the only UK university to participate.

 We will expand identified areas of excellence through recruitment and build our collaborative
 partnerships and industry networks to enhance engagement with health, finance and education.
 This will involve contribution to national strategies for DDI with potential for implementation
 across multiple sectors and in HEI-led training programmes (e.g. our involvement in the newly
 established EPSRC-funded Research Centre for Securing Digital Technologies at the Periphery
 (SDTaP), which aims to secure the UK’s lead in Internet of Things security).


 SECTION 2: People

 1. Staffing Strategy and Development

 Our staffing strategy has been steered by three aims:
    Optimising research excellence.
    Promoting a vital and inclusive research community.
    Sustaining a culture of equality and diversity.

 We have delivered this strategy through strategic appointments, training and support provision
 across career stages and research modalities, initiatives that engage communities beyond
 academia and embedding EDI principles in all aspects of our environment.

 i. Appointments

 We have made 29 appointments in this cycle. New posts have been created to recognise
 emerging areas of excellence (e.g. Professorship in Material and Design Innovation).

 We have also supported 8 Chancellor’s Fellows - prestigious 5-year tenure-track fellowships
 awarded for outstanding research. These include: O’Neal, recognised as a leading voice in
 Buddhist art history; Hemment, who has developed world-leading expertise on data visualisation
 and sustainability; Allmer, an acknowledged expert on Surrealism who has also undertaken major
 research leadership roles within the University; Luger, who is involved in 4 EPSRC grants
 (totalling £15k) supporting research in data ethics; O’Brien, who has spearheaded research into
 social inequalities in the arts; Weikop, an expert in 20th century German art history; Fusco, who
 has driven the field of Artwriting, and Hecker, who innovates within sound art. All 8 of the
 Chancellors fellows appointed in this cycle have progressed to open-ended contracts.

 ii. Staff Development

 Staff training and support schemes include the ECA Research Successes Forum, which shares
 cross-institutional expertise on topics ranging from funding opportunities to academic publishing.
 The ECA Stepping-Up research programme is a coaching scheme for UK research councils
 funding. Subject-area support include the History of Art research workshops have led to 10 REF
 eligible outputs in leading publications. E&D sessions are included in all staff training and all staff


                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 in management and leadership positions undertake compulsory unconscious bias training.
 Researchers benefit from bespoke broadcasting training from media professionals through the
 University’s Media Talent programme. An example was Fowle’s media engagement for her
 exhibitions at the National Gallery of Scotland. Staff also benefit from University-level wellbeing
 and research development provision (see REF5a).

 64 sabbaticals have been awarded in this cycle, a fourfold increase since 2014. Outcomes
 include Hopkin’s editorship of the journal Art in Translation which has pioneered the translation of
 seminal art historical texts, and her 2-volume anthology of European Writing on American post-
 war art (Terra, £124k) which is making key sources available for the first time.

 We have awarded 27 promotions in the REF cycle, 19 to women. This includes 9 promotions to
 professorship, 7 to women.

 iii. Internal Funding
    ECA provides £800 per annum for all researchers. Additional competitive funding from a
     discretionary research fund (up to £2.5k per person and £4k for research group activities)
     supports a broad range of outputs and activities.
    In addition to funding the physical infrastructure and all staff salaries, ECA has invested
     approximately £267k towards Talbot Rice Gallery exhibitions, with an additional £20k per
     annum towards its general budget
    The CAHSS Challenge Investment Fund provides seed funding for interdisciplinary research
     and ECA has won £127k total in this cycle. An example is Matos’ ‘Designing the
     environmental humanities’ (£5k), a series of public lectures on topics ranging from animal-
     computer interaction to the changing role of water in the anthropocene.
    Edinburgh Futures Institute have funded research on DDI, including toolkits for data education
     (Nissen, Murray-Rust £5k) and the future of smart cities through biological research (Pschetz,
     Nissen £3.5k).
    15 projects have benefitted from £74k total funding from the CAHSS Knowledge Exchange
     and Impact grant, enabling researchers to bring their work to new audiences. These include
     Speed’s project on data-driven cycling in Manchester.

 2. Early Career Researchers

 Our ECR community benefits from the support structures described above. Tailored provision
 includes peer mentoring, research training workshops and PhD supervision training. Vellodi’s
 monographs and series editorship have been supported by the ECA discretionary research fund
 (see above) and the University’s Moray Endowment Fund (£10k). 3 ECRs have transitioned to
 long-term contacts. An example is Murray, who has published 1 monograph and secured a Paul
 Mellon mid-career fellowship (£15k) for a second book.

 Staff engage in external ECR mentorship programmes. Patrizio’s role as Leverhulme ECR
 mentor supported 3 postdoctoral fellows into external lecturer posts. Dimitrakaki is a member of
 the €3m Horizon 2020 project, an ECR training programme for art historians and curators working
 on socially engaged art, independent art spaces in Europe and the sexual division of labour.

 Creative Informatics was awarded £87.5k from AHRC Research Skills for Postdoctoral research
 associates to develop training programmes on data science and software development, of which
 £25k funded ECR research, including on civic digitisation and feminist currency (Nissen).
 Through such initiatives, researchers are forging new modes of design expertise for the digital


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 economy. A £20k EPSRC Capital Grant enabled the purchase of specialist visualisation
 equipment including a LIDAR scanner (£10k) for research on data visualisations.

 3. Research Students

 Our strategy towards PGR provision is motivated by our commitment to empowering the next
 generation of researchers and the sustainability of our disciplines. Our current 129 PGRs, of
 which 101 are registered PhDs, are fully integrated into our research community which we view
 as a holistic environment of co-creation and intellectual exchange. Evidencing our global reach
 and diversity, 26% of current PGRs identify as BAME and 63% are non-UK nationals. We have
 had 80 completions in this cycle, a trebling of our figures from the last cycle.

 To build capacity in our priority areas, we support students in specialist programmes and within
 large collaborative projects (e.g. 38 PGRs in Design Informatics). In 2019, the Centre for Data,
 Culture and Society partnered with the University’s Institute for Advanced Studies in the
 Humanities (IASH) to offer funded Digital Scholarship Postdoctoral Fellowships. Aligned with our
 strategic drive towards an increasingly interdisciplinary research culture, 12% of PhDs are cross-
 supervised across departments. Co-supervision with external partners such as Tate and the Van
 Gogh Museum offers diverse approaches.

 i. PGR Funding

 External
 Of the current PhD cohort, 28% (29 students) are on externally funded scholarships. This
 includes 24 AHRC awards (Collaborative Doctoral Awards, Block grants, Doctoral training
 partnership, Design in Action) and awards from the Scottish Graduate School for Arts &
 Humanities (SGSAH), Carnegie, Humanities in the European Research Area (HERA), EPSRC
 and Microsoft. Success in securing specialist funding includes 3 scholarships for PhDs on ethics
 and AI totalling £330k from Microsoft, EPSRC and AHRC and the Khyentse Foundation PhD
 scholarship in Buddhist studies (100kUSD).

 We have proactively built our relations with SGSAH, leading to 20 awards in 2019/20. Students
 are encouraged to enrol on the national Discipline+ Catalysts training programmes in impact,
 knowledge exchance and interdisciplinarity, currently led by 2 colleagues from our Unit (Martin,
 Lloyd). Lloyd, an ECR, took over as Chair of Cultural and Museum Studies, Discipline+ Catalyst
 in 2019.

 Internal
 26% of our students have been supported by 51 scholarships and awards for interdisciplinary
 research, public engagement and entrepreneurship and contributions towards course funding.
 ECA also supports research expenses (up to £500 pa per student) for activities such as
 conference attendance and presentation. Further funding is offered by the Institute of Academic
 Development, which has contributed £45k to events such as mentoring workshops around future
 careers and specialist equipment purchases.

 ii. Training

 Training offered to research staff is open to our PGR community. Additionally, we offer targeted
 training including research methodology workshops and CPD on topics from the job market to
 peer review. We liaise with external organisations to support specialist training in areas such as
 textile conservation and 3D imaging in museum contexts.




                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 iii. PGRs and the Research Community

 Students take on leadership roles for public events (e.g. Association of Art Historian’s conference
 2019), assist in department-run academic journals (e.g. Art in Translation) and manage student-
 led journals (e.g. Airea: Arts & Interdisciplinary Research). Regular student-led events include
 annual PhD symposia and conferences. Students are routinely integrated in collaborative staff-
 led projects. For instance, the Artist Rooms Research project involved 3 funded PhD
 scholarships, ran over 30 public events with student presentations alongside international
 researchers and enabled PGRs to publish research on the Tate website.

 iv. Professionalisation and Alumni Success

 This has been fostered both by our internal training strategies and our strategic growth of
 networks with industry and creative arts organisations.

 One example of staff-led PGR participation was The Torrie Collection Project, 2014-17, directed
 by Warwick, in partnership with the Talbot Rice Gallery, the National Galleries of Scotland and
 the University’s Centre for Research Collections. It provided students with curatorial training,
 enabling research that contributed to the University Collections cataloguing and acquisitions
 development. The project culminated in an exhibition and publication edited by a PhD student.
 Students progressed to curatorial internship programmes at the National Galleries London and
 Washington, The Getty, Los Angeles, and the Guggenheim, New York.

 Since 2018 the Talbot Rice Gallery has run an annual student exhibition, Trading Zones, which is
 promoted to local, national and international networks. Supported by EFI funding (£42k) it
 showcases interdisciplinary practice from across ECA and provides students with experience of
 professional practice. The University Art Collection has supported PGR research through
 acquisition of artwork and the in-house Tent gallery showcases PGR practice-research.

 Doctoral graduates have achieved notable professional successes, securing academic posts and
 fellowships nationally and internationally, winning prizes for their research and publishing
 academic books with leading publishers including Palgrave, Routledge and Bloomsbury. PhD
 alumni Richard Ashrowan founded the Alchemy film festival and directed it between 2010-2018.
 Current PhD candidate Alberta Whittle has been selected as the Scottish representative for the
 59th Venice Biennale 2022, and won the Turner Prize Bursary (2020), the Frieze Artist Award
 (2020) and the Margaret Tait Award (2018/20).

 We retain talent by employing our graduates. In this cycle, 5 permanent lectureships were
 secured by former students.




                                     Trading Zones, Talbot Rice Gallery




                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Equalities, Diversity and Inclusion

 We have intensified our commitment to the principles of inclusivity, equality and diversity. Of the
 104 staff returned to the REF, 64 are women and 11 nationalities are represented. We are
 returning a near-even distribution of outputs across gender and career stages, in line with the
 principles of equity set out in the University of Edinburgh’s Code of Practice.

 Working closely with University committees (see REF 5a), newly-appointed EDI directors and
 committee lead internal policy. Two new working groups - Decolonising the Curriculum and
 Widening Patricipation - offer staff and students platforms for sharing experience and ideas on a
 range of EDI issues including harassment and bullying, mental health and support for our BAME
 community.

 We have invested our significant and growing research expertise in EDI to shape good practice.
 Our work around gender inequality has catalysed significant culture shifts and our research on
 exclusion in the arts has initiated new approaches to data collection, systems of visibility and
 auditing.

 i. Gender Equality

 Our success in addressing gender imbalances has been recognised through an Athena Swan
 Bronze Award (2017) which has galvanised further progress towards gender equality across our
 workplace. We are in the process of renewing our Bronze award with submission in 2021.

 We have addressed the historic under-representation of women in senior and leadership roles
 within our Unit, achieving female representation across senior management roles and
 committees. The 3 subject areas of Art, Design and History of Art have had female heads. All 5 of
 our posts in Research, KE and External Engagement are held by women. History of Art has met
 targets for gender-balanced professoriate and Senior Lecturer promotion figures, transitioning
 from 0 female professors in 2013/14 to 6 female professors in 2019/20. Design has achieved
 gender equality at the higher grades, progressing from 35% in 2014 to 50% now.

 Progress has also been made in the gender ratio of PGR students. From 2014 to 2019/20 we
 have seen a 40% increase in the number of female students.

 ECA lead an international collaborative campaign on Gender-Based Violence, with University of
 New South Wales, Sydney and Ambedkar University, Delhi.

 ii. Ethnicity and Race Equality

 Guided by the University’s Race Equality and Anti-Racist Action plan, ECA has invested in
 improving the representation of BAME staff and students and building support and visibility
 networks. We have invested our research expertise to boost the diversification and globalisation
 of our curriculum and participate in national and international debates. Brook leads on institutional
 awareness of race inequality. Her co-authored book (with O’Brien), Culture is bad for you,
 Inequality in the Cultural and Creative Industries (Manchester University Press, 2020) examines
 the intersections between race, class and gender within mechanisms of exclusion in cultural
 occupations. Burke and Vellodi were amongst 30 invited participants in Decolonising Art History,
 the most downloaded issue of the prestigious journal Art History ever produced (over 40k
 downloads in under a year). Weikop contributed to the 5th volume of the publication, The Image of
 the Black in Western Art (Harvard University Press, 2014) documenting the visual construction of
 blackness over the past 5000 years. The volume won an Honorable Mention for the PROSE
 award 2015 in the Art History and Criticism category.

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 iii. Flexible Working, LGBTQ+ and Disability

 We support a high proportion (44%) of part time staff, particularly in art and design. We were an
 early adopter of digital systems enabling advice and resources to be accessible to staff offsite.
 Our £800 research allowance was made available to all staff whether full or part time, rather than
 pro rata. A newly-introduced budget of £300 per individual assists colleagues with childcare,
 accessibility and other types of care cover costs. To promote flexible learning for PGR students,
 we have expanded our online distance learning portfolio, which supports students with caring or
 other responsibilities.

 We have launched initiatives to promote LGBTQ+ equality, including our Widening Participation
 working group. Our disabled staff network offers a welcoming forum for disabled staff and
 careers. We also provide a suite of online resources and accessible technology, carer support,
 counselling, transport and parking.

 EDI considerations, including physical accessibility, are embedded in our estates development
 planning. New signage offers improved assistance to those with mobility problems. We have
 provided better wheelchair access through installation of ramps. Baby-changing facilities and
 gender-neutral toilets have been introduced into all of our buildings.

 SECTION 3: Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 1. Income Portfolio

 We have secured £13m in external funds, with 91 awards. We have diversified our portfolio to
 reflect the scale and modalities of our research, attracting income from a spectrum of funders,
 from the UK Research Councils for major collaborative and challenge-led projects (ESRC,
 EPSRC, AHRC) to Leverhulme, Mellon and British Academy fellowships for individual research
 projects. £10.3m of our awarded funding comes from public sector agencies and government,
 charities, trusts, consultancy and corporate sponsors, both UK and abroad.

 10 EPSRC and 4 ESRC grants (£3.5m total) have enabled a surge in the volume and quality of
 research addressing major economic and social impacts, with links to science, technology and
 engineering. This includes research into DDI, sustainable energy resources and inequalities in
 the Creative industries. The largest single award (£881k) is for Speed’s project Ox-Chain, which
 is developing a secure circular economy model for Oxfam using DLT and has led to new methods
 to support the literacy and adoption of technology. O’Brien was awarded 2 ESRC Impact
 Accelerator Awards (£17.4k total) for his secondment to Parliament's Digital, Culture, Media and
 Sport Select Committee inquiry.

 Our income has been further boosted by our strategic targeting of new funders including the BBC
 and the Turing foundation. ESRC funding supports cross-university interdisciplinary projects (e.g.,
 Harkness’s £20k collaborative project with colleagues in Social Anthropology on the off-grid city).

 Income from consultancy through Edinburgh Innovations, the University’s wholly-owned
 subsidiary company, has totalled over £827k. This includes Design and Creative Informatics
 consultancy work (£299k) and MacDonald’s ongoing collaboration with Donghua University
 promoting executive education (£500k).

 We are active participants in 4 Horizon 2020 awards supporting work on international
 environmental sustainability (Hemment, €5.1m award, £65k to ECA), Blockchain in Government
 (Murray-Rust £55k), international research training networks (Dimitrakaki £243k award, £187k to
 ECA) and heritage (Smith, £45k).

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Arts Council Funding has supported the impact of our research on creative and cultural
 organisations (e.g. O’Brien’s involvement in developing training initiatives for the Jerwood
 foundation £40k). Our public engagement strategy was boosted through the Talbot Rice Gallery’s
 securing of £878k from Creative Scotland for their 2014-2020 programme. Income from the
 Heritage Lottery Fund has enabled heritage-orientated public engagement work (e.g.
 Richardson’s work on widening access to historic textile collections £10k).

 £6.8m AHRC funding has supported a breadth of collaborative and interdisciplinary projects from
 Creative Informatics R&D activities (£5.6m) to policy work in the creative and cultural industries
 (O’Brien, £271k) and editing modernist texts (Hyslop, £10k).

 Individual research has been supported through our continued track-record of securing
 prestigious Leverhulme Fellowships. 14 new awards have supported a range of research
 including Pulliam’s work on Ireland’s medieval crosses (£45k) and Hopkins’ work on orientalism in
 Spanish art (£36k). A Major Research fellowship (£144k) was awarded to Warwick for her work
 on Early Modern visual culture. Bolgia was Leverhulme Trust Research Fellow, undertaking
 research on the Trecento in Italy (£23k). Individual scholarly research has also been supported by
 the Paul Mellon Foundation (e.g. Richardson’s Senior Fellowship for her work on English
 Catholicism (£32k), the British Academy (3 grants totalling £327k), the Getty, Kress and Henry
 Moore Foundation.

 We have built on our relations with Scottish funders (Scottish Government, Carnegie, Creative
 Scotland, Royal Society of Edinburgh). Grants have supported Burkinshaw’s Diversity Network
 (£20k), collaborative research on inclusive digital services (Speed £23k) and exhibitions of
 contemporary art (Bennett £10k). International government funding includes grants from the
 Ministry of Taiwan for Yang’s research on Taiwanese culture (£103k total).

 Our upscaling of tailored support in practice research funding applications has contributed to
 sustained success with funders and commissioning programmes. Walker’s Worker’s Maypole
 received £40k funding (Arts Council, Baltic Centre, Museums Northumberland Bait). Hunter’s
 Southwark Memorial was enabled through a £216k award from Southwark Borough Council and
 Lend Lease. Hood’s Eidolon won a £29k Wellcome Trust Arts Award and £5k from Creative
 Scotland. Collins’ project Stolen Voices won £33.5k from national and regional funders including
 Arts Council England and the Live Art Development Agency. For Naked Craft, MacDonald won
 £32k from Creative Scotland and £45k AHRC. Owens received £31k for his commission for
 Edinburgh Art Festival 2017. Mojsiewicz was awarded a £10k Arts & Heritage commission from
 Arts Council England/ Museum Resilience fund for her project at Chetham's Library Manchester.
 Lauschmann won an Alt-W Production Award from New Media Scotland (£10k) for his
 commissioned work at the National Gallery of Scotland.

 2. Estates and Infrastructure

 In this cycle we have invested £25m (nearly 5 times the amount invested in the previous cycle) as
 part of an ambitious longer-term estates development programme. This aims to unite ECA on a
 single campus, creating a holistic environment for research excellence and innovation to flourish.

 A strategic element of this vision has been the £8.8m acquisition and refurbishment of the historic
 Fire Station Museum building and its conversion into multipurpose spaces, which has enabled us
 to diversify our public events programme and broaden the reach of our research. We have used
 this venue to host Edinburgh Art Festival events, exhibitions of staff research, book launches and
 discipline association events. One example was Inglis’ exhibition and events on outsider art,
 supported through an internal Knowledge Exchange and impact grant (£3.3k), which brought



                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 together artists and healthcare professionals from across the UK and Europe to discuss new
 initiatives on outsider art organisations (2018).




                              Fire Station Building; refurbished ECA Sculpture Court



 Other major capital projects include the refurbishing of our main ECA building (£24k) including
 renovation of our main lecture theatre and construction of new multipurpose flexible spaces (such
 as the 214m² West Court). These have enriched the vitality of our environment by enabling us to
 stage more ambitious event programming, for example the Annual Carnegie Lecture series
 (speakers have included James Elkins, Tacita Dean, Peter Galison and Sonia Boyce) and the
 Watson Gordon Lectures (speakers have included David Bomford and Robert Storr).

 Our research and impact activity in DDI has been enabled by some significant new estates
 developments: the Bayes Centre (£40m, City Region Deal), a 10,000m² innovation space for
 multidisciplinary research excellence in Data Science and AI; Inspace (£40k), a 315m² purpose-
 built engagement space for interactive experiences of data-driven design (events here have
 attracted audiences of 17, 622 in this cycle); the Design Informatics Pavilion, a pop-up space
 which showcases the work of Design Informatics staff and students and is used for annual
 exhibitions as part of Edinburgh Festivals.




                                  ECA West Court; Design Informatics Pavilion



 Investment in the Talbot Rice Gallery – including equipment purchase for audio-visual technology
 - has enabled us to expand our programming. In addition, recent major international exhibitions of
 artists such as Luc Tuymans, Lucy Skaer and Samson Young have generated exciting
 opportunities for knowledge exchange, intellectual debate and PGR-led research activities. Public


                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 engagement is further supported through other University exhibition and events spaces including
 St Cecilia’s Hall, the oldest concert hall in Scotland.

 We have also improved landscaping and the quality of outside space. We refurbished the main
 campus café to create a welcoming and wheelchair-accessible space for staff, students, visitors
 and the public.

 3. Resources and Facilities

 Research is supported by our 3 libraries: ECA library, the Art and Architecture library and the
 Main University Library. An important resource is the University’s Centre for Research
 Collections. This comprises the Special collections (archives and rare books) and the museum
 collections (the art collection, instruments collection and anatomy collection - one of the largest of
 its type in the UK with 12000 objects). These complement the unique cultural resources offered
 by the city of Edinburgh’s world-class museums, galleries and libraries.

 With over 8000 objects covering a timespan of 2000 years and collected over 400 years, our
 world-class art collection (accredited by the Scottish Government) is a significant repository. It
 has 12 sub-collections, including the Torrie Collection of 17th century Dutch and Flemish art, the
 Portrait collection, one of the largest in Scotland and the Modern and Contemporary Art
 Collection. In 2015 we established a Contemporary Art Research Collection (CARC) which is
 prioritising acquisition of digital and new media artwork and performance art (Section 4).

 In this cycle, we have grown the art collection by 200 works, increased the purchase fund from
 £7k to £50k and spent over £350k on the acquisition and commissioning of artworks. The
 collection has also been supported by external funding (£24.5k Artfund; £15k Outset Scotland).
 We created a new post of FT public art officer to support the commissioning and management of
 artworks and appointed 2 FTE staff, including a dedicated curator.

 The collections have contributed to a range of staff research, including Sharma’s Highlands to
 Hindustan, an exhibition of Indian art (2017), Yang’s REALITies Incubation – VR Exhibition of
 Tzu-Ning Wu, which brought together contemporary art, virtual reality and animation design
 (2018) and Richardson’s Touching Stitches, which re-created the University’s textile collection for
 the partially sighted (2018-2019). Smith used the University’s anatomy collection to stage
 exhibitions at Surgeons Hall Museum, Edinburgh and the Edinburgh International Science
 Festival (2014). The collections have also been used in 12 exhibitions at the Talbot Rice Gallery,
 including Luc Tuymans (2015), Lucy Skaer (2018) and Samson Young (2019).

 £414k has been invested in specialist research facilities. The Centre for Data, Culture and
 Society purchased specialist printing software and immersive technology equipment. Other new
 facilities include design informatics workshops, photography workshops, cinema space, film
 editing suite and renovations of our textiles facility and jewellery and silversmithing workshops.


 SECTION 4: Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 The breadth of our research has enabled extensive collaboration with a diverse portfolio of
 stakeholders at local, national and international levels, ensuring a growing contribution to the
 economy and society. Our research is embedded within Edinburgh’s rich cultural institutions and
 platforms, which we invest as a foundation for global innovation. The quality of our research
 drives the advancement of our disciplines and staff proactively engage with global priorities such
 as the UN Sustainable Development goals.



                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1. A Collaborative Research Environment

 Collaboration within UoE

 Our researchers collaborate with subject areas across the University. For instance, research in
 digital technology and DDI brings design researchers with researchers in informatics, engineering
 and the biological sciences. The Talbot Rice Gallery fosters cross-University research alliances
 and brings these to public visibility. The Extended Mind exhibition (2019) (AHRC £100k; £67k to
 ECA) involved researchers from neuroscience, philosophy and art and 12 leading international
 artists to explore the nature of cognition.

 Collaboration beyond UoE

 We have established research partnerships with institutions including the British Museum, Tate,
 V&A, National Gallery London, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Musée d'Orsay, MoMA and the
 Getty. We have memoranda of understanding with the National Galleries Scotland, National
 Museums Scotland and local organisations such as Edinburgh Sculpture Workshop and Little
 Sparta.

 Examples of activity include:
    Our Contemporary Art Research Collection (CARC) (run by Lloyd and Dimitrakaki) builds
     links with artists, curators and community groups and institutions beyond the University
     (including Collective gallery, Edinburgh, CAA Glasgow, National Galleries of Scotland,
     Scottish Contemporary Art Network, SCOT-PEP (Scottish Prostitutes Education Project)).
     The project has led to the acquisition of 17 artworks by 8 artists. In collaboration with Outset
     Scotland and Glasgow Women’s Library, CARC have developed new models of
     commissioning and license agreements which have been adopted by Glasgow Museums and
     the National Galleries of Scotland. CARC have presented 5 exhibitions of the works in their
     collection including at Edinburgh Art Festival and Edith Russ-Haus (Germany), with visitor
     figures of nearly 90k.
    Styling Shanghai (Yang, Breward, MacDonald) explored relations between contemporary
     fashion in China and the UK. Funded by the Chinese Ministry of Education (£60k), it resulted
     in participation at Shanghai Fashion week and 3 international exhibitions Spotlight Taiwan
     (£81k Taiwanese Ministry of Culture) enhanced cultural relationships between Taiwan and
     Scotland through innovative events, including the first ever festival of Taiwanese film in the
     UK (2013 - ongoing), leading to ongoing partnerships with academic and cultural institutions
     in China and Taiwan including the Universities of Shanghai and Peking.
    Experiential AI (Hemment, Luger, Hood, Murray-Rust, Pschetz) exemplifies our investment in
     digital media to build new creative collectives. It has established an artist residency in
     association with Ars Electronica, a worldwide platform for art, technology and society and
     initiated a public programme of events and exhibitions in collaboration with Edinburgh
     International Festival as host platform. It was instrumental in the development of a Special
     Interest Group on AI and Arts at the Alan Turing Institute. Its members are involved in
     international initiatives around data science and the digital humanities – for example, Luger’s
     collaboration with the IEEE Global initiative on Ethics of Autonomous and Intelligent Systems.
    The Edinburgh Environmental Humanities Network has catalysed partnerships across
     Australia, Sweden, Germany and the UK. An example of its activity is Roe’s collaboration with
     animal behaviourists and veterinary scientists at the Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies
     and Scotland’s Rural College on a £15k Leverhulme-funded project on animal ethics,
     resulting in a group exhibition at the Design Museum, Ghent (2019), and partnerships with
     institutions including the Wellcome Trust and the Roslin Institute.


                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    The Creative Informatics research and development program and Design Informatics outputs
     and activities (see Section 1).
    We collaborate beyond the University through residency programmes. The Advanced Visual
     Studies/Judd-Hume Prize is a residency awarded to distinguished international scholars
     working at the intersection of the visual arts and philosophy. In this cycle we have welcomed
     Gottfried Boehm (2017) and Martha Buskirk (2020). Talbot Rice Residents, established in
     2018, awards 5 artist residencies annually as part of a UK-wide initiative funded by the
     Freelands Foundation (£375k). The John Florent Stone residency is a collaboration between
     ECA and Edinburgh Printmakers that enables artists to access our world-class print facilities
     (Claire Barclay was resident artist in 2018/19).

 2. Engagement with Research Users

 Examples of how we gear our research to address specific user groups include:
    Hemment’s GROW Observatory has impacted 24 local communities across 12 EU countries,
     empowering them to collect, share and interpret data and take collective action on climate
     change. The project has had significant impact: for instance, banana farmers in the Canary
     Islands have reduced their water-usage by 30%.
    Through sustained and innovative co-design, Design Informatics has embedded design
     thinking within industries not previously engaged with design to build data literacy and data-
     driven solutions (Section 1).
    Innovative collaborative CI Lab and CI studio events have enabled Creative Informatics to
     cultivate relationships with key audiences and potential beneficiaries. A workshop run for
     LavaTown - a workspace hosting start-ups in lighting, video and touch design – enabled
     public participation and led to collaborations including exhibitions and events at the
     Fruitmarket Gallery, the Edinburgh Fringe 2019 and a £20k R&D project to package
     augmented cinema experiences in partnership with New Media Scotland. Engagement with
     research users extends to sponsorship of key industry events such as Creative Edinburgh
     Awards 2019 and Edinburgh International Magazine Festival 2019.

 3. Engagement with Diverse Communities and Publics

 Our commitment to bringing our research to a wide range of beneficiaries includes the following
 initiatives:
    Working with 5 regional arts organisations across 7 different host venues, Walker (in
     collaboration with Bromwich, University of Newcastle) has implemented new models of
     distributing contemporary art to areas with low levels of cultural provision. Their Art Lending
     Library, (£103k, Arts Council England and other funders) which loans high quality
     contemporary art to the general public, has broadened accessibility and engagement with
     contemporary art, invigorated regional art scenes, led to new volunteer training programmes
     and shaped institutional approaches to audience engagement.
    A highlight of our community engagement work is our research in art and design education.
     We have imparted new skills and worked to increase access to careers in creative fields. In
     collaboration with the National Galleries of Scotland, Mowatt established projects (funded
     £20k from the Paul Hamlyn Foundation/Creative Scotland) with 6 local secondary schools to
     enhance art curricula, engaging over 560 children. The award-winning Daydream Believers
     project (Patterson) (supported by Creative Scotland and Education Scotland and SFC
     industry partners including Skyscanner and Lego) provided free online resources for teachers
     to embed creative practice and industry skills into secondary school curriculum and has been
     downloaded in 40 countries worldwide. Work by Mulholland has contributed to the shaping of

                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     curriculum on artistic research in over 12 national and international art schools including
     Leeds College of Art, Minneapolis College of Art and Design and Malmö Art Academy, with
     research presented at international venues including leading Scandinavian art schools and
     the Kochi-Murzis Biennale, India 2017.
    Research oriented towards marginalised communities include Inglis’ longstanding
     participatory-driven work with Outsider artist groups across the Nordic countries, in
     collaboration with the Nordic Outsider Art network, the Kettuki Assocation and the Inuti
     foundation. Kettley’s Internet of Soft Things (2014-2016) built R&D with Mind and other
     mental health providers in the East Midlands, practicing psychotherapists and designers to
     explore how smart objects and environments can be reconceptualised for marginalised
     communities. The Talbot Rice Gallery runs programmes that embed its exhibitions and events
     in the community. Many of its exhibitions have involved workshops for primary schools, the
     visually impaired, the homeless and prisoners.

 4. Wider Contributions to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 In addition to our 7 impact case studies outlined in Section 1, highlights include:
    Artist Rooms has broadened accessibility to modern and contemporary art. A collaboration
     with Universities of Newcastle and Glasgow and the arts education organisation ENGAGE
     (£41k AHRC), it built on the expertise of our researchers in modern and contemporary art
     (Weikop, Cox, Patrizio, Trodd, Williams) and has been embedded into museum programming.
    Our impact on economy and society is further enhanced by prestigious advisory and
     consultancy roles. Speed, Luger and Pschetz have supplied expert advice on data policy
     matters in the UK (Cabinet Office, DCMS, House of Lords) and internationally (World
     Economic Forum). Speed’s advisory roles include the Scottish government (authoring a white
     paper for the Data and Marketing Assocation on the value of data in the digital economy
     (2019)) and Tesco Bank. His advisory board roles include: EPSRC Digital Economy Theme,
     Institute of Digital Art & Technology (i-DAT), ASCUS Lab and the National Digital Ethics
     expert group for Scotland. Luger sits on the advisory board for INTUIT (Interaction Design for
     Trusted Sharing of Personal Health Data to Live Well with HIV). Speed and Pschetz were
     commissioned by EU Policy Lab to develop policy around blockchain and build the first DDI-
     driven energy-efficient prototype. Luger has acted as expert to Stanford Law School,
     Facebook, Microsoft, EPSRC, UKRI, IEEE, and been named on patent applications
     (Microsoft). Brook has acted as consultant on cultural participation geodemographics to Arts
     Council England and Edinburgh Culture and Community Mapping Project (a collaboration
     between the University and City of Edinburgh). O’Brien is Co-Investigator on the AHRC
     Creative Industries Policy and Evidence Centre (PEC) and was an AHRC/ESRC placement
     fellow at the UK Government's Department for Culture, Media and Sport Committee,
     authoring the ‘Measuring the Value of Culture’ report (2010). Hemment is consultant for the
     Singapore Government’s Infocomm Development Agency. Kettley has acted as consultant for
     Vinnova (Sweden’s governmental research, development and innovation fundinging agency)
     and the EU WearSustain, a 2 year European Commission Horizon 2020 research and
     innovation initiative. Maclennan is on the steering group of the Visible Policing Research
     Group (2019-20).

 5. Impact on Edinburgh and Scottish Culture and Economy
    Creative Informatics has significantly impacted Edinburgh and South East Scotland’s regional
     economy. It has engaged Edinburgh’s world-class creative industries and tech sector to
     create new products, services and businesses, providing large-scale funding and
     development opportunities for regional and National institutions including New Media
     Scotland, Edinburgh International Festival, Historic Environment Scotland and the National


                                                                                          Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     Library of Scotland. By raising £1.7m for regional creative industries, it has led to the
     formation of 6 new companies, upskilled data literacy, driven entrepreneurship and built
     resilience. 148 people have completed its Creative Bridge programme, a pre-accelerator
     programme for creatives to learn best practice in building digital product businesses.
    Through our partnerships with Edinburgh festivals we embed our research in the city and
     Scottish institutions. This includes contribution to the Edinburgh Art Festival, the Book
     Festival, the Science festival and Edinburgh Digital Entertainment Festival. We have
     collaborated with the Edinburgh International Festival on its opening events, breaking new
     ground in data driven art and performance (100k attendees). We have contributed to the
     Edinburgh Fringe by running over 236 shows (nearly 10k tickets sold), enabling public
     engagement on issues including climate change and intellectual property in the digital age.
    We represent Scotland on the international stage. Beagles, Walker, Hunter and Owen took
     part in GENERATION: Celebrating 25 Years of Contemporary Art in Scotland, a major 60-
     venue exhibition of Scottish contemporary art (2014) (over 1.3m visitors in total). Patrizio
     curated The Scottish Endarkenment. Art and Unreason 1945 to the Present (Dovecot Gallery,
     Edinburgh, 2016) a survey of post-war Scottish art (including 3 staff from our Unit) chosen by
     The Guardian as one of the top 10 exhibitions of 2016. Staff regularly participate in the world-
     renowned Glasgow International.
    We help shape Scottish cultural and civic organisations through senior roles, consultancy and
     board/advisory group membership (see above). Breward is director of National Museums of
     Scotland and previously director of National Galleries Scotland. Fowle is curator of 19th
     century art at National Gallery of Scotland and a curator for the Burrell collection, Glasgow.
     Simmonds is Board member of the Kings Theatre Edinburgh Redevelopment Project Board
     and Council Member of the Royal Scottish Academy of Art and Architecture. Speed is board
     member of the Fruitmarket gallery. Hollis is member of the educational advisory board of the
     Scottish Historic Buildings Trust. Maclennan is member of the Scottish Institute for Policing
     Research.

 6. Contribution to the Sustainability of the Disciplines

 In the space of less than 5 years, our researchers in design have established significant
 reputation at the cutting edge of data-driven technologies and in new fields such as biodesign.
 They have pioneered fashion education. Researchers in art history have secured our world-
 leading place in the field of modern art history, advanced the discipline’s agenda on global art
 history and made new inroads into theory of art. Our researchers in art are expanding the
 parameters of contemporary art practice.

 Hosting Disciplines

 Major international subject association conferences hosted by ECA include Craft Scotland (2018);
 the annual Association for Art History (2016); European Architectural History Network 2020; the
 International Society for eighteenth-century studies (2019); American Council for South Asian Art
 History (2020) – the first time this event has been held outside North America. Other international
 conferences include the Third Research Through Design Conference (2017) and the Fifth
 Transdisciplinary Imaging Conference (2018).

 Academic Citizenship

 Approximately 1/5th of our researchers have journal editorial roles. Warwick was editor-in-chief of
 Art History, 2012-2017. Founding editors of journals, who remain editors-in-chief, include Hopkins
 (Art in Translation) and O Keeffe (Interference). Over 15 are/have been editors, associate editors


                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 or members of editorial boards: (Art History (Vellodi); Art Bulletin (O’Neal); Renaissance Studies
 (Burke); Visual Culture in Britain (Jackson, McClanahan); Cosmos, the journal of the Traditional
 Cosmology Society (Milne); Design & Culture (Martin); Journal of the Scottish Society for Art
 History (Fowle); Third Text (Dimitrakaki); Leonardo (Hemment); Interiors: Design/Architecture/
 Culture (Hollis); Interiorities (Hollis), La Revue de l'Art (Thomson); Journal of Urban Cultural
 Studies (Williams); IDEA (Hollis, Williams). Vellodi, O’Brien and Weikop are editors of book series
 with leading academic publishers (EUP; Palgrave; Peter Lang). Williams is on the international
 Advisory Board for Amsterdam University Press, Cities and Cultures series.

 Leadership/Membership of Research Councils, Committees and Learned Societies

 Researchers have been members/fellows of over 40 national and international councils and
 learned societies including the Arts Council, AHRC peer review college, Carnegie Trust, the
 Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education (QAA), the Design Research Society, ESPRC,
 the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council, the Leverhulme Fellowship Grant
 Scheme, British Fashion Council Colleges Council Steering Committee, European Science
 Foundation, Council for Higher Education Executive (CHEAD), Royal Historical Society, British
 school at Rome, Society for Renaissance Studies, Paul Mellon for studies in British art, European
 Forum for Advanced Practice (EFAP), the European League of Institutes of the Arts (ELIA), Royal
 Society of Edinburgh.

 Cruz is Deputy Chair of REF 2021 Unit 32, director of the International Awards for Art Criticism,
 trustee of the John Moores Painting Prize Trust, and has been member of the Tate Liverpool
 Council, trustee of the Liverpool Biennial and member of the PBRF (Performance Based
 Research Fund, 2018), New Zealand. Fowle is Chair of the Association for Art History (AAH),
 Chair of the Burrell Trustees (Burrell Collection, Glasgow); board member of TIAMSA (The
 International Art Market Studies Association); Warwick was UK secretary to the Comité
 International d'Histoire de l'Art 2015-2019 and was trustee for the AAH 2011-2016, member of the
 International Council of Museums and the German Research Foundation peer review panel.
 Dobson is President of the Society for Animation Studies. C.Richardson was trustee of the AAH
 2016-2018. Williams is board member of European Architectural History Network (EAHN). Speed
 was peer reviewer for ESPRC and Innovate UK, chair of the EPSRC Distributed Ledger
 Technology panel 2016-2017; chair of Edinbrugh panel for EPSRC Design the Future, 2015.
 Hemment is trustee of the Board of Directors of FutureEverything, the UK’s international festival
 of digital arts, culture and technology. O Keeffe was president of the Irish, Sound, Science and
 Technology Association (till 2017). Breward was advisory council member for the Paul Mellon
 Centre, 2015-19 and trustee of the Edinburgh Art Festival, 2017-18.

 Fellowships, Prizes, Awards

 Distinguished awards include:
    Thomson: the prestigious Commandeur des Ordre des Arts et des Lettres 2018 and Fellow of
     the Royal Society of Edinburgh (since 1998).
    Speed: Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh 2020
    Breward: Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh 2017
    Stiks: the distinction Chevalier des Ordre des Arts et des Lettres 2015.
    Hemment: the prestigious Land and Soil Management Award 2019 by the European
     Landowners Association, the i-Network Public Sector Innovation Award - the Annual
     Innovation Award celebrating the achievements of public servants and their partners
     delivering innovation, transformation and excellence in public services (2014) and the Kantar
     Information Is Beautiful Silver Award, an international award for excellence in data


                                                                                           Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     visualization, interactives & information art (2016). His research received an Honorary
     Mention at the STARTS (Science, Technology and the Arts) Prize 2018 for Innovation in
     Technology, Industry and Society stimulated by the Arts.
    Murray-Rust: the Lumen Prize AI Award (2019) which celebrates the best work created
     annually using art and technology from across the globe.
    Forbes: 2nd prize for world’s best skyscraper in Emporis Skyscraper Awards, 2015; first prize
     in the National Assocation of Surveyors and Designers (NOPRIZ) awards, 2015; the Grand-
     Prix and National Award for Glass in architecture (2015), and finalist for ‘Best Tall Building in
     Europe’, Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat, 2015.
    Mowatt: the Cordis prize, the most prestigious international award for contemporary weaving,
     2016.
    Patterson: Creative Edinburgh Collaboration Award (2019).
    MacDonald: the Annual Canadian Museum Association Award for Research (2016).
    Inglis: Highly Commended in Best Collaborative Arts Project at the Building Better Healthcare
     awards for his work with NHS Grampian (2019)
    Publication prizes: O’Neal’s CAA Millard Meiss award and Japan Art History Forum First Book
     Subvention Prize for Word Embodied (2018); Murray’s the Royal Studies Journal/Christ
     Church Canterbury book Prize (2016) for Imaging Stuart Family politics; Anderson’s Eleanor
     Tufts Book Award (American Society of Hispanic Art Historial Studies) for The Islamic villa in
     early medieval Iberia : architecture and court culture in Umayyad Córdoba, 2015.
    Research Fellowships: Bolgia (Samuel H. Kress Senior Fellow 2016-17), Burke (Harvard
     University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies, Hecker (IRCAM), C.Richardson (Paul
     Mellon Senior Fellow 2018–19), MacDonald (Distinguished Research Fellow at the Craft
     Institute, Nova Scotia College of Art & Design, Halifax, Canada 2020), Breward (Rita Bolland
     fellowship for textile, dress and fashion study 2016), Anderson (Edilia and François-Auguste
     de Montêquin Senior Fellowship in Iberian and Latin American Architecture 2014).

 Invited Lectures

 Researchers have presented over 50 keynotes, plenaries and invited lectures. Notable examples
 include: Burke (J.Paul Getty Musem, Los Angeles 2019); Thomson (Metropolitan Museum of Art,
 New York, 2017); Warwick (Ashmolean Museum, the Victoria & Albert Museum); O Neal
 (Harvard; Stanford; Cambridge); Cox (Museu Picasso Barcelona, Tate); Luger (World Economic
 Forum), Allmer (Museum of Fine Arts Belgium; Princeton University).


 SUMMARY

 We are proud to have retained and nurtured an extraordinary diversity of research excellence
 across a vast spectrum of subjects. We believe the rate at which our research community has
 flourished in this REF cycle, with accelerated achievements in our emerging priority areas, is
 exemplary. This success is testament to our all-encompassing commitment to ground-breaking
 research at the forefront of art and design, research that pushes the boundaries of creativity,
 addresses the most pressing global challenges and charts new futures for our disciplines.




                                                                                              Page 25
