Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Queen’s University Belfast

 Unit of Assessment: UOA8

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

    a. Introductory synopsis

 As a joint School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering (CCE), the School bridges the
 gap which often exists between Chemistry as a fundamental science and Chemical
 Engineering, which can provide the means by which chemistry can be deployed into
 technological solutions. Having both Chemists and Chemical Engineers working in close
 partnership provides a unique environment for research and teaching. In particular it means
 that the School has the capacity both to work on making fundamental discoveries and
 translation of these into solutions to real world problems. Past successes include processes
 for mercury capture in natural gas and for improved alkylation of gasoline which are Impact
 Case Studies, while current joint C and CE projects include research on porous liquids, solid
 phase synthesis, optical sensors and CO2 valorisation.

 The Chemistry (and indeed also the Chemical Engineering) research in the School is
 focused on two broad themes: Healthcare and Sustainability, which we promote via our
 strapline: “CCE - Building a Healthy and Sustainable Future”. Research in both these
 themes is linked to University virtual research centres: CCE leads the Sustainable Energy
 Research Centre and is major partner in the Materials for Healthcare Technologies
 (MATCH) centre. The Healthcare and Sustainability themes align directly with many of the
 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, particularly “Good Health and Well-Being”,
 “Clean Water and Sanitation” and “Affordable and Clean Energy”. Research funding within
 the School ranges from fundamental research through to application-oriented work to
 directly industrially driven contract research. The School leads the EU-funded Bryden
 Centre for renewable energy research (€9.4M, 26 QUB academics, 64 overall) the industry-
 led Centre for Advanced Sustainable Energy (CASE, £10M, 11 projects funded in CCE) as
 well as our world-leading QUILL (Queen’s University Ionic Liquid Laboratories) Research
 Centre (18 QUB academics, >£20M since foundation in 1998). As well as facilitating world
 class research, this approach informs our teaching so that students trained in our School
 are equipped with the skills that allow them to engage with real world challenges of societal
 importance, for example in the Grand Challenges around Clean Growth, Future Mobility and
 an Ageing Society which are recognised in the UK Government’s Industrial Strategy. Our
 objective for the next 5 years is to combine our existing research strengths in the School
 and, by working with our academic and industrial partners, address major challenges in
 healthcare and sustainability.

  b. Organisational structure, size and context

 The School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering was formed when the two existing
 Schools merged in 2006. At this point it is now fully integrated, occupying a single building
 with shared facilities and a harmonized research portfolio with Interdisciplinary Research at
 the heart of the School’s organisation.

 The School teaches 3 main degree pathways in Chemistry, Medicinal Chemistry and
 Chemical Engineering, where the educational requirements between the former and the
 latter mean that, apart from common modules in first year, the two cohorts are separated
 and are taught by different members of staff. In contrast, a significant proportion of the
 research in the School crosses traditional disciplinary boundaries with the result that in the
 current REF exercise 32 staff are returned under UoA 8 (including 10 who also contribute
 to the Chemical Engineering teaching pathway) and 10 under UoA 12. Over the REF period,


                                                                                        Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 the research structure of the school has been reorganised from 4 interdisciplinary groups
 (the Centre for Catalysis (CentaCat), Innovative Molecular Materials (IMM), Synthesis and
 Biological Chemistry (Synbioc) and Atomistic Simulation) to the current two main research
 themes of “Healthcare” and “Sustainability”. These themes feed directly into 2 of the
 University’s 5 Pioneer Research Programmes (PRPs), which are interdisciplinary virtual
 research centres with >30 academic members drawn from several Schools and have
 significant University support (including equipment budgets, postdoctoral staff and
 studentships). The Sustainable Energy PRP (29 academics) is led from CCE (Rooney) with
 staff from 4 other Schools including Mechanical and Aeronautical Engineering (MAE) and
 Natural and Built Environment (NBE), while Materials for Advanced Healthcare (MATCH) is
 led from the School of Pharmacy with significant involvement from CCE and MAE.

 The change in the research structure in the School since REF2014 is a direct result of the
 objectives that were set out in the 2014 Environment statement where the School’s
 strategic aim was “to expand our world class capability in multidisciplinary research at the
 interfaces between Chemistry, Physics, the Life Sciences and Engineering to address
 societal needs in healthcare, energy, and the sustainable environment.” This has led to our
 current strengths in Healthcare and Sustainability (which now includes energy and a
 sustainable environment in a single combined theme). Over the current period we have
 followed the pathways anticipated in our REF2014 submission. Specifically, we have
 continued the work established under CentaCat in developing the energy efficient
 conversion of dilute waste feedstreams into high value chemicals and investigating ground-
 breaking theoretical and in-situ spectroscopic and diffraction methods to probe catalysis at
 the gas-liquid-solid interface. Within QUILL, new ionic liquid-catalytic technology for the
 activation/conversion of CO2 to fuels and chemicals and next generation ionic liquids for the
 promotion of enhanced oil recovery and replacement lubricants under extreme
 temperatures and pressures have been developed. The IMM theme developed new
 multifunctional, multiscale materials in the way predicted in 2014, with significant advances
 in molecular logic switches, molecularly imprinted polymers, plasmonic metal surfaces and
 nanostructured photocatalysts in water-splitting solar cells. The anticipated Photocatalyst
 Standards Testing Centre was established in 2018 by Mills. Synbioc’s objective of carrying
 out the total synthesis of complex pharmacologically-active natural products and their
 analogues has been met, as evidenced by a number of high-quality publications in the field.
 Significant new organic reaction development has taken place and research into flow- and
 new-reactor chemistry has been undertaken. Over the REF period the work of the Atomic
 Simulation Centre has moved increasingly towards computational physics, hence the
 Centre will be returned under UoA 9 in REF2021.

 Within our current structure, in the Healthcare theme much of the work focusses on
 fundamental science and is funded through UKRI but we do have close contacts with local
 pharmaceutical companies, particularly Almac Ltd. Within the Healthcare theme we have
 built a critical mass of researchers and our research, which lies in the following main areas,
 is underpinned by well-recognised leadership, expertise and funding, e.g. De Silva
 (diagnostic devices), Mills (colourimetric sensors), Bell (drug detection)

        Developing future drugs - drug design and synthesis, computational modelling
        Advanced pharmaceutical manufacturing – advanced drug delivery
         technologies, manufacturing processes for high-quality medicines tailored to
         demand; reducing the footprint and cost of making drugs
        Healthcare technologies and analytics – sensors, biomarker technologies for
         drug discovery and analysis; low-cost diagnostic devices

 These topics provide the basis for both advancing healthcare through conventional means
 and for taking more innovative approaches to improving health. Traditionally, we have the



                                                                                        Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 advantage of close ties with the School of Pharmacy, recognised through formation of the
 MATCH PRP, which itself built on an existing solid foundation of interdisciplinary
 collaboration. One good example is antimicrobial resistance which is recognised as a global
 scale threat but one where we have already made significant progress, including (see Major
 impact achievements in (a) Healthcare) development of a significant new antibiotic. Work
 on synthesis of further novel drugs is ongoing but this work is complemented by
 collaborations with the School of Pharmacy which are aimed at identifying infection, to help
 with stewardship of existing antibiotics and in developing photocatalyic materials which can
 be used to help prevent infection. Our ability to work with the faculty of Medicine, Dentistry
 and Life Sciences to devise innovative healthcare solutions provides a sound basis for
 leading the search for new ways to solve long-standing problems. Three new appointments
 (ECAs Knipe, Cochrane and Dingwall) with research directions in antibiotic development
 and reaction kinetics strengthen our ambitions in the Healthcare theme.

 For the Sustainability theme research is dedicated to both understanding and addressing
 how the principles of green chemistry can support and enhance life, the environment,
 business, and the economy by addressing the following areas

       Circular economy in manufacturing - Remediation, recycle, renewal, sustainable
        transformations in chemistry and engineering, process intensification
       Green and renewable energy – Zero-carbon power generation, renewable
        resource utilisation and materials to enable energy generation, storage and delivery
       Zero-emission manufacturing - Bottom-up new materials, novel engineering,
        circular economy resources and production

 The strengths within the Sustainability theme that will underpin this work are the use and
 development of ionic liquids (QUILL), porous liquids, mechanochemistry, catalysis, energy
 storage and plastic recycling.

 A specific feature of the School is the high degree of industrial involvement in our research.
 This arises, at least in part, from being a combined School which gives us the ability to
 develop ideas from fundamental concepts and bench scale demonstrations to full plant
 scale in a single unit. We have well established Centres (e.g. Bryden, CASE, QUILL) within
 the School that bring in industrial support and provide solid links to industry (e.g. Chevron,
 Petronas, Shell, Johnson Matthey).

 The first of these centres is QUILL (Queen’s University Ionic Liquids Laboratory) which is
 an academic/industry partnership established to exploit QUB’s lead in ionic liquid
 technology led by Swadzba-Kwasny with currently 18 academic members who are
 predominantly staff from CCE. Ionic liquids or deep eutectic solvents have structures which
 can be designed to deliver specific sets of properties. Applications include battery
 electrolytes and hydrogen storage media, through superhydrophobic coatings and high-
 performance lubricants, to solvents for polymers, media for metals separations, and
 components of emission control systems. The team have a strategic, collaborative research
 partnership with Petronas which in March 2020, was strengthened by seven new first phase,
 research projects with a total value of £2.4M. There are plans for further funding in the
 second phase (years 4-5) with the aim of reaching higher technology readiness levels. All
 the new projects are broadly related to the area of sustainable chemistry and chemical
 engineering, enabling Petronas to develop transformative low-carbon technologies in
 several areas of their business portfolio.




                                                                                        Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1: Structure and Connections of the School of Chemistry & Chemical Engineering

 The School also leads and hosts the Bryden Centre for Advanced Marine & Bio-Energy
 Research into biomass and marine-based renewable energy with major contributions
 through the UoA in the area of clean energy. It was awarded €9.3M under the INTERREG
 VA Programme and is a ‘virtual centre of competence’ that supports cross-border (UK-
 Ireland) research into biomass and marine-based renewable energy sources. It bridges the
 gap between industry research needs and academia by expanding research in the area of
 sustainable energy commercialisation and recent diversification into energy storage, solar
 energy and zero-carbon fuels. Extended strategic collaboration has been established with
 AES, EirGrid, NIE Networks, SHELL and E&I Engineering.

 Finally, the Centre for Advanced Sustainable Energy (CASE) is an industry-led sustainable
 energy research centre which was established in 2013 and can access £10m of research
 grants to fund collaborative R&D projects in partnership with academics at Queen’s
 University Belfast, University of Ulster and the Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute (AFBI).
 The three areas of research it supports are bio-energy (e.g. energy from biomass plants),
 marine renewable energy (e.g. wind energy, tidal energy) and energy systems (e.g. energy
 storage, renewables).

    c. Research and impact strategy

 The School’s move towards two broad themes of Health and Sustainability aligns with the
 most pressing challenges we face as a society and thus have immediate relevance at local,
 national and international level. Indeed, we have already benefitted from support aimed at
 addressing these areas e.g. Invest NI’s funding of the CASE centre described above, the
 QUB anti-microbial network which was funded by EPSRC and the work in QUILL which is
 supported by global scale companies (Petronas, Shell, Chevron). A good indicator of the
 areas of most pressing need are those which are identified for funding in the Industrial
 Challenge Fund and these currently include: Smart sustainable plastic packaging, Industrial
 Decarbonisation, the Faraday Battery Challenge and Leading-edge healthcare, all of which
 align with the core aims of the School’s Health and Sustainability themes and research
 strengths. The School’s strengths and expertise are also well placed to contribute and target
 research outcomes to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, including: Good
 Health and Well-being, Clean Water and Sanitation, Affordable and Clean Energy,
 Sustainable Cities and Communities, Responsible Consumption and Production and
 Climate Action.



                                                                                       Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We expect the demand for innovative solutions in the area of Sustainability to increase
 over the next years as governments attempt to find methods to mitigate climate change.
 Within the UK, the recently announced 2050 Zero Emission target is a clear indication where
 we can expect the government’s priorities to be directed in the next decade and beyond. Of
 course, along with the need to minimize climate change there is also an economic incentive,
 stated very clearly in the documentation for the Clean Growth Grand Challenge in the
 Industrial Strategy: “The move to cleaner economic growth – through low carbon
 technologies and the efficient use of resources – is one of the greatest industrial
 opportunities of our time”. Our approach in this area is to build on the work initiated under
 the Sustainable Energy PRP but to continue to broaden its reach to bring together
 complimentary strands in resource management, carbon capture, catalysis etc. to allow a
 more sophisticated multifaceted approach to be developed. This will increasingly draw in
 researchers from other Schools in QUB as well as other universities, local government and
 businesses. We have already started on this pathway through our close involvement with
 the PRPs which provide a mechanism for collaboration between Schools (including those
 from different faculties) within the University.

 Within the Healthcare theme we again have built a critical mass of researchers in the
 School. We have expertise in synthetic organic chemistry, advanced pharmaceutical
 manufacturing and analysis, as well as in design and preparation of multifunctional materials
 and sensors. This core disciplinary excellence underpins our collaborations with other
 partners and provides opportunities for us to work together to take more innovative
 approaches to improving health. In this, our close ties with the School of Pharmacy will be
 important but we also will develop further links through HIRANI (Health Innovation Research
 Alliance Northern Ireland) a collaboration of NI universities, health organisations and
 industry, recently awarded £1M to promote the Life & Health Sciences sector in N.I. The
 example of antimicrobial resistance was discussed above but more broadly, the ageing
 population means that resources for healthcare will be increasingly stretched, so our ability
 to work with the faculty of Medicine, Dentistry and Life Sciences to devise innovative
 healthcare solutions across a range of application areas will be important.

 The impact strategy
 Our Impact strategy is to promote fundamental work which is in areas where there is an
 obvious need for new solutions to significant problems and to provide an environment which
 encourages researchers to translate their fundamental work into real world applications.
 Evidence for the success of this approach is shown by the impact case studies (one in
 healthcare, two in sustainability) which we have submitted, our spin-out activity as well as
 a range of major grants from RCUK and other sources.

 Major impact achievements in (a) Healthcare

 The School has a long standing and continuing tradition in synthesis of drug compounds.
 One of our impact case studies centres on development of a major new antibiotic to treat
 Clostridium difficile (C. diff.) infection which is estimated to cause over 30,000 deaths
 annually in the USA with associated annual acute care costs at $4.8 billion. A series of
 compounds synthesised by the Mann group in QUB which were originally developed as
 anti-cancer drugs but were also found to exhibit antibacterial activity. These compounds
 were taken up by Summit Therapeutics Ltd, leading to development of Ridinilazole, which
 had outstanding success in its Phase 2 clinical trials and whose Phase 3 trials (in progress)
 are being supported by a $62 million US Government grant. De Silva developed the
 fluorescent PET sensing/switching principle which was adopted by Roche Diagnostics for
 their OPTI blood electrolyte analyser (now marketed by Optimedical Inc. and Idexx
 Laboratories). Sales of the associated disposable fluorescence sensor modules have now
 exceeded $550 million. This analyser continues to be used around the world in critical care
 wards, ambulances and frontline clinics. This work was chosen as an example of successful


                                                                                       Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 application of fundamental science by the Royal Society of Chemistry for a presentation to
 policymakers in the Houses of Parliament (2015). Mills work on smart plastics has led to
 the creation of £7M company, Insignia Technologies, which develops smart indicators for
 the food industry and which works with companies such as: Sainsbury’s, Walmart and
 MacDonald’s. Muldoon leads on an EU-funded ITN which looks at continuous flow
 processes for the pharmaceutical industry and this involves the Arran Chemical Company
 and the Almac Group. This funding was obtained under H2020: “Active Pharmaceutical
 Production in Flow” £644k.

 Major impact achievements in (b) Sustainability

 The QUILL Research Centre (QUB) provided long term support for Chevron’s development
 of ISOALKY™ Technology, the first new successful alternative to the conventional
 catalyst-based technologies for producing alkylate gasoline in 75 years. Following a very
 promising pilot trial and demo plant trial (10 barrels per day, operated 2010-2015), Chevron
 decided to commercialize the technology. The first full-scale plant in which the conventional
 catalyst (HF, toxic and poisonous liquid with high vapor pressure) has been replaced with a
 non-volatile Lewis acidic ionic liquid catalyst began construction in 2017 and started
 operation in Jan 2021. In September 2016, Honeywell UOP and Chevron formed ISOALKY
 Alliance to license the ISOALKYTM Technology to the industry, and it has already been
 licensed to Sinochem Hongrun Petrochemicals (2019) for their plants in China.

 QUILL has also developed the HycaPure Hg™ technology for removing mercury, a toxic,
 corrosive contaminant naturally present in hydrocarbon reserves, with the Malaysian
 national oil and gas company PETRONAS. The process captures all mercury species
 present in natural gas and has up to 3 times higher capacity than competing state-of-the-
 art commercial alternatives. This technology represents a significant improvement towards
 ensuring the health and safety of workers, process plant and the environment. The
 technology has now been successfully installed at an industrial scale in 13 PETRONAS gas
 processing plants across Malaysia where it is used to process millions of tons of gas per
 annum. In 2014 it was licensed to the global giant specialty chemical company, Clariant.

 The sustainability theme has considerable activity that will achieve impact outside the case
 studies described above. Nockemann is co-founder of spin-out company Green Lizard
 Technology (2015) which specialises in the development of green chemistry technologies.
 The QUB spin-out company is providing green, sustainable and secure technological
 solutions and attracted overall so far > £14m in funding for developing processes for glycerol
 upgrading and plastics recycling and was recently awarded a £2.6M grant from UKRI to
 build a 10k tonne per annum waste PET recycling facility in Teesside. Nockemann is co-
 founder and director of start-up company Seren Technologies Ltd. (founded 2016), focusing
 on developing technology for the separation of rare earth metals. The technology is based
 on a breakthrough extractant developed as part of a Marie Sklodowska Curie Horizon 2020
 grant (REMSIL), resulting in a granted QUB patent (WO/2018/109483). After successfully
 running two pilot plants at QUB, Seren Technologies opened its rare earth magnet recycling
 demonstration plant in Teesside (2018) with investments of > £2M. James is the co-founder
 of two spin-out companies; MOF technologies who develop metal-organic frameworks and
 Porous Liquid Technologies (2018), which is based on porous liquids that can dissolve
 remarkably large amounts of gases. Goguet developed several vehicle exhaust after-
 treatment projects in partnership with Johnson Matthey, Toyota, Ford and Ferrari.

 2. People

    a. Staffing profile and recruitment

 The School’s staffing strategy is to appoint high-quality staff whose expertise matches the


                                                                                        Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 School’s strategic priorities (i.e. the general areas of health and sustainability) and are able
 to work across disciplines while also maintaining a balance between Chemistry and
 Chemical Engineering in order to support teaching. All proposed appointments are
 discussed by the senior management team, and this includes establishing strategic fit,
 balance within the School, current funding council priorities, and any School needs for
 succession planning or leadership. This level of rigor applies whether the post is new or
 replacement i.e. when someone resigns, we carefully consider whether to replace with a
 similar post or support a different area. We have also made strategic choices in some cases
 to replace senior posts with early career staff, with a view to the long-term sustainability of
 the School. Since the last REF, we have appointed five Research staff at Lecturer level,
 one Senior Lecturer, and made three Professorial appointments. We have also taken a
 strategic decision to appoint three new Lecturers (Education), on the basis that they can
 take on significantly larger teaching and administration loads, thereby both improving the
 student experience and freeing up research time for other staff.

 Within the current REF period the School has remained diverse in terms of its international
 make up, with 25 UK, 10 EU, and 9 other International staff, the gender balance is 32 male
 12 female. At the REF 2021 staffing census point since REF2014, 11 new academic staff
 (including one World Class Professor, Anslyn) had joined the School, 3 academic staff had
 retired and 1 was deceased, 4 had voluntary severance and 7 had left the School. These
 11 appointments add to our increase in highly research active academics, help succession
 planning and reduce overall age profile, 31 staff are below the age of 55 with 13 being 55+.
 Since 2014, the School has invested in 7 as early career academic appointments.

 We fully engage with the University procedures for staff support and development, including
 academic probation, mentoring, annual appraisal and promotion. At the staff census date
 ten School staff had been promoted since the last REF: three to Professor (Stevenson,
 Holbrey, Nockemann) and seven to Senior Lecturer (Muldoon, Thompson, Manesiotis,
 Poulidi, A. Marr, Manyar, Swadzba-Kwasny). We use a Workload Allocation Model
 (WAM) to ensure a fair administrative and teaching load which allows all research active
 staff to have broadly the same amount of time for research. There is also scope within the
 WAM to provide administrative relief for holders of large grants.

 Dr Leila Moura was appointed as a Royal Academy of Engineering Fellow in 2019, and Dr
 Swadzba-Kwasny as a QUB institutional fellow in 2015. Additionally, there are two new
 ECR Fellowship holders to start shortly after the census date, whose applications were
 supported by the School (one Vice Chancellor’s “Illuminate” Fellowship and one Leverhulme
 Early Career Researcher). As a well as accessing support from within the School, Fellows
 are also made members of the Queen’s Fellowship Academy and through this can access
 additional support for leadership development, research, funding, networking and impact
 strategies.

    b. Staff development and career progression

 We encourage all staff to avail of training opportunities provided by the University, and many
 of our academic and postdoctoral staff have attended the wide range of QUB courses
 available on topics such as supervising research students, report writing, grant/fellowship
 applications, leadership training, entrepreneurship, IP and career development (CV
 preparation, academic interview advice, etc.). New academic staff are required to complete
 specific courses as part of their probation, notably the Postgraduate Certificate in Higher
 Education Teaching (PGCHET). All new staff are assigned an independent mentor within
 the School. Our world leading professor (Anslyn) runs advice clinics for ECRs on obtaining
 grant funding and publishing in high-impact journals. All female staff are offered and
 encouraged to also access the Queen's Gender Initiative mentoring from outside of the
 School, as part of our Athena SWAN activities. Staff are supported to attend management


                                                                                          Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 and leadership development training to increase their effectiveness or as part of succession
 planning. In addition, participating in the School’s internal committees supports ECRs in
 developing skills and experience to prepare them for succession to leadership roles with the
 School.

 As stated above, we have deliberately chosen to appoint early career staff in recent years,
 and we provide them with considerable support. Probationers have reduced teaching loads
 starting at 33% and reaching 100% after 3 years and no substantive administrative duties.
 They receive support with grant applications, which are read by at least two colleagues and
 go through several iterations before being submitted. They are provided with at least one
 PhD studentship, and start-up funding.

 Most analytical services in the School are provided without direct charge and are supported
 through university funding, supplemented by income from providing a commercial service
 to external users. The School is supported with studentships from the studentship budget
 provided to QUB by the Department for Economy (DfE). A proportion of DfE studentships
 are allocated to the research themes, and theme members can bid for studentships via a
 research proposal mechanism, and these are then prioritized by the Research Committee
 based on scientific merit. Partial funding of studentships within the School (50%) is available
 to encourage interaction with industry. Other DfE studentships are available for all staff via
 a QUB-wide competitive process, including some ring-fenced for interdisciplinary research.
 All studentships are provided with consumables funding. A university central conference
 fund encourages networking.

    c. PGR students

 All studentships are advertised widely and are appointed via a competitive process in which
 the students are interviewed by the supervisors and references are obtained. Websites such
 as “FindaPhD” are used regularly to attract high quality candidates. Research students
 receive support on many levels, and all have two supervisors with specific training in PhD
 supervision. The Director of Postgraduates, who is an academic member of the School’s
 management team, oversees PhD administration, ensures compliance with regulations and
 acts as a point of contact for students. Student progress is reviewed on an ongoing basis,
 starting with a review after the first three months to confirm the feasibility of the project and
 the availability of the necessary resources. Differentiation, a significant exercise involving a
 30+ page written report and an interview, normally takes place at the end of first year. There
 is a requirement to have 10 formal supervisory meetings per annum (in addition to the
 normal day-to-day contact between students and supervisors). At the end of the year,
 second- and third-year research students give a presentation to the research group and the
 School, respectively.

 In addition to School and project-specific training, the University-wide training programme,
 based in the Graduate School (launched 2015), provides access to a wide range of training
 courses and skills development opportunities coordinated by the QUB Postgraduate
 Training Team. As part of the induction interactive events, and throughout the year, we also
 run careers sessions which are open to both PGR students and PDRAs. Guest speakers
 from both Academia and Industry (Solvay, Genentech, Eli Lily, Thermo Fisher Scientific,
 Almac) are invited to provide candid advice, share their experiences in pursuing their
 chosen career paths and to highlight different careers and opportunities within their fields.
 These sessions are run as an open dialogue with question time for the panel of speakers
 and are well attended with positive feedback on the sessions conveyed to the Director of
 Postgraduates. During the COVID-19 disrupted year we have been proactive in maintaining
 events such as careers information sessions, Research Presentation days and PGR forum
 opportunities in an online format to continue to engage and support our PGR students. We
 have regularly highlighted to students QUB central resources such as wellbeing services,


                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 stipend extension opportunities and hardship funds to further support them over this
 disrupted period.

 During the REF census period 112 students have graduated under the supervision of
 members of UoA8. Approximately 47% of our PGR students graduated during REF were
 from outside the UK or EU, 42% from UK and 11% from EU. Specialist support for
 international students is available in the International and Postgraduate Centre as well as
 from the international academic staff. Currently enrollment is 123 PhD and 5 MPhil students
 (approximately 45% UK, 48% Overseas, 7% EU).

    d. Equality and Diversity

 The School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering and QUB both have a current Athena
 SWAN Silver Award. In the School there has been a steady increase of female academics,
 from 7 in 2013, to 12 in 2020, with the current number representing 37.5% of academic
 staff. In the same period, the percentage of women PDRAs has been 40-55% (47.6% at the
 census). We are therefore closing the gap at the PDRA-academic transition point. We
 support a PDRA teaching fellowship scheme which gives an opportunity for contract
 research staff planning to pursue an academic career to gain experience in teaching by
 extending their contract by 1 month. The “Diversity landscape of the chemical sciences
 report” published by the Royal Society of Chemistry in 2018 reported that 23% of academic
 staff were female (2104/15), the increase of female staff in the UoA8 is reflective of this
 trend and shows the School to be in line with other UK universities in improving gender
 representation. The School has a culturally diverse, international community, with a high
 proportion of international academics (44%, including ~20% non-European), PDRAs (55%)
 and PhDs (55%), and an active exchange program with China (over the REF period we
 have received up to 40 Chinese undergraduates per year, approximately 10% of the UG
 cohort, of which 30%-60% are female).

 Retention of all staff is important, and the retention and promotion of female academics and
 researchers is critical. We promote flexible working patterns, and currently two of our female
 academics work part-time. Our workload allocation model ensures that their research is not
 swamped by an uneven balance with respect to administration/teaching. Our Returner’s
 Policy remains in place, whereby academics taking maternity or adoption leave are free
 from administration and teaching for six months on their return. The flexible working policies
 have led to an increased number of male academics and staff taking paternity and other
 leave, which has enhanced morale and the working climate for all in the school. We make
 significant efforts to accommodate all working patterns when arranging meetings etc.
 Equality and diversity activities are now classed within the workload allocation model to
 recognise the importance and influence that these have on all aspects of school life. All staff
 are required to take the online training “DiversityNow” which raises staff awareness on
 equality and diversity issues. Women at all levels are visible in all promotional material.
 Career development information is widely distributed to staff, and promotion panels have
 representation from across the Schools as well as the University to ensure fairness.

 Since 2015, the School has participated in the EPSRC-funded SENSE Network partnership
 on ‘Inclusion Matters’ led from the Faculty along with the universities of Warwick and
 Glasgow. The mission is to build collegiality, equality and inclusion by connecting people. It
 seeks to understand the attitudes of academics towards gender equality initiatives and
 develop training tools aimed at improving their awareness of gender issues in engineering
 and physical sciences. Through this programme, staff and postgraduate students from the
 School have been able to attend a wide range of activities including: Unconscious Bias,
 Parental Leave and ‘Understanding Imposter syndrome’ workshops, family-friendly events
 such as Family Fun Days, and International Women’s Day Charity Events with invited
 speakers (e.g. WaterAid).


                                                                                         Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 The SENSE working group is currently establishing: a “Promotion Ready” process providing
 applicants with feedback and mentors to help strengthen their applications, gender Bias
 Language sessions exploring language in STEM further education and an Advanced HE
 Aurora leadership development programme supporting mid-career women with the potential
 to progress into more senior roles. Two academics from the School have successfully
 completed this programme.

 During this COVID-19 affected year the School has continued to support flexible working
 arrangements for staff and has highlighted opportunities at QUB, Faculty and School level
 to access online social events and mental health and wellbeing initiatives to maintain a
 sense of community and support. Academics received full guidance and support to
 transition their teaching to online-only from the School’s Digital Lecturer who provided
 training videos, live sessions and on call support for all academics.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

    a. Overview of research grants/income and strategies for funding

 The grant income of the CCE School in the REF2021 period has remained strong (~£24M,
 with ~£16.8M directly attributable within the UOA 8 return). This is split approximately 60%
 from government/charitable sources and 40% from industry, showing strong support for
 both fundamental and applied research. Significant grant income comes to the large
 Centres in the School. Notably the Bryden Centre (€9.4M), QUILL (most recent grant 2020
 £2.4M) and CASE (Phase 2 funding £3.6M, 2020).

 Other significant grants to individual PIs include: Mills 3D Printed Colourimetric Indicator
 Strip (3DCIS) for Non-Invasive, On-demand Chronic Wound Monitoring, EPSRC, £688k;
 Sustainable Oxidation Catalysts for the Production of Solar Hydrogen and Chlorine from
 Brine, EPSRC, £311k; Bell Nanoengineered microneedle arrays for enhanced plasmonic
 photothermal therapy of basal cell carcinoma, EPSRC, £820k; James Porous Liquids
 (PLS): Understanding, Scope and Applications, EPSRC £456k; Swadzba-Kwasny Ionic
 Liquids for Lubricant Project, Petronas, £325k; Nockemann Impress - Improvement of
 Redox Flow Energy Storage with Renewable Energy to Secure Sustainable Electricity
 Systems, Enterprise Ireland, £867k; Muldoon Active Pharmaceutical Production in Flow,
 H2020, £644k; Cochrane Synthesis of novel brevicidine and laterocidine analogues active
 against multi-drug-resistant Gram-negative bacteria, £391k. Manesiotis Application of Ionic
 Liquid-Liquid Chromatography (ILLC) to Extractions of Metals, EPSRC, £464k.
 Other UKRI grants >£200k include projects on: Colour Change Indicators, Materials for
 Energy Storage and Total and Semi-Synthesis.

 Other grants, including a significant EPSRC award on plastics recycling (£1M), are led in
 the School by PIs who are being returned under UoA 12. In addition, over the current REF
 period, our Academics (Goguet, Holbrey, James, Moura, Nockemann, Swadzba-
 Kwasny) have collectively been awarded over £4.2M of income in-kind for research time at
 leading UK facilities, the Diamond Light Source synchrotron and the ISIS Neutron and Muon
 Source.

    b. Organisational infrastructure and support for research & impact

 The School works closely with the Institutional level Research & Enterprise Department
 (R&E) in identifying funding opportunities and support in submission of grants. This extends
 to grant writing support training and access to advice and example successful grants from
 Research and Enterprise. This assistance is open to all staff but is particularly focused at



                                                                                     Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 the ECR level researchers and PDRAs. The School has run an internal grant writing and
 funding workshop (2020), in partnership with R&E. The workshop also contained input from
 senior School academics and staff with recent successful funding track records, to pass on
 advice and experience in targeting grant opportunities and tips for securing funding. The
 School had a newly created professional support administration role, filled in 2019. The
 Research Administrator provides strategic support to the Director of Research and more
 broadly to Academic staff. New academic staff are provided with start-up funds and have
 PhD studentships ring-fenced as part of their package when starting. Additionally, PhD
 studentships allocation decisions are weighted toward ECRs where possible.

    c. Operational infrastructure, facilities and specialist equipment

 Since 2014 there has been substantial strategic investment in building new state-of-the-art
 research laboratories for synthetic chemistry and catalysis research with accommodation
 for >50 researchers. A brand new, purpose-built analytical laboratory (18 instruments,
 £500k) was commissioned as part of a strategic partnership with Agilent, and which is used
 primarily for the training of students on the highly successful MSc in Pharmaceutical
 Analysis. Further investments in research and teaching laboratory space are currently on-
 going, 2 of our 4 large undergraduate teaching labs were refurbished in 2019 as part of a
 £4M major programme of work on refurbishment of teaching and research laboratories
 which will be completed by 2023. The equipment pool in the School has been significantly
 and continuously modernised and extended, for example with a new environmental SEM
 facility (£400k), PXRD (£200k), Single Crystal XRD (£350k), high-end hybrid AFM/Raman
 microscope (£250k), NMR, 400 & 600 MHz (£500k). Access to most facilities is shared
 across the University. The School has an integrated professional analytical service (ASEP),
 providing fast service with a vast suite of analytical instruments (GCs, HPLC, MS,
 spectroscopies, XRD, ICP, TXRF) within the School and as a service for external industrial
 customers. Furthermore, in total ~£1M of strategic small equipment investment was
 obtained via EPSRC. These supplement the existing equipment base (4 NMR
 spectrometers, 3 mass spectrometers, monochromated powder XRD, ICP-AES, BET and
 Hg porosimetry, 2 Raman microscopes, CD spectrometer, nanosecond pulsed laser
 systems as well as standard spectrometers, reactors, chromatography and computational
 facilities). 15 permanent, university-funded technicians provide support for NMR, high-
 resolution mass spectrometry, microanalysis, glass-blowing, mechanical engineering,
 electronics, computer management and laboratory safety. Central facilities across university
 include TEM (TALOS F200X G2) scanning/ transmission electron microscope (S/TEM)
 combining high-resolution S/TEM and TEM imaging with energy dispersive x-ray
 spectroscopy (EDX) for chemical characterisation with composition mapping, two TESCAN
 LYRA3 dual beam focused ion beam scanning electron microscopes and a central imaging
 unit for optical microscopy (including TRIF and FLIM). The University’s library constructed
 in 2009 provides on- and off-site access to electronic journals for all researchers.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

     a. Collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Much of our research is interdisciplinary, particularly at the interfaces between chemistry,
 engineering, physics, biology, medicine and pharmacy. The most obvious examples of this
 are the three large centre (QUILL, Bryden, CASE) which were discussed above. In these
 centres the industry-academic links are driven through discussion with their industrial
 advisory boards supporting both fundamental and applied projects. However, we have a
 broader culture of collaboration within the School that lies outside these large Centres.
 The school is part of two major EPSRC UK Catalysis Hubs (2018) dealing with
 Sustainability; Muldoon, Hub 'Science' 3: Catalysis for the Circular Economy and
 Sustainable Manufacturing (£3.9M) and Marr, The UK Catalysis Hub - 'Science': 2 Catalysis


                                                                                     Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 at the Water-Energy Nexus (£4M).

 Other examples include: Anslyn is a 20% appointment under the QUB World Leading
 Professor scheme who collaborates with several staff members, notably with De Silva in
 work on molecular sensors. Bell has been collaborating extensively with Forensic Science
 Northern Ireland (FSNI), most recently on a project funded by the Dept. of Justice (N.I.)
 which showed the use of infrared and Raman screening of seized novel psychoactive
 substances. His collaboration with Prof Ryan Donnelly, School of Pharmacy QUB resulted
 in joint publications and an EPSRC funded programme on microneedle arrays. (£821k). He
 was also involved in building the Queen's University of Belfast Antimicrobial Resistance
 Network (QUBAN), cross-faculty programme (EPSRC funded £295k). De Silva’s
 Collaboration with Prof. S. Uchiyama, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of
 Tokyo, Japan on Molecular Logic Gates, resulted in high-profile publications and an RSC
 monograph which has been translated into both Japanese and Chinese. Goguet is working
 with collaborators at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, USA (2 joint publications), Leibniz
 Institute for Catalysis, Germany (2 joint publications) and has an on-going collaboration with
 Ferrari, Italy. Hale collaborates with Professor Peter Nghiem Texas A & M University, on a
 new drug treatment for Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy. Furthermore, he works with
 Professors John Wood and Daniel Romo, Baylor University, Texas, antitumor peptide
 targeting antitumor drugs. Holbrey collaborates extensively with industrial partners through
 his participation in QUILL, notably on Ionic Liquid Technology for Mercury Removal in
 collaboration with PETRONAS in Malaysia. Huang has international collaborations with
 Max Planck Institute, University of Malaya, Zhejiang Univ, ZJUNIT, Shanghai Jiaotong Univ,
 Shanghai Institute of Organic Chemistry, Beijing University of Chemical Technology, all
 resulting in joint publications. Furthermore, she has in close collaboration with Almac Ltd
 which has ongoing significant (ca. £1M grant) support. James is collaborating with Dr Mario
 Del Popolo (Mendoza, Argentina), funded by EPSRC, as well as Margarida Costa Gomes
 (Tour) and Tomislav Friscic (McGill). Knipe is working with Andrew Lewis (Department of
 Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics, Oxford) Lagunas’ collaborates with Givaudan
 (Switzerland) on metal-catalysed olefin metathesis. Muldoon collaborates with the
 Eastman Chemical Company (Kingsport Tennessee, USA) who support PhD students. He
 also leads an EU funded ITN on continuous flow processes for the pharmaceutical industry
 which involves the Arran Chemical Company and the Almac Group. Nockemann
 collaborates with the Shell Technology Centre, Amsterdam on energy storage devices and
 has ongoing collaborations with Van Deun and Van Hecke at UGhent. Furthermore, he
 collaborates with Ruck at TU Dresden, Germany. Stevenson works on Liquid Crystals with
 Kumar (Kent State). Swadzba-Kwasny has ongoing collaboration with Prof. A. Chrobok at
 Silesian University of Technology, Poland, with funding which allows for visits by up to 5 of
 Polish researchers per year. Themistou is collaborating with Madsen in DTU, Technical
 University of Denmark, on pH responsive deblock copolymers.

     b. Wider activities and contributions to the research base

 The School has extensive links and major grants involving >35 industrial partners including
 Johnson Matthey, Merck, Eastman Chemicals, Toyota, Ford, Ferrari, Rolls Royce, SHELL,
 Invista, Eli-Lilly, GSK, Unilever, Solvay, BP, ExxonMobil, Proctor & Gamble, Astra Zeneca.
 These collaborations have been crucial in identifying challenging scientific problems that
 also have the potential to lead to commercial outputs, which supports our impact strategy.
 Staff also hold major collaborative grants with other universities and industry, including an
 Innovate UK project (U. Manchester, Johnson Matthey, G-volution, Hieta, MAN), an EPSRC
 project on destruction of Blue-Green Algae and their toxins (Robert Gordon U., U. St
 Andrews, Federal U. of Rio de Janeiro and Federal U. of Ceara), the Bryden centre (Agri-
 Food and Biosciences Institute, Letterkenny Institute of Technology, U. of the Highlands
 and Islands). Mills work on smart plastics has led to the creation of £7M company, Insignia
 Technologies, which develops smart indicators for the food industry and works with


                                                                                       Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 companies such as Sainsbury’s, Walmart and McDonald’s. Over the REF period much of
 Mills’ work on smart indicators has been funded by industry, most notably Sensor Indicator
 Products (Seattle, USA), but recently he gained significant (EP/T007575/1; £690k) funding
 from the EPSRC to work on 3D printed indicators for chronic wound monitoring. Manesiotis
 is a founding director of the Irish Nutrient Sustainability Platform which raises awareness,
 promotes R&D and informs policy in the area of sustainable agriculture across the island of
 Ireland. Nockemann is founder of the spin-out company Green Lizard Technologies (2015)
 which specialises in the development of green chemistry technologies as described above.
 He is also co-founder and director of start-up company Seren Technologies Ltd. (founded
 2016), focusing on developing technology for the separation of rare earth metals. The
 company opened its rare earth magnet recycling demonstration plant in December 2018 at
 the Wilton Centre (Teesside) with investments of >£2M. James is the co-founder of spin-
 out companies MOF technologies and Porous Liquid Technologies (2018), based on the
 invention of porous liquids, which can dissolve remarkably large amounts of gas. Goguet
 has undertaken several exhaust after-treatment projects with Johnson Matthey, Toyota,
 Ford and Ferrari.

 Prizes and fellowships: Bell, Hu, Mills and De Silva are elected Members of the Royal
 Irish Academy. Bell, Doherty, Hale, James, Mills, Nockemann, De Silva and Stevenson
 are Fellows of the RSC. De Silva Boyle-Higgins Gold Medal and Lectureship, The Institute
 of Chemistry of Ireland, 2020. Genentech Lectureship in Organic Chemistry, College of
 Chemistry, University of California at Berkeley, USA (2018); Knipe Dave Kelly Cup Winner
 (Gregynog Synthesis Meeting, 2017); Mills Green Gown Award (2014), RSC Materials for
 Industry - Derek Birchall award (2019); Holbrey and Nockemann Don Nicklin medal and
 RSC Teamwork in Innovation award with the QUILL Research Centre; Nockemann
 Mercator Fellowship (DFG, 2015), IChemE Award in the category Food & Drink (2016) and
 IChemE Award in the category “Start-Up Business of the Year” with Green Lizard
 Technologies Ltd. (2018); Swadzba-Kwasny Kenneth R. Seddon Memorial Lectureship
 (2018). Manesiotis Included in the Analytical Scientist Power List 2019, Top 40-under-40.
 Moura was awarded a Royal Academy of Engineering Fellowship in 2019 and the European
 Federation of Chemical Engineering Excellence Award in Fluid Separations 2018.

 Research Council Staff act as assessors for research centres and grants: Bell EPSRC
 Panel Member and Panel Chair (2017), Royal Society, EU, Member of College Panel for
 UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship scheme 2019-; International Expert Review Panel -
 Competence Centres, Enterprise Ireland (2017); Hale Outstanding Science and
 Technology Achievement Prize of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (2019), Member of the
 Irish Research Council, Postdoctoral Fellowships Evaluation Committee (2014); Newton
 Postdoctoral Fellowships Evaluation Committee (2013-2015); External Assessor for
 Churchill College, Fitzwilliam College, Robinson College and Trinity Hall Early Career
 Research Fellowships Scheme (2017); Holbrey EU H2020 Marie Sklodowska-Curie Action
 Individual Fellowships (2019); Member and Chair of the Science and Technology Facilities
 Council ISIS Facilities Allocation Panel FAP-2 (member 2013-2018, and chair 2014-2019);
 Member of the Royal Society of Chemistry Subject Expert Grant Assessment Panel (2015-
 2020); Nockemann SPP DFG, Germany (2015); Science Foundation Ireland (2018);
 Swedish Research Council (2019); INEA H2020 Energy Call (2019); Marr Member of the
 Irish Research Council (IRC) international assessment board; Manesiotis EPSRC, COST,
 British Council, Newton Fund; Muldoon EPSRC and the Irish Research Council; Huang
 BBSRC Grant review panel; Themistou EPSRC prioritisation panel member (2014, 2017,
 2018); Swadzba-Kwasny Member of the ISIS Facility Access Panel (FAP-2) for 2018 –
 2021; Leverhulme Trust grant reviewer (2016-); Research Foundation Flanders FWO,
 Belgium (2019-) Bell, Doherty, Hale, James, Manesiotis and De Silva are EPSRC
 college members.




                                                                                     Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Editorial Advisory Boards: Bell Analysis and Sensing (2020-) Hale Org. Lett. (2002-
 2018), Future Medicinal Chemistry (2008-), J. Chemical Engineering & Process Technology
 (2010-); Mills J. Photochemistry & Photobiology Chemistry A (2010 -), J. Fluorescence
 (2010-); Food Packaging and Shelf Life (2013-); De Silva J. Fluorescence (2002-); Marr
 PLoS one (2011-); Swadzba-Kwasny, ACS Sustainable Chemistry and Engineering (2016)
 Journal Editorships: Hale Associate Editor Org. Lett. (2003-2018); De Silva Associate
 Editor-in-Chief, Chinese Chemistry Letters (2017-2019); Manesiotis Guest editor for
 Journal of Chromatography B Special Issue on Affinity-based separations in bioanalysis
 (2016); James Guest editor for Chemical Society Reviews, Special Issue on
 Mechanochemistry; Guest editor for Chemical Communications, web-themed issue on
 Mechanochemistry; Swadzba-Kwasny ACS Sus. Chem. Eng. special issue on Advanced
 Reaction Media (2019).

 Plenary, keynote and invited lectures: Staff in the UoA have given >250 invited talks at
 universities and industry over the REF period. Over 100 invited, plenaries and keynote
 lectures have also been given including: De Silva International Congress on Chromogenic
 and Emissive Materials, Lisbon, Portugal (2014. plenary), 4th International conference on
 Molecular Sensors and Molecular Logic Gates (2014, plenary); Gordon Conference on
 Artificial Molecular Switches and Motors, Massachusetts, USA (2015); Royal Society of
 Chemistry-Tokyo International Conference, Japan (2015, plenary); 5th International
 conference on Molecular Sensors and Molecular Logic Gates (MSMLG2016), Bath, UK
 (2016, presented the Nature Chemistry Lecture); 6th International conference on Molecular
 Sensors and Molecular Logic Gates, Dalian, China (2018, plenary); "Chemistry Meets
 Industry and Society", Salerno, Italy (2019, plenary). Hale American Chemical Society
 Nichols Medal Symposium, Whiteplains, NY, USA (2014, plenary); 17th Tetrahedron
 Symposium on Organic Chemistry, Berlin, Germany (2015, plenary); IASCOC (Ischia
 Advanced School in Organic Chemistry) Symposium, Ischia, Italy (2016, plenary). GDCh
 German Chemical Society Special Invited Lecture Tour, Hamburg, Berlin, Leipzig, Potsdam,
 Marburg, Giessen, Mainz (2015); Argentinian Organic Chemistry Society Invited National
 Lecture Tour (2017). Holbrey UK Neutron and Muon Users Meeting, Warwick UK (2014,
 plenary); Ionic Liquid Materials (ILMAT2015), Max Planck Society, Berlin Germany (2015,
 keynote); Gordon Research Conference on Ionic Liquids, Sunday River USA (2016);
 Faraday Discussion on Ionic Liquids, Cambridge UK (2017, speaker). Hu 12th International
 Conference on Computational Nanoscience and New Energy Materials, Qingdao, China
 (2019, plenary); 19th National Conference of Catalysis, Chongqing, China (2019, plenary).
 James EUROMOF, Paris, France (2019, plenary); Solid-State Science & Research
 (SCIRES), Zagreb (2019, plenary). Marr 14th Pannonian International Symposium on
 Catalysis, Starý Smokovec, Slovakia (2018, keynote). Mills 11th Int. Symposium on
 Transparent Oxide and Related Materials for Electronics and Optics, Nara, Japan (2019,
 keynote); 22nd International conference on photochemical conversion and storage of solar
 energy, IPS-22, Hefei, China (2018, keynote); 5th European conference on environmental
 applications of advanced oxidation processes, EAAOP 5, Prague, Czech (2017, keynote);
 1st International Symposium on Recent Progress of Energy and Environmental
 Photocatalysis, Tokyo University of Science, Japan (2015, plenary); Moura Distillation and
 Absorption, Florence, Italy (2018) on occasion of the award of the European Federation of
 Chemical Engineering Excellence Award in Fluid Separations 2018. Nockemann
 International Conference of Ionic Liquids, Rostock, Germany (2015, keynote); 16th
 Conference on Molten Salts and Ionic Liquids, Vienna (2016, invited keynote); Energy
 systems conference, Manchester (2018, plenary); ILMAT 2019, Paris (2019, keynote).
 Swadzba-Kwasny COIL-8 - the 8th International Congress on Ionic Liquids, Beijing, China
 (2018, plenary); SCI Formulation Forum: Disruptive Technologies, London, UK (2018,
 keynote); ASIL 8, 8th Australasian Symposium on Ionic Liquids, Melbourne, Australia (2018,
 Ken Seddon Memorial Lectureship, plenary); COIL-6 - the 6th International Congress on
 Ionic Liquids, Jeju, South Korea (2015, plenary).



                                                                                   Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



     c. Other Indicators

 Seminar programmes

 There is a vibrant and extensive seminar programme, with approximately 25 talks per
 annum. This programme has continued successfully throughout the disruption of COVID-
 19 closures with a move to online seminars. This change has further diversified the range
 of speakers who we can invite since there are no issues associated with international travel
 or disruption of caring responsibilities. An annual Thomas Andrews research lecture,
 inaugurated in 2010, aims to appeal to all levels. Biannually there is also the QUILL lecture
 series (est. 1999). Visiting international speakers have included: Sophie Fourmentin
 (Littoral-Côte d’Opal) 2020, Luca Lietti (Politecnico di Milano) 2020, Shaun McKinnie (UC
 Santa Cruz) 2020, Michael Harold (Houston) 2020, Jason Hallett (ICL) 2019, Marc Reid
 (Strathclyde) 2019, Theoni Georgiou (ICL) 2019, Anna Barnard (ICL) 2019, Deirdre Murphy
 (Pfizer) 2019, Richard Compton (Oxford), John Hartwig (UCal Berkeley), Joanna McGouran
 (TCD), Igor Alabugin (Florida State), Karen Faulds (Strathclyde) 2019, Manfred Bochman
 (UEA) 2018, Ian Manners (Bristol) 2017, Ning Yan (National University of Singapore) 2017,
 Dermot O'Hare (Oxford) 2017, Yoshi Kishi (Harvard) 2017, Paul Anastas (Yale) 2017,
 Rebecca Melen (Cardiff) 2016, Karen Wilson (Aston) 2016, Amos Smith (Pennsylvania)
 2016, Scott Dalgarno (Heriot-Watt) 2016, Philipp Kukura, (Oxford) 2016, Robert Paton,
 (Oxford) 2016, Tobin Marks (Northwestern) 2015, Euan Brechin (Edinburgh) 2015, Duncan
 Bruce (York) 2015, Ian Paterson (Cambridge) 2015, Guy Lloyd-Jones (Edinburgh) 2015.

 Society/Public Engagement

 Work carried out in the School has led to interest from the media, with a number of staff
 engaging with the press to communicate their research to the general public. Bell has
 received national media coverage for his work on novel psychoactive substances (2016).
 This includes interviews on BBC TV news, UTV news, Euronews (International
 Multilanguage TV News channel), BBC Radio 4 Today show, BBC Radio 5 Live Breakfast
 show. For his 2015 work on perfumed ionic liquids (Chemical Communications) Gunaratne
 has given interviews that have appeared in national and international publications (BBC,
 Chemistry World, Daily Mail, New York Times) and given live radio interviews promoting the
 work. James’ work on permanently porous liquids has featured in news articles in the media
 (Chemistry World, Chemistry and Industry, Daily Mail) and he has been interviewed live on
 Radio 4 World at One (2015). Manesiotis work on nutrient recycling has featured in news
 articles in the media, and he has been interviewed on the BBC (2018).

 The School is passionate about engaging with and encouraging the next generation of
 scientists. Staff in the School play an active role in interacting with the wider community to
 promote Chemistry and more broadly Scientific Research. ‘Ele – Mental’ was a hands-on
 event run by the CCE School for 7 weeks in Ulster Museum (August – September 2019).
 The project aimed to address the gap in awareness of chemistry and chemical sciences in
 primary school education and was targeted to children aged between 10 to 12. The event
 was very successful and over 1,450 visitors participated in experiments.

 For the promotion of women in Science and Chemistry Laguas-Castedo (2019, 2017),
 Swadzba-Kwasny (2019) and Moura (2017) have all participated in Soapbox Science
 event as public speakers. Promotion of this event was featured in an article in Chemistry
 World magazine (Moura interviewed). Laguas-Castedo also participated on the Guinness
 World Record event helping school pupils to achieve the 'largest practical science lesson'
 in 2015): Swadzba-Kwasny has been interviewed for the NVTV Behind the Science
 programme, 23 July 2018. Moura gave a public talk and demonstration at the Horizon 2020
 European researchers' Night, Science Uncovered event at the Ulster Museum, Sept 2017.


                                                                                       Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 The School recognises the importance of promoting Chemistry to not only students but also
 targeting School teachers, who play a key role in advising students on subject selection that
 will ultimately lead them towards specific university options. Teachers are at the forefront
 when it comes to inspiring students to study Chemistry and promoting how a career in
 Chemistry can make an impact in today’s changing world. The School has participated
 within the STEM Learning Grand Challenges Insight Programme, facilitated by the Northern
 Ireland STEM Learning Hub. This programme seeks to enhance awareness of the study of
 STEM subjects in higher education, in addition to the current landscape of career
 opportunities within these areas, via the provision of experiential learning to teachers of
 called subjects within post-primary schools. To date, the School has hosted three teachers,
 across December 2019 and January 2020, each of whom participated in three-day
 “placements”, involving discussions with academic staff across chemistry and chemical
 engineering areas, and the related shadowing of experimental and educational actives.
 Further to administrative support provided by the STEM Learning Hub to facilitate this
 programme, financial support was also provided to teachers’ home schools to allow for the
 arrangement of substitute teacher cover for those teachers undertaking placements.
 Feedback has been exceptionally positive to date, with participants reporting an increased
 awareness of the subject areas, and their related career opportunities, allowing them to
 more confidently and regularly promote these career paths to their students. Following the
 initial success of the School’s involvement in this programme, a further seven placements
 were advertised to post-primary teachers in early 2020, and these will take place when
 Covid restrictions allow.

 School Staff also participate in the annual Chemistry at Work event, hosted by QUB, which
 showcases the application of chemistry in the workplace to secondary and grammar school
 pupils. The event takes place over two days and normally has a throughput of 1,000 – 1,100
 pupils annually. Each year 12 industrial partners participate in the event. Long term partners
 include Almac, GlaxoSmithKline, Randox, Bombardier, Coca-Cola, BOC Gases, Forensic
 Science Northern Ireland and Norbrook Pharmaceuticals. The primary aim of the event is
 to deliver the message that chemistry is omnipresent in our daily lives and, moreover, that
 chemical knowledge is vital for solving 21st century global challenges like carbon reduction,
 plastic recycling, clean energy production and food and water security, which align with the
 key themes of the School.

 In line with our Green and Sustainability vision for the future our School has been involved
 with Green Impact since its inception in 2011. Green Impact is an environmental
 accreditation and awards scheme, bringing staff and students together with their wider
 communities to enable and showcase positive changes in environmental practice. It aims
 to work towards achieving a reduction in waste, an increase in energy efficiency, an increase
 in sustainable procurement and an increase in sustainable transport. During that period, the
 School has consistently won Gold and Platinum awards for our labs and it holds over 75%
 of the University’s Green Challenge and Green Fund awards. In addition, the School We
 also set up the first ever White Coat Walk which raised funds for Cancer Research UK and
 included walks not only here at QUB but also in England, France and USA. This was so
 successful that Cancer Research UK now run this as a national annual event.




                                                                                       Page 16
