Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Edinburgh and Scotland’s Rural College

 Unit of Assessment: 6 (Agriculture, Food and Veterinary Sciences)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview

 This joint UoA6 submission from the University of Edinburgh (UoE) and Scotland’s Rural College
 (SRUC) reflects a collaboration of over a century, aligned to critical challenges in agriculture, food
 and veterinary sciences. With the human population predicted to exceed 9 billion by 2050, our
 vision is to improve the health and wellbeing of humans, animals, plants and the
 environment, safeguarding local and global food chains and rural communities, and driving
 transformative improvements in productivity and efficiency. This vision aligns with the UN
 Sustainable Development Goals and the strategic priorities of regional, national and international
 industry, policy stakeholders, funding agencies and investors.

 We form a research community of 271 (257.23 FTE) researchers returned to this UoA.
 Approaching three-quarters of these staff are co-located at our exceptional Easter Bush campus
 (>£275m investment since opening in 2011), representing the largest concentration of animal
 science expertise in Europe. The campus is home to UoE’s Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary
 Studies (R(D)SVS), including the BBSRC Roslin Institute and the Global Academy of Agriculture
 and Food Security, and is part of SRUC’s Science Society and Business Faculty. SRUC has 5
 further campuses across Scotland, 8 research farms/stations, 8 disease surveillance centres and
 hubs, and a regional network of 26 offices across Scotland and the north of England. Our
 extensive international research networks extend our reach from ‘lab to land’ and ‘local to
 global’ and exemplify our ethos of ensuring our research benefits stakeholders and rural
 communities globally (Fig. 1).


                                                                      Figure 1. Our themes and
                                                                      initiatives align under One
                                                                      Health to develop research-led
                                                                      solutions at regional- national-
                                                                      and global-scales.




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.1.1 Key highlights and developments

 Research growth

 We have grown by 42% since REF2014, from 179.99 to 257.23 FTE, strategically attracting
 research leaders to build critical mass and breadth aligned to our vision. Our competitive research
 income of £359.9m over the REF2021 period includes the BBSRC strategic funding (a total of
 £52.0m during REF period) to the Roslin Institute, and £34.8m (2016 onwards) to SRUC from the
 Scottish Government Rural & Environment Science & Analytical Services (RESAS) strategic
 research programme. Our average annual income of £51.4m p.a. includes a leverage of an
 additional ~£3.2m of competitively awarded research grants for every £1m of BBSRC and
 RESAS core investment. Our average annual research student degree awards have
 increased 23% from 29.3 (REF2014) to 36.0 (REF2021). This has been driven by new PhD
 programmes, for example in Agriculture and Food Security, a Wellcome-funded Doctoral Training
 Partnership (DTP) on One Health Models of Diseases (first intake 2020), and renewal of UKRI-
 funded DTPs (EASTBIO, E4, SGSSS) and the Wellcome 2016 ECAT DTP (£10.2m); the UK’s first
 clinical academic PhD training programme for medical (ECAT) and veterinary (ECAT-V) graduates
 combining PhD and clinical specialist training, and an international exemplar.

 New partnerships

 Our challenge focus is underpinned by new and strengthened existing partnerships at regional,
 national and global levels, supported by funding from the Scottish and UK Governments, UKRI,
 industry and philanthropy, in addition to our Institutional investments. Examples of new
 partnerships include:
   The Centre for Tropical Livestock Genetics & Health (CTLGH) in partnership with the
    International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI) to drive genetic gain in African farm animals
    and build capacity for technology-led breeding ($21.3m USD; Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
    and the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office).
   Supporting Evidence-Based Interventions (SEBI) to collate and apply data to guide investment
    in livestock systems that benefit smallholders in low- and middle-income countries ($10.9m
    USD since 2016, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation).
   Partnership in Innovate UK funded Agri-Tech Centres, including the Centre for Innovation
    Excellence in Livestock (CIEL), the Agricultural Engineering Precision Innovation Centre (Agri-
    Epi) and Agrimetrics (£11.2m, Agri-Tech centres plus match funding) connecting our
    researchers with stakeholders across the food supply chain.
   Establishment of the Global Academy to support decision making to transform agri-food
    systems and food security (£38m, UoE and UK Government capital from UoE’s £237m data-
    driven innovation component of the Edinburgh and South-East Scotland City Region Deal).

 Infrastructure investments

 Since REF2014 we have invested £152m in world-class buildings, estate and research
 facilities (section 3). Key research investments include the:
  Charnock Bradley Building (£31m), including the Easter Bush Science Outreach Centre
      (EBSOC), Roslin Innovation Centre and Roslin Technologies Ltd to support our engagement
      with the sector and the public.
  Large Animal Research & Imaging Facility (LARIF) at Easter Bush (£25m).
  Rural Veterinary Hub in Inverness (£7m).
  Allermuir Avian Innovation and Skills Centre for improving avian nutrition, health and
      welfare (£5.4m).
  Equine diagnostic, surgical and critical care unit (£3.7m).
  Advanced mobile phenotyping facilities for livestock research (£2.7m).
  Veterinary and Analytical Laboratory (£1.2m).
  Edinburgh Genetic Evaluation Services (£1.4m).



                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition, we have invested heavily in improving the operational running of the Easter Bush
 campus including an energy centre (£12.9m, City Deal), a solar farm (£3.2m, SFC RELCO Fund),
 a nursery (£2.8m, UoE), high-voltage power, paths, roads etc (£8.8m, UoE) and advanced
 computing networks (£28.7m, City Deal).

 Delivering impact

 Our industry-linked capability in data-driven innovation for agriculture has been substantially
 boosted by major investments, including the £1.3bn Edinburgh and South-East Scotland City
 Region Deal, the £290m Aberdeen City Region Deal and the £390m Borderlands Region Deal,
 including £237m capital from UK and Scottish Governments for data-driven innovation, leveraged
 to £661m with revenue investments (section 4). With this investment in our data-creating
 capabilities, and infrastructure to support industry collaborations and commercialisation, we are
 ideally placed to deliver knowledge at scale and the technologies to transform global agriculture.
 Such investments have helped us increase the reach and impact of our research, as exemplified
 in our impact case studies (ICS) and section 4. Indeed, between 2014/15 and 2018/19 UoE spin-
 out companies had the second highest turnover value in the UK (£672.2m), accounting for 74.7%
 of Scotland’s total spin-out turnover. In addition, our research expertise has ensured our policy
 advice to government (e.g. Scottish Government’s Centres of Expertise in Animal Disease
 Outbreaks (EPIC), Climate Change (CXC), Plant Health, and Brexit Hub) has been fundamental
 to informing strategic decision-making and policy in Scotland and more widely.

 1.2 Research and impact strategy

 Our research comprises 6 themes that interface to develop interdisciplinary research-led solutions
 to address many of the critical regional-, national- and global-scale multifaceted challenges within
 One Health (Fig 1). Our community takes world-class underpinning basic and applied bioscience,
 agricultural science and technology, and economics and social science, through to translation to
 the end-user, addressing, redefining and developing solutions to these key challenges. These
 themes span complementary expertise in diverse disciplines and are underpinned by exceptional
 infrastructure to deliver our shared Unit strategy and instil training in vulnerable skills and
 capacities identified in UKRI cross-Council reviews. They nurture talented postgraduate students
 and early career researchers, to deliver impact within Scotland, the UK and globally.

 1.2.1 Research themes

 (1): Genetics and genomics (50 PIs)

 Critical challenge
 More accurate prediction of phenotype from genotype to improve animal health and welfare and
 the sustainability and efficiency of food production through selection.

 Research focus
 This theme works from nucleotide sequences to in-field genetic improvement in farmed terrestrial
 and aquatic animals, selected companion animal species, and agricultural crops, often
 collaboratively with industry and end users. We use massive datasets of pedigree and nucleotide
 polymorphism data linked to phenotype records to make genetic associations and develop tools
 to estimate the genetic value of individuals. These data often come from individual and industry
 stakeholders driving genetic gain in practice, thereby directly impacting their breeding
 programmes through genetic and genomic selection. Where there are no tools for genotyping (e.g.
 SNP arrays), we co-create them, and where there is no genetic and genomic selection, we identify
 the route to introduce it. As functional variants frequently occur in regulatory and coding regions,
 we produce better reference genomes and are applying high quality functional annotation, for
 example by mapping all transcripts across species, relevant cells and tissues at key development
 stages. The causal variants identified by such research can be integrated into breeding
 programmes or edited into the species directly.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research highlights
  Production of large functional datasets (e.g. high-resolution sheep transcriptome atlas by Clark,
   M Watson, Whitelaw, Archibald; PLoS Genet 2017), and improved reference genomes (e.g.
   for domestic pigs by Archibald and others; Gigascience 2020). This has made significant
   contributions to the global Functional Annotation of Animal Genomes project, co-initiated by the
   Roslin Institute (https://www.faang.org). Prendergast, Djikeng, Archibald and Wall have
   devised novel strategies to visualise genome variation and identify signatures across breeds
   (e.g. Nat Commun 2020).
  Production of tools to enable dissection of genotype/phenotype, including both software and lab-
   based tools (e.g. SNP arrays; ICS E). Among heritable traits dissected are resistance to key
   endemic and exotic diseases of terrestrial animals (e.g. Denholm, Wall, Banos, Coffey; J Dairy
   Sci 2017), aquatic diseases (e.g. R Houston, Robledo; G3 2018, Fig 2), early life prediction of
   fitness (e.g. Banos, Coffey Front Genet 2019) and quality and processing attributes in grain
   crops (e.g. Hoad, Topp; Front Plant Sci 2019). Recognition includes the 2017 Queen’s
   Anniversary Prize for the Langhill dairy cattle genetic selection experiment.
  Development of genome-wide strategies for silencing of genes using siRNA libraries (e.g. Grey
   mBio 2018) and mutagenesis using sgRNA libraries and CRISPR/Cas9 to assign roles to genes
   in cattle, pig, chicken and salmon cells, building on BBSRC strategic and capital investment at
   the Roslin Institute and capability of the Edinburgh Phenotypic Assay Centre.
  Pioneering analyses of microbiomes and metagenomes, for example M Watson, Roehe and
   Dewhurst providing the most comprehensive atlas of rumen microbes and proteins (Nat
   Commun 2018) and linking these to heritable differences in greenhouse gas emissions (PLoS
   Genet 2016). They have shown that microbiome markers improve genomic prediction of key
   traits (e.g. feed conversion efficiency; Front Microbiol 2020) and are working with a breeding
   company to integrate microbiome data into their selection process. Recognitions include the
   2017 PLoS Genetics research prize, and the Times Higher 2018 research project of the year
   shortlist.




    Figure 2. We design genotyping tools for terrestrial and aquatic farmed animals and apply
    these to dissect the genomic architecture of key traits, including here resistance to sea lice
    in Atlantic salmon.
 (2): Animal development, biology, behaviour and welfare (33 PIs)

 Critical challenge
 Improve the health and welfare of animals through understanding of their development,
 physiology and behaviour.

 Research focus
 This theme investigates the fundamental biology of farmed and companion animals from the
 molecular level, through cellular interactions and embryonic development, to the physiology of
 animals through life. We develop novel tools and technologies to support this theme, other
 research themes and external collaborations. Our research outcomes underpin One Health as
 species-specific understanding of development and physiology inform advances in husbandry and

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 breeding of farmed animal species, while technical innovations are at the forefront of introducing
 new technologies in animal health and breeding. Understanding of animal function and behaviour
 also allows us to create solutions to welfare problems of managed animals, and to derive objective
 measures of animal welfare.

 Research highlights
  Research by McGrew has led to the development of a fully defined culture medium for chicken
   primordial germ cells (PGCs) and efficient gene-editing, enabling gene deletion, single-base
   mutations and gene-targeting (Stem Cell Reports 2015). The invention of GA-embryos in which
   the host embryo PGCs can be ablated and replaced by edited PGCs allows production of adult
   birds with 100% gene-edited offspring (Fig. 3). This reduces the time to generate gene-edited
   birds by a generation, and forms the basis of a unique system for cryopreservation of genetic
   lines of chickens (PNAS 2020).




    Figure 3. Generation of transgenic reporter chickens to visualise the avian immune system;
    (A) strategies to culture and genetically alter PGCs and inject during embryo development;
    (B) revealing novel M-cell subpopulations as portals of entry for antigens and pathogens.

  Imaging of chicken embryos of fluorescent reporter lines by Rainger and Prendergast has
   established a tractable model of optic fissure closure (eLife 2019), opening new avenues to
   explore the genetic basis of human ocular coloboma and sight loss. Whitelaw, Lillico and
   Wishart demonstrated that genome-edited sheep with mutation of CLN1 provide a valuable
   model of infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (Sci Rep 2019), priming collaborative research
   to evaluate gene and protein therapies.
  Our research has advanced knowledge of pre- and post-natal influences on behavioural
   development and how farm measures and management actions relate to animal welfare. For
   example, Sandercock has shown that tail-docking in pigs is associated with neuropathic-like
   pain sensitivities, linked to sustained changes in inflammatory and pain-associated gene
   expression (Front Vet Sci, 2019). In pigs, Turner, Baxter, D’Eath and others have established
   that play (Sci Reports 2020), aggression (Animal, 2016) and tail posture (Anim Behav Sci,
   2018) are sensitive welfare indicators, some of which can be measured through analysis of
   video images by machine learning. They have pioneered the biological validation and
   modelling of sensor and camera systems in real-world applications, leading to an early warning
   system (TailTech) for tail biting outbreaks.
  We have advanced knowledge of the pre- and post-natal influences on behavioural
   development, environmental impact on brain health and temperament and the impact of pain
   induced by farm management actions on motivation, cognition and neurology. For example,
   Lawrence has established that play is a sensitive welfare indicator (Appl Anim Behav Sci
   2018), and has quantified positive impacts of environmental enrichment and associated
   neurophysiological responses (Physiol Behav 2017; Behav Brain Res. 2018).




                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (3): Infection and immunity (36 PIs)

 Critical challenge
 Detect, prevent and treat animal and zoonotic diseases to enhance health and welfare.

 Research focus
 The focus of this theme is to mitigate the threat of infectious disease to farmed animals and crops
 to enhance welfare and resilience/productivity, as well as reducing the threat of zoonoses to
 humans. Our research covers a broad variety of host species, pathogens and experimental
 approaches, with focus on both key pathogens and their hosts, including the underlying genetics
 that dictate the response to infection. We study the genetics, epidemiology, replication,
 pathogenesis and host response to infection with endemic bacteria, parasites and viruses, in
 temperate and tropical climates, and are at the forefront of developing and applying new tools and
 technologies for discovery of pathogen virulence determinants, and host susceptibility and
 resistance traits. We also develop novel approaches to predict and control crop and livestock
 diseases and to reduce antimicrobial resistance. Through close collaboration with industry, we
 inform, develop and deliver best-applied practice.

 Research highlights
  We have provided valuable insights into host-tropism, cross-species transmission and
   virulence of pathogens. For example, work of: Fitzgerald and others on Staphylococcus
   aureus (Sci Adv 2019; Nat Ecol. Evol. 2018; Nat Genet 2015; Science 2018; PLoS Pathog
   2017); Lycett on the role of migratory wild birds in global spread of avian influenza H5N8
   (Science 2016; PNAS 2020); Kao and Lycett on transmission routes and spread of bovine
   tuberculosis (Mol. Ecol 2019; eLife 2019); and Del-Pozo and Shaw on the role of
   Mycobacterium leprae and M. lepramatosis in causing leprosy in red squirrels, with implications
   for conservation of the species and public health (Science 2016). Gally and Dallman have also
   used machine learning to predict zoonotic risk of E. coli and Salmonella found in farm animals
   and for source attribution during outbreaks (PNAS 2016; Microb Genom 2017).
  Using knowledge of molecular mechanisms in host-pathogen interactions, we have used
   genome editing to produce animals resistant to diseases, for example pigs refractory to porcine
   reproductive and respiratory syndrome owing to modification of the viral receptor CD163
   (Archibald, Lillico, Opriessnig, Tait-Burkard and Whitelaw; PLoS Pathog 2017, J Virol
   2018). This interdisciplinary work interfaces with themes 1 and 2, combining high-quality
   reference genome and transcriptional organisation data for pigs, editing and reproductive
   technology for implantation of modified pig zygotes, and expert input from virologists with
   macrophage and pig models of infection. Similar work is ongoing for avian influenza following
   identification of a key host restriction factor (McGrew and Sang; eLife 2019).




    Figure 4. A surgical model to access migratory antigen-presenting cells draining the skin of
    cattle in real-time following infection or vaccination.




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Hope’s development of a pseudoafferent lymph duct cannulation model in cattle has enabled
   the real-time analysis of immune responses (Immunology 2017; Fig 4), and Morrison was
   awarded the Plowright Prize for research on the role of diversity in determining protective
   immunity in cattle against T. parva. Work by Sang, Balic and others on novel transgenic
   chicken lines has allowed characterisation of the origins and function of macrophages and
   microfold cells (BMC Biol 2015; Front Immunol 2019). Mabbott and M Stevens have also
   shown how gut microbiota promote M-cell development and function, with potential to reverse
   age-related decline in mucosal immunity (iScience 2020).
  Research by Hoebe on Ramularia collo-cygni, the agent responsible for Ramularia leaf spot
   disease of barley, has identified mechanisms for avoiding detection by the host, enabling it to
   survive as an endophyte for much of the plant’s life cycle before eventually turning pathogenic
   (Mol Plant Microbe Interact 2018). Havis, Burnett and others have shown routes of spread of
   this fungus and its ability to rapidly evolve resistance to fungicides (BMC Genomics 2016).

 (4): Clinical veterinary sciences (81 PIs)

 Critical challenge
 Improve the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of societally important non-infectious diseases
 in veterinary species.

 Research focus
 Our clinical and translational veterinary research on non-infectious diseases encompasses
 diagnosis, prevention and therapy, and primarily focuses on companion animals (cats, dogs and
 horses). This represents an important route for translation and application of our more
 fundamental animal bioscience. Research into novel diagnostic approaches includes: the
 identification, validation and application of biomarkers of disease; development and evaluation of
 new diagnostic platforms; and improving the real-time monitoring of disease and repair. Our work
 to prevent non-infectious diseases benefits from large-scale longitudinal cohort studies and
 interfaces with work on the genetic basis of heritable disorders in theme 1 to guide breeding
 decisions. Research on therapeutics includes clinical trials of new drugs, devices and clinical
 protocols. Our work on developing novel prevention strategies ranges from the rollout of novel,
 large-scale preventive health vaccination campaigns through to basic research which advances
 understanding of the pathobiology of important diseases. We also use animals as a biomedical
 model (e.g. CFTR1 edited sheep to test gene therapy, and natural ovine model of lung cancer, Fig
 5).




 Figure 5. The Wellcome-funded Critical Care Laboratory for Large Animals offers unique
 capabilities priming development of novel biomedical models at the interface with other UoAs.

 Research highlights:
  We have developed mass spectrometry-based assays, many of which are now commercially
   available, to dissect vitamin D-associated disorders in dogs (A Gow, Ryan, Milne, Philbey,
   Mellanby; J Vet Intern Med 2020; PLoS ONE 2015), sheep (A Macrae, Clements, Mellanby;
   Sci Rep 2016), obesity-associated glucocorticoid metabolism in horses (Morgan, Keen; Sci
   Rep 2017), and biomarkers of important diseases (Clements, Mellanby, Ryan, A Gow; Vet J

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   2020). Mellanby, A Gow, and Milne have developed novel microRNA-based diagnostics (J
   Vet Intern Med 2018) for high throughput platforms (Anal Chem 2020), resulting in spin-out of
   Vetsina Animal Diagnostics Ltd. Donadeu and Banos are working with DESTINA Genomics
   to commercialise miRNA diagnostics for mastitis, fertility and other functional traits in cattle (Sci
   Rep 2018).
  We have devised diagnostic protocols to diagnose important disorders faster and more
   accurately. Examples include development of improved diagnostics for diseases in cats by
   Gunn-Moore and Hope (Transbound Emerg Dis 2020), and in horses by Dixon (Equine Vet
   J 2018). Argyle has developed novel monoclonal antibody therapies for companion animals
   (PLoS ONE 2016) and Clements has developed novel approaches to assess gait in ducks
   and chickens (Biol Open 2016).
  Rainger, Prendergast and Schoenebeck have identified a variant of OLFML3 associated with
   glaucoma, priming the development of a genetic test to eliminate blindness (G3 2019).
   Clements and Bronsvoort have defined risk factors for limber tail (Vet Rec 2016), aided by
   our DogsLife longitudinal cohort (www.dogslife.ac.uk), and Wiener, Haskell and others have
   identified the genetics underpinning dog behaviour (Heredity 2019). Our work on the
   pathophysiology of important diseases of companion animals (e.g. by Argyle, Pang, Corcoran
   and McGorum) has revealed novel molecular understanding of infectious diseases (J Gen
   Virol 2014), metastatic spread (Sci Rep 2020) and defined insights into novel treatment
   strategies (PLoS ONE 2014).

 (5): Environmental, economic and social sciences (30 PIs)

 Critical challenge
 Responsible consumption and production, that brings benefits and resilience for rural farming
 and urban environments, communities and economy.

 Research focus
 This theme focuses on how agriculture affects, and is affected by, environment, people, society,
 and ecology. This includes addressing key issues around reducing the negative impacts of food
 production while understanding how this is impacted by food choices and governance systems.
 Central to this is understanding attitudes, perceptions and behaviours to a range of stimuli (e.g.
 climate change, animal welfare/health, water quality, food waste) and other policy instruments
 (e.g. agricultural policies, food taxation), with the aim of enhancing benefits and resilience for
 farming rural and urban environments, communities and the economy. Much of the research in
 this theme is co-developed and delivered in partnership, engaging national and international end
 users.

 Research highlights
  Research by Moran, Glenk, Barnes, Baggs, A Duncan and Revoredo-Giha has led to the
   development, adoption and uptake of sustainable agricultural technologies within food supply
   chains, including in low- and middle-income countries (e.g. Revoredo-Giha, Sustainability
   2020). For example, development and adoption of the Legume Choice decision support tool in
   sub–Saharan Africa to help inform decisions on the right crop, the right place and the right time.
   Barnes has identified attitudinal and behavioural differences in European crop growers with
   regard to the economic return of precision technology, which leads to a greater probability of
   uptake (Land Use Policy 2019).




                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Research by Rees, V Eory, Topp, Cloy, MacLeod and Moran has underpinned the
   quantification of greenhouse gas emissions from UK agriculture leading to improved UK
   emission inventory reporting (ICS F), including from previously ignored sectors such as
   fisheries (MacLeod, Sci Rep 2020; Fig 6), and the development of integrated assessment tools
   for cost-effective greenhouse gas mitigation in agriculture. These tools include AgRECalc©, an
   on-farm greenhouse gas calculator tool, that has been used to footprint >4,000 farms (ICS F),
   and the Cool Farm Tool (Hillier; J Clean Prod 2019; section 4).




   Figure 6. Quantifying greenhouse gas emissions from different sectors.
  Alexander, Barnes, McCracken, McVittie and Moran have developed frameworks for
   assessing food system resilience to global shocks. For example, viability indicators of British
   extensive hill systems post-Brexit showed the influence of physical criteria, attitudes and farm
   structural decision-making on viability status (Scott Geograph J 2017). For supply chains less
   protected by EU regulations (e.g. pig meat) collaborative multi stakeholder action has been
   shown to increase the overall resilience of the supply chain post Brexit. Also with Thomson,
   and McMorran they have predicted farm households within less favoured areas of the UK to
   be more disadvantaged post-Brexit with the removal of the CAP free trade with the EU (Land
   Use Policy 2020).
  Our research on stakeholders' perceptions of ethical issues relating to food production has
   increased understanding of how perceptions of production systems can effectively change
   consumer behaviour. For example, Akaichi and Revoredo-Giha (Brit Food J 2016) found a
   high level of price elasticity regarding animal welfare labelling of livestock products with
   consumers substituting between different types of animal friendly labels. They also showed
   that demand for livestock products with enhanced labelling attributes increased if a product
   related to multiple attributes such as sustainability (e.g. organic), enhanced animal welfare and
   nutritional profile (J Clean Prod, 2019).

 (6): Future food systems (41 PIs)

 Critical challenge
 Achieve security, equity and sustainability of the global food system, for safe, nutritious and
 sustainable diets.

 Research focus
 This theme investigates and promotes innovation in complex food systems, including appropriate
 new technologies, to deliver sustainable, healthy diets, to drive the transformation towards
 resilient, fair, ethical and sustainable food systems, and to support growth in the wider
 bioeconomy. This includes novel farming systems, optimizing use of animal genetic resources and
 feed resources to develop sustainable livestock systems, management of soil, crops and livestock
 for sustainable intensification and precision agriculture. Working with industry stakeholders, we
 explore how digital and data innovations and tools can be utilised to develop sustainability
 indicators and improve food production systems. We take 'whole chain' or 'network' approaches,
 which embrace the marketing environment within which agri-food supply chains and networks
 operate.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research highlights
  Our research in optimising the use of plant and animal genetic resources and feed resources,
    including exploring trait-function and genotype-management-environment relationships has
    led to blueprints that underpin climate-smart breeding initiatives. Findings by Baggs and
    Hopkins on plant-soil interactions (Glob Change Biol 2019) and soil microbial communities
    (Nature 2014) in response to drought and temperature changes are being applied to inform
    soil and crop management under a future climate. For livestock, Coffey and Conington have
    reported genetic correlations in relation to production efficiency in goats (J Dairy Sci 2017),
    and Wall, Banos and Conington have identified differences in potential resilience to future
    climate (J Dairy Sci 2017; BMC Genet 2019).
  Rees, Wall, Hillier, Moran and De Oliveira Silva have identified a number of sustainable
    transition paths for different farming systems to deliver net-zero carbon agriculture. These
    include local land sparing actions to achieve greenhouse gas reductions (Nat Clim Change
    2016a), global transition paths such as in Brazilian beef production (Nat Clim Change 2016b;
    ICS B) and for Chinese (Glob Change Biol 2018) and Indian (Sci Total Environ 2019)
    agriculture making the links to nutritional diets (Agric Ecosyst Environ 2017).




     Figure 7. Pen mounted cameras enable remote 3D images of live animals. Using artificial
     neural nets these images are used to predict characteristics including cold carcass weights
     (CCW) and saleable meat yields.
    Coffey, Denholm and Wall have shown how machine learning and other data-driven
     approaches can be used to predict high value traits from routine milk samples including bovine
     TB (J Dairy Sci 2020) and animal energy status (J Dairy Sci 2019a). This has potential to
     inform animal management (J Dairy Sci 2019b), and remote and animal mounted measures
     can be used to predict final carcass value of beef animals (Front Sustain Food Syst 2019; Fig.
     7; ICS C).

 1.2.2 COVID-19 research

 COVID-19 provides a vivid example of how the research capabilities in our Unit can be pulled
 together rapidly and effectively to address global challenges. More than 70 of our research staff
 have supported research tackling COVID-19, from the practical repurposing of our analytical
 laboratories to deliver >3,000 COVID tests a week (Caldow), to fundamental molecular virology,
 modelling/epidemiology and translational research. Tait-Burkard is a UK partner on a €78m
 initiative to find therapeutics for COVID-19, building on research into drugs used to treat other
 viruses. Immediate impact has come from Tait-Burkard’s input into the development of a highly
 sensitive, multiplexed RT-qPCR assay at a vastly reduced price compared to commercially

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 available products, which has been used by a local NHS hub testing facility for diagnosis. Grey
 has leveraged expertise in animal transgenics to generate a pig model for COVID-19 disease and
 treatment.

 Our diverse epidemiological modelling teams play central roles in providing the Scottish and UK
 Governments with data-informed predictions to underpin COVID-19 policy decisions. For example,
 Kao has developed an individual-based computer model of COVID-19 transmission in Scotland
 to help Health Protection Scotland better understand regional differences in risks and to plan for
 changes in control. Expertise of Corbishley and Gally in wastewater sampling has helped
 develop detection of the SARS-CoV-2 genome in sewage as a surveillance technique.
 Translational research has focused on using expertise developed during the 2009 influenza
 pandemic, Digard has been involved in testing/validating a variety of virus disinfection processes
 for SARS-CoV-2, ranging from banknotes, facemasks to whole rooms, as well as testing facemask
 efficacy. Reeves and Gunn have worked with NHS Scotland to understand the differences in
 transmission across Scotland and the potential implications of differing local management
 scenarios. Food chain analyses by Revoredo-Giha has focused on potential short- and long-term
 effects of COVID-19 on food production and supply.

 1.3 Approach to Impact

 Our knowledge exchange and commercialisation strategy aims to mobilise the knowledge
 generated from our research and deliver impact from it, translating evidence, expertise and
 experience into continuous innovation and uplift in the natural economy. We tailor our approach
 to impact for each of our key target audiences:

    Animal health/biosciences/agri-food/veterinary companies and professionals.
     Engagement via collaborative research. We have established strategic partnerships worth
     £9.4m with >30 companies across this sector, including Zoetis, Hill’s Pet Nutrition, Genus PIC,
     Cobb Vantress, Hendrix Genetics and Worldfish.
    Farm and land-based industries. Engagement via co-funded participatory research, training
     and consulting including our network of 8 veterinary surveillance centres and farm and rural
     business support services in SAC Consulting Solutions.
    Policy makers. Engagement via membership of key government committees and dedicated
     policy-relevant communications. The Rural Policy Centre issues regular reports and briefings
     and provides the secretariat for the Scottish Government Cross-Party Group on Rural Affairs.
    The public. Engagement via website and media strategies, Massive Open On-line Courses
     (MOOCS), open days, public events (e.g. Edinburgh International Science Festival), and
     displays at UK agricultural shows. Our new Charnock Bradley building provides a home to the
     EBSOC, which provides a resource for teaching high school teachers and students.
    Other scientific users. Publication of high-quality research studies in appropriate journals
     and presentation of findings at key international conferences. For genomic resources we
     generate databases, and develop improved analytical tools to enable their access and utility.

 In addition to our eleven Impact Case Studies (ICS), notable examples that demonstrate how we
 achieve impact through our strategy include:

 Control of bovine tuberculosis (bTB) using genetic approaches                  (animal       health
 companies, farm industries, scientific users, policy makers)

 Woolliams and Coffey have shown that heritable resistance of Holstein dairy cattle to
 Mycobacterium bovis involves multiple loci of small effect (BMC Genomics 2017). Further they
 demonstrated genomic selection for bTB resistance based on SNP markers to be feasible and
 unlikely to affect the specificity or sensitivity of the skin test for bTB detection (Genet Sel Evol
 2016). This led to the development of genetic evaluations for bTB risk, commercialised as the TB
 Advantage genetic index by the Agriculture & Horticulture Development Board.



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Improving egg quality                      (bioscience companies)

 Dunn has defined the origin and deposition of the cuticle in eggs (Biol Reprod 2017). Working
 closely with poultry breeders (Lohmann Tierzucht and Aviagen), Dunn has demonstrated that
 cuticle deposition improves egg biosecurity throughout the laying cycle and can be measured on
 hatching eggs without compromising embryonic development (Poult Sci 2019), with feasibility of
 genetic selection to improve egg quality and reduce losses in poultry production (Genet Sel Evol
 2019). Ongoing industry-linked research is quantifying this impact and dissecting the underlying
 genomic architecture of the trait (BMC Genomics 2020).

 BVD      eradication                          (farm industries, veterinary professionals)

 The Bovine Viral Diarrhoea (Scotland) Order 2019, monitoring inspections, and improved test
 regimes have been informed from research by Humphrey, Reeves and Gunn (e.g. Sci Rep 2018,
 2019). This has decreased disease exposure from ~40% in 2010 to ~10% in 2019, and an
 estimated increase in farm business income of £2k-£14k, or ~£20-£70 per cow, depending on
 farm type. When aggregated across the industry, we estimate that the total benefits are ~£2.4m if
 all farms with a BVD ‘not-negative’ status completely eradicated the disease from their farms.

 Longitudinal cohort study of companion animals                      (veterinary professionals, public)

 We have developed the world’s largest and longest running single breed dog cohort study. The
 health of >8,000 Labradors has been monitored for >10 years using a citizen science, owner-led
 web interfaced study design (Prev Vet Med 2015). This work by Clements, Bronsvoort and
 Schoenebeck has defined novel ways to manage and clean large cohort datasets (PLoS One
 2020; J Med Internet Res 2015), the incidence and risk factors of important diseases (Vet Rec
 2016) and has highlighted that the incidence of important disorders is much higher than was
 previously reported (Prev Vet Med 2017).

 Rural Brexit Hub               (policy makers, farm and land-based industries)

 Our close engagement with industry and policy stakeholders has led to a wide range of rapid
 research and policy analysis to inform alternative policy scenarios for food production in Scotland
 and the UK post Brexit (https://www.ruralbrexit.scot). Barnes, S Thomson, Revoredo-Giha, and
 Costa-Font studied the effect of Brexit on rural incomes, with households in less favoured areas
 predicted to be most disadvantaged (Land Use Policy, 2016 & 2020) and food supply, with demand
 for items such as fresh fruit sensitive to changes in prices and likely to drop post Brexit (J Int Food
 Agribusiness Mark, 2017).

 1.4 Open ethical research

 Open research

 Our commitment to an open approach for all our research is underpinned with a suite of tools and
 support, including the Edinburgh International Data Facility and the Digital Research Services, to
 help researchers be effective with their data before, during and after completion of a research
 project. In addition to both partners’ Institutional policies on open access (OA) (REF5a) our OA
 requirements are tracked monthly and tabled at our Unit’s management meetings, reporting 96.3%
 OA compliance between 2016 and 2020. We use pre-print servers such as bioRxiv for rapid
 dissemination of findings prior to (or during) submission to journals for peer-review. We also
 promote our open research agenda across our stakeholders with the new research findings from
 our research portal feeding into weekly communications.




                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Open data

 Our SEBI programme hosts the Livestock Data for Decisions (LD4D) open resource
 (https://www.livestockdata.org/) for cataloguing and organising livestock data to make it more
 discoverable and digestible, priming interactions between data providers and users. In addition to
 the UoE DataShare archive (REF5a) and SRUC data repository (REF5a), we generate vast
 genome and transcriptome datasets that are shared via the EMBL-EBI European Nucleotide
 Archive or NCBI Sequence Read Archive with associated metadata, and via community-specific
 resources. We deposit proteome data via the PRIDE archive and software, and underlying code
 is openly shared on GitHub for use by others and to permit interrogation.

 Where projects involve collaboration with industry, bespoke legally-binding collaboration
 agreements are negotiated that protect (wherever feasible) our ability to publish and share primary
 data. This is not always possible in relation to commercially sensitive data contributed by partners;
 however, publication is almost always permitted subject to scrutiny by the external party and
 protection of Intellectual Property (IP) where applicable. We avoid such restrictions on research
 students by protecting their IP position and need for academic freedom as projects are agreed.
 Annual assurance and mid-term evaluation of the Roslin Institute Strategic Programmes (ISPs)
 requires us to report our data management activities to the BBSRC. The RESAS programme in
 SRUC is supported by a live progress reporting system as well as annual reporting and metrics,
 and external mid programme review.

 Research ethics and integrity

 Our Institutional policies and codes of conduct (REF5a) are augmented at Unit level. Since
 REF2014 we have implemented more in-depth earlier stage scrutiny of research proposals with
 regard to: (i) required ethical approval (e.g. for licensed procedures under the Animals (Scientific
 Procedures) Act 1986, use of human tissues or studies involving veterinary patients, social
 science ethics of research engaging stakeholders) and associated licences; (ii) risk assessments
 (e.g. HSE or local consent); (iii) use or release of sensitive data; and (iv) details of resources
 required including animals and related facilities. This allows us to identify any concerns regarding
 research integrity, in particular the ethical use of animals in research, appropriate uses of human
 or veterinary samples and data, conflicts of interest, compliance with relevant regulations, potential
 misconduct, and the opportunity to decline proposals to funders on ethical grounds if appropriate.

 Our premises are regularly inspected to maintain their Home Office Certificate of Designation and
 all work covered by the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 is conducted under Home Office
 project and personal licence authority. Licensee training and competencies are regularly updated.
 All requests for animal use and study plans are scrutinised by the local Ethical Review Committee.
 This includes overseas research which is expected to comply with UK standards. For clinical
 research studies undertaken under the auspices of the Veterinary Surgeons Act, all activities are
 scrutinised by the Veterinary Ethics Research Committee. Our client consent forms and
 information sheets are regularly reviewed and updated so that there is high client engagement in
 our research.

 Since REF2014 we have made significant advances in the 3Rs, notably stem cell and organoid
 models, strategies for screening libraries of strains or mutants in pools, welfare gains via
 environmental enrichment, and humane protocols for euthanasia. We have introduced annual 3Rs
 events to promote awareness and share good practice. We promote adherence to ARRIVE
 guidelines for reporting animal research and have signed the Concordat on Openness in Animal
 Research.

 Our researchers operate under a Quality Assurance scheme compliant with the Joint Funders
 Code of Practice for Research and receive training at induction. Laboratory-based research is
 documented in indexed hard-bound notebooks counter-signed weekly, scanned on completion
 and retained for at least ten years. Electronic data are retained for the same period on Institution-
 owned, secure and resilient storage. Data are critically reviewed by the investigators via weekly

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 meetings and are subject to appropriate statistical tests to ensure that studies are adequately
 powered to justify conclusions, supported by Biomathematics & Statistics Scotland. Electronic
 data (e.g. nucleotide sequences, transcriptome or proteome datasets) are submitted to curated
 databases with associated meta-data in compliance with funder expectations and data sharing
 policies.

 1.5 Future aims

 Our research delivers high quality challenge-focussed findings to help understand and transform
 the world around us, locally and globally. Working in partnership with industry, policy and society
 our staff and students will collaborate to design, develop and deliver our underpinning strategy of
 driving real world solutions to the challenges we face. We seek to address major challenges based
 around these UN sustainable development goals:




 We have identified specific areas of new opportunities for joint activity and co-location, with the
 purpose of leveraging future investment and funding opportunities, maximising the impact of our
 research, and providing a world-leading research environment for our students and staff. We
 anticipate these areas may coalesce into centres once they achieve critical mass and sustainable
 income over the next 5-10 years.

 Epidemiology and One Health Centre

 Building on our contributions to EPIC for Scottish Government and SEBI to the benefit of low and
 middle income countries, this disease outbreak science and policy unit will provide rapid data-
 driven intelligence enabling robust and rapid disease control decision-making within the UK and
 globally.

 Centre for Aquaculture Genetics and Health

 Existing investments in research aquarium facilities, development of genotyping tools and genome
 editing technology for key aquatic species, and strategic partnerships with Worldfish and Hendrix
 Genetics, will be further enhanced to improve aquaculture breeding programmes.

 Centre for Data Driven Breeding

 In partnership with breeding companies, we will develop advanced approaches to genetic
 improvement of crops and livestock, integrating the latest genomic and data science methods.

 Centre of Dairy Innovation

 Based at our Barony Campus, this centre will support dairy industry-led research, encourage
 knowledge exchange and create innovation across the sector.

 Challenge Driven Research to drive innovation and change in the natural economy

 We will establish a virtual Challenge Driven Research Centre that breaks down traditional
 ‘boundaries’ between disciplines, academia with industry and society, and geographies. We will
 promote interdisciplinary challenge focused research and impact, in collaboration with industry
 and policy stakeholders to address the needs of the natural economy responding to the global
 climate emergency whilst producing safe and improved food and maintaining a thriving natural
 capital, and future food systems through the use of data and digital innovation.


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy

 Our strategy for enhancing strength in our themes and our future aims is centred on: (i)
 appointments of scientists who are world leading in their fields, or early career researchers (ECRs)
 on upward trajectories to be future leaders, (ii) developing careers through mentoring and
 continuous professional development within (iii) a framework of opportunity which is founded on
 the principles of equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI), support, development, health and
 wellbeing. Our strategy ensures that we have a healthy research base with the breadth, depth and
 long-term stability of skills, expertise and experience, in order to deliver our research vision,
 develop solutions to critical challenges and ensure global impact. In this way, our strategy makes
 major contributions to addressing vulnerable skills and capacities identified in cross-Council
 reviews by UKRI (e.g. https://mrc.ukri.org/documents/pdf/review-of-vulnerable-skills-and-
 capabilities/).

 Recruitment policy

 Key to our strategy is regularly reviewing our skills base, mapping this to our current and emerging
 needs, and integrating this with succession planning and recruitment. As part of this process, we
 hold regular ‘away days’ to reflect on and refresh our research strategy, assess and refine our
 short-to-medium term strategic objectives and identify gaps or vulnerabilities to inform our
 succession planning. Our strategy is to combine external recruitment of established researchers
 with development of ECRs to group leader status through competitive fellowships, and to address
 any imbalances in gender.

 Our research staff numbers have
 increased since REF2014 to
 257.23 FTE (Fig 8), through
 recruitment of 66.6 FTE new
 research leaders (48% female).
 This includes 15 new professorial
 staff to our Unit (Djikeng, Baggs,
 Raybould, A Duncan, Kao,
 Opriessnig, Hopkins, Argo, J
 Newbold, C Newbold, Foster,
 Powell,      Thakur,       Mackay,
 Holden), and new appointments to
 the Global Academy (Simm, Baggs,               Figure 8. REF1a staff profile at census date.
 A     Duncan,       Moran,     Boden,
 Raybould, Hillier, Jarvis, Alexander, Gathorne-Hardy, Shields, Jaacks, De Oliveira Silva).
 This enhances our disciplinary breadth and interdisciplinary approaches, for example in soil
 biogeochemistry, environmental modelling, epidemiology, biorefining and processing, precision
 ruminant nutrition, food safety, food policy, rural entrepreneurship and quantitative crop breeding.
 We have invested in joint appointments with other UoAs: 2 x 0.4 FTE joint academic appointments
 with UoE’s School of Geosciences, 0.7 FTE with UoE’s School of Social and Political Science,
 and 5 joint posts in One Health with UoE’s Medical School (returned to UoA1).

 2.2 Training and development

 Recognising and rewarding excellence

 We provide a positive work culture where staff are nurtured, supported, recognised and rewarded.
 Since REF2014 we have established training budgets (averaging £44k p.a.), and have introduced
 and implemented universal and simplified personal development reviews (PDR, UoE; ‘Making
 Performance Matter’, SRUC), with 100% compliance. During these, staff discuss with their line
 manager progress against agreed objectives for the previous year, target setting for the next year,

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 opportunities for their career development, and workload and balance of responsibilities. Within
 this framework, all new staff prepare objectives with their line manager as part of their probation
 period, are given up to 50% lighter administration and teaching responsibilities during the first year
 and are provided dedicated research space.

 Since REF2014 we have transformed our approach to promotions, resulting in 12 successful
 promotions to Professor, 17 to Reader, 26 to Senior Lecturer, and 8 to Senior Researcher at UoE,
 and 13 to Professor, 3 to Reader and 3 to Senior Lecturer at SRUC. We now consider all staff
 each year for their readiness for promotion and performance related pay awards, rather than
 relying on self-nomination. An annual presentation to all staff on the academic promotions and
 contribution awards processes, contains key factors for each staffing grade and information on
 special circumstances, feedback and appeals. We explain the different pathways to promotion,
 including clinical, teaching and research, provide exemplars for each, and explain the paperwork
 and timescales required for application. For academic staff this is an annual process. For support
 staff a review of grades, incremental and lump sum awards occurs biannually.

 Research leave, links and secondments

 Researchers with 3 or more years’ service can request leave to engage in study or research to
 accrue strategic and/or financial benefits to our Unit that align with our strategic aims. For example,
 a sabbatical year for Wemelsfelder at the University of Aberdeen helped in the development of
 interdisciplinary understanding of animal welfare (ICS H). We also offer the opportunity to
 undertake secondments to industry and policy bodies. We foster innovation and entrepreneurship
 through enterprise fellowships, industry and policy placements and secondments, partnership
 awards and impact accelerator/pump-priming funds, making full use of devolved funding schemes
 such as BBSRC Impact Accelerator Awards, Flexible Talent Mobility Awards, ISCF seeding
 awards, Wellcome ISSF and MRC Confidence in Concept awards. Several of our staff (e.g.
 Woolhouse, Mellanby, Farquharson, MacRae, Digard, McLachlan, Fitzgerald, Tait-
 Burkhard, Gally, Vazquez-Boland, Dallman, Wishart, Rainger, Vernimmen) benefit from One
 Health links with the Edinburgh Medical School and Biological Sciences (UoAs 1, 4 and 5),
 enabling access to facilities and related expertise.

 Career and personal development mechanisms

 A range of development opportunities are available to our staff, from Institutional level support for
 all staff, bespoke support for specific career stages, through to bespoke Unit provision. Supporting
 people and rewarding excellence is core to the SRUC People Strategy (launched 2019). As part
 of a workforce transformation plan the progression pathway in SRUC is being harmonised across
 academic job types. Our Above & Beyond Awards recognises all people working for SRUC and
 the impact they make.

 We have implemented additional support measures to help our researchers through the COVID-
 19 pandemic, including specific peer groups for staff and students on-campus and online. Since
 REF2014 we have established a Careers Development Committee for the Easter Bush campus,
 which aims to support career development through the provision of local support with
 representatives from all career stages. The group organise training events and activities, including
 a ‘grant writing course’ and an annual ‘coaching for success’ programme. We also benefit from
 training provided to UoE through the Institute for Academic Development (IAD) and participate
 in the Mentoring Connections scheme coordinated by IAD and Human Resources. We have
 introduced a range of handbooks to bring together useful information, policies and sources of
 advice for different groups on-campus, including ‘support for parents’, a ‘postgraduate student
 handbook’, and a ‘postdoc handbook’.

 2.2.1 Support for principal investigators

 In addition to the above, we offer bespoke support and development opportunities for our more
 established researchers. During the REF2021 period 12 of our staff were supported in senior

                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 leadership training, 18 on ‘first steps into leadership and management’, 2 on our ‘aspiring manager
 programme’, and 4 on ‘introduction to management’. The opportunity for selection for our ‘strategic
 leadership in research’ programme is available to staff able to demonstrate evidence of big grant
 readiness. In addition to pitching research ideas, this programme also offers wraparound support
 such as coaching, mentoring and action-based learning sets. Our Leadership Academy
 (established 2018) is a bespoke development programme designed to develop capability and
 capacity for the future. The programme based around the Insights Leading Transformational
 Change model has trained 16 new leaders. For PIs within our Unit we also provide:

       A research-mentoring scheme for clinical academics.
       An open plan physical research environment that promotes interaction amongst staff
        members.
       Joint weekly Easter Bush Research Consortium seminar series and multi-site virtual
        seminar series with invited external speakers.
       Regular ‘retreats’ to develop research strategy and ideas.
       Allocation of some of the Roslin Institute ISP funding to catalyse inter-disciplinary work
        across PIs to prime grant proposals and future ISP objectives.
       Investment of BBSRC strategic funding to protect and develop vulnerable skills and
        capacities at the Roslin Institute, including through core-funded staff supporting
        investigators, animal facilities and technology platforms. At the time of submission ~75 are
        jointly funded by BBSRC and UoE via ISPs and a Core Capability Grant totalling £32m for
        2017-2022.
       SRUC has adopted the use of the Vitae Research Development Framework within the
        annual Making Performance Matter meetings. This allows individual development actions
        to be evaluated and tailored programmes for researchers to be developed at all stages of
        their job progression. More general researcher skills events are run throughout the year,
        including skills sessions on grant development, postgraduate supervision, and data skills.
       SRUC holds a monthly meeting of research active professors to which key governmental,
        industrial and international representatives are invited to discuss current trends and
        opportunities.

 2.2.2 Support for early career researchers (ECRs)

 Initiatives to promote career development and opportunity for all ECRs in our Unit include:

       Continued recruitment of ECRs under the University of Edinburgh Scientific Academic
        Track (ESAT) scheme, underpinned by ~£2m (since REF2014) for start-up funding,
        facilities and mentoring to help individuals transition to fully independent research leaders.
       Internal funding to support staff to enrol for part-time postgraduate programmes, including
        PhD research.
       Strong formal mentoring programmes to support new members of academic staff and early
        career scientists.
       All postdoctoral fellows and early career researchers are eligible to apply for tenure track
        roles and are encouraged to develop their independent research through applying for
        minor grants, being named as co-investigators on major research projects, and supervising
        Masters and PhD students.
       A number of opportunities to support ECRs develop their early-stage translational projects
        and skills. These include funding (e.g. Wellcome Trust iTPA Springboard) and training
        opportunities (e.g. Science Entrepreneur Experience, SPARK and IGNITION).
       Publication of a clinical academic roadmap (Mellanby, Argyle; Vet Rec 2015) to help the
        veterinary profession become more successful in producing the next generation of clinician
        scientists.
       Development of a pan vet school research mentoring scheme connecting mentees with
        experienced       mentors     (https://www.vetschoolscouncil.ac.uk/research/vsc-research-
        mentoring-scheme/).


                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ECR recruitment

 The strategic recruitment of ECRs provides a strong cohort to take our Unit forward over the next
 10-15 years and ensure effective succession. As such, ECRs are an integral part of our research
 community and culture. The recruitment of independent research fellows (salary supported by
 their grant income) is a key component of our strategy (Table1).

 Table 1. Independent research fellows appointed across our Unit during the REF2021 period.
          Fellowship scheme                                    Fellows
  Chancellor’s      fellows        (SFC Clark, De Oliveira Silva, Gorjanc, Hassan, Jaacks,
  International Excellence Initiative)  Schoenebeck, Vernimmen, Lycett
  Roslin Institute                      Bean, Connelley, [Rainger], Robledo, Robert, Balic,
                                        Tait-Burkard, Diack, J Smith, Lynskey
  UoE Career Track                      Grey, Prendergast, J Stevens, Davey, Wiener,
                                        Wishart

  SRUC Challenge Fellows                 Rudman, Fuentes-Montemayor, Burns, L Novo, Li,
                                         van Munster, Gupta, Bergero
  Wellcome Trust                         Gaunt (Sir Henry Dale), Hoyle (career re-entry), Morgan
                                         (clinical research career development)

  SRUC Academic Research Fellows         Ramos-Morales, P Morrison, Sharma

  Wellcome Trust for ECAT-V              Paris, C Davidson, Madden
  UKRI Future Leaders                    Rainger

  BBSRC Discovery                        Muwonge



 Since REF2014 we have established formal tenure track schemes. The Edinburgh Scientific
 Academic Track (ESAT) provides bespoke career development training, mentoring and a
 transparent, milestone-driven pathway to achieving an open-ended UoE staff contract within 5-7
 years. This can include further fellowships such as UoE Chancellor’s fellowship, Roslin Institute
 fellowship, MRC Career Development Award, Wellcome Trust Sir Henry Dale Fellowship or
 equivalent, with open-ended employment with UoE at an appropriate level, subject to a successful
 review in the final year of the fellowship. Similarly, SRUC have made strategic investments in
 Academic Research Fellows and Challenge Fellowships to support development of the future
 Challenge Driven Research Centre.

 These initiatives have helped us to appoint 42 Fellows to our Unit since REF2014 capitalising on
 our vibrant research environment to fast-track their careers. These appointments embed capability
 in bone physiology, skeletal development, avian transgenics, livestock genomics, genetics and
 epigenetics, and pathogens and inflammation, climate change, food production, food security,
 digital innovation and growing the natural economy. In addition, Wellcome Trust support for
 ECAT-V has allowed us to offer prestigious 6-8 year awards to 12 high performing, early career
 veterinary academics across a wide range of clinical specialism. During their PhD the vet clinicians
 spend time away from speciality in world-leading research groups before returning to either
 complete postgraduate clinical training or work as a senior clinical academic. Post completion of
 clinical training and PhD, the ECAT-V lecturers receive bespoke mentoring and management of
 their clinical load to ensure that they are highly competitive for subsequent postdoctoral
 fellowships.




                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.2.3 Support for postdoctoral research fellows

 Postdoctoral research fellows are the life-blood of our Unit, and we are committed to ensuring their
 time with us is both productive and enjoyable and sets them up for a successful career. In addition
 to the above support for ECRs, we offer bespoke support for postdoctoral researchers (whether
 core- or grant-funded) to support them develop their early-stage translational projects and skills.
 These include:

       A postdoctoral committee to support and develop the postdoctoral community by
        organising activities to facilitate career development and by promoting social interaction.
        This committee is represented on our Careers Development Committee.
       Working closely with the IAD, we provide bespoke training courses on campus, for example
        ‘making the most of your postdoc - strategies for independence’. We also provide a budget
        for attending external courses.
       A postdoctoral handbook providing a welcome message, guidance on living in Edinburgh,
        working at our campuses, career development and support, knowledge exchange, and
        social life.
       An early career grants scheme for PhD students and ECRs to apply for up to £3k to develop
        their own research ideas in preparation for external grant and fellowship applications.
       A weekly post-doctoral-led seminar programme for PhD students and post-doctoral
        scientists to share their research, including weekly seminars by video across our
        campuses.
       Our clinical community have monthly Grand Rounds where internal and external speakers
        present novel research findings.
       Our Challenge Fellows hold a regular weekly seminar series to discuss shared research
        interests and funding opportunities.

 2.2.4 Support for technical and support staff

 We offer dedicated support for our 585 technical and 411 academic support staff, including career
 development and professional registration. Both Institutions have signed the Technician
 Commitment in 2017 recognising the key role technicians play in research, teaching and
 supporting      students       (https://www.ed.ac.uk/technicians/technician-commitment).       This
 Commitment aims to support technicians to gain skills and recognition through registration with
 professional bodies, accreditation and training courses, enhance the visibility of technicians and
 to offer documented career pathways with clear processes for grading and progression. We
 encourage working across themes and groups to enhance the repertoire of skills that technicians
 acquire and their profile. Where technicians have contributed to the design, execution and analysis
 of research our expectation, in accordance with our Fair Publication Policy, is that they are co-
 authors of resulting publications.

 2.3 Research students

 Our high-quality research training environment is home to a vibrant postgraduate student
 community. Since REF2014, our Unit has registered 318 postgraduate research students (Fig. 9),
 of whom 53 were co-supervised between UoE (this Unit) and SRUC staff. The international draw
 of our programmes is evidenced by 35.8% of our registered postgraduate students being from
 outside the UK, from 54 countries, and 25.2% from outside Europe.




                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Funding and recruitment initiatives

 Since REF2014 we have initiated 7 new
 funding streams and have enhanced the
 training and support available. External
 funding is mainly through doctoral training
 programmes (DTPs) from UKRI (UoE led
 BBSRC EASTBIO, MRC Precision
 Medicine, ESRC SGSSS and NERC E4),
 five Wellcome Trust programmes (Hosts,
 Pathogens and Global Health; Integrative
 Cell Mechanisms; One Health Models of
 Disease: Science, Ethics and Society;
 Translational Neuroscience; and for
 clinicians ECAT-V) and charities and
 other bodies (e.g. the Dogs Trust, Darwin
 Trust, BPEX, Pfizer, HBLB, ScotBeef and
 the Horse Trust). We have joint PhD
 programmes with the Pirbright Institute
 and with the Universities of Glasgow,
 Stirling, Aberdeen and Leiden, and co-
 supervision with other Institutes (e.g. the
 James Hutton Institute). Studentships are
 often match-funded by UoE or SRUC. We
 are also successful in attracting industry    Figure 9. Registered postgraduate research
 funding, and typically ~10% of our            students, new intake per year.
 students are supported by industry
 partnerships.

 International students are mostly funded on competitive scholarships from their country of origin.
 We also capitalise on our engagement with international partners, for example the National
 Institute for Animal Biotechnology in India. Across the REF2021 period we have offered additional
 support to 20 international students through UoE’s Global Research Scholarships, the Principal’s
 Career Development Scholarships that are focused on career development opportunities
 (undergraduate teaching, entrepreneurship, public engagement), as well as initiatives such as the
 BBSRC Newton Fund partnership scheme. This diversity of funding enables us to ensure that all
 PhD students have a research budget of at least £18k for the duration of their studentship.

 Our recruitment activities are founded on our EDI policies. All PhD projects are advertised on our
 Institution websites, FindaPhD.com, DTP-specific websites and through Learned Societies
 communications. We advertise more projects than we have places to fund, making all calls
 competitive. All projects and student selections are reviewed by the Postgraduate Committee.
 We also ensure that projects will provide appropriate training, sufficient funds are available, and
 that supervisors receive EDI training and attend a supervisor training event every 5 years. We
 ensure that all shortlisting and interview panels have male and female representation, and
 include at least one PhD Division convener. It is mandatory for all involved in selection and
 recruitment to have up to date training in recruitment and selection, and in unconscious bias.

 Support and monitoring

 Each student is affiliated to a research Division/Department with its own postgraduate research
 convenor, who assists the Postgraduate Director (Farquharson), and who are the primary
 contact for students requiring advice or guidance. Each postgraduate student has a minimum of
 two supervisors and a thesis committee, comprising supervisors, an external advisor and an
 independent chair. Formal reports are presented to the thesis committee at 10 weeks, 9 months,
 and then annually until completion. We offer flexibility in our programmes, for example, part-time

                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 MReS and PhD programmes for those unable to study full-time, the opportunity for staff to
 undertake PhD study, and PhD by publication. All SRUC students within our Unit are registered
 with UoE, and in 2020 SRUC Doctoral Colleges were established to bring together postgraduate
 communities (students and supervisors) across different campuses.

 Our Postgraduate Support and Advisory Committee, chaired by the Deputy Postgraduate
 Director (J Stevens), gives consideration to individual student and supervisor needs and
 circumstances. New initiatives arising from this committee include guidance on mental health
 and wellbeing. The success and vibrancy of our postgraduate programmes and student support
 is evident from the latest Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES 2019) in which
 85.7% of our students reported overall satisfaction. We host numerous community-building
 activities, for example a residential induction event held at UoE’s Firbush Outdoor Activities
 Centre in Perthshire. In addition, the Easter Bush Society organises social events, external
 speakers and provides opportunities for students to practice presentations and discuss their
 research in an informal environment.

 Skills development and career preparation

 Our aim is to equip students with the funding, resources, training, supervision and career
 guidance to complete innovative, high quality research, to submit their thesis within four years
 and assist them into the next stage of their careers within the veterinary and food system sectors.
 Career choices are varied, with many pursuing careers outside academia that require bioscience
 and computational skills, and we aim to develop and train highly skilled, adaptable, resilient and
 employable postgraduates. Initiatives include:

  Experience and bespoke training in teaching, data science, entrepreneurship and public
   engagement activities, alongside our research staff, with dedicated time (180 hrs p.a.) for this
   allocated within the UoE’s Principal’s Career Development Scholarships.
  Experience of supervision and project management through our talent pipeline to
   postgraduate research, for example a summer research student programme for ~30 3rd year
   veterinary students, and 15-20 honours project students p.a.
  Research project embedded as part of the clinical speciality training of our clinical residents.
   These students can also undertake a Masters degree by research (MRes).
  Students with SRUC are eligible to receive dedicated training in statistical and bioinformatics
   techniques from Biomathematics and Statistics Scotland as part of SRUC’s engagements
   with the RESAS programme.

 Each student has a training needs assessment at the start of their study, which is refreshed at
 each thesis committee reporting stage. Our student induction includes guidance about internal
 training events and courses offered free by the IAD, which integrates transferrable and scientific
 skills as outlined in the Vitae Researcher Development framework. Within the suite of courses
 offered by IAD are courses aimed at postgraduate research students.

 Our students have many opportunities to present their work to internal and external audiences,
 and a fund of £500 for conference attendance is available to each student. Our annual
 postgraduate research days are devoted to posters and oral presentations for all postgraduate
 students, including clinical residents. These conclude with the Charnock Bradley Lecture, given
 by an eminent researcher, and there are cash prizes of more than £1,500 in total awarded to the
 three best talks and posters. In addition, our students have also presented at meetings of BBSRC
 Institutes, and SRUC-based students take part in an inter-Institute competition among the
 Scottish Government Main Research Providers, culminating in the Science for Life Lecture.

  2.4 Equality, diversity and inclusion

 We are committed to EDI and eliminating discrimination and prejudice in all our business to foster
 a more diverse and inclusive Unit. This has resulted in measurable positive change since
 REF2014. Most notably, since 2014 we have:

                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Achieved Athena SWAN Gold status for the Roslin Institute (2017), and Athena SWAN
    Silver status for the R(D)SVS (2018). Our EDI team received the UoE Principal’s Medal for
    Exceptional Service in 2018. In 2019 the Easter Bush Campus was awarded silver for
    Investors in Young People demonstrating our commitment to providing opportunities and
    experience to local youth within our community. SRUC is working towards recognition of its
    efforts in promoting EDI across the organisation and with stakeholders, including
    membership of the Athena SWAN charter with imminent application for bronze status. These
    activities are helping us address gender balance (female staff currently comprise 40.2% of
    our Unit), and increase the proportion of black and ethnic minority (BME) staff (Staff surveys
    2020: UoE 6.9% of staff, 85% responders; SRUC 17.1% of staff, 95% responders). Since
    REF2014 13 of our female staff have participated in Aurora leadership development.
   Established an Easter Bush Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Group (EB-EDI) with convenors
    from across the campus and representing academic, professional services staff and
    postgraduate students. EB-EDI organise a range of events and training, for example LGBT-
    STEM Day, monthly Rainbow Cake Socials, mental health first aid training, mental health
    awareness training, and “Where do you draw the line” training aimed at highlighting and
    addressing bullying and harassment.
   Joined Stonewall Diversity Champions, a leading employer’s programme, and community
    of >750 employers, that ensure all LGBTQI+ staff are accepted without exception in the
    workplace, and help to create inclusive, accepting environments. UoE has increased its
    ranking by 200 places in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index in the past 4 years (ranked
    121st in 2019, up from 321st in 2015).
   Established the Easter Bush Careers Development Committee to support and develop
    good practice, particularly with regard to recruitment and development of academic and
    postdoctoral research staff.
   Opened an on-site nursery (section 3), a gym (2018), and facilities for cyclists, walkers and
    runners on our campuses.
   Embedded policies to promote EDI, including expectations for representation of women and
    minority groups on committees, interview panels, panels reviewing applications for devolved
    research funds, and amongst our seminar speakers and at academic events. For example,
    we ensure that 50% of our seminar programme speakers are women.
   Introduced mandatory training for all staff in equality and diversity, unconscious bias, and
    bullying and harassment.
   Developed a Coaching for Success programme in collaboration with EQUATE Scotland, a
    Scottish Government organisation that supports women in STEM careers. Since it started in
    2017 we have supported an average of 12 staff each year for 12 sessions each, with 3
    coaches assigned to the programme.
   Established a Rainbow Staff Network (2020) with the aim of providing mutual support,
    encouragement and mentoring to LGBTQI+ staff and raise the visibility of LGBTQI+ issues.
    This is part of our staff engagement and working with senior management to create a diverse
    and inclusive working environment.
   Hosted a reception at the Scottish Parliament to celebrate and extend engagement with our
    international work on advancing gender equality in science.

  Our approach toward flexible working has helped enable 11.9% (UoE) and 33.0% (SRUC) of
  staff and 9% of research students in our Unit to work part-time or flexibly across the REF2021
  period. Since REF2014 we have embedded a suite of equality, diversity and family-friendly
  policies, flexible and part-time working, and carer’s grants (up to £400) that are linked to our
  training programme and to facilitate travel and conference attendance. Remote working is
  encouraged, where helpful, and facilitated by seamless access to University computer servers
  via the Virtual Private Network. We take a sympathetic approach to requests for extended
  periods of paid carers leave, bereavement leave and leave for other exceptional circumstances,
  with provision well in excess of statutory entitlements, working with staff to reallocate their work,
  negotiate extensions to research grants and enable phased returns to work.



                                                                                                Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  We are committed to removing barriers to employment for disabled people and provide services
  to support the needs of disabled staff and students, to develop and perform to their full potential.
  In addition to provision of reasonable adjustments where required, we provide: assistive
  technology (software and hardware); disabled parking on all our campuses; and office and lab
  space suitable for any individual needs. The UoE disabled staff network provides a confidential
  environment to share experiences, best practice, gather ideas on disability issues, inform the
  UoE approach to creating an inclusive and supportive culture, and raise the profile of disabled
  people and disability within UoE and beyond.

  We have also established the Easter Bush Youth Forum; an initiative in partnership with
  Investors in People and the Scottish Government, representing all campus staff aged 16-28,
  including apprentices, PhD students and veterinary nurses, with the aim of easing the transition
  from school or University to a career at Easter Bush. This ensures every new start has a ‘buddy’,
  improves awareness of avenues for help and training, and creates a platform for younger staff
  to express their views.

  Supporting staff in their career pathways

  We provide support and career development opportunities for researchers at every stage of
  their careers (see above), but placing special emphasis on important transitional stages,
  promotions, new appointees and ECRs. Since REF2014 we have implemented a range of focus
  groups and communication forums, for example the postdoctoral society and committee, and
  facilitate access to wider resources such as the UoE Athena SWAN network and EQUATE
  Scotland. To embed EDI in career pathways we have introduced new initiatives since REF2014,
  including:

     Financial support for additional childcare expenses (e.g. care provider costs, travel
      expenses of care provider) enabling a researcher to attend work-related conferences and
      training events. This is a biannual call for applications of max value £400 per applicant.
     We advertise opportunities such as vacant/new roles or committee membership to all staff,
      and we adhere to our EDI policy in all our internal and external recruitment processes,
      actively encouraging underrepresented groups to apply.
     We self-monitor all our committees to ensure they are gender diverse.
     We review recommendations for promotion or pay awards for evidence of gender or ethnic
      imbalance, or bias against part-time staff, at each stage of the process.

  REF submission and codes of practice

  We adopted the respective REF2021 Codes of Practice of the UoE and SRUC (REF5a),
  underpinned by six guiding principles: transparency, consistency, accountability, inclusivity,
  quality and application for the purposes of REF2021. Both Institutions shared their respective
  Codes of Practice, supported with a Memorandum of Understanding and Data Sharing
  Agreement. We agreed a common set of criteria and selection process that adhered to both.
  Information about any staff circumstances was not shared.

  In line with our Codes of Practice, we adopted an inclusive approach to defining ‘independent
  researcher’, and embraced the decision to return 100% of eligible academic staff, which builds
  on our inclusive submission to REF2014 (90% of eligible staff). We adopted a rigorous, fair and
  transparent approach to selecting outputs, fully accounting for staff special circumstances which
  have affected their research activity. The process took full account of EDI considerations,
  building in unconscious bias and EDI training. We also set up an independent EDI group to
  review the distribution of outputs across staff by gender and career stage (noting that we were
  unable to access accurate data on other protected characteristics because of the voluntary
  nature of the information and constraints to updating personal details). The result of this review
  demonstrates that 29% of outputs submitted are authored/co-authored by female staff (who
  comprise 40.2% of our staff); 24.2% by ECR/Lecturer staff/Senior Research Fellow (36.9% of
  our staff). Overall, 70.1% of staff contributed 2 or more outputs. Output nomination was

                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  undertaken as part of our commitment to the San Francisco Declaration for improving how
  research is assessed (DORA), and our published principles on use of quantitative data and
  metrics on research activity.




 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 Strategic investments from the BBSRC and Scottish Government

 Our research benefits from BBSRC strategic investment in the Roslin Institute and Scottish
 Government investment in SRUC via RESAS. These investments include five-year funding cycles
 for specific research programmes and for underpinning infrastructure and expertise.

 UKRI strategic investment at the Roslin Institute of £52.0m spanned 2012-2017 (five Institute
 Strategic Programmes and 2 National Capability Grants) and 2017-2022 (three Institute Strategic
 Programmes, a Core Capability Grant and transitional funds) to sustain:

 (i) The running costs (staff, utilities, consumables) of our large animal research facilities
 (mammalian, avian and aquaculture species) and other research infrastructure (bio imaging,
 genome sequencing, proteomics and metabolomics; research administration).

 (ii) Institute Strategic Programmes (ISPs) that underpin specific research activities by contributing
 to academic and research staff salaries, and providing modest support for research consumables
 and pump-priming new research activities.

 Scottish Government supports SRUC through income of £34.8m (since REF2014) for: delivery of
 the Environment, Agriculture and Food strategy research programme; maintenance of key
 underpinning capacity, including the Langhill Dairy Herd; and participation in centres of expertise
 in Animal Disease Outbreaks (EPIC; also with UoE), Plant Health and ClimateXChange (section
 4).

 Strategy for generating income

 During the REF2021 period, we have purposely shifted our focus from discipline-based research
 towards solutions that align to more immediate challenges in society and for policy agenda for the
 next two decades. Our joint strategy to achieve this was to:

  Foster a vibrant, collaborative research community, equipped with the time, resources and
   scientific query to strengthen individual and collective interdisciplinary research portfolios.
  Actively support diversification in our funding portfolio, enabling a range of income from
   individual fellowships to large multidisciplinary awards.
  Adopt flexibility to align with the changing nature of critical challenges, and in response to the
   funding environment shift towards challenge-led research and impact.
  Evolve and enhance our strategic partnerships and investment in world-leading infrastructure
   and facilities.

 Underpinning this strategy are mechanisms to promote research excellence. For example, we
 host core events, including workshops (e.g. BBSRC Cross Institute workshop on predictive
 breeding in 2018) and research think tanks and retreats (typically focused on imminent funding
 initiatives), host seminars and symposia (formal and informal) and journal clubs, inviting
 internationally renowned scientific leads to meet with our researchers and discuss current and
 future collaborations. Edinburgh Innovations Ltd (section 4) has embedded business development
 and legal executives at Easter Bush to facilitate our relationships with commercial partners and

                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 external collaborators. SAC Commercial Ltd enhance SRUC’s commercially related activities in
 linking research to end user practices.

 Current income and examples of success




   Figure 10. Total research income by HESA category, 2013/14 to 2019/20.

 The success of our strategy is evidenced by the magnitude and diversity of our funding sources,
 reflecting the multidisciplinary and complex nature of the critical challenges we seek to address.
 Our combined Unit income (excluding internal investment or infrastructure) has seen a 42.8%
 increase since REF2014 from £38.8m in 2013/2014 to an average of £51.4m p.a. (total £359.9m
 during the REF2021 period; Fig 10). This is mainly due to successes in (i) competitively awarded
 grants from UKRI, UK governments, the EU, and UK (Table 2), (ii) research contracts and
 partnerships with commercial entities, and (iii) the above strategic funds, competitively awarded
 on a five year cycle, from the BBSRC to the Roslin Institute and from the Scottish Government to
 SRUC. This has been supplemented with capital awards from UKRI and UK and Scottish
 Governments. The increase in competitive funding is also a reflection of SRUC’s eligibility for UKRI
 funding since 2011 and throughout this REF period. Unit-wide funding successes since REF2014
 also include our Doctoral Training Partnerships: renewal of the BBSRC EASTBIO and NERC
 E3/E4 DTPs; award of the ESRC SGSSS DTP; two cycles of the Wellcome Hosts, Pathogens and
 Global Health DTP; and a £4.5m Wellcome One Health Models of Disease DTP.

 Table 2: Examples of personal funding successes >£0.5m, from across our Unit.




                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                              Funded Research >£0.5m
  BBSRC          Hickey £1.2m, precision breeding of broilers. Archibald, £1.9m,
                 functional annotation of animal genomes. Hickey £746k pig muscle
                 causal variation. Hume £685k transcriptome atlas for Indian buffalo.
                 Roehe, M Watson £644k genetic architecture of rumen microbiome.
                 Banos £563k biomarkers of dairy cow fitness and longevity. Wall,
                 Hickey £613k future strategies for dairy cattle breeding.

                 Sang £628k, transgenic reporters for avian development. Turner,
                 £558k, aggression in pigs.

                 Stevens £1.1m (sLoLa), glycoconjugate veterinary vaccines. Digard
                 £1.1m, avian influenza viruses. Tait-Burkard, £787k porcine
                 reproductive & respiratory syndrome.

  UKRI GCRF, Rainger £1.5m, Future Leaders Fellowship, eye development in avian
  Newton  & models
  Future
  Leaders    Connelley £2.0m, coordination of International Veterinary
             Vaccinology Network.

                 Hillier, Rees £1.3m, south Asian nitrogen hub. Baggs £780k,
                 sustainability indicators for maize breeding. Baggs, A Duncan,
                 Barnes £1.7m decision support for legume selection in Sub-Saharan
                 Africa. Baggs, Rees, Topp £736k N-CIRCLE virtual joint centre.
  Innovate UK    Hickey £1.2m, next-generation pig breeding. Conington £682k
                 genomic improvement for novel traits in goats. Coffey £509k
                 genomics for beef carcass traits. Lambe, Conington, Coffey £568k
                 breeding for more taste, less waste in lamb.

                 Wall £860k, data-driven approaches for product quality in beef
                 production chains.


  EU             Series of EU-funded projects on the functional annotation of animal
                 genomes, including AQUA-FAANG (€835k, R Houston, Macqueen),
                 and GENE-SWitCH (€905, Clark, M Watson, Archibald).
                 Conington, D Wilson €951k, small ruminants breeding for efficiency
                 and resilience.

                 Morgan-Davies, €964k, TECHCARE precision technology for welfare
                 in small ruminant farming.
  Wellcome       Gaunt £1.0m Sir Henry Dale fellowship, role of dinucleotide bias in
  Trust          viral replication and pathogenesis. Fitzgerald £1.3m, Bacterial host
                 adaptation to combat infectious disease.
  Department     Diack £1.1m, sub-clinical vCJD infection; £888k pre-clinical vCJD
  of Health      infectivity.

  DEFRA          Wall £1.1m, beef genetic improvement platform for feed efficiency.

                 Kao £773k, epidemiology of Mycobacterium bovis transmission.




                                                                                        Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Food             Gally £2.1m, E. coli O157 in cattle and prediction of zoonotic risk.
  Standards        Tongue £597k, E. coli O157 super shedding in cattle.
  Scotland
  Charities        >£500k from Dogs Trust e.g. Clements, Bronsvoort Dogslife –
                   factors associated with health and longevity.


 Industry and commercial income

 We have benefited from a series of partnerships with major companies, including Genus PIC
 (£1.7m), Cobb-Vantress (£2.2m), Hendrix-Genetics (£277k), Zoetis (£1.0m), Monsanto (£622k),
 Hill’s Pet Nutrition (£598k), Bayer Crop Science and KWS (£89k), encompassing research on
 crops, pigs, poultry, beef cattle, aquatic species and companion animals, and including animal
 health companies (vaccines, diagnostics, biologicals). Such collaborative research with industry
 has made extensive use of leveraging schemes including £470k in industrial studentships, £466k
 industry contribution to BBSRC funding (e.g. LINK, IPA), and £23.8m from Innovate UK, providing
 clear paths to implement our findings and to promote understanding of end-user needs among
 researchers. Edinburgh Genomics has contributed to the award of £78.9m research income,
 including IPAs, CASE and Innovate UK, as well as direct income from industry.

 Since 2014 this income stream has been bolstered by the establishment of the Roslin Innovation
 Centre (section 4) which has provided us with numerous opportunities to interact with Agri-Tech
 SMEs, with early success in winning partnering awards via the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund.
 In its first 3 years of operation Roslin Technologies Ltd has provided both direct award of £270k
 to our researchers, leverage of an additional £213k from BBSRC IAA and EASTBIO DTP
 studentships, and facilitated 10 consultancies (totalling £70k). For example, they have
 directly invested £198k in vaccines for African trypanomiasis in cattle, catalysed further
 by BBSRC IAA support (Grey, L Morisson), and are progressing the commercial
 development phase of a cattle E. coli 0137:H7 vaccine to prevent food-borne illness in
 humans (Gally).

 We have also secured substantial funds to catalyse research with potential for impact, for example
 via a BBSRC Impact Accelerator Award (£600k), Flexible Talent Mobility Awards (£320k), Agri-
 Tech Catalyst seeding awards (£272k), Wellcome Institute Strategic Support Fund and
 Institutional Translational Partnership Awards (shared across other UoE UoAs), and internal
 pump-priming schemes via BBSRC strategic funding. Such schemes foster enthusiasm among
 researchers to achieve impact and an entrepreneurial culture. For example, we recently launched
 a £400k Food & Agriculture Science Transformer (FAST) in partnership between Deep Science
 Ventures to invest in innovative ideas and people toward new spin-out companies and products.

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

 Since REF2014 we have invested £152m in our world-class infrastructure and research facilities
 (Fig 11) to realise our objective to create a centre of excellence of global relevance to veterinary
 and agricultural research, which consolidated and expanded our resources and synergies within
 our Unit and with our local partners within the Easter Bush Research Consortium and at our sites
 across Scotland.




                                                                                             Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Operational infrastructure: buildings and estates




     Figure 11. Locations of key investments during the REF2021 period.

 Veterinary teaching, research and clinical services are centred in the Veterinary Teaching
 Building at the heart of the Easter Bush campus. Animal bioscience on the Easter Bush campus
 is focused in the UoE/SRUC shared Roslin Institute Building, with clinical research supported
 by the Hospital for Small Animals, the Riddell-Swan Veterinary Cancer Centre and Farm
 Animal Services (including practice and hospital), the Biological Research Facility for small
 laboratory animals and the National Avian Research Facility.

 Key operational investments since REF2014

     The Charnock Bradley Building opened in 2018 (£31m; £5m BBSRC, £10m Scottish
      Government, £16m UoE) that houses the Roslin Innovation Centre, the Easter Bush
      Science Outreach Centre, the campus gym and facilities for cyclists.
     The Easter Bush Energy Centre opened in 2017 (£12.9m, City Deal) enabling the campus
      to produce its own low-carbon energy (additional 2,000 tonnes p.a.) to meet the demands of
      the campus and advanced computing facility.
     The Easter Bush Solar Farm (£3.2m, SFC Renewal Energy and Low Carbon Options) to
      supplement power to the Energy Centre, and make the Easter Bush campus carbon neutral.
     A nursery at Easter Bush opened in 2018 (£2.8m from UoE) for children of staff and students,
      opened in 2018 and operated by Arcadia, provides an example of our continuing investment
      in improving facilities for staff/student parents.
     Infrastructure to support the campus (£8.8m, UoE), including the HV ring required to
      connect the energy centre to all the campus, SUDS pond extension, and essential supporting
      infrastructure (paths and campus ring road).
     Advanced Computing Facility extension (£28.7m, City Deal) for UoE, totalling a £43m
      investment when including equipment and software.
     Langhill Farm Silage Complex (£0.9m UoE) essential replacement to maintain the dairy
      farm at Langhill, used for both teaching and research.

 In addition, our research benefits from our Unit’s nine commercial farms in the Easter Bush
 vicinity, and >4,000 hectares of farm estates in the UK. This includes: dairy herds near Edinburgh
 (Langhill) and Dumfries (Crichton and Barony); sheep flocks near Easter Bush (Dryden, Easter

                                                                                           Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bush, Woodhouselee, Castlelaw), the West Highlands (Kirkton) and Dumfries (Barony); pig and
 beef research facilities at Easter Howgate, adjacent to the Bush Estate; commercial pig facility for
 industry related research in West Lothian (Oatridge); and agronomy and crop rotation trial sites in
 Edinburgh and Aberdeen. Over half of our farm estate is devoted to farming systems research
 platforms. These include extensive time series databases covering animal and land based
 activities dating back up to 50 years. We also have significant facilities for poultry research,
 including the BBSRC-sponsored National Avian Research Facility at Easter Bush with separate
 conventional and specified pathogen-free buildings and the Allermuir Avian Innovation and Skills
 Centre the UK’s largest facility dedicated to improving avian nutrition, health and welfare capable
 of innovative studies under near-commercial conditions with the intention of helping to bridge the
 gap between research and poultry businesses.

 Key research investments

 Since REF2014, we have resourced our research activities with £52m for infrastructure, facilities
 and organisation of our research to foster and build our synergies that increase the quality and
 quantity of our research. Most notably we have established:

  The Equine Diagnostic, Surgical and Critical Care Unit opened in 2018 (£3.7m; £3.5m UoE,
   £0.2m donations). This unit extends our clinical and research strengths in equine medicine,
   and houses examination spaces, general and orthopaedic surgical theatres with adjacent
   induction and recovery boxes, a standing surgery suite, and a critical care unit, with 24-hour
   video monitoring and an adjacent laboratory.
  The Allermuir Avian Innovation and Skills Centre opened in 2019 on the Easter Bush
   campus (£5.4m, SRUC and the Centre for Innovation Excellence in Livestock, CIEL). This
   is the UK’s largest facility working to improve avian nutrition, health and welfare. By trialling
   innovative ideas under near-commercial conditions, the Centre is helping to bridge the gap
   between research and business. The facilities, supported by Innovate UK through CIEL,
   include space for up to 5,800 broiler chickens, a multi-purpose poultry house for more than
   1,300 laying hens, and four smaller rooms for up to 960 broilers.
  The Large Animal Research and Imaging Facility (LARIF) opened in 2020 (£25m; £11m
   CIEL, £12m UoE, £2m Agri-Epi). This provides exceptional imaging, surgical, gene editing and
   isolation facilities, supporting scientific research into the health and wellbeing of animals such
   as sheep, pig, cattle and horses. This includes advanced imaging technologies such as a large
   bore MRI scanner (additional £4.6m) suitable for large animal research, two full-sized operating
   and recovery suites, critical care, facilities for production of genetically modified and genome
   edited animals, and a containment suite for work with pathogens. LARIF houses the Wellcome
   Critical Care Laboratory for Large Animals, an experimental intensive care facility for large
   animals established in 2014 (£0.6m capital, Wellcome Trust), containing CT (£468k Wellcome
   Trust) and C-ARM (UoE supported) scanners. The local node of Agri-EPI, the Innovate UK
   Agricultural Engineering Precision Innovation Centre, occupies purpose built space
   immediately adjacent to LARIF.
  An Aquaculture Genetics Research Facility (freshwater aquaculture) at Easter Bush (£1m
   BBSRC and Agri-EPI). This is equipped with a hatchery and grow out room, and a disease
   challenge room, allowing us to conduct research on priority infectious diseases of aquaculture
   species (cold and warm water fish), including facilities for genome modification and
   experimental pathogen challenge.
  An advanced mobile phenotyping facility for livestock research (£2.7m, SRUC and CIEL
   funded), which includes a mobile CT scanner, based at Easter Bush, for high-resolution
   assessment of sheep and pig carcass or live animal body composition, and the Taste and
   Sensory Testing Environment - a portable facility equipped with imaging and product quality
   testing technologies.
  The Veterinary and Analytical Laboratory at Pentland Science Park, near the Easter Bush
   campus (£1.2m SFC Financial Transaction Programme), housing molecular biology, serology,
   parasitology, histopathology, bacteriology and biochemistry laboratories.
  Edinburgh Genetic Evaluation Services (EGENES) (£1.4m, co-funded by SRUC and CIEL),
   a complete genomic evaluation and delivery system for livestock species based at Easter Bush.

                                                                                             Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     This investment in hardware and software helps EGENES deliver premium products from
     profitable, sustainable farming systems for commercial customers.
    A Biorefining and Bioprocessing Facility (£130k, SRUC) to explore new products from
     biomass, co-located with our Dairy Innovation Centre.
    A Rural Veterinary Hub in Inverness (£4m from the European Regional Development Fund
     Scotland Programme, £2.7m SRUC). The project is led by Highlands and Islands Enterprise
     and SRUC to support cutting-edge facilities for disease surveillance.
    £750k for facilities to record sheep feed intake, with a mobile facility to allow for precision
     assessment of individual sheep, and a £500k redevelopment of the High Welfare Sow Unit
     for studying sow and piglet behaviour and performance.
    New infrastructure and facilities for the Hospital for Small Animals amounting to >£1m
     improvement in capacity to undertake research, including 1.5T MRI and 64 slice computed
     tomography (CT) scanners, a linear accelerator, an endoscopy suite, a physiotherapy centre,
     a radiotherapy unit, consulting rooms and a revamped ICU facility.

 In addition, we have continued to invest in our research lines and datasets, for example:
  Maintenance of the Langhill selection lines of dairy cattle (£159k p.a. Scottish Government).
     This is a unique international resource for dairy cattle genetics, providing data related to milk
     yields, health, fertility, welfare standards and dairy farming’s impact on climate change. The
     associated database has supported >£1.8m (2019/20) research in (i) biomarkers and
     phenotype predictors (ii) systems analysis/economics. (iii) genetic and genomic research and
     tools development and (iv) grassland and forage management.
  Development of novel edited and transgenic avian lines, and provision of other research lines
     (e.g. inbred specified pathogen-free chickens) via the National Avian Research Facility
     (BBSRC National Capability £1.2m, 2012-2017; and continued within BBSRC Core Capability
     £1.2m 2017-2022).
  Novel transgenic mice expressing human, bovine and ovine PrP used for the strain typing of
     prions and assessment of their zoonotic risk, supported with investment from BBSRC ISP
     (£2.9m 2012-2017), and Department of Health (£3.5m).
  Datasets on the sequence, expression, regulation and functional annotation of farm animal
     genomes, with £0.9m investment from BBSRC (2012-2017) for the ARK Genomics Centre
     for Comparative & Functional Genomics and a further £1.9m from BBSRC for computing
     infrastructure to act as the data coordination centre for the Functional Annotation of Animal
     Genomes (FAANG) consortium, and sustained by EU funding >€2m (e.g. GENE-SWitCH,
     Ovine FAANG, AQUA-FAANG).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations

 Support for interdisciplinary research and partnerships

 Our challenge focus and theme structure are underpinned with strengthened existing, and new,
 strategic partnerships at regional, national and global levels, supported with funding from Scottish
 and UK Governments, industry and philanthropy, in addition to our Institutional investments. Our
 most notable new partnerships since 2014 include:

     The Centre for Tropical Livestock Genetics & Health (CTLGH; Djikeng, director); a
      partnership with the International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI; Nairobi and Addis
      Ababa) established in 2015 ($16m USD from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, $5.3m
      USD from the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office). CTLGH seeks to mobilise
      advances in animal genetics, genomics, breeding and reproductive technology to drive
      genetic gain in farmed animals indigenous to low- and middle-income countries, mostly in
      sub-Saharan Africa. CTLGH has since leveraged significant further funding, including £3.8m
      from DfID, which is managed through the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.



                                                                                              Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Supporting Evidence-Based Interventions (SEBI; Peters, director) funded by the Bill &
     Melinda Gates Foundation ($10.9m USD since 2016), harnesses data on livestock
     productivity, diseases and interventions to inform evidence-based decisions for animal
     farmers in low- and middle-income countries. SEBI work with a range of partners including
     CSIRO, ILRI, the Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology, LTS
     International and the Universities of Glasgow, Addis Ababa, Penn State, Peradeniya Sri
     Lanka and Ilorin Nigeria.
    The Global Academy of Agriculture & Food Security (Simm, director), launched in 2018
     with £38m investment, provides an interdisciplinary hub of research, education and consulting
     expertise. It brings together researchers and educators from across our Unit, UoE (an
     additional 32 associate members), and national and international partnerships. Activity is
     aligned around agri-food systems innovation, One Health and data driven innovation.
    The Centre for Innovation Excellence in Livestock (CIEL) brings our Unit together with 10
     other academic institutions and >50 industry partners spanning all aspects of livestock
     production and supply with an associated infrastructural investment (section 3).
    The Agricultural Engineering Precision Innovation Centre (Agri-EPI) focuses on
     research, development and demonstration of precision agriculture and engineering solutions
     for the livestock, arable, horticulture and aquaculture sectors, with investments supporting
     enhanced phenotyping in many of our farm animal and aquaculture facilities.
    Agrimetrics, an Agri-Tech Centre helping to provide access to linked-data, infrastructure and
     expert organisations and researchers to solve global food and environmental challenges. This
     is a partnership with NIAB, Rothamsted Research, the University of Reading, Airbus and
     Microsoft, and is part of Microsoft's prestigious AI for Earth programme. Helping to link
     industry partners to share and use data is a key activity, for example we founded Vetnomics,
     to update vets on the latest developments in data driven breeding.
    Shanghai Jiao Tong University – UoE One Health Centre (Simm, co-director) launched in
     2020 with the shared vision of creating an internationally-leading research, education and
     design centre and think tank on One Health policy and practice to enhance human, animal
     and environmental health, and wellbeing, in support of sustainable development. This
     includes financial support from Shanghai Jiao Tong University for research projects, and
     targeted intended support from Chinese national and regional governments.
    Collaboration between Teagasc and SRUC focussed around environmental, consumer and
     economic challenges facing pasture-based livestock systems. Together we work with
     academic and commercial partners to identify routes to the development of sustainable and
     resilient pasture-based livestock production systems that can help mitigate greenhouse gas
     emissions and adapt to a changing climate, while continuing to provide food and nutrition
     security.
    SRUC partners in the Global Challenges University Alliance (GCUA 2030), with a dozen
     international Universities including from Chile, China, New Zealand, Rwanda, Sweden and
     the USA. A key objective is to equip the next generation of researchers, teachers and
     academic leaders with knowledge, tools and networks that will strengthen their capacity to
     work across disciplines and to conduct translational research.
    One Health partnerships, for example the Wellcome DTP on One Health Models of Disease:
     Science, Society and Ethics, and bi-lateral PhD training schemes with the Universities of
     Glasgow and Leiden.

 These partnerships have been supported by interdisciplinary joint appointments:

    Across our Unit (e.g. Djikeng, Lawrence, Dwyer and Banos) and with other Schools across
     UoE (e.g. Alexander and Gathorne-Hardy with the School of Geosciences; Raybould with
     the School of Social and Political Science; Shields, Moran and Simm with Edinburgh Futures
     Institute).
    With external Institutions (e.g. A Duncan and Mrode with ILRI; Mwacharo with ICARDA;
     Djikeng honorary positions at University of Queensland, University of South Africa, and
     Washington State University; C Watson Royal Swedish Academy of Agriculture and Forestry
     (KSLA) Wallenberg Professorship; Ogden special Professor at Kyoto University).

                                                                                          Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Since REF2014, the Roslin Institute has extended its collaborations with other BBSRC-sponsored
 Institutes, notably with the Quadram Institute on foodborne pathogens and microbiomes, the
 Earlham Institute on functional annotation of animal genomes and the Pirbright Institute on control
 of viral diseases. For example, a joint studentship scheme with the Pirbright Institute supporting
 two new PGR students each year; one student at each Institute, with supervisors from both, and
 the students spending time in the co-supervisors' laboratories. SRUC is part of the Scottish
 Environment, Food and Agriculture Research Institutes (SEFARI), a consortium of 6 Institutes
 addressing key mid- to longer-term challenges for Scotland’s environment, agriculture, land use,
 food and rural communities. Our veterinary practices and surveillance centres across Scotland
 provide access to expertise and opportunities to develop projects in companion animal, equine
 and livestock medicine and to influence the provision of care. The SRUC Carbon Management
 Centre (Rees, head) creates strong links to UoE School of Geosciences and the ClimateXChange
 Centre of Expertise. We also share facilities across different UoAs (for example, the Vitamin D
 Animal Laboratory with the Queen’s Medical Research Institute (UoA1), and Plant-Soil Systems
 facilities within the School of Geosciences (UoA7)), and share access with external partners. For
 example, through Edinburgh Infectious Diseases (Fitzgerald, director), a network of researchers
 and clinicians, we are able to access infrastructure and expertise across UoE, the Moredun
 Research Institute, and Edinburgh Napier and Heriot Watt Universities.

 City Region Deals

 Our collaborative partnerships with public sector and businesses in these packages of funding
 agreed between Scottish and UK governments and local partners, support transformative change
 and interventions to improve regional economies and create jobs.

 Edinburgh City and Region Deal

 The Edinburgh and South East Scotland (ESES) City Deal, a £1.3bn investment (£661m for
 research development and innovation), aims to establish the region as the data capital of Europe,
 attracting investment, fuelling entrepreneurship and delivering inclusive growth.

 The Easter Bush campus is one of five data driven innovation ‘hubs’ designed to integrate different
 areas across the UoE to enable multidisciplinary approaches to tackling data-orientated issues.
 For our Unit the Agri-Tech Data Driven Innovation Hub helps leverage existing world-class
 research Institutes and commercialisation facilities, and works with commercial partners, enabling
 us to become a global location of agri-tech and veterinary excellence to maximise productivity
 through generation and collation of a multitude of local and global data. This creates the
 opportunity for more research partnering with public, private and third sector organisations,
 delivering benefits around Talent, Research, Adoption, Data and Entrepreneurship (TRADE). This
 is underpinned with numerous enabling initiatives, for example, funding for ECRs to collaborate
 with industry under the Train@Ed pre-tenure track fellowship scheme. This also facilitates
 establishment of partnerships with the Agri-Tech Centres (e.g. Agri-Epi and CIEL), and other City
 Deal investment areas such as the City Deal Food and Drink Innovation Park at Queen Margaret
 University.

 Aberdeen City Region Deal

 We are partners with Opportunity North East (ONE) in the development of SeedPod a new £21m
 centre of excellence for nurturing and growing food and drink businesses in north east Scotland.
 Based on our Craibstone campus, SeedPod will provide the tools, knowledge and training to help
 fledgling and established companies to identify new markets, drive growth and adopt cutting edge
 production technologies, increasing profitability and capitalising upon the region’s assets and
 collaborative links. For example, with Opportunity North East investment C Watson is
 investigating creating new foods, related products and by-products from alternative crops such as
 gorse.


                                                                                            Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Borderlands Growth Deal

 As part of this deal we are developing a Borderlands Dairy Innovation Centre (£8.0m) at our
 Barony campus. The centre will work with industry and academics to reduce the time it takes for
 research and technology to be applied within commercial dairies and the supply chain. There will
 be a focus on testing new products, technologies and production systems, as well as carbon
 neutral farming solutions.

 4.2 Contributions to economy and society

 Translation and development of impact

 We work closely with end-users of our research through co-funded research, training and
 consulting, including via our network of veterinary surveillance centres and support services for
 farms and rural businesses. Research is often carried out on-farm with significant knowledge
 exchange to farmers and veterinary surgeons. Achieving impact from our R&D into understanding
 the genetic control in plant and animal species is enhanced through Edinburgh Genetic
 Evaluation Services (EGENES) which provide data services and routine genetic and genomic
 evaluations for all dairy cows in the UK, commercial recorded pedigree sheep and beef,
 international aquaculture, pig and goat breeding companies. Associated unique infrastructure
 allows for the co-delivery of new approaches to genetic evaluations including hard to measure
 traits such as meat together with feed and environmental efficiency. Our engagement with
 stakeholders across the food supply chain has been significantly extended via our roles in the
 CIEL, Agri-EPI and Agrimetrics Agri-Tech Centres. In addition, we share software and materials,
 for example our AlphaGenes suite of software for analysis of genetic associations and breeding
 programme design was previously licensed for use by several global breeding companies, and is
 now open access (https://alphagenes.roslin.ed.ac.uk/wp/).

 Industry collaboration

 Much of our interdisciplinary research is in collaboration with industry with the aim of co-creation
 of innovations. Such collaborations involve major strategic partnership agreements with a total
 value of >£24.5m p.a., whereby recurrent income is received for joint projects (e.g. with Zoetis,
 Hill’s Pet Nutrition, Genus PIC, Cobb Vantress, Hendrix Genetics and Worldfish). Such close
 engagement with industry and policy stakeholders has also led to a wide range of rapid research
 and policy analysis to inform alternative policy scenarios for food production.

                                                        Commercialisation of our research is
                                                        supported by Edinburgh Innovations
                                                        Ltd who provide support for translation
                                                        of our research with business
                                                        development, legal and contracts teams
                                                        embedded at Easter Bush to identify,
                                                        protect and mature IP and facilitate
                                                        collaborative research with external
                                                        partners. This was further augmented in
                                                        2017 by establishment of Roslin
                                                        Technologies Ltd, a biotech company
                                                        that transforms science innovations to
                                                        provide solutions to global challenges in
                                                        AgTech and animal health. Roslin
                                                        Technologies together with DESTINA
  Figure 12. The Charnock Bradley Building houses       Genomics formed a new company,
  the Roslin Innovation Centre, Roslin Technologies     Vetsina Animal Diagnostics Ltd, to
  Ltd and EBSOC.                                        develop innovative diagnostics of illness
                                                        and infection in companion animals and
 livestock. Other commercial partnerships include: Aquaponics Garden, a company based at our

                                                                                             Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Elmwood campus that is developing a closed-loop farming method where trout waste is used to
 fertilise food and non-food crops; MI:RNA which, based on our veterinary diagnostics work,
 provides a unique, cost-effective diagnostic assay to identify heart disease in animals; and ID
 MAPPS, based in Inverness, that uses our Unit’s epidemiological expertise to develop and
 commercialise new approaches to monitoring levels of Lyme Borreliosis in the environment.
 Additional examples of commercialisation include a diverse array of viable products including
 candidate vaccines for influenza and infectious bronchitis in chickens, phage therapy for persistent
 E. coli infections, small RNA diagnostics for African trypanosomiasis and novel diagnostics for
 PRRSV.

 At the heart of the Easter Bush Campus is the Roslin Innovation Centre, a £31m investment by
 UoE, Scottish Government and the BBSRC, with >41,000 sq. ft. of flexible laboratory and office
 space (Fig 12). At time of submission it is occupied by 18 industry partner tenants (e.g. Roslin
 Technologies Ltd, Vetsina Animal Diagnostics Ltd, Ingenza Ltd), with hot-desking for a further 5
 partners. This provides our researchers opportunities to collaborate with co-located industry
 partners. For example, with Deep Science Ventures (DSV) to deliver Scotland’s first agricultural
 venture builder ‘FAST’, combining expertise and facilities across themes 1-6, with DSV’s expertise
 in launching science companies.

 SAC Consulting Solutions




  Figure 13: SAC Consulting Solutions – a link from research to end users.
 SRUC supplies >£14.5m p.a. in consultancy services to UK SME’s. The approach is guided
 through a strategy for commercialisation and innovation through SAC Commercial Ltd (SACC).
 Our researchers (e.g. Wall, Rees, J Newbold, Coffey) work closely with SAC Consulting
 Solutions, a key activity of SACC with the purpose of supporting the growth and prosperity of rural
 communities and being the leading agri-food consultancy linking producers with their environment
 (Fig. 13). With a team of >375 consultants, veterinarians and specialists across 26 offices, SAC
 Consulting Solutions offers local knowledge and expertise to farmers, rural businesses, food
 processing firms and supplier markets. Services range from analytical to bespoke individual
 consultancies, covering all aspects of rural enterprise from agronomy, livestock and dairy services
 to disease surveillance, farm animal diagnostics and environmental consultancy. It also offers a
 dedicated UKAS-accredited analytical facility, which provides a seamless service from field to
 laboratory. A recent survey carried out by SAC Consulting Solutions showed that it has achieved
 67% penetration in the farming industry.



                                                                                             Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Cool Farm Alliance




    Figure 14. The global reach of the Cool Farm Tool.

 The Cool Farm Tool is a multi-metric decision support tool for farmers to assess and improve
 environmental performance. It is co-funded by industry and deployed in the supply chains of many
 major global food and drink and retail brands (e.g. Unilever, Danone, PepsiCo, Mars, Kellogg’s)
 in ~120 countries (Fig 14). Hillier was the original developer of the tool and is a Director of the
 Community Interest Company founded to manage the tool; the Cool Farm Alliance. Since
 REF2014 Hillier has co-led the strategic planning delivery of new science into the Cool Farm Tool.

 Influencing government policy

 We have substantial interactions with the Scottish and UK Governments and EU, notably in
 relation to control of animal diseases (e.g. via EPIC and advice to the Animal and Plant Health
 Agency), food safety (e.g. with Public Health Scotland and Food Standards Scotland and their
 equivalents in England), and the risk of zoonotic and iatrogenic prion diseases (with the
 Department of Health and Social Care). SRUC’s Rural Policy Centre produces regular reports and
 briefings and we coordinate the Scottish Consortium for Rural Research to promote research and
 dialogue with policy-makers. We have contributed to Royal Society, Nuffield Council and OECD
 reviews on the role of genetically-altered animals in the future of food and farming (Sang,
 Whitelaw). Many of our researchers are members of expert advisory panels for government,
 learned societies and major non-governmental organisations (Tables 3 & 4). Through
 such interaction with policymakers, our research has informed new legislation, for
 example, new EU legislation in relation to low atmosphere pressure stunning for culling
 of pigs and poultry (Martin).

 We have regular contact with government and industry facilitated by our Rural Policy centre. This
 includes providing the Secretariat for the Cross-Party Group in the Scottish Parliament on Rural
 Policy, hosting the Edinburgh Agricultural Economics Discussion Circle that meets monthly and
 running a series of webinars to inform implementation of the Islands (Scotland) Act 2018, in
 particular the development of the National Islands Plan. Through our research and advisory roles
 (Table 3), we provide written, hearing and presented evidence to UK and Scottish Governments.
 Notable examples include:




                                                                                            Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Written evidence: UK Government Joint Committee on Human Rights and COVID-19 - COVID
 and the right to food (Shields). Scottish Parliament Consultation on Good Food Nation Bill -
 evidence focused on Accountability and Responsibility for Food Systems in Scotland (Shields).

 Committee    hearing     evidence:   Scottish
 Parliament Rural Affairs and Climate Change
 Environment Committee 2015-16, Human
 Rights and Land Reform (2015, Shields).

 Presented    evidence:    to    Westminster
 Parliament    Science    and     Technology
 Committee inquiry into GM and application of
 the precautionary principle in Europe,
 representing the Royal Society of Biology
 (2014, Sang); to the House of Lords on TB in
 foxhounds (2017, Gunn-Moore).

 Presentation: Harnessing the opportunities of
 new    breeding     techniques    All    Party
 Parliamentary Group on Science and
 Technology in Agriculture (Westminster) (2016,
 Sang).

 Consultations: Our Rural Policy Centre (S
 Thomson, Barnes, McCracken, Wall and
 others) has responded to and provided
 evidence to a wide range of Scottish and UK
 Government consultations (Box A).

 Scottish Government’s Centres of Expertise

 Animal Disease Outbreaks (EPIC): We are long-standing and significant contributors to EPIC
 (Boden, deputy director), which provides evidence-based guidance to prepare the livestock sector
 for incursion of exotic or emerging diseases and aid their control. For example, Porphyre,
 Woolhouse and Gunn played a key role in devising government policy for the emergency
 response for an outbreak of Foot-and-Mouth Disease in Scotland (ICS D).

 Plant Health: The aim is to improve resilience to plant health threats in Scotland by connecting
 science to application to inform policy, planning, responses and solutions. Burnett and Evans
 lead on agriculture plant health, providing expertise on the use/withdrawal of chemical pest control
 in a range of crop plants and disease/pest threats. This links to our Crop Clinic services for
 growers, giving detailed, up-to-date information on pests, weeds and diseases and integrated crop
 management solutions.

 ClimateXChange (CXC): A collaboration between 16 research and HE Institutions providing
 responsive research to Scottish Government policy teams and other public agencies on climate
 change and the transition to a low carbon economy. Dewhurst, Barnes, V Eory, Macleod,
 Moran, Wall, Rees, McVittie and Glenk work with CXC to translate policy and industry findings.
 This includes rapid evidence reviews, policy briefings and recommendations for policy and
 practice, particularly those related to land use in the Scottish Climate Change Plan, understanding
 greenhouse gas accounting, system-wide emissions and mitigation options from different land
 uses and scenarios.




                                                                                             Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Public engagement

 Strategy

 Our public engagement with research (PER) ranges from outreach to involvement in research
 projects. PER is fundamental to our aim to address critical challenges and reaches >8,000 people
 p.a. supported by >300 days of researcher time. Our strategy is for a programme of research
 relevance, promoting collaboration with the public, inspiring trust in scientific research and raising
 aspirations around STEM careers. This is resourced with a team of 4 dedicated support staff, an
 academic lead (Davey) and external funding. Within the REF2021 period we have secured >£200k
 for activities from UKRI, BBSRC, Wellcome Trust, learned societies and charities. A Community
 Engagement prize at the 2016 Scottish Enterprise Life Sciences Awards recognised our
 commitment to local community engagement.

 Partnership working is key to reaching the Easter Bush Science Outreach Centre’s (EBSOC)
 priority audiences. We work closely with the UoE Widening Participation team, charities (e.g. the
 Nuffield Foundation; the Social Mobility Foundation) and local external organisations (e.g. the
 Royal Highland Education Trust; National Museums Scotland) to reach new audiences. We also
 work with teachers via the Great Science Share for Schools, SSERC and Education Scotland’s
 Raising Aspirations in Science Education programme.

 Activities and events




   Figure 15. Mapping SRUC school engagement activities.




                                                                                               Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have significant interaction with primary and secondary schools (e.g. SRUC engaged with
 >1,700 students in 2018/2019; Fig 15). Our on-campus PER programme is delivered through
 EBSOC, within a wider programme of outreach activities and online engagement. The purpose-
 built engagement laboratory within EBSOC has greatly enhanced our PER programme by
 providing hands-on, research-linked experiences (Fig 16). We prioritise activities for individuals
 with low science capital, for example people who live rurally or in areas of socio-economic
 deprivation, and communities less likely to engage with scientific events, and priority given to
 schools in the most-deprived 20% of Scotland (SIMD20).




     Figure 16: EBSOC; a fully equipped laboratory for school and public use.

 Events range from drop-in events where members of the public explore our research and have a
 conversation with a scientist, to longer-term participatory research and citizen science projects.
 Examples include:

      The Dogslife project (Clements), a longitudinal cohort study of Labrador health with
       participation by >8,200 UK dog owners, and the All4Paws project, which provides free
       veterinary services to homeless pet owners.
      Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs), including ‘How do we feed 11 billion people?’ and
       ‘The Truth about Cats and Dogs’.
      High-profile events including the Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition (Digard),
       BBSRC’s Great British Bioscience Festival (Digard), the Cheltenham Science Festival
       (Whitelaw), New Scientist Live (Simm, Whitelaw, Lillico, R Houston, Tait-Burkard) and
       the British Science Festival (Schoenebeck, Djikeng).
      Presence at agricultural sector events. For example, in 2019 to celebrate 100 Years of Animal
       Genetics in Edinburgh, we attended 10 agricultural shows across Scotland and Northern
       England (Archibald, Davey, F Houston, A Wilson, Collie, McLachlan, Sargison, Clark).
      Work experience provision for high school pupils via Nuffield Research Placements (Collie,
       Corbishley, Davey, Grey, J Smith) and Science Insights, a programme co-founded by the
       Roslin Institute with a focus on widening access to higher education, which has supported
       236 pupils and involved 174 staff and students since REF2014.
      Scottish Marine Animal Stranding Scheme (SMASS), a multiple organisational collaboration,
       led by SRUC (Brownlow), to raise awareness of marine animal entanglements amongst
       fishermen and other marine users including the general public.
      Public engagement series with internal and external speakers (e.g. ‘Plate to Planet’ and ‘Give
       us today our daily bread – but how?’ in 2019), typically attended by 70-100 members of the
       public.
      International engagements include: stakeholder and farmer workshops in Malawi, Kenya,
       Ethiopia, Uganda and Zimbabwe (Baggs, A Duncan, Muwonge, e.g. Fig 17); large-scale
       public health education (Mission Rabies; Mellanby); PER training for African women
       scientists via the GCRF-funded IVVN African Schools Outreach Programme (Connelley);



                                                                                             Page 38
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     and development of international engagement resources including ‘More Milk Zuri?!’ (L
     Morrison) funded by a BBSRC Impact Accelerator grant.




   Figure 17. Smallholder participatory scoring for legume functions within the Legume Choice
   discussion tool.

 COVID-19 related public engagement

 We moved PER training and many activities online including Science Insights, COVID-19 talks
 (Digard, Lycett), and webinars about climate change. We have contributed to wider UoE
 programmes including the Research Insights public events programme ‘COVID-19: Behind the
 numbers’ (Kao). Science@Home activities include an educational toolkit about animal behaviour
 (Lawrence, Meddle), downloaded by ~12,600 participants and winner of an Openness Award
 from Understanding Animal Research.

 We have been providing advice and commentaries on COVID-19 issues, that have helped inform
 the public and frame the Scottish and UK Governments’ responses. This includes from our work
 on: the virology (e.g. Digard, Tait-Burkard: BBC1, ITV, STV, Radio 5 Live), infection biology (e.g.
 Vazquez-Boland: several newspapers), and epidemiology (e.g. Kao: newspapers, radio, BBC
 One, Sky News). Research by Lycett has underpinned a web tool showing results of sequencing
 analysis including movies of spread: http://129.215.193.110:3838/RiseFallScotCOVID/.

 4.3 Contributions to the research base

 Advisory roles

 These include contributions to UK and Scottish Governments, funders and other advisory roles
 both national and international (Table 3).

 Table 3. Selection of our key advisory roles, during REF2021 period.




                                                                                            Page 39
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                 Contributions to Governmental and International Advisory Bodies
                             Europe:
                             >16 roles e.g. International Advisory Board of CRB-anim (Sang). Advisor to European
  International Advisory

                             Food Safety Authority (R Houston). ELIXIR Scientific Advisory Board (Archibald).
                             ARRIGE Scientific Advisory Committee (Whitelaw). Czech Institute of Animal
                             Physiology and Genetics (C Newbold).
           roles



                             Other international:
                             Including, Steering Group for LD4D (A Duncan). Lead, establishment of African Animal
                             Breeding Academy (Djikeng). Independent Scientific Advisory Board, the Southern
                             African Centre for Infectious Disease Surveillance (Djikeng).
                             PhD examining:
                             ~57% of our research staff have acted as PhD external examiners, across 25
                             countries.
                             UK & Scottish Governments:
                             Deputy Director EPIC (Boden). SNH Scientific Advisory Committee (Ogden). Advisory
                             Committee, Releases to the Environment (Defra) (Raybould). Agri-Food Technology
                             Council (Simm). Defra Science Advisory Council (Kao, Powell). DfID Science
  Leadership in UK Science




                             Advisory Group (Powell). Scottish Science Advisory Council (Powell). Landscape
                             Alliance Working Groups (Shields). Scottish Animal Welfare Commission (Dwyer,
                             chair; Haskell). Sector Lead Agriculture Plant Health CoE (Burnett).
                             RCVS and Veterinary School’s Council (VSC):
                             Fellowship Credentials Panel (Boden). Science Advisory Panel (Nuttall). Chair,
                             Veterinary Schools Council Education Committee (Rhind). Chair, VSC Research
                             Committee (Argyle).
                             Other roles:
                             Including: Scientific Advisory Board, Pirbright Institute. Food Standards Agency
                             Register of Specialists. Scottish Human Rights Commission Steering Group. Scottish
                             Universities Legal Network on Europe Trustee, The Sainsbury Laboratory. Worldwide
                             Veterinary Services. Food and Drink Sector Council, Innovation. Scottish Aquaculture
                             Innovation Centre Board. Food and Farming Futures Board. Research and Knowledge
                             Exchange Committee of Universities Scotland.
                                                  Contributions to Science Funding
                             Advisory roles:
                             (i) BBSRC Council (2014-2018, Sang). GCRF Strategy Advisory Group (2016-2019,
                             Sang). Appointments Board (2018-, Sang). Agriculture and Food Security Strategy
                             Advisory Panel (Sang, Baggs, Deputy Chair). COVID panel of experts (Kao). Animal
  Funding Committees and




                             Health Research Club (Archibald). SARIC steering group (Hillier). Working groups
    Organisations - UK




                             (Whitelaw, Wall, Baggs, Simm). (ii) NERC, Science Board, TAB, NAN (Baggs). (iii)
                             Nuffield Council, bioethics working group (Whitelaw).
                             Committee/panel chairs:
                             BBSRC Committee A (Meddle, Wall), Committee B (Baggs), BBSRC-FAPESP
                             (Holden), Agri-food Training Partnership (Wall), GCRF and Newton calls (Baggs),
                             Wellcome Trust (Fitzgerald), private sector funders e.g. Dogs Trust Canine Welfare
                             (Argyle), Horserace Betting Levy Board (Farquharson).
                             Committee/panel members:
                             >40 staff for a range of funders including BBSRC, NERC, EPSRC, MRC, UKRI Future
                             Leaders, MRC, GCRF & Newton, Innovate UK, NC3Rs, Wellcome Trust, PetSavers,
                             Arthritis Research UK, Houghton Trust UK, Carnegie Trust, Horse Trust, Bloomsbury
                             SET, British Heart Foundation.
                             >22 staff for FWO, NIH, ANR, SNSF, RCN, CSC, DFG, ESF, NWO, DFF, IFS,
  international
  committees-




                             FORMAS, AAS, IWT, ETAg, Irish EPA, DAFM, AMS, NSF, USDA, L’OREAL-UNESCO
    Funding




                             Women in Science, Vienna Science & technology Fund.




                                                                                                           Page 40
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Indicators of wider influence

 These include contributions to science communication, learned societies and other organisations,
 and awards (personal, research and impact) to our researchers (Table 4).

 Table 4. Selection of our indicators of esteem, during REF2021 period.




                                                                                         Page 41
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                           Contributions to Science Communication
                          Leadership positions:
                          Vice President Animal Biotechnology NewVectys SAS (Whitelaw). Chairman TAG-UK
                          (Whitelaw). Director TRACE Wildlife Forensics Network (Ogden). Director, the Cool
  Industry-facing roles


                          Farm Alliance (Hillier).
                          Consultancies:
                          For >18 companies, e.g. Edimer Pharmaceuticals (Headon). Zenoaq (Argyle).
                          Boehringer Ingelheim (Pirie). Xelect Ltd (Macqueen, R Houston). Biotangents
                          (Hope). RTL (Hope). Hill’s Pet Nutrition (Mellanby). Syngenta (Davey).
                          Advisory boards:
                          Roslin Technologies (Argyle, Whitelaw). Manzanita Pharmaceuticals (Dalziel).
                          Recombinetics Inc (Whitelaw). ImmunoGenes Ag (Whitelaw). Food and Drink
                          Sector Council Innovation Working Group (Simm). DSM Maestro (M Watson).
                          Stratified Medicine Scotland Innovation Centre (M Watson).
                          Editor- or co-Editor -in-Chief:
  Editorial roles




                          e.g. Microbiol (M Stevens). Pathogens (Opriessnig). J Endocrinol (Farquharson).
     Journal




                          Vet Comp Oncol (Argyle). Vet Res Commun (Dalziel). Transgenic Res (Lillico).
                          Domest Anim Endocrinol (Donadeu). Agriculture (Baggs). Front Sustain Food Syst
                          (Rees).
                          Editorial Boards:
                          Leading roles in >85 peer review journals.
                          Scientific advisory and organising committees:
  hosting, organising




                          For ~97 international conferences across the UK, Europe, USA, Canada, Australia,
    and keynotes




                          Ghana, Uganda South Africa and Japan.
     Conference




                          Conference hosting:
                          24 conferences at Edinburgh and hosting elsewhere, including London, Italy, Kenya,
                          Ghana, Uganda, Japan.
                          Keynote addresses:
                          >415 at conferences and other scientific meetings in 38 countries, including across
                          Europe, Asia, the Americas, Australasia, Africa.
                                                  Other Measures of Distinction
                          FRSE (Argyle, Powell). FRSA for contributions to social progress and development
                          (Argyle). FRVCS McGorum, Argyle, Clements, A Macrae, Clutton, Pollock,
  Elections to




                          Mellanby, Gow. FRSB Stevens, Baggs, Whitelaw, Gunn-Moore, Hope, Simm,
   Societies
    Learned




                          Shaw, Fitzgerald, J Newbold, C Watson. Senior Fellowships HEA Mackay, Simm;
                          Rhind, Pollock. Sallie Rosen Kaplan Fellowship for Women Scientists, NIH
                          Buishand. Fellow AAM Vazquez-Boland. Fellow Royal College of Pathologists
                          Piccinelli. Fellow Anatomical Society Wishart. Young Academy of Scotland, RSE
                          Wall.
                          Office bearing positions in >36 societies, including: RSE (Archibald, Argyle). RSB
  Contribution to




                          (Raybould). BSAS (Wall, Dewhurst, president). BSSS (Baggs, president; Hopkins,
  Organisations
   Societies &




                          Buckingham). AAB (C Watson President). ECVPH (Boden, president). ECVP
                          (Malbon, president). ECVCP (Milne). RCVS (Argyle, Junior Vice-President;
                          Sargison). Houghton Trust (M Stevens). SVS (Jennings). SBN (Meddle). BSDB
                          (Davey). BSGCT (McLachlan). SWFS (Ogden, president). AAB & ESA (C Watson,
                          president). WPSA (Sandilands UK president). ISAE (Turner, Haskell). IAM
                          (Roberts). >40 staff and students are STEM ambassadors.
                          Personal:
                          OBE for contributions to Food Security and Bioscience for Health (Sang, 2020). OBE
  Awards/Prizes




                          for services to Veterinary Education (Rhind, 2017). International Nelson Mandela
    Notable




                          Justice Award for making a difference to others in agricultural development (Djikeng,
                          2020). Princess Royal Award for Services to the Dairy Industry (Coffey, 2020).
                          Research:
                          > 16 awards, e.g. The Queens Anniversary Prize for the Langhill Dairy Genetic
                          Selection Study, 2017 (SRUC). The Sir John Hammond Award, BSAS (Wall, 2014).
                          Petplan Scientific Achievement Award (Mellanby, 2016; Clements 2019). BSAVA


                                                                                                        Page 42
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          Blaine Award (Mellanby, 2020). Kennel Club International Prize (Argyle, 2015).
          BSAVA Simon Award (Clements, 2018). BSAVA Woodrow Award (Gow, 2020).
          Impact:
          Openness Awards 2018 (Tait-Burkard). New Product of the Year 2020, Poultry
          Business Magazine (Martin). Converge Challenge and ILG Enterprise Award
          (Prendergast). ECVAA Morpheus Award 2019 (Clutton). 2020 Vet School of the year,
          WVA/CEVA global animal welfare awards (UoE).




                                                                                    Page 43
