Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Institution: University of Cambridge
  Unit of Assessment: 29 Classics


     1. UNIT CONTEXT & STRUCTURE, RESEARCH AND IMPACT
        STRATEGY




     1.1 UNIT CONTEXT
      Everyone submitted to UoA 29 belongs to the Faculty of Classics within the
School of Arts and Humanities. This submission embraces work – from the Bronze
Age to ‘Postclassicisms’, and from the archaeology of Aldborough to writing at Ugarit
– by researchers funded by the University, Colleges and external grants (University
and College Teaching Officers; College Senior and Junior Research Fellows (RFs);
AHRC, Leverhulme, ERC and other externally funded postdoctoral researchers). The
active research community is much larger than those submitted – postgraduate
students, Language Teaching Officers, senior scholars resident in Cambridge (e.g.
the many distinguished and research-active retired members of the Faculty, of the
Colleges and Classics departments elsewhere, and independent scholars), short- or
medium-term visiting scholars, and visiting postgraduate students (normally from
abroad). Colleagues in other Faculties/Departments (in particular, Anglo-Saxon,
Norse and Celtic; Archaeology; Asian and Middle Eastern Studies; Divinity; History;
Modern and Medieval Languages and Linguistics; Philosophy; and History and
Philosophy of Science [HPS], the Fitzwilliam Museum) contribute actively to this
large, wide-ranging and vibrant community,
      This large community is given coherence by the six interconnecting ‘Caucuses’
(Classical Literature, Ancient Philosophy, Ancient History, Classical Archaeology,
Classical Philology and Interdisciplinary and Reception Studies) which enable depth
and direction by bringing subject-specialists together in seminars open to all weekly
during term (sometimes linking together explicitly to explore the intersections
between the sub-disciplines). These seminars take a variety of forms including
themed speaker seminars and text-reading seminars. Even before online pandemic
arrangements speakers came from all over the world, aided by research budgets
sufficient to cover travel from the UK and Europe. Seminars allow younger scholars
to meet established scholars, try out ideas in a supportive – but critical –
environment, and learn to contribute to, and profit from, constructive academic
debate. Caucuses also organise and host two series of Faculty-funded conferences
annually. Individuals often belong to more than one Caucus, making them active
agents of a concretely interdisciplinary discourse as they develop shared research
programmes alongside a richer teaching programme.


                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


      Both at the postgraduate level and among Faculty members, various extra-
caucus groupings ensure that the separate disciplinary strands are engaging with
one another. The postgraduates run a Postgraduate Interdisciplinary seminar, the
postdoctoral community a fortnightly Work In Progress seminar; senior members of
the Faculty talk to each other at lunchtime Work in Progress seminars. In addition,
the whole Faculty comes together for seminar speakers hosted by the Cambridge
Philological Society (eight a year), and for annual named lectures.


     1.2 RESEARCH STRUCTURE
      The Faculty’s research policy and strategy are developed within the overall
strategic framework adopted by the University and by the School of Arts and
Humanities. Responsibility for research and educational strategy in Classics is
vested in the Faculty Board, advised by the following Faculty bodies:
          the Resources and Personnel Planning Committee (RPPC), meeting
     twice a term, for long-term strategic planning;
           the Research Committee, meeting twice a term to oversee medium-term
     strategic planning of research-grant income, take measures to stimulate
     research projects, approve all Faculty grant applications, monitor the progress
     (including financial reporting) and outcome of resultant projects, and oversee
     the Faculty REF submission;
          research project management committees, with a chair and a
     preponderance of members external to the project team, for each funded
     project;
           the Finance Committee, charged with oversight of the endowed
     restricted funds, which support a number of academic and other posts in the
     Faculty, and provide resources for: MPhil and PhD studentships, postgraduate
     bursaries, and hardship funds; the development of research proposals; staff
     and postgraduate student research travel, archaeological fieldwork,
     conferences, international exchanges, etc.; publication of monographs,
     particularly through the Cambridge Classical Studies series;
          the Committee of Management for the Museum of Classical
     Archaeology, which meets termly and supports fieldwork as well as exhibitions
     and outreach activity;
           Caucuses (see above), which meet to plan teaching and research
     activities, including seminars and conferences, and to generate research
     project initiatives;
          the Postgraduate Studies Committee [2.2.3].




                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     1.3 RESEARCH STRATEGY
     1.3.1 Research strategy and objectives since 2014
      The Classics Faculty aims to pursue individual and group research at the
highest possible level (measured by peer evaluation as embodied in REF) into all
major aspects of Classical culture and its reception – language, literature,
philosophy, ancient history, art, archaeology, philology and linguistics – and to
promote interdisciplinarity. To enhance its position as an acknowledged leading
centre for Classics worldwide, outstanding for research training, our strategy from
well before 2014 has been, and for the 2020s will be:
     • to increase the number, and maximise the quality, of those recruited as
University teachers and researchers in the Faculty and Colleges in such a way as to
respond to, and continue to shape, the changing field;
     • to develop the training offered to MPhil students from diverse backgrounds,
and sustain the most stimulating research environment for them and for PhD
students through the quantity and quality of their skills training and of the academic
exchange in which they are involved, and through expert supervision, seminars,
special lectures, and conferences;
     • to offer the best possible infrastructural support both to ‘lone researchers’
and to those developing and carrying through collaborative research projects.
     As we detail below [1.3.1.1], we have secured external funds to increase the
number and range of teaching and research posts. We have sought, through careful
searches and advertising, to appoint to University teaching posts scholars who not
only maintain the highest standards of scholarly rigour, but who also seek to tackle
big questions and to engage over a wide (inter-)disciplinary front.
      We have used our own restricted funds and obtained external funds to attract
the best postgraduate students and postdoctoral researchers from across the globe,
increasing annual expenditure on postgraduate studentships more than six-fold since
2014. We have reviewed and reorganised our MPhil degree so that the exceptional
research training that it offers is available to as wide a constituency as possible, and
in 2020–21 alone 53 students are enjoying the opportunity to work on projects of
their own devising with specialists who enable and encourage creative, ambitious,
and resourceful research. We have provided guidance and mentoring for PhD
students that has maximised their chances of securing postdoctoral funding, and
have worked, with other humanities departments, to create a new postdoctoral
Fellowship. Through (normally) 24/7 access privileges, and generous rights for
visitors, we have ensured that the wealth of our human and infrastructural resources
is available to, and thereby attracts, externally funded postdoctoral scholars, visiting
scholars, and visiting postgraduate students. This further encourages international
recruitment of excellent postgraduate and postdoctoral researchers. (On all this see
below 1.3.1.1.)




                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


      A Faculty ‘Awayday’ on research (May 2016), led to enhancing our seminar and
conference culture with work-in-progress seminars and more postgraduate-
organised conferences to further increase the very high level of intellectual stimulus,
directing it into formulating and honing cutting-edge research projects. We have used
named lectures [3.2.1.5] and Philological Society meetings to bring distinguished
scholars across the whole range of Classics from outside as well as within the UK to
engage in particular with postgraduate students and to increase the variety of role-
models offered to them, monitoring the choice of lecturers for diversity. We have
exploited the Cambridge-LMU link and other initiatives detailed in 2.2.3 to enhance
our international engagement. We have also made our appraisal and mentoring
processes more effective, introducing a new workload allocation model and a new
scheme to incentivise designing collaborative research projects [1.3.3, 2.1.1].


        1.3.1.1 Strategic aims achieved
    • eight new permanent appointments between 2014 and 2020: Leventis Chair
(Whitmarsh), Laurence Chair of Ancient Philosophy (Betegh), Chair in Comparative
Philology (Clackson), University Lectureships in Ancient History (Willey, Weisweiler),
Ancient Philosophy (Sheffield), Comparative Philology (Zair), and Greek Literature
(Laemmle); permission has been secured to fill immediately the Regius
Professorship of Greek, which falls vacant on 1 October 2021;
    • one third of UTOs promoted: to Professor (Gowers, Vout, Warren; 2F, 1M);
to Reader (Gagné, Gildenhard, Prauscello, Whitton; 1F, 3M); to Senior Lecturer
(Butterfield, Galanakis, Hatzimichali, Laemmle, Launaro, Thompson, Whitton; 2F,
5M);
     • forty-five postdoctoral Fellowships (College Junior Research Fellows (JRFs),
British Academy PDFs, Leverhulme ECRs, Marie-Sklodowska-Curie Fellowships,
ERC and AHRC-funded project postdoctoral researchers);
    • a Cambridge-specific humanities postdoctoral Fellowship funded by the
Isaac Newton Trust joint with the British School at Rome;
    • two Classics TA positions annually specifically designed to bridge between
the end of a PhD and a longer-term teaching or research position;
   • a five-year, renewable Senior Research Fellowship funded by the Leventis
Foundation;
    •     over £8M external funding received for research projects (below 3.1).
     • UTO research-time secured through external funding for replacement
teaching: three-year Pro Futura Fellowships, Gagné (2016–19) and Zair (2018–21);
British Academy Mid-career Fellowship (Vout); Humboldt Fellowships (Prauscello,
Whitton); Philip Leverhulme Prize (Gagné), Leverhulme Major Research Fellowships
(Beard, Goldhill, Gowers);
    •     forty-five visiting scholars; 78 Visiting postgraduate students;



                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    • £600k from Faculty Trust Funds spent funding 35 MPhil and 17 PhD
students in full or in part; £250k raised from private external sources for MPhil and
PhD studentships;
   • of 215 students completing the MPhil 1.1.2014–31.7.2020, at least 71 (33%)
have proceeded to PhD research (51 [24%] of them in Cambridge);
    • eighty-seven new PhD students (37 home, 35 Europe, 15 Overseas)
1.1.2014–31.7.2020, 29 funded by the AHRC;
    • twenty-eight of the 80 completing PhDs since 2014 have achieved
postdoctoral fellowships, and another 19 permanent or temporary teaching positions;
    • thirty-four percent increase (£41k to £55k p.a.) in research expenses for
members of Faculty and postgraduate students (excluding seminar/conference
funding);
    •     a total of 4,747 volumes added to Classics Faculty Library since 1/1/14;
    •     a newly established, well-equipped archive centre with part-time Archivist;
    • More than 40 books (substantial editions and commentaries, pioneering in-
depth studies, publications of archaeological field-work, books jointly authored, often
with collaborators overseas), 300 chapters in books, and 100 journal articles
produced since 2014 by those submitted in this UoA (several of them prize-winning
[4.4.6]). Nineteen of those submitted have had a dozen or more research items
published during the assessment period, and four have had 20 or more.


        1.3.2 Research objectives during the next five years
       • to fill three established Chairs with leaders in the field and replace two
retiring personal Professors and a further Lecturer position in ways that reflect and
shape Classics as it is now and into the future;
      • to offer the highest quality of research leadership across the ever-expanding
field of Classics;
       • permanently to enlarge the body of University teaching staff in Classics for
the first time for more than two decades by completing fundraising for a joint
appointment with Newnham College (70% of the money has been raised so far);
      • to extend the Faculty’s long and outstanding record in obtaining postdoctoral
positions for Classicists. To this end, the Faculty has increased its level of guidance
to candidates to British Academy and Leverhulme competitions and introduced a
new scheme to encourage applications for major research project grants in
acknowledgement of the increased competition ahead;
     • to secure further philanthropic funding for postgraduate scholarships in
response, in part, to the reduction in AHRC funding and to the challenges posed by
BREXIT. To this end, the Faculty has launched a new fundraising strategy in 2020,
using its own resources to appoint a stewardship co-ordinator.



                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




     1.3.3. Enabling/facilitating impact
     Cambridge Classics benefits from the reputation and reach of Cambridge
University as a whole. We seek to work with that, and beyond that, to ensure that our
research is as widely appreciated as possible. We recognise that, as Mary Beard’s
success above all demonstrates, achieving impact beyond Cambridge and the
academy demands sustained input of energy to create ‘brand recognition’ by building
networks of contacts and consistently meeting the expectations created.
     Different sorts of impact demand different networks that cut across institutions,
countries, class. Our success in creating and exploiting such networks is variously
demonstrated. Our REF Impact Case Studies build upon: Beard’s profile and
contacts in the media, constructed over many years, and, in turn, in global culture
and politics; Launaro’s delicately crafted relationships with the local community of
Pignataro and the Soprintendenza, sufficiently deep to withstand changes in political
party and personnel; Millett’s sustained collaboration with archaeological bodies
such as English Heritage and the Antiquaries, with the local community and with
planning authorities. More locally ‘Decoding the Bronze Age Aegean’ relies upon the
Cambridge-web of Museums, Departments and Colleges to take early writing out of
prehistory into the Twittersphere.
      Beyond these particular networks, the Faculty has laboured long to create
connections enabling its research to impact education in schools. Alongside
organising talks in schools, and study days for students and for teachers, and
contributing to established publications aimed at schools (e.g. Omnibus, LACTORs),
it has developed innovative online resources (including lectures) and encouraged
Gildenhard’s open-access commentaries on A-level Latin texts (themselves research
outputs).
     We seek to capitalise on the networks constructed and to create new ones by:
     intellectually encouraging research into questions that have wide implications;
engaging fully with topical and ‘presentist’ agendas (as variously shown by e.g. the
AHRC project on ancient multilingualism and the ERC project on the impact of the
ancient city);
      culturally championing the study of humanities subjects, and the study of the
classical world, in general; recognising the obligations of a world-leading centre for
Classics to be visible and counted in any forum in which relevant issues are
discussed; encouraging those who have created effective networks to exploit them
as fully as they can (as demonstrated by Goldhill’s work in Jerusalem (REF 2014
impact case study, on-going), his role advising internationally on running
interdisciplinary research centres [4.3] following his seven-year directorship of
Cambridge’s Centre for Research in the Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities
(CRASSH]), and, since 2019, by his role as BA Foreign Secretary);




                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


      structurally allowing maximum freedom to individuals to develop their research
in whatever way they wish and to address whatever audience they wish; timetabling
Faculty obligations so as to enable activities away from Cambridge; adopting a
flexible workload model that recognises that contributions to Classics and Classical
research come in many forms and that contributions to Faculty administration will
vary over a career; and, in a different vein, systematically taking advantage of the
University Science Festival and Festival of Ideas.
       The combined effect of this intellectual, cultural and structural framework is to
stimulate research of the kind that most readily impacts a wider world, to recognise
that time and attention to that wider world is a significant contribution to the narrower
academic world, and to remove barriers to exploiting the networks laboriously
created.
     The success of this strategy is evidenced by:
    • the diversity of modes of engagement, and its audiences above, and in
    4.3.1;
    • the geographical reach of the impact, seen most clearly in the worldwide
reputation of Beard and Goldhill but also in Gildenhard’s open-access commentaries
with over 220,000 users in 196 countries and territories;
     • the broad disciplinary and interdisciplinary contribution made by
members of the UoA across ancient literature, philosophy, history, art and
archaeology, and philology, and well beyond into post-antiquity, art history, heritage,
politics, policy-making and so on;
    • the significance of the impact made by members of the UoA on the
particular groups with whom they have interacted, and the ways in which
understanding has been variously transformed, as demonstrated by the case studies
submitted and by e.g. Gildenhard’s impact not only pedagogically but by inspiring
Open Book Publishers to pursue peer-reviewed textbooks, including in diverse fields
as Advanced Problems in Mathematics: Preparing for University, and Conservation
Biology in Sub-Saharan Africa.


     1.3.4 Interdisciplinary research
      Classics is fundamentally interdisciplinary, and our stress on ‘big questions’
asked by literary scholars, philosophers, historians, archaeologists, philologists (and
more) within a single Faculty is designed to encourage interdisciplinary research
from the undergraduate essay up. We include explicitly interdisciplinary final-year
Classical Tripos papers (currently: ‘Nature’, and ‘Rome: the very idea’) run by the
interdisciplinary ‘X’ Caucus, which also runs an MPhil seminar with an
interdisciplinary focus, and holds postgraduate seminars three or four times a term
and conferences with interdisciplinary themes, drawing into the Faculty scholars of
different disciplinary backgrounds who increase research vitality. We encourage
undergraduates and MPhil students to take courses from outside Classics, and


                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


academic staff at all levels to participate in initiatives which are explicitly cross-
disciplinary or hosted in other Faculties (e.g. the Centre for Visual Culture, the
Material Culture workshop, etc.). It is no accident that for most of the period in
question Simon Goldhill was Director of CRASSH, whose projects and conferences,
some held within the Classics Faculty, have involved as many postgraduate students
as his senior Faculty colleagues.
        The success of this approach in producing interdisciplinarity is evidenced by:
    • the submitted outputs which reveal how many members of the UoA publish
    over a range of disciplines or produce outputs contributing to more than one
    Classical sub-discipline (notably Flemming, Gagné, Goldhill, Gildenhard, Hardie,
    Osborne, Sheffield, Vout, Whitmarsh);
    • research projects [3.1] based on interdisciplinary engagement, such as the
    Impact of the Ancient City, which unites classicists, urbanists, Islamicists,
    Arabists, Ottomanists and modernists; CREWS, with its team of epigraphists,
    linguists and archaeologists, that break down disciplinary boundaries by studying
    the ancient Mediterranean and Near East in tandem; or Millett’s work at Falerii
    Novi which attracted the attention of Nature research highlights in June 2020.


        1.3.5 Open research environment
     Members of the Classics Faculty have been at the forefront of the debate on
Open Access within the discipline, both (inter)nationally (e.g. Osborne in the British
Academy’s Debating Open Access and in Online Information Review) and within the
University (the Faculty co-ordinated responses to University OA initiatives in relation
to PhD degrees, and succeeded in securing a policy change).
        They have also pioneered OA publishing in Classics:
    • Gildenhard has made his research widely available through commentaries
    on passages of Latin set for national A-level examinations published by Open
    Books Publishers (itself a Cambridge enterprise, headed by academics and run
    from one of the Colleges) and free to download as well as available to purchase
    ‘print on demand’.
    •     The Faculty has secured a ground-breaking agreement with CUP to publish
          five volumes a year in the Cambridge Classical Studies series OA for the
          next three years, giving the best work by young Cambridge-trained
          researchers the greatest chance of academic impact.
    •     The ERC-funded CREWS and Impact of the Ancient City projects will publish
          all outputs (green or gold) OA, with the first OA book being Boyes & Steele
          (eds.) 2020 – Understanding Relations Between Scripts II: Early Alphabets.
    •     Archaeological data gathered through the AHRC-funded ‘Beneath the
          Surface of Roman Republican Cities’ (i.e. geophysical images, surface finds
          lists) have been deposited with the Archaeological Data Service. Full
          research data for the completed archaeological project at Thwing has been


                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       deposited OA in the University’s digital repository (Apollo). The full data from
       the Aldborough project is deposited in the same repository as each stage of
       the work is completed.
     Advisory sessions alert postgraduate students to OA.


     1.3.6 Research integrity
     We expect research integrity at every level, and the Research Committee
exercises overall oversight. In relation to UTOs, integrity is further ensured by
mentoring and appraisal; in relation to research projects, by the management
committees for each project and the postdoctoral mentoring scheme; in relation to
postgraduate students and their supervisors, by the Postgraduate Studies
Committee, appointment of second supervisors, and the process of annual review.
      The importance of such support and of enhancing awareness of ethical issues,
in terms both of Faculty members’ own behaviour and of the behaviour of others
towards them, was recently underlined when a prominent European scholar included
tables of data taken, without permission or acknowledgement, from the work of a
Cambridge PhD student. Postgraduate student work is carefully policed for
indications of unacknowledged borrowing, and appropriate plagiarism detection
programmes used as required.




                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




     2. PEOPLE



     2.1 SALARIED STAFF
     2.1.1 Staff development strategy
     The University seeks to provide high-quality administrative and infrastructural
support for staff research, and research networking with scholars elsewhere. To this
end, the University provides an extensive Personal and Professional Development
programme. Faculty-level formal structures of support include:
          Mentoring: All new academic and research staff in the Faculty are given a
    mentor to provide induction support and act as a long-term critical friend; further
    guidance has been formulated by the Faculty Board during this period to ensure
    that this scheme is fully effective. UTOs gain further mentoring experience by
    participating in College and University mentoring schemes. Informally, Caucuses
    and their seminars help effectively to integrate newcomers into the Faculty
    research culture.
         Induction: Alongside a centrally organised induction programme, individuals
    are given personalised induction by the Chair of Faculty. New University
    Lecturers have reduced teaching and administrative loads in the first year of
    appointment. Most Colleges now also give new Fellows reduced teaching loads.
           Probation: A designated member of staff (in addition to the mentor), chosen
    by the relevant Appointments Committee, oversees the probationary period and
    regularly reviews work in the initial years in post. Career counselling, available to
    all staff, is offered especially to those on fixed-term contracts; more concretely,
    the Faculty tries to ensure that short-term staff gain a range of experience helpful
    in career advancement.
          Appraisal: For established staff, appraisal, overseen by the Appraisal
    Committee, often provides the context for discussion of career development,
    including individual research and publishing strategy. Staff are appraised
    biennially. Appraisal has been reorganised during this period to ensure that
    appraisal happens alternately within and across Caucus boundaries and across
    seniority levels, and to maximise the expertise of the appraiser and the
    effectiveness with which any concerns arising are acted upon.
         Training: Staff development needs (including attendance at training
    courses) and career progression are discussed at appraisals, and staff are
    encouraged to exploit the wide range of courses offered by the University’s
    Centre for Personal and Professional Development.




                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


         Implementation of the Concordat is secured above all through its principles
    being embedded in the culture of the Faculty and therefore in all relevant
    committees, including the Research Committee, RPPC, the Equality and
    Diversity Committee, appointments committees, and, above all, the Faculty
    Board.
         Promotion is handled by the University Senior Academic Promotions
    procedure for all academic staff (full- or part-time). Staff are assessed on their
    research, teaching, and other contribution (including impact outside the
    academy). The rigorous annual promotion exercise involves senior academics
    external to the University on the relevant committees. (For Classics’ promotions
    see 1.3.1.1). Research staff on fixed-term contracts are automatically promoted
    from Research Assistant to Research Associate on the award of a PhD.


     2.1.2 Staffing and recruitment policy
      Appointments: Regular appointment of new research and teaching staff, after
open competition, is crucial in enabling the highest quality research to flourish in
Cambridge. During 2014–20, eight appointments have been made to permanent
UTO posts [1.3.1.1], following strategic reflection on research and teaching needs.
These appointments, made by boards chaired by the Vice-Chancellor or a Deputy,
have helped to secure the continuity, expand the wide range, and renew the vitality
of the Faculty’s research.
      The fundamental objective in recruitment has been to select, and then support,
creative world-class scholars, who will find their own new paths in research. New
appointments also consolidate existing strengths: Betegh and Willey in Greek
religion, Laemmle in Greek drama, Whitmarsh in Greek imperial literature, Clackson
and Zair in historical linguistics and the languages of Italy, and Sheffield in Platonic
studies. Weisweiler’s appointment, with appointments of Lunn-Rockcliffe in Divinity
and Goodson in History, enhances Cambridge’s existing cross-Faculty strength in
late antiquity.
     Fixed-term teaching appointments are used only to replace staff bought out by
research grants. These staff have teaching and leave equivalent to those of
permanent members of staff, and normally a significantly lighter administrative and
postgraduate teaching load.
      The remarkable array of 25 JRFs and 21 other postdoctoral fellows in Classics
(2014–20) have been subject to various College mentoring arrangements, but the
Faculty now provides a mentor for all of them. All postdoctoral researchers affiliated
to Classics have access to specific project grants or Faculty research funding
(currently £1,700 p.a.). Included in Caucuses, they take full part in all aspects of
Faculty research life. Postdoctoral researchers are given opportunities to lecture,
and many also examine and undertake undergraduate supervision, including
supervision of undergraduate dissertations for which they are given specific



                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


mentoring support. The Faculty offers various guidance sessions to help
postdoctoral researchers balance time spent directly on research with time spent
gaining teaching and administrative experience and make strategic decisions on
what to publish in what form and where. Postdoctoral researchers also benefit from
activities organised by the University’s Postdoc Academy.
      The Faculty’s successful support of research staff is shown by the success of
those employed in fixed-term teaching or research positions in obtaining further
fixed-term or permanent University teaching or research positions. In this period:
          Pavlos Avlamis (KCL), Erica Bexley (Swansea, now Durham), Louise
    Blanke (Edinburgh), Olympia Bobou (Aarhus), Stefano Campana (Sienna),
    Paola Ceccarelli (UCL), Siobhan Chomse (RHUL), Tiziana D’Angelo
    (Nottingham), Olivia Elder (Oxford), Maya Feile Tomes (MMLL, Cambridge),
    Danielle Frisby (KCL, now Manchester), Elena Giusti (Warwick), Emma
    Greensmith (Oxford), Ailsa Hunt (Birmingham), Claire Jackson (Ghent), Dan
    Jolowicz (KCL), Emily Kneebone (Nottingham), Rebecca Laemmle, Jessica
    Lightfoot (Birmingham), Katherine McDonald (Exeter), Tom Mackenzie (UCL),
    Francesca Martelli (UCLA), Helen Roche (Durham), Gabriele Rota (Oxford),
    Anya Slawisch (Edinburgh), Henry Spelman (Oxford), Kathryn Stevens (Durham,
    now Oxford), Lacey Wallace (Lincoln), Hannah Willey, Nick Zair (those in italics
    were appointed to Lectureships in Cambridge).
      Central to staff development at every level is the exchange of intellectual ideas
through a vigorous Faculty research culture founded on extensive and intensive
interaction between research-active staff, postdoctoral researchers, retired
academics, research students and visitors in seminars, colloquia and individual
discussions, whether formal supervisions, comments on colleagues’ drafts or
spontaneous encounters [1.1].


     2.1.3 Leave Policy
      Sabbatical Leave: University leave provision is designed primarily to give
research time. One term in seven is automatically available as sabbatical; those who
undertake major administrative responsibilities gain additional leave entitlement.
Staff are encouraged to apply for further research leave and research grants through
other schemes. Early Career Fellowships at CRASSH provide one term's leave for
young scholars (Van Noorden in 2014, Galanakis in 2016, Launaro in 2018); the
Newton Trust awarded Van Noorden a College Teaching Officer sabbatical in 2019.
Such opportunities are well publicised. The Faculty grants equivalent leave to
teaching staff on fixed contracts without sabbatical entitlement.
      Parental leave: The University’s parental leave provision is more generous than
is legally required. A graduated return to work plan, and a Returning Carers Scheme
help staff members resume research following leave [2.3.6].




                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     2.1.4 Recognition and reward for research and impact
      Research and impact are rewarded by promotion within Cambridge [1.3.1.1,
2.1.1] and by prestigious awards and appointments outside Cambridge (e.g.
Prauscello’s All Souls Senior Research Fellowship, Beard’s Getty Medal, Vout’s
Byvanck Professorship at Leiden). The Faculty Board has reviewed and
strengthened its monitoring of teaching and administrative loads to ensure equitable
distribution and to make suitable provision for particular research needs, enabling
sensitivity to career stage and to family and caring responsibilities, and
acknowledging the particular demands made by research projects, archaeological
fieldwork, public engagement projects and the creation of the networks essential to
achieving impact.


     2.1.5 Facilitating exchanges with non-academic bodies
    Academic staff variously engage with public-sector bodies and with the
commercial sector:
       Engagement with secondary education is encouraged through hosting and
variously servicing the local Classical Association, subsidising attendance at the CA
conference, encouraging contribution to e.g. Omnibus (two of the Faculty are on the
editorial board) and volumes in the LACTOR series, and particularly by the more
than 350 school talks delivered in Cambridge and elsewhere, in the UK and beyond,
in person and virtually; many members of the Faculty have recorded lectures for
MASSOLIT. The Faculty offers its resources both to local schoolteachers, some of
whom use the library and attend conferences, and to schoolteachers visiting as
short-term Fellows of Colleges. The Faculty (jointly with the Faculty of Education)
runs the Cambridge School Classics Project which set up the Cambridge Latin
Course (used by c. 90% of Latin language learners in the UK), maintains it in both
print and electronic versions, and provides INSET for secondary school teachers
across the UK. The Faculty supports the Classics PGCE students (based in the
Faculty of Education) through small grants, and by co-hosting meetings and sharing
facilities that ensure that they become acquainted with the postgraduate community.
     Engagement with the Museums sector is encouraged through the Faculty’s own
Museum of Classical Archaeology, postgraduate courses and seminars in
museology, and active research programmes engaged with Museum collections (see
also 3.2.3). The Museum of Classical Archaeology is part of the University of
Cambridge Museums ‘Connecting Collections’ project supported by the Arts Council.
The Following Hercules (26,440 visitors) and Codebreakers (40,000 visitors)
exhibitions in the Fitzwilliam Museum, were initiated from within the Classics Faculty,
as was the CRASSH international conference (2014) ‘Does the Museum just
Preserve the Museum?’. Nationally and internationally such engagement with
museums has occasioned Vout’s contributions to exhibitions in the UK and Europe,
and lectures at the San Antonio Art Museum and the Michael C. Carlos Museum,



                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


and Beard’s appointment as Trustee of the British Museum. Cartledge and Millett
have served as Syndics of the Fitzwilliam Museum.
     The close collaboration of our archaeological field projects with local authorities
and other interested local bodies is fully illustrated in the submitted Impact Case
Studies. Beard’s work with the town of Isernia secured an exhibition of local items
from the Louvre.
     The Faculty encourages and facilitates engagement with digital and broadcast
media, both by providing facilities for filming (e.g. in the Museum of Classical
Archaeology) and by experienced staff sharing know-how [1.3.3].


     2.2 RESEARCH STUDENTS
     2.2.1 Pathways to research
      The Faculty offers two research degree programmes, the MPhil and the PhD.
Applications for postgraduate degrees are assessed by two members of the Faculty
with appropriate expertise, who on the basis of the candidate’s academic record,
referees’ comments, submitted written work, research proposal and an interview,
either in person or online, recommend to the Postgraduate Studies Committee
whether a place should be offered, and on what conditions. Candidates are scored
according to a central University scoring system, designed to ensure that University
and College postgraduate funding is appropriately distributed across different
subjects. Classics has spearheaded a recent revision of the scoring system to
ensure fairness to all students regardless of background. Cambridge MPhil students
are guaranteed a PhD place only if they achieve a Distinction; PhD applicants from
elsewhere are expected to achieve a similar level in their previous institution.
      The nine-month MPhil course offers training in languages and research
methods, and the opportunity to complete independent pieces of research.
Candidates produce three assessed essays (at least one of which is first presented
at one of the weekly MPhil seminars), or two essays and a specialist exercise (e.g. in
palaeography, logic, Greek, Latin, Vedic, Sanskrit, Oscan, Aramaic, Hebrew,
Akkadian, Old Irish and Continental Celtic), and a dissertation. Essays and
dissertation are on topics chosen and researched independently by the student. The
replacement of Caucus-based MPhil seminars by Text and Topic Seminars has
encouraged cross-disciplinary exploration of areas of which students had little prior
knowledge. MPhil supervision is widely distributed among UTOs and all staff are
involved in examining. External Examiners consistently highlight the very high
standards of work produced, some of which has been accepted for publication in
JHS and other major journals.
     At the census date, 102 postgraduate students were registered in the Faculty
(42 MPhil and 60 PhD).




                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     2.2.2 Studentships
     Between 2014/15 and 2019/20, 188 MPhil and 87 PhD students were
supervised in Classics (128 UK, 72 EC, and 75 overseas). In addition to the 23
AHRC DTP awards secured since January 2014 [1.3.1.1], 49 PhD students received
competitive funding from other sources external and internal to the University.


     2.2.3 Monitoring and support
     Managing the postgraduate programmes is a major task. In 2019 the role of
Postgraduate Academic Secretary was divided, so that one UTO takes charge of
postgraduate recruitment, funding, and admissions, and another oversees the
studies of the postgraduates. Policy is decided by the Degree Committee advised by
a Postgraduate Studies Committee, which manages the day-to-day running of
postgraduate programmes and support of postgraduate students, makes
recommendations for admissions, appointment of supervisors and examiners, etc.,
and functions with the External Examiner as the examining body for the MPhil
degree (subject to final approval by the Degree Committee). The Degree Committee
admits postgraduate students, appoints supervisors, monitors students' progress,
ensures research integrity, appoints examiners, awards MPhil degrees and
recommends the award of PhD degrees.
      All postgraduate students have an individual Supervisor responsible to the
Degree Committee for their progress. PhD students are allocated a formal Second
Supervisor and contact with as many staff as possible is encouraged both informally
and through the assessment and seminar systems and, if appropriate, by the
appointment of a third supervisor in a cognate department [1.1, 3.2.1.5 and below].
At the end of their first year, PhD students produce a sample of work and a research
plan assessed by the Second Supervisor and a third party; registration for the PhD is
dependent upon a positive report (on which the supervisor comments). At the end of
second and third years a review by the First and Second Supervisor produces a
formal report for the Degree Committee.
       The Faculty supports graduates, and encourages graduates to support each
other, intellectually, through: the weekly seminar programme [1.1, 3.2.1.5], including
the Postgraduate Interdisciplinary Seminar (supported by Faculty funding); such
initiatives as the Cambridge Late Antiquity Network seminar in which Classics links
with History and Divinity; conference organisation, for which both Faculty and School
funding is available; and informally arranged reading groups for students and staff
(e.g. on particular texts, on theory, on visual culture). The postgraduate students
engage intellectually more widely through the Topica blog:
https://classicstopica.wixsite.com/topica
     Intellectual exchange with graduates in other universities is encouraged
through informal contacts and annual events such as AMPAH (in Cambridge in
2019) and AMPAL (in Cambridge in 2014), as well as exchange schemes in


                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Bildwissenschaft and in ancient philosophy with the LMU-Munich (funded by
competitive Cambridge-wide competition), a joint Cambridge-Leiden literature study
day, an annual Cambridge-Lille-Paris postgraduate philosophy seminar, a termly
Cambridge-Oxford-London postgraduate philosophy workshop, an annual Oxford
and Cambridge postgraduate philology study day (since 2017), a biennial
Transatlantic Research Colloquium with Cornell, Harvard, Lausanne, Lille, Paris,
Princeton, the postgraduate conferences of the Postclassicisms Network, co-
founded by Whitmarsh, linking Cambridge, Princeton, Oxford and UCL, and the 2017
joint conference in Brasilia on ‘Plato’s communities’. One or more members of
academic staff support Cambridge students during the SCS/AIA meetings and CA
Conferences, at which doctoral students regularly give papers and put together
panels, often together with senior members.
       The Classics Faculty is proud of the completion rate of its graduates and their
success in the academic job market. Of the 80 Classics graduates who completed
PhDs in the assessment period, 51 (22M, 29F) (64%) have gone on to a fixed-term
or permanent academic post in research or teaching in a University or related
institution. Currently 22 hold Research Fellowships at Cambridge or elsewhere, 21
hold temporary or permanent lectureships or equivalent positions (12 in Britain, nine
elsewhere).


     2.2.4 Skills development and employment preparation
      The University runs a postgraduate development programme and offers
graduates training in transferable skills. The Faculty requires postgraduates to form a
personal development plan, and organises and funds postgraduate digital resources
training, and ‘skills’ classes in technical subjects (e.g. numismatics and epigraphy),
and relevant ancient and modern languages (including a Classics-specific German
course). There is a programme for training graduates in teaching skills, and all PhD
students have opportunities to lecture to undergraduates, mentored by, and with
feedback from, a UTO. For PhD students, annual advice sessions are held on
applying for postdoctoral research and teaching positions (including in the USA).
Research skills sessions for graduates include how and where to submit papers to
journals or collections (most PhD students have articles accepted for publication
before the end of their PhD). Many PhD students in their second and third years take
on a limited amount of College undergraduate supervision, where they make a
considerable contribution to the provision. The Faculty provides guidance and
training for all new postgraduate supervisors. The Faculty runs a teaching bursary
competition for graduates; successful applicants (at least three annually) are funded
to teach Faculty language classes, with appropriate training and feedback from
Faculty Language Teaching Officers. There are also postgraduate curatorial
bursaries and opportunities to undertake paid work in the Museum. Postgraduates
are formally represented on the Faculty Board and many Faculty committees,




                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


providing valuable early experience of academic administration; Cambridge students
have also served on the BSA and Hellenic Society Councils.


     2.3 PEOPLE: EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
     2.3.1 Recruitment
      The Classics Faculty has applied for the Athena SWAN Bronze Award. All
members of the Faculty involved in the selection of postgraduate students or the
appointment of academic or other staff are required to undertake the University’s
Equality and Diversity training and Unconscious Bias training, and records of this
training are maintained and checked.
      All UTOs play a part in assessing postgraduate applications. Their
recommendations are reviewed by the Faculty’s Postgraduate Studies Committee,
made up of members of every classical sub-discipline again chosen to achieve a mix
with regard to gender and seniority and without regard to protected characteristics.
     Applicants for academic posts are assessed by a standing Faculty
Appointments Committee, supplemented by members of the Faculty from the area in
which the appointment is to be made. For permanent appointments, the
Appointments Committee is chaired by a senior academic from outside the Classics
Faculty and reinforced by a senior representative of the School of Arts and
Humanities. Apart from the exclusion of those still on probation, the Appointments
Committee is chosen to achieve a mix with regard to gender and seniority.
      Applicants for established Chairs are assessed by a Board chaired by a
representative of the Vice Chancellor. The membership, chosen to be appropriate to
the Chair in question, always includes women and men, members from outside the
UK, and normally at least one relatively junior member of the Faculty from the sub-
discipline in question.


     2.3.2 Study leave
      For sabbatical leave arrangements, see 2.1.4; all current UTOs have received
research leave during the REF period. PhD students are granted leave to work
away, where this is appropriate, typically to enable relevant fieldwork to be
undertaken or a student to engage with the research resources of another centre.
Outside University (Full) term, no permission is required for members of the Faculty
to work away from Cambridge; within term, short leave can be granted by the Chair
of the Faculty Board.


     2.3.3 Flexible and/or remote working
    Most members of the Faculty enjoy flexible working arrangements and many
worked remotely for part of the academic year even before 2020. All members of the


                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Faculty from MPhil students to retired Faculty members can access the Faculty
building and its Library 24/7; Lecturers negotiate appropriate times for lectures and
seminars; Caucuses collectively determine the timing of their seminars. The Faculty
receives advice from Occupational Health in cases where medical conditions
demand flexibility. In other cases the Faculty attempts to meet employees’
reasonable requests. The RPPC oversees and monitors individual loads to maximise
equity. In recent years a request for a long-term reduction to 20% to accommodate
College commitments has been agreed (and a permanent replacement appointment
made).


     Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff: see 2.1.1, 2.1.2.


     2.3.4 Conference attendance and other research support
       Everyone submitted to UoA 29, whether paid by the University, the College,
internal or external research grants, along with Language Teaching Officers and
retired UTOs and CTOs, is entitled to an annual allowance of at least £1700 for
research expenses. Postgraduate students receive an annual allowance of £850 (not
including expenses incurred in attending the CA or SCS/AIA conference).


     2.3.5 Equality and diversity in funding applications
      The same support is given to all staff with respect to access to internal funds,
research-related promotion and reward procedures, recruitment for research-related
leadership roles, conference attendance, sabbaticals and training. The RPPC
ensures that relevant committees have gender and career-level balance.


     2.3.6 Support for those returning from leave (see also 2.3.3).
      In the case of students, the Faculty ensures that it offers as much flexibility as
possible within the parameters dictated by the funding body. Staff and students with
caring responsibilities can claim for paid care to cover attendance at seminars,
conferences etc. The three University workplace nurseries provide places for the
children of staff and students. The Faculty reimburses childcare costs for staff,
postdocs and postgraduates, incurred when attending seminars, named Lectures
and meetings on Faculty business, or giving school talks.


     2.3.7 Support for staff with protected characteristics
      The Faculty’s Equality and Diversity Committee, and connected online
resources, the creation of an Equalities Officer (currently Laemmle), and the training
outlined above [2.3.1], together ensure that all members of the Faculty are given the
support they need. All parts of the Faculty building are wheelchair accessible; there


                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


are standing desks in the Faculty library, and, as required, in individual offices;
disabled and gender-neutral toilets are provided. Other arrangements are made as
appropriate and with the advice of Occupational Health.


     2.3.8 Support for well-being
      The well-being of postgraduate students is looked after by Colleges (all
postgraduate students are members of Colleges), and within the Faculty by the
Director of Postgraduate Affairs, who meets with them regularly. The Faculty,
responsive to requests made by the postgraduate community, has subsidised and
provided space for weekly yoga classes and postgraduate tea. Seminars are
followed by informal social gatherings and the Faculty holds social events after
named lectures and at the start and end of each academic year to which all staff and
postgraduate students are invited. Periodic ‘well-being days’ for Staff are organised
across the Arts, Humanities and Social Science Faculties and Departments. The
well-being of staff is overseen by mentors (for fixed-term staff and staff on probation)
and by appraisers (for other permanent staff).
     See further 2.1.5.


     2.4 Equality and diversity in REF 2021
       Before the process of output selection started, a Faculty Awayday in 2018 on
research and equality, diversity and inclusion discussed the criteria and process for
output selection in accordance with the University’s code of practice. All staff with
contracts to undertake research were informed about arrangements for staff
circumstances. They were asked to nominate up to five outputs that they regarded
as best satisfying the REF quality criteria, and to rank them. Each Caucus
established a team of at least three readers, ensuring diversity of career-stage and
gender. All involved took the University’s Equality and Diversity and Unconscious
Bias training. Individuals’ assessment of the output that best satisfied the REF
criteria was normally accepted, and their second-ranked output was then read by at
least two members of the relevant Caucus committee (or two members of different
Caucus committees in the case of outputs that crossed the classical sub-disciplines).
If this output was agreed to rank at 3* or above, then the next ranked output was
similarly read, and so on until an output was read that was not thought to satisfy 3*
criteria. Assessors were asked to divide each REF * category into ‘low’, ‘middle’ and
‘high’. Outputs were then ranked according to the scores given. The scores were
reviewed by the Research Committee but not disseminated more widely; the
composition of the Research Committee is again career-stage and gender sensitive.
That committee scrutinised the ranking of outputs just above and just below the cut-
off point for the number of outputs to be submitted, to arrive at what they considered
to be the strongest return.




                                                                                Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


      The total list of outputs returned was divided into two parts. Part 1 contained
the top-ranked output of every member of staff returned. Part 2 contained all the
additional outputs that had been scored at 3* and above, ranked and limited to no
more than four per person (three where the top ranked output was a candidate for
double-weighting). The Research Committee reviewed both lists to satisfy itself that
the scoring had been consistent across sub-disciplines, and that there had been no
systematic bias with regard to any protected characteristic, scholarly style or sub-
discipline. The selection of outputs submitted in Part 2 has been determined entirely
on the basis of predicted REF score.




                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




     3. INCOME, INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES



     3.1 Research income
      The Classics Faculty encourages grant applications for intellectual, not
financial, gains. The Research Officer, chosen from the UTOs in the Classics
Faculty, and individual mentors/appraisers, regularly talk to all Classics staff to
ascertain their research aspirations and whether these would be best realised
through a collaborative project. Teaching-relief is granted to those developing
research project applications, and funding made available for pilot studies. The
Faculty (through the Research Committee), the School and the Research Operations
Office assist in the preparation of grants, including mock interviews for those who get
to the final stage of ERC competitions. The Faculty has accumulated significant
experience of grant awards through various members who have been involved with
AHRC and ERC panels; in particular Goldhill, through his work at CRASSH, acquired
a unique range of experience with, and success in gaining, major collaborative
grants.
      The University, through the generosity of the Newton Trust, offers matching
funds to those who apply for Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships, following an
internal competition.
     Since January 2014 the Faculty has:
    • supported the Cambridge Greek Lexicon (in press, CUP) with £650K
[3.2.1.1];
    • been responsible for three major ERC-funded projects: ‘Bible and Antiquity
in 19th Century project’ € 2.5m (2012–17) PI Goldhill; ‘Contexts of and Relations
between Early Writing Systems’ £1.1m (2016–21) PI Steele; ‘Impact of the Ancient
City’ £2m (2016–21) PI Wallace-Hadrill, co-I Fowden;
     • had four major projects supported by the AHRC: Portus project £60k (2011–
14) Co-I Millett, M.; ‘Greek in Italy’ £559k (2013–18) PI Clackson; ‘Imperial Greek
Epic’ £533k (2014–18) PI Whitmarsh; ‘Beneath the Surface of Roman Republican
Cities’ £227k (2015–17) PI Millett, M, Co-I Launaro;
    • achieved a very large Mellon grant for ‘Religious Diversity and the Secular
University’ £740k (2017–21) PI Goldhill;
    • been a partner in a cross-School Wellcome Strategic award ‘From
Generation to Reproduction’ [£785,058] (2010–18) Co-PI Flemming;
    • been a partner in cross-School Leverhulme-funded ‘Unveiling the Invisible’
[£58k share] (2019–21) co-I Launaro;




                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     • hosted many other grants received by individuals or groups for more closely-
focused projects – e.g. the Herculaneum Research Project (Packard Humanities
Institute, Wallace-Hadrill Director till 2016); ‘Lerna: the analysis, interpretation and
publication of the Middle Bronze Age phase’ £115k (Isaac Newton Trust, University
of Cambridge, and the American School of Classical Studies, Athens), 2015–18;
‘Postclassicisms’ international network on Reception Theory; Mellon Sawyer seminar
on comparatism £120k.


     3.2.1 Infrastructure supporting research and impact
     [See also 3.1]
     3.2.1.1 Operational
       The Classics Faculty building (1984; extended several times, most recently in
2010) houses the Library, Museum, Archive, Epigraphy Room, lecture and seminar
rooms, administrative offices, common rooms for students and staff, and 23 study
and teaching rooms for academic staff, of which four are assigned to externally-
funded research projects/individual Research Fellows. Some research projects and
visiting scholars in Classics are accommodated in the Alison Richard Building
housing CRASSH. College Junior and Senior Research Fellows and most UTOs
also have research offices in Colleges.
       The Faculty building is fundamental to the sense of intellectual and social
community, and postgraduate students note that strong sense of a single, centred
research community as one of the most satisfying and stimulating aspects of
Classics at Cambridge. Recent refurbishment and redecoration have enhanced the
visibility of research activities and of the women and men who carry out, and have
carried out, those activities. The large number of visitors, both senior academics
(from both abroad and other UK universities) and postgraduate students, using the
library bear testimony to it as one of the world’s great centres of research in
Classics.
      The Classics Faculty Library (64,000 books, 170 periodicals) is the principal
place of work for most postgraduate students and visiting scholars. Postgraduate
students, senior members and visiting scholars normally have 24-hour library
access, every day of the year but for the annual three-day stock-check. After the
Covid-19 closure in March, it reopened to key-holders in July. Purchasing policy is
the responsibility of the Librarian and the Library Committee within the framework of
the Faculty's collection development policy, and the library collection responds to
evolving research and teaching interests in the Faculty. In addition to four dedicated
machines for consulting the electronic catalogue, the Library offers six computer
work stations, and wireless internet access, available also throughout the Faculty
building. The Library provides access to a wide range of databases and other
electronic resources (http://libguides.cam.ac.uk/classics/).




                                                                                Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


      Further outstanding research facilities include: the University Library (a Legal
Deposit Library since 1710) whose print collections amount to eight million items – two
million on open-access-shelving (with excellent post-Covid ‘zero-contact’ services,
including scan-and-deliver, and a substantial investment in additional electronic
resources) – and whose manuscript collection is an exceptional resource for Classics
teaching and research and subject of a major current digitization and research project;
specialist collections and archives in Colleges; and specialist collections in other
Faculties’ libraries.
       The Museum of Classical Archaeology houses c.600 casts of ancient sculpture
(enhanced during 2014–20 by the bronzing of a newly acquired Terme Boxer), c.500
Greek and Roman ceramics, c. 3,000 epigraphic squeezes and c.10,000 potsherds,
all with online catalogues. The Museum offers both social space and exhibition
space [3.2.3], and is a major local attraction for school parties and visitors to
Cambridge; a new Guidebook is currently being written.
     The Faculty has taken advantage of a major benefaction in kind, an important
archive relating to Wace’s Mycenae excavations, to form a purpose-built archive
centre within the Faculty Library, and to employ a part-time Archivist. The Mycenae
Archive, with digitised access since April 2020 (funded by a grant of $20k from the
Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation), has drawn scholarly visitors and helped support
other research initiatives related to the Late Bronze Age. The recently rehoused
epigraphic squeeze collection has attracted further donations of epigraphic
squeezes and related material from the estate of Michael B. Walbank, and of
Michael Crawford’s notes and photographs on Italic inscriptions.
      The Mycenaean Epigraphy Room, with its unique library and photographic
collection, constitutes one of the world's most important research-resources for
Linear B. This central study-base for postgraduate and postdoctoral work in philology
has, in the period since 2014, led not only to the third edition of Ventris and
Chadwick’s Documents in Mycenaean Greek but to outstanding postgraduate work
on Linear A and Linear B, the quality of which has been recognised by award of
individual postdoctoral fellowships and an ERC-funded project on Early Writing
Systems.
     For two decades, the Faculty has secured major funding for, and
accommodated the staff responsible for, the two-volume Cambridge Greek Lexicon,
to be published in 2021. Since 2014 alone the Faculty has spent £650k on this
important resource for all students of Greek, largely from its own resources. The
Faculty is justly proud of this ground-breaking work, aimed at all who learn Greek
from the beginner to the specialist.
     3.2.1.2 Staffing
      Technical: Custodian (Information systems support is provided at the level of
the School of Arts and Humanities). Support: Administrative Officer plus a team of
four administrative staff; Museum: Curator, Education and Outreach Coordinator,
Museum Assistant and Invigilators. Library: Librarian, three full-time staff, part-time


                                                                                 Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Archivist, Library Invigilators. Support outside the Faculty: Applications for external
research grants are facilitated by the Administrative Officer, two School Research
Facilitators and an Administrative Assistant, and the University’s Research
Operations Office.
     3.2.1.3 Other Facilities
      Classical research draws also on School and central University IT resources,
the Fitzwilliam Museum (research and postgraduate-teaching facilities in (classical)
art history and numismatics), and the McDonald Institute for Archaeological
Research. CRASSH fosters interdisciplinary research and has salaried Postdoctoral
Fellows, Early Career Fellows from Cambridge, and international Visiting Fellows,
including Visiting Professorships. Each year, via an internal competition, CRASSH
selects, funds and organizes c.25 interdisciplinary conferences (e.g. our ‘Does the
Museum just Preserve the Museum?); c.15 interdisciplinary research groups meet
fortnightly through the year. CRASSH also provides administrative support for
Cambridge Digital Humanities (CDH), established in 2017 as a successor to
University’s DH Network.
     3.2.1.4 Equipment and IT Resources
      All academic staff are supplied with networked computers for use in their
principal research offices; a rolling replacement programme for all Faculty computer
equipment is funded through the School of Arts and Humanities, under the umbrella
of the IT Resources Committee, which oversees digitised research and teaching-
projects as well as meeting staff needs for specific high-end hardware (e.g.
workstations) and software necessary to pursue their research, including specialist
equipment in support of archaeological fieldwork. Further IT resources are available
in the Literary and Linguistic Computing Centre, which provides specialised support
for computing projects in humanities research. All lecture and seminar rooms are
equipped with appropriate IT equipment.
     3.2.1.5 Scholarly
    The scholarly infrastructure of seminars, visiting lecturers and conferences
supporting research and impact is outlined in 1.1. In more detail:
         Seminars: weekly seminars devoted to Ancient History, Classical
    Archaeology, Comparative Philology, Classical Literature, and Ancient
    Philosophy in at least two of the three terms each year; and regular Cambridge
    Classical Reception seminar series.
         Visiting lectures: Annual ‘Gray’ and Corbett lectures: since 2014, the Gray
    has been given by Ringe, Pennsylvania), Schofield (Cambridge), Dench
    (Harvard), Clarke (Texas), Lowrie (Chicago), Porter (Berkeley); and the Corbett
    by Stothard (TLS), Csapo (Sydney), Willi (Oxford), Barney (Toronto), van Wees
    (UCL), and Crawley Quinn (Oxford).
          Conferences: some 40 conferences have been held since 2014, a quarter
    of them organised by, or largely by, graduate students or postdoctoral fellows. In



                                                                                 Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    the same period 14 volumes have appeared based on conferences (e.g. R.
    Hunter and S.P. Oakley (edd.), Latin Literature and its Transmission (2015); D.
    Allen, P. Christesen and P. Millett (edd.), How To Do Things with History: New
    Approaches to Ancient Greece (2018)).
     (For research projects, which have regularly run their own seminars, see 3.1).


     3.2.2 Equality and diversity
    The Equality and Diversity aspects of the organisational infrastructure have
been discussed in 2.3–4.


     3.2.3 Infrastructure/facilities supporting impact
      Further to 1.3.3, the Faculty advertises its research on its website, through the
University’s Centre for Science and Policy, which brings academics together with
public policy professionals to learn from each other, and in its building. Its Museum
of Classical Archaeology, which has some 14,000 visitors a year, and is well set up
to stage temporary exhibitions of contemporary art and photographs and host talks,
is used to showcase current Faculty research including postgraduate research (e.g.
Layers of Landscape (Slawisch), Beheading the Body (Parikh and Salisbury), Goats:
Born to be Wild (Loy), Illustrating Ancient History (Martínez Jiménez)). These
activities are supported structurally and financially by the University of Cambridge
Museums and its Arts Council Funding. Within this structure, the Faculty’s research
is also supported by the space and staff of the Fitzwilliam Museum and its curators,
and design, events and comms teams (e.g. Vout’s Following Hercules, related to her
Classical Art: a Life History and Galanakis and Christophilopoulou’s Codebreakers,
accompanied by a major publication). Members of the Faculty are contributing
expertise to forthcoming shows there, including ‘Islanders’.
      The Classics Faculty building and other lecture facilities on the Sidgwick
Avenue site are used for lectures and other events in connection with Cambridge’s
annual Festival of Ideas and Science Festival, to which the Faculty always
contributes. This does not just further the dissemination of research done in the
Faculty to those outside the University, it makes Classics research attractive to those
whose primary interest is scientific.
      The Classics Faculty hosts school students of all ages for educational activities,
in the Museum of Classical Archaeology, and for study-support and inspirational
activities (e.g. Latin Taster days). It makes a variety of classical research, including
research by postgraduate students, available to a wider public through its Museum
website (https://www.classics.cam.ac.uk/museum/research-and-teaching and
https://www.classics.cam.ac.uk/museum/exhibitions), ‘The Greeks, the Romans and
Us’ website (https://www.greeksromansus.classics.cam.ac.uk/), featuring video clips
etc, and its Classics@Cambridge twitter-feed with e.g. its links to research talks by
Faculty members.


                                                                                Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




     3.2.4 Collaborative use of research infrastructure
      Members of the Classics Faculty variously take advantage of research
infrastructure elsewhere, in particular that offered by the British School of Athens, the
British School at Rome, the American Academy in Rome, the Freie Universität
Berlin. Archaeological research-projects at Prosilio in Boeotia, at Interamna Lirenas
south of Rome, and in the Tiber Valley would be impossible without the assistance of
the two BIRI. Work at Interamna and the Tiber Valley has also taken advantage of
equipment owned and operated by the University of Ghent. The work at Aldborough
has resulted in the development of new geophysics equipment in collaboration with
the Landscape Research Centre.
     See further Section 4.




                                                                                 Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




     4. COLLABORATION & CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE,
          ECONOMY & SOCIETY



     4.1 Research Collaborations
      Research collaboration with institutions and individual academics based outside
the UoA and outside Cambridge flourishes in many forms, supported by individual
grants and Faculty funding for conferences etc. [3.1, 3.2.1.3]. There are major
collaborative projects (specialist and interdisciplinary, long-established and avowedly
experimental) with other departments in Cambridge (e.g. Launaro’s with
Mathematics for Applications in Cultural Heritage (MACH) with colleagues from the
Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics and the Fitzwilliam
Museum), Europe (e.g. Gagné with 'Les dieux d'Homère' project), and the Americas
(e.g. Whitmarsh and Goldhill’s ‘Postclassicisms’), and many smaller scale projects
arising from individual research, or sparked by the hospitality we offer to Visiting
Scholars. The projects and initiatives in 3.1 and 2.2.3 give a glimpse of this activity
and inject further variety and vitality into the Faculty’s research culture at all levels;
the wide range of subject matter and the number of colleagues involved show the
pattern of success to be sustainable and buildable. The presence of external
members on committees monitoring all major projects in Cambridge, and of our
people on similar structures further afield (e.g. co-organising more than 20
conferences overseas from Uppsala to Buenos Aires) adds to this collaborative
strength.
      The success of these collaborations is evidenced by the important publications
resulting (in addition to those listed in 3.2.1.5; cf. e.g. Postclassicisms and the two
vols. of Les dieux d'Homère), by the large numbers of visiting scholars wanting to
work in Cambridge [1.3.1], and by the five-year appointments of Whitmarsh to a
Research Associateship at Pretoria, and Vout to the Byvanck Chair of Classical
Archaeology at Leiden (the latter has conference organisation at its core).


     4.2 Interactions with research users
      Our research is widely used, internationally within the academy (both within
Classics and in cognate fields, cf. 4.1), museums and schools, nationally in the
heritage industry, and through theatre, radio, television and printed media. Much
evidence is contained in the five Impact Case Studies, in the summary in 1.3.3 and
in 2.1.6, but – beyond that – we draw attention to: Vout’s involvement in ‘Sculpture
Victorious’ at Tate Britain and ‘Domitian’, forthcoming in Leiden, Beard’s BM
Trusteeship; the Cambridge Schools Classics Project, Osborne’s role in Classical



                                                                                 Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Association Teaching Board; Beard advising the RSC on Shakespeare’s Roman
plays, and Goldhill, Icke’s Oresteia and Ivan Van Hove’s Oedipus; appearances on
In Our Time by Cartledge, Gowers, Hunter, Sheffield, Warren, and at literary festivals
(e.g. Jaipur, Hay and Cheltenham) by Beard, Vout, Whitmarsh; and contributions to
broadsheets, weeklies, monthlies etc. by Butterfield (Spectator and Standpoint), Vout
(Apollo), Osborne (Apollo, History Today), and Whitmarsh (Radio Times over the
historicity of casting of black actors in the BBC’s Troy: Fall of a City). By targeting a
wide readership we ensure that our research questions shape public discourse (cf.
Whitmarsh Battling the Gods, discussed on Newsnight).
       The diversity of our research users extends from UK school children through
the museum-going public and local communities in North Yorkshire and Lazio to
Hillary Clinton (see Impact Case Studies). To maximise our reach through online
resources we worked with the University Library and British School of Athens to
digitise the Wace excavation archive (shortlisted by the Apollo magazine for the
‘digital innovation’ award); we launched the Cambridge Linear B Research Archive
(CaLiBRA); Goldhill led the Cambridge Digital Project, was involved with the
Cambridge Digital Humanities network, and advised on digital policy/programmes in
Stanford, Montreal and Sweden; Betegh worked with the Virtual Cosmology Project;
we also used blogs, Twitter etc. (cf. Whitmarsh’s research on Greeks and skin colour
shared 13k times on Facebook). Betegh and Whitmarsh edit online resources
(Stanford Encyclopaedia of Philosophy; Oxford Classical Dictionary).


     4.3 Contributions to the economy, society and sustainability of the
discipline
      As 1.3.3 and 2.1.6 reveal, members of this UoA contribute significantly to the
profits of commercial publishers, television companies and film producers, and of
producers of educational videos, and to the attractiveness of radio broadcasts and
museum exhibitions. Members of this UoA use their standing, among the public and
among particular groups, to influence public policy and attitudes. We draw attention
particularly to the Mellon-funded programme on Religious Diversity and the Secular
University, to Betegh’s work with the educational platform in design and architecture,
Hello Wood, and Goldhill’s chairing of the Nine Dots prize for creative thinking on
contemporary societal issues.
      The culture of collaboration and of commitment to the future of the discipline is
demonstrated by the fact that everyone returned in this REF to this UoA, however
junior, contributes to the subject outside Cambridge [4.4.1–7]. Between us we have
advised/examined 75 doctorates in 28 different universities in 12 different countries
and three different continents, and participated in tenure reviews and professorial
appointments from Tel Aviv to Los Angeles.
      Our influence extends not merely geographically but in the broadest
disciplinary sense across the humanities. Our more senior scholars take a lead:
Goldhill has been president of NETIAS (Network of Institutes of Advanced Studies),


                                                                                 Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


dedicated to interdisciplinary work, Vice-Chair of the Synergy Grant programme at
the ERC, distributing over €75M in interdisciplinary research funding, and has served
on the AHRC Strategic Advisory Board for Global Challenges, and the Rachel
Carson Centre for Environment and Society at Munich; Betegh has been Chair of the
ERC Culture and Cultural Productions panel.


     4.3.1 National/international grants committees etc.
     Our contribution to the research base nationally and internationally is further
demonstrated by membership/chairing of the AHRC Peer Review College, the AHRC
Collaborative Doctoral Award panel; the AHRC Council; the International Reviewer
Panel, advisory committees for appointments to Senior Research Fellowships at All
Souls, Oxford; Danish Council for Independent Research in Humanities; Einstein
awards, Berlin; the Scientific Council Institute of Advanced Study, Paris; the
Scientific Council Profutura, Swedish Collegium of Advanced Study; REF 2014
Panel D and Classics sub-panel. As BA Foreign Secretary, Goldhill chairs grant
committees distributing £25M annually.

      We have been external reviewers of Classics at the Universities of Cyprus and
of Nicosia, of Durham IAS, of the School of Historical Studies at IAS Princeton; of
Leiden University Centre for the Arts in Society. Hunter was Chair of Council at the
Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. Members of the UoA have adjudicated Marie
Curie awards; the Holberg Prize; Samuel Johnson Prize; Public History Prize. Many
more have referred proposals of research councils globally.

     4.3.2 Academic editorships
     Cambridge Faculty members undertake all the heavy lifting involved in editing
Cambridge Classical Studies, and Cambridge Greek and Latin Classics (the Green
and Yellows), and most of that in editing Cambridge Classical Texts and
Commentaries and Cambridge Classical Journal.
     Many Faculty members edit other book series: Key Themes in Ancient History
(CUP); Classical Scholarship in Translation (CUP), Greek Culture in the Roman
Empire (CUP); Classical Culture and Society (OUP); Brill's Plato Series;
Supplements to the Cambridge Classical Journal (CUP); BABesch Supplements;
Studies in the History of Greece and Rome (UNC Press); Emotions in Antiquity,
LACTORs; Studies in Classical Archaeology (Brepols); Elements in Ancient
Philosophy (CUP); Classics in Theory (OUP); Oxford Studies in Ancient Culture and
Representation (OUP).
     Most of those returned in UoA 29 have served as editors of scholarly journals
or on editorial boards in 2014–20, providing editorial input into some 55 journals in
the UK, USA, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Greece. We list those beginning with A:




                                                                             Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     Aitia, Ancient Narrative, Annales ESC, Archaeological Reports, Archiv fur
Religionsgeschichte, Arctos, ASDIWAL, AURA: the Athens University Review of
Archaeology, The Australasian Journal of Philosophy).


     4.3.3 Academic refereeing
       Refereeing of publications and research proposals is so much part of the
lifeblood that few measure its flow. All permanent academic staff, and many early-
career staff, contribute to the academic community by peer-review of research
articles for journals from International Journal for Palaeopathology to Paideia and
books, and by book reviews. Submissions have been refereed for at least 92
different journals (to list those beginning with B or C:
     Bioarchaeological International; British Journal for the History of Philosophy,
Bulletin of the American Schools of Oriental Research, Bulletin of the School of
Oriental and African Studies, Cambridge Archaeological Journal, Cambridge
Classical Journal, Classical Antiquity, Classical Journal, Classical Philology,
Classical Quarterly, Classical Receptions Journal, Classical World;
    and for at least 25 different publishers (to list those beginning with P: (Peter
Lang, Princeton UP, Philadelphia UP; Polity Press, Palgrave Macmillan).


     4.3.4 Fellowships and similar appointments
      Section 1.3.1.1 above lists fellowships that bought UTOs out of teaching. The
international reception of their research is further evidenced by 4.1 and by: the Lucy
Shoe Merrit Fellowship (American Academy in Rome) 2018-19 and Yale, Visiting
Fellowship, Centre for British Art 2017 (Beard); Tytus Senior Research Fellowship,
University of Cincinnati (Galanakis), Sather Lecturer 2022 (Gowers), Foreign Fellow,
Academy of Athens (Hunter), Senior Research Fellow, Gerda Henkel Stiftung (Key
Fowden), Advanced Postdoctoral Fellowship of the Swiss National Foundation for
2015–17 (Laemmle), Fellowship at the Tübingen Centre for Advanced Studies and
RASA summer Fellowship (Weisweiler). Goldhill, Gowers, and Whitmarsh have been
elected FBA in this REF period. Beard is Royal Academy Professor of Ancient
Literature.


     4.3.5 Awards and Prizes
     Our research has been recognised by national and international awards for
books, articles and overall contribution and fellowships (above and 1.3.1.1) and
honorary doctorates in multiple countries. A sample highlights how these accolades
encompass senior, mid and early career researchers:
     Medlicott Medal, Historical Association (Beard), Philip Leverhulme Prize
(Gagné), Samuel H. Kress Lectureship in Ancient Art (AIA) (Galanakis), Gildersleeve
Prize for best article in American Journal of Philology 2017 (Leventhal), Runciman


                                                                                Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Prize 2019 (Osborne), Evans-Pritchard Lecturer, All Souls, Oxford (Steele), Goodwin
Award of Merit (SCS) (Whitmarsh).


     4.3.6 Invited keynotes, lectures etc.
     We all, from early career researchers to the professoriate participate widely in
conferences and are invited to give (keynote) lectures internationally, from Whitton
(University of Sao Paulo) and Weisweiler (University of Basel, Hellas Lecture),
through Gagné (Prentice lecture, Princeton) and Spivey (IOC International School),
to Gowers (National Taiwan University) and Warren (Annual Lecture in Ancient
Philosophy, Columbia NY).


     4.3.7 Collaborative PGR training
     Classics has one AHRC CDP award for a doctoral project with the British
Museum. Collaborative PhD training is done both formally through participation in
AHRC DTP, and through informal cross-Faculty supervision with Archaeology, Art
History, Asian and Middle Eastern Studies, English, Philosophy).


     It is a curiosity of the guidance to end with PGR training, but for us it is
appropriate. Although very proud of the work done, and part played, by our salaried
researchers, we regard the most important product of our research environment to
be the high quality of work produced by our postgraduate students, and the demand
in which they find themselves for academic employment.




                                                                               Page 31
