Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Dundee

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 28 History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Overview
The History Unit of Assessment at the University of Dundee consists of 18 staff (16.7 FTE).
Staffing levels have remained stable since REF 2014 when the unit returned 16 FTE. Research in
the unit spans the period from the early sixteenth century to the contemporary world and
encompasses a wide geographical range, including Britain, Europe, Africa, South Asia and North
America. It has three main research groups: Global, Scottish and European history. The unit is
based in the University’s School of Humanities where research is organised and supported by an
Arts & Humanities Research Institute (AHRI). This forms the context, structure and strategic
framework for the unit’s research. The AHRI comprises five research centres, two of which – the
Scottish Centre for Global History and the Centre for Scottish Culture – are led by the History unit.
The centres provide strategic focus for collaborations, interdisciplinary research and impact
activity. They build upon the unit’s three main research specialisms, complementing the diversity
of individual research and enabling the unit to build distinctive bodies of expertise in these areas.
The strategy that the unit set out in REF 2014 (outlined below) was broadly achieved, and its
current strategy, which aims to build upon the unit’s achievements, will enable it to sustain its
research and extend its impact.

1.2 REF 2014: Plans and Implementation
History’s strategy as reported in REF 2014 had four main objectives: to establish two
interdisciplinary research centres; to build its research networks and collaborations; to develop its
programme for postgraduate researchers; and to recruit a cohort of postdoctoral researchers. The
establishment of two centres – the Scottish Centre for Global History and the Centre for Scottish
Culture – in March 2014 has provided the basis for the development of new research
collaborations, e.g., with partners in India and South Africa. Our membership of the Scottish
Graduate School for Arts & Humanities, which was also launched in 2014 and is funded by the
AHRC and Scottish Funding Council, has transformed the environment for our doctoral
researchers, e.g., by greatly expanding the number of generic and subject-specific training
programmes available to postgraduates. The unit had two postdoctoral researchers in this
reporting cycle, both attached to the Scottish Centre for Global History. These developments were
aided by changes in the broader research environment of the School of Humanities and its AHRI
(elaborated below).

1.3 Organisation of Research: the AHRI
The Arts & Humanities Research Institute (est. 2009) is managed by the School’s Research and
Knowledge Exchange Committee (RKEC) and is responsible for the research environment within
which the School’s academics work. It formulates the School’s research strategy and manages its
research budget. The main strategic objectives of the AHRI are: to build bridges between
disciplines within and beyond humanities subjects; to promote partnership-based research and
impact within and beyond academia; and to create an environment for research postgraduates to
thrive and become leaders in their fields.

Following REF 2014, the AHRI accelerated this strategy by overseeing a systematic shift from
discipline-based organisation of research to the development of thematic centres. It currently
houses five centres and is closely linked to two others shared with other HEIs. The aim of this

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
strategy has been to encourage and embed interdisciplinary and collaborative approaches to
research and impact. This enables the School to maximise the potential of overlapping themes
across and beyond the School (for example, in Scottish culture and global studies). The centres
established as part of that shift are responsible for giving shape and focus to the range of
Humanities research, and for developing external collaborations and public engagement. They
provide important focal points for postgraduate research culture in the School (all PGRs are
affiliated to at least one centre). The centres are designed to be flexible and facilitative, and to
enable relatively small disciplinary units with porous boundaries to coalesce into a larger and
sustainable research environment. Several staff members contribute to the work of more than one
centre, which assists in promoting cross-disciplinary collaboration. The thematic approach to
research organisation is not restrictive, and the AHRI deliberately embraces the diversity of
humanities research. Research in the History unit at Dundee is a constituent element of this
broader environment.

1.4 History Research Areas
There are three main research areas in the unit: Global, Scottish and European history. The
Global and Scottish areas form the basis of two research centres that sit within the broader AHRI
structure: the Scottish Centre for Global History (SCGH) and the Centre for Scottish Culture
(CSC). These centres draw upon the unit’s strengths in early modern and modern Scottish and
transnational history and are responsible for driving its collaborations, interdisciplinary research
and impact activity, in line with the AHRI’s strategic objectives and the University’s commitment to
interdisciplinarity (institutional statement).

The SCGH, established in 2014, brings together scholars who research global empires and
interconnected histories from the seventeenth to the twentieth centuries. It includes historians who
engage with global and interconnected histories of modern imperialism, and those who explore the
transformations occasioned by European colonialism in non-western states. Their specialisations
include histories of modern medicine, public health, and scientific networks in colonial South Asia
(Bhattacharya), the politics of race and criminal justice in twentieth-century United States
(Colley), South African liberation movements and postcolonial nationalism (Graham), global trade
and French politics in the eighteenth century (Livesey, Gottmann), the political thought and
practice of Dutch imperialism in the East Indies during the seventeenth century (Van Ittersum),
and imperial politics between Native Americans, early American settlers and the British army in
north America (Ward). Since 2014 the centre has organised international workshops on colonial
South Asia (2015), twentieth century black history (2015) and early modern global capitalism
(2017), funded respectively by the Wellcome Trust, the AHRC and the Leverhulme Trust.

The CSC is an interdisciplinary centre led by the unit and based on a collaboration with the English
Language & Literature group in Humanities. The History members conduct research on the history
of early modern and modern Scotland, including its imperial and transnational connections.
Morton works on Scottish nationalism in popular culture, William Wallace, and Scottish migration.
Whatley has continued his work on the history and current standing of the UK Union, and he has
explored, by applying an interdisciplinary approach, post-1707 Scottish identity through the afterlife
and contested memory of the national poet Robert Burns. MacDonald works on a range of
aspects of seventeenth-century Scotland, notably the history of the lesser nobility, with a focus on
parliament, estate management and innovation. Kennedy’s research deals with the Scottish
Highlands in the late seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, and Scottish emigration to England.
William Kenefick (retired 2016, now a Senior Honorary Research Fellow) and Derek Patrick (now
at St Andrews) ran the Great War Dundee Commemorative Project (2014-19) and carried out
research on the impact of WWI on Dundee and Scotland. The research culture of the centre also

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
benefits from Dr Michael Morris – a joint appointment between History and English and a member
of both the CSC and the SCGH – who works on Scotland and the Atlantic slave trade (returned in
UoA 27). The centre has organised a range of events, including the annual conferences of the
International Postgraduate Port & Maritime Studies Network (2019) and the Scottish Records
Association (2019). It has also co-initiated a series of international archives conferences in
collaboration with the School’s Centre for Archive & Information Studies (CAIS), a School
programme which provides courses in postgraduate archival training and to which the unit is
closely aligned.

The third distinctive area of the unit’s research is European history. Our work in this area covers
diverse aspects of modern nation-states and politics in comparative perspective. Specialisations
include British elections (Carvalho), the Irish and European left (Dunphy), the Russian Empire,
Revolution and Civil War (Frame), comparative criminal jurisprudence in Germany, France and
Britain (Johansen), Irish nationalism between the wars (Regan), contemporary Russian politics
(Ross), the Spanish empire and the fiscal-military Savoyard state (Storrs) and women and gender
in modern Italy, particularly in the Fascist period (Willson). The unit’s work in these areas
overlaps with and contributes to the research themes of its two centres (e.g., Frame and Storrs
are members of the SCGH).

The unit also instigated the Centre for Scotland’s Land Futures (SCLF), an interdisciplinary and
cross-institutional research centre that focuses on the uses of land in Scotland. It is a collaboration
with the Universities of Stirling and the Highlands & Islands and benefits from partnerships with
Scottish Natural Heritage, the National Trust for Scotland, the Argyll Estates and Mount Stewart.
The centre was founded in 2015 by Tindley (now at Newcastle); it was then run by Whatley and
Kennedy, and now by Yeung (UoA 27).

1.5 Research and Impact Strategy
The unit’s strategy for the next five years is to build upon its collective strengths in distinctive areas
– Global, Scottish history and European history – in alignment with the AHRI’s and University’s
vision of embedding interdisciplinarity and partnership-based research. This approach has already
resulted in a range of collaborations with local, national and international partners (see section 4)
and will be sustained by current and emerging partnership projects. These include
Bhattacharya’s work on alcohol and modernity in India with third sector partners in Delhi (Society
for Promotion of Youth and Masses) and Kolkata (Samaritans and Emmanuel Ministries),
Johansen’s multi-disciplinary collaboration with colleagues in Europe, North America and Japan
on comparative police complaints procedures to establish international standards for good practice
(awarded Open Research Area funding for 2021-23), and Kennedy and MacDonald’s project
(with Stirling) on the Scottish Privy Council (awarded Leverhulme funding for 2020-23).

During the next five years the unit will also contribute to the School of Humanities’ goal to become
a world-class centre for practice research and collaborations with the creative industries. The main
driver will be the AHRC-funded InGame cluster (Livesey) in partnership with Abertay and St
Andrews – part of the AHRC’s Creative Industries Cluster Programme -- which links research to
practice in the creative industries. The practice research theme will also be developed through the
unit’s closer alignment since 2019 with CAIS, which supports practice research for doctoral
researchers. The creation of this new programme for History, Archives & Information Studies will
enhance the unit’s research environment, and a forthcoming research appointment in digital
records management will help build capacity in this area.



                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The unit also aims to expand its number of postgraduate researchers during the next five years, in
line with University and School ambitions. The number of PhDs awarded in this reporting cycle
was 18 (compared to 16 in REF 2014). As a relatively small unit, our main approach to growing
PGR numbers will be to develop collaborations with other disciplines and institutions (e.g.,
Kennedy and MacDonald’s project with Stirling, which has two Leverhulme-funded PGRs).
Membership of the Scottish Graduate School for Arts & Humanities provides an application route
for AHRC doctoral scholarships. In this reporting cycle, the unit had four AHRC-funded PGRs and
will aim to increase this number by identifying interdisciplinary themes, through its research
centres, for doctoral study. The unit also offers (since 2020) a Doctorate in Professional Practice,
aimed at practitioners in the creative industries and archives, which links the unit’s PGR ambitions
with the School’s wider practice research strategy.

The unit’s impact strategy follows the AHRI’s two-fold approach: (1) to build proactively a range of
partnerships with non-academic users of our research as a means of embedding impact through
collaboration; (2) to support events which engage wider audiences with our research and thereby
influence public understanding. The success of this approach is reflected in key aspects of the
unit’s Impact Case Studies, including the Great War Dundee Commemorative Project, a History-
led partnership of 18 local organisations (Kenefick and Patrick), and the Five Million Questions
forum, which informed public understanding of issues, many with an historical dimension, integral
to the 2014 Scottish independence referendum (Whatley). A third example from this reporting
period is the Community Landownership project, a collaboration with Community Land Scotland,
the Scottish government and Highlands & Islands Enterprise (Tindley). The project established
criteria, detailed in a briefing report for the organisations involved, to assess the progress of
community land ownership following the 2003 and 2016 Land Reform (Scotland) Acts. This two-
fold approach to facilitating impact will be sustained during the next five years by the partnership
projects outlined above, and also by Kennedy and Morton’s collaboration with the popular journal
History Scotland to disseminate the CSC’s research to wider audiences. The unit’s support
mechanisms for impact are described in section 3.

1.6 Open Research Environment
Support for Open Access (OA) is provided centrally by the University’s Library & Learning Centre
(LLC). An LLC liaison representative is a member of the School RKEC and advises the committee
on all matters relating to open research. Outputs and data sets that meet OA requirements are
made available through the LLC’s online repository ‘Discovery’. All of the unit’s submitted ‘in-
scope’ outputs are compliant with OA requirements. Support for an open research environment is
additionally provided by the School’s dedicated Public Engagement Officer, who promotes public
awareness of our research, for example by working with staff to identify and organise events that
share research insights with wider audiences. Six members of the unit contributed in this reporting
cycle to Dundee Arts Café, a partnership between the University and the local authority to provide
free public talks on new research. The unit’s centres are also committed to an open research
culture. The SCGH, for example, contributes to a website that provides open information about
archival and library collections in South East Asia and India, designed to support use of the
collections. The CSC, in collaboration with the journal History Scotland, runs twice-yearly free
public lectures on prominent historical themes, in different parts of country; the lectures are filmed
and made available on the centre’s website.

1.7 Research Integrity
Research integrity and good practice in research ethics are embedded in the University’s strategic
priorities (institutional statement). The unit is supported in these areas by two School of
Humanities officers who work together, and with relevant University groups, to raise awareness of

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the principles articulated in the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the University’s
related procedures. The Research Integrity Lead (RIL) (Van Ittersum) – alongside the Associate
Dean for Research as Deputy Lead (Frame) – is a member of the University Research Integrity
Group, advises staff and students on matters relating to research integrity, and is responsible for
promoting a culture of research integrity in the School. The RIL also promotes the University’s
online research integrity training (available since 2016) which is mandatory for postgraduate
researchers and recommended for staff. The Research Ethics Officer (Colley) advises staff and
students on ethical standards of research practice involving human participants.

 2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy
Since 2014 the staffing strategy of the School of Humanities, of which the History unit is a key
component, has been two-fold: (1) to consolidate established research strengths; (2) to make
appointments which bridge disciplines and facilitate collaborative research. The unit has focused
on consolidating its research around its two centres. New appointments in Scottish history and
culture – Kennedy and Morris, the latter a joint appointment with English submitted to UoA 27 –
have reinforced existing strengths by underpinning the work done (mainly by Morton) on Scotland
and its transnational contexts. The appointment of Gottmann (Leverhulme Early Career Research
Fellow, 2014-17) to work on eighteenth-century transnational commercial institutions enhanced the
research strengths of the SCGH. The appointment of Patrickson (National Productivity Investment
Fund Postdoctoral Fellow, 2017-18) to work on the history of capital deficits enhanced the
interdisciplinary aspects of the new history of capitalism, the focus of Livesey’s research. A
forthcoming appointment in the area of digital records management will cement the unit’s closer
alignment since 2019 with CAIS and strengthen its contribution to the School’s practice-based
research profile. The unit also now includes three staff (Carvalho, Dunphy, Ross) who teach
primarily in the Politics programme but whose research aligns to the unit.

2.2 Staff Development and Support for Research
The unit’s structures for staff development and support for research are provided by the AHRI and
the School, which in turn reflect the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development
of Researchers. Staff development is fostered through an annual process of Objective-Setting &
Review (OSAR) run by the Dean and School professoriate, which enables staff to reflect on their
progress, to identify any impediments and discuss appropriate professional development
opportunities to support their career ambitions. The process is designed to support staff and to
identify opportunities and routes to increased success. The OSAR process is complemented by
the University’s Annual Research Review (ARR) which was first implemented in 2016 and offers
developmental feedback on research plans, progress and outputs via internal peer review by an
ARR panel, formed from members of the School’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee
(RKEC) plus an Associate Dean for Research from another School.

All research staff (full-time and part-time) receive a standard 30% (pro rata) workload allocation for
research and research-related activity. Recipients of external funding receive additional workload
time for research (calculated according to type of project and funding). All staff in the School can
apply for a Research & Scholarship Focused Semester (RSFS), which relieves them from most
teaching and administrative duties, allowing for a concentrated period of focus on research
(typically used to bring a major project to completion or to accelerate a new one). The RSFS
scheme is School-based and is managed by RKEC. In addition, all staff can apply to the
University for a formal leave of absence (sabbatical) to pursue research, although in recent years
the RSFS has become the normal route to enhancing time for research in the School. During this

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
cycle, six members of the unit have had research leave (one member on two occasions); for three
members, this enabled the completion of monographs, one of which has been submitted to REF
2021 (Morton) and two of which will be published early in the next cycle (Bhattacharya, Ward).

Early career researchers are supported by the institution’s provisions for the induction of new junior
staff. These include: working with an academic line manager to agree annual objectives during a
three-year probationary period (agreed with the Dean); support of a mentor who provides help and
advice in the capacity of ‘critical friend’ (assigned by the Dean); and mandatory completion of the
University’s programme for the Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice in Higher Education.
To accommodate these requirements, early career researchers receive a fixed workload allocation
of ten percent in year one, followed by five percent in each of years two and three. Early career
staff also have access to a cross-institutional Teaching, Research & Academic Mentoring Scheme
(TRAM) (institutional statement). All other staff have access to the voluntary Professional
Development Mentoring scheme overseen by the institution’s Organisational and Professional
Development unit (OPD).

The AHRI supports individual and collaborative research through its budget. Each member of the
unit has access to an annual research allowance to support research activities, and additional
funds can be applied for on a responsive-mode basis. RKEC normally meets every two weeks to
ensure that funding requests are responded to quickly. Since 2013 it has disbursed £538,389 to
researchers in the School to support national and international archival research, conference
attendance and public engagement activities. RKEC also organises peer review and feedback for
colleagues preparing external funding applications, in line with the University’s partnership model
for grant applications (institutional statement).

2.3 Postgraduate Researchers
Supervision of postgraduate researchers is regulated by a code of practice stipulating the minimum
number of supervisions (initially once a fortnight and later once a month). PGRs are also
supported by a Thesis Monitoring Committee which consists of academic staff other than the
supervisors and meets twice per annum (normally June and December). The Thesis Monitoring
Committee in June also serves as a formal annual progress review, for which PGRs have to
provide a substantial sample of written work, and it determines whether they can proceed into the
next year of their research.

Through our membership of the Scottish Graduate School for Arts & Humanities (SGSAH), all
History PGRs have access to its Scotland-wide training and support structures. They provide an
extensive combination of training for arts and humanities researchers, more focused training via
three Knowledge Exchange Hubs (Citizenship, Culture and Ethics; Creative Economies; Heritage)
and subject-specific training through the Doctoral Training Partnership (known since 2019 as
Discipline+ Catalysts). SGSAH also awards AHRC doctoral scholarships in Scotland, of which the
unit has received four in this reporting cycle. Funded PGRs are required to attend SGSAH
induction and Summer School events. They also have access to a Student Development Fund
which provides support for archival work, international placements (e.g., for field research or the
development of language skills), impact activity, highly specialist training, and short work
placements to develop research and career skills. SGSAH also runs an internship scheme (one-
to-three-month placements). PGRs can additionally access the training offered nationally by the
Scottish Graduate School for Social Sciences, of which the institution is also a member. The
University provides further training opportunities for PGRs offered by OPD, such as the PhD
Thesis Bootcamp, which is a series of workshops on writing and editing.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Alongside supervision and formal training, PGRs are familiarised with the conventions of academic
culture in several ways. They are expected to present their work-in-progress at the School’s
Postgraduate Forum (held twice per semester) and annual Postgraduate Conference, and to
attend research seminars hosted by a cognate centre. All PGRs are members of at least one of
the AHRI centres. The AHRI also supports the career development of PGRs through its Doctoral
Fellow scheme. Each year, each AHRI centre has a remunerated Doctoral Fellow attached to it.
Doctoral Fellows support and promote the work of the centres and gain wider experience of
academia. Once upgraded to full PGR status (usually after the first year of full-time study) PGRs
are permitted to tutor on an undergraduate module at Level 1 or 2. This is an important part of
career development, and the training and mentoring of PGRs in teaching techniques and
assessment is well supported by the institution’s Academic Skills Centre.

Postgraduate researchers can apply to the AHRI for financial support for conference attendance
and research travel, and since 2013 it has disbursed £17,542 for these purposes. They are also
supported in applying for external research funds. For example, two PGRs in History won
Christopher Duggan Postgraduate Travel Bursaries, offered by the Association for the Study of
Modern Italy (2019 and 2020). Research postgraduates are also supported by the University
Archive Services, which works closely with the unit and helps PGRs to locate local and national
archival resources.

All full-time PGRs in the School of Humanities have shared office space and individual computer
facilities from the very start of their research. They are represented formally by the Postgraduate
Staff-Student Liaison Committee, which is chaired by the School’s student Vice-President for
Postgraduates (VPP). The VPP also sits on the RKEC, which helps to integrate the postgraduate
research community into the formal work of the School.

One of the AHRI’s strategic objectives is to enable our PGRs to become leaders in their fields. A
number of History’s PGRs in this reporting period have been appointed to research and academic
posts: Hansen was appointed Associate Professor of History, Spartanburg Methodist College,
North Carolina; Fevre joined the International Research Group, University of the Free State, South
Africa, as a postdoctoral fellow; McDiarmid became a postdoctoral fellow at the Institute for
Advanced Studies in Humanities, University of Edinburgh; Gibbard became a postdoctoral
researcher at the University of Newcastle; Paterson became a British Academy-funded
postdoctoral researcher at the University of Oxford.

2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
The School of Humanities has a strong policy of equality, diversity and inclusion, in consonance
with the institution’s EDI policies. It has appointed an EDI officer to oversee the implementation of
EDI policies and to engage with staff, students, student union representatives and professional
services to ensure that the Equality Act (2010) is followed, and that inclusion and diversity are
embedded within the working culture of the School. The recent incumbents in the role are both
members of the unit (Bhattacharya, Colley). It is mandatory for all staff to complete online EDI
modules, including on ‘Diversity in the Workplace’ and ‘Disability’. EDI is a standing agenda item
at RKEC meetings to ensure that all research and research-related matters are considered in that
context.

The School’s appointment procedures are consonant with the Equality Act (2010) and it is planning
an Athena SWAN application. The History unit’s gender balance on the REF 2021 census date
was 12 males and 6 females. Two staff are BAME. The grade profile of the unit’s FTE is as
follows: 3 Lecturers, 8 Senior Lecturers, 2 Readers and 3.7 Professors. All Category A staff are

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
on permanent contracts. The School has flexible working patterns for research staff, who
nominate a weekly research day during semesters. The OSAR and ARR processes ensure that
research expectations are adjusted for individual circumstances (e.g., parental leave, caring
responsibilities, long-term illness). The unit has several PGRs on flexible part-time programmes of
research.

There has been a focus on diversifying the curricula as well as research trajectories. The
transnational focus of both the SCGH and CSC facilitate this diversity. Several staff research
areas are relevant to EDI, including gender (Willson and Ward), race (Colley) and human and
civil rights (Carvalho and Johansen). The newest appointment to History (jointly with English),
Morris (returned in UoA 27), researches and carries out public engagement on Scotland’s slave-
owning past. Events like Dundee Pride, LGBT+ History Month and Black History Month are
highlighted and celebrated within the School.

2.5 Preparation of REF Submission
In preparing its submission, the unit’s Planning Group was guided by the University’s REF 2021
Code of Practice, which framed our decision-making process in the context of the principles of
equality, diversity and inclusion. The Planning Group made its decisions on outputs and
attributions in a manner that aimed to maximise the overall quality profile for the submission, based
on a thorough process of internal and external evaluation. All staff were invited to propose
potential Impact Case Studies through a series of impact workshops. The submitted Impact Case
Studies reflect the Planning Group’s view of the strongest demonstrable research impacts which
emanated from the unit in the reporting period. All members of the Planning Group completed
mandatory unconscious bias training prior to the decision-making process.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income
External funding has enabled the unit to pursue several innovative projects during the reporting
period, driven by its collaborative and interdisciplinary strategies. They show that the unit’s
strategic initiatives have been successful in developing distinctive clusters of expertise which
attract external support in partnership with other organisations.

Scottish Centre for Global History:
The body of work by Bhattacharya on colonial technologies, South Asian medical and consumer
markets, and the modern Indian pharmaceutical industry has been supported by a Wellcome Trust
Fellowship (2013-15; £48,258), a Carnegie Trust Research Incentive Grant (2017-18; £3,219) and
a Wellcome Trust small grant (2015; £5,000). Research by Graham on liberation movements in
South Africa and state policy in postcolonial nation-states in southern Africa has been supported by
a Carnegie Trust Research Incentive grant (2015-16; £5,104). This work was consolidated by the
award of a British Academy Newton Advanced Fellowship (2017-19, extended to 2021) in
collaboration with the University of the Free State, Bloemfontein (UFS) (£110,000 of which Dundee
received £10,500). Graham was also the recipient of a British Academy Writing Workshops 2020
grant (£19,800), in collaboration with UFS, Copperbelt University and Goldsmiths, to build a
mentoring scheme for early career researchers in Zambia. Livesey received a Leverhulme
Fellowship (2014-15) for ‘Thinking at World’s Edge: Irish Intellectual History, 1500–2000’
(£33,614), part of a long-term project that aims to understand how local communities participated
in global history. The project has contributed to research outputs on Irish history and to his latest
monograph (2020). Gottmann was awarded a Leverhulme Early Career Research Fellowship
(2014-17) to work on global commerce in the eighteenth century: ‘National, European, or Global?

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Prussian East India Company and the formation of early modern European identities’
(£79,536). Colley received an AHRC Fellowship (2014-15) for ‘Universities of the Revolution:
Black Nationalism and the Prison from the Nation of Islam to the Black Panther Party’ (£101,209),
and her research on black politics in U.S. prisons has also been supported by a Carnegie Trust
small grant (2014, £1,863).

Centre for Scottish Culture:
The CSC has also attracted external funding for its work on collaborative projects. MacDonald,
with colleagues at Edinburgh, won a Carnegie Trust Collaborative Research Grant (£11,618) to
investigate ‘Agriculture and Teind Reform in Early Modern Scotland’ (2015-18). Kennedy and
MacDonald are recipients (with Stirling) of a Leverhulme award for a project (2020-23) on the
Scottish Privy Council (£203,376 of the award is apportioned to the unit). The Great War Dundee
Commemorative Project (2014-2019), a public engagement programme involving 18 partner
organisations, included an AHRC grant awarded to Kenefick and Patrick (£26,400) (with a
colleague at Edinburgh Napier) for contributions to the BBC’s World War One at Home series
(2014-15). Morton’s research on Scottish national identity and emigration has been enhanced in
this reporting cycle by two grants in collaboration with Guelph (where he is an Adjunct Professor)
and for which he was Principal Investigator: an award from the Canadian Foundation for
Innovation/Ministry for Research & Innovation (CA$750,820) for ‘People in Motion: Historical Data
Infrastructure for Longitudinal Research’ (2011-15); and a Social Sciences & Humanities Research
Council Insight Development Grant from Guelph (CA$64,780) for ‘Extreme Weather and Patterns
of Emigration: Scotland, 1770-1988’ (2013-15) which underpinned his latest monograph (2020).

Other research awards:
The unit has also benefited from the School’s development of a practice research strategy and
partnerships with the creative industries in Dundee. The AHRC Creative Industries Clusters
Programme, InGame (2018-23), a collaboration with Abertay and St Andrews and involving
Livesey, includes an award of £1,658,483 for Dundee, of which £119,229 was apportioned to the
unit in this reporting period. Livesey’s work on risk assessment in creative cultures has also been
supported by a National Productivity Investment Fund Postdoctoral Fellowship, for Patrickson
(2017-2018, £53,298).

Carvalho received funding from the British Academy (2015-17, £8,987) for her collaborative work
on British electoral politics, and from the Scottish Government (£7,028) for her work on the human
rights national baseline assessment (with St Andrews). Ross received a Carnegie Trust small
grant (2014, £1,340) for research in Moscow, as did Regan (2014, £2,500) for his work on Irish
history and Storrs (2014, £1,000) for his work on early modern Spain. Tindley received £9,151
from the Scottish Universities Insight Institute to support her knowledge exchange work with
Community Land Scotland, the Scottish government and Highlands & Islands Enterprise on
community land ownership (2015-16), and £3,875 from the British Academy for a project on Lord
Dufferin (2014-16). Willson was a co-investigator (with a colleague from Glasgow) on the AHRC-
funded interdisciplinary network ‘La Mamma: Interrogating a National Stereotype’ which ran from
2011 to 2015 (£9,135 apportioned to the unit in this cycle).

Scottish Graduate School for Arts & Humanities (SGSAH):
Income for postgraduate research (fees and stipends) from the AHRC, via SGSAH, during this
reporting period was £137,801 (four funded PGRs).




                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3.2 Infrastructure
The AHRI and its constituent centres are the focal points of the unit’s research environment and its
mechanisms for supporting research. The AHRI is managed by the School of Humanities
Research & Knowledge Exchange Committee (RKEC). The committee is co-chaired by the
Associate Dean for Research & Scholarship (Frame) and the Associate Dean for Knowledge
Exchange & Partnerships. Its core membership is comprised of the heads of the AHRI’s research
centres, which embeds regular dialogue between the centres in the School’s research
management structure. RKEC also includes representation from the School’s PGRs, the Library &
Learning Centre, and the institution’s Research & Innovation Services.

The AHRI supports the unit’s research in a number of ways. As noted in section 2.2, for example,
it disburses the School research budget to support a wide range of research activity, and it
coordinates the peer review of external funding applications for staff and PGRs. The AHRI also
hosts a Humanities Research Forum on a periodic basis, a one-day event for all School of
Humanities researchers designed to build links across disciplines and other subjects in the
University. In all of its work, the AHRI is supported by a Research Administration Lead, a
Postgraduate Officer and a Public Engagement Officer.

The AHRI has also taken steps to build support mechanisms for research impact: it organises
periodic Impact Accelerator events, which are designed to help staff identify impact pathways for
their research; it encourages staff to apply for research leave to focus on impact projects; peer
review of funding applications pays close attention to impact plans (where appropriate); and it
commits funds to support impact activity. The projects behind the unit’s Impact Case Studies both
received contributions from the AHRI budget.

The unit’s researchers are further supported by institution-level offices in preparing and costing
funding applications: Research & Innovation Services and Research Finance (institutional
statement). The newly-established (2019) Doctoral Academy is enhancing support for all PGRs in
the University (institutional statement).

3.3 Facilities
Staff and postgraduates have access to several shared spaces within the School and the
University. In the School, most research-related spaces are based in the Baxter Suite, alongside
the School Office and meeting rooms. The Baxter Suite contains a postgraduate research space,
exhibition area, and a lecture theatre with flexible seating that is used for guest lectures,
postgraduate fora, conferences, exhibitions, and launches. The School also has significant
research resources and space in the city’s Vision Building, which houses several enterprises
associated with the creative industries, as well as the InGame project’s facilities. Members of the
unit are based in the Tower Extension building of the University’s main campus, adjacent to the
other disciplines within the School and a short walk from the School administrative offices and
reception. Each member of staff has their own individual office. The office space for PGRs is also
situated in the Tower Extension building, which facilitates the integration of postgraduates into the
research culture of the School.

History researchers make extensive use of the resources of the LLC, including microfilm reading
facilities and inter-library loans service. The LLC holds substantial collections of primary sources –
hard copies and digital – which support the work of our research centres. It also has a reciprocal
arrangement with St Andrews University Library which allows for shared access to the collections
of the two libraries. The unit is also supported by the University Archive Services, which holds rich


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
resources, notably the records of the jute and linen industries, the primary material for a current
inter-institutional project involving Whatley and Jim Tomlinson (Glasgow).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Collaborations, Networks and Wider Engagement
Collaborative work is integral to the research and impact strategy of the AHRI and its constituent
centres. Researchers in the History unit have forged strong collaborations with a wide spectrum of
academic and non-academic partners. They are evidence of the significance of our research and
expertise, and of our wider contributions to the discipline and to society. Our contribution to the
intellectual, cultural and public life of Dundee is particularly clear and builds on a long-standing
strength of the unit. All of this is evidenced below by selected examples of activity.

Scottish Centre for Global History:
Graham has established a partnership with the International Studies Group, University of the Free
State, Bloemfontein, to extend and enhance skills training for PGRs at both institutions, and to
facilitate exchanges of visiting scholars. As part of the partnership, for example, in 2015 two
separate sets of postgraduate and postdoctoral researchers from the International Studies Group
visited Dundee for workshops and other events hosted by the SCGH. The partnership also
benefited from a British Academy Newton Advanced Fellowship (2017-19), through which Dundee
supported a research fellow at Bloemfontein to run PGR training workshops. Graham, who has
researched the anti-apartheid movement in South Africa, is also collaborating with Dundee City
Council, local schools and libraries on a series of events to highlight the history of the Scottish anti-
apartheid movement.

Colley’s AHRC award (2014-15) for research on the politics of black imprisonment in the USA also
funded a series of knowledge exchange events in Dundee (including two public lectures),
connecting researchers from different fields, including law and criminology, with human rights
activists. They addressed the connections between human rights, radicalisation and institutions of
confinement from a global perspective. Project workshops included the involvement of the Danish
Human Rights Institute, Amnesty International, the Danish Institute Against Torture, the prison
mentoring organisation Positive Convictions and representatives from HMP Greenock.

Livesey is part of the AHRC Creative Industries Clusters Programme, InGame (2018-23), a
collaboration with Abertay and St Andrews universities and the creative industries in Dundee.
InGame connects research with commercial activity through a research platform designed to lower
the risk threshold for creative activity. It promotes and supports games-sector innovation, and as
such is an important contributor to the local economy which has a substantial games sector. The
strategy for InGame is informed partly by Livesey’s research on innovation and economic
development in local contexts. The centre is also involved with the British Council’s Developing
Inclusive Creative Economies (DICE) programme. Livesey was invited to present his work on the
history of innovation to 150 creative entrepreneurs from the Global South at the DICE forum in
London (2019). Livesey and his collaborators are developing this project with partners from Brazil,
South Africa, Indonesia, Pakistan and Bangladesh.

Bhattacharya organised three international interdisciplinary workshops for the centre: (1) the
Wellcome-funded ‘Monitoring Markets: Drugs and Therapeutic Commodities in Colonial Asia’
(2015); (2) ‘Alcohol and Its Discontents in Modern India’ (2017), which involved NGOs and social
policy experts and has resulted in partnerships with third sector organisations in Delhi and Kolkata,
in connection with Bhattacharya’s project on the history of alcohol in South Asia; (3) ‘Urban

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Futures in South Asia’ (2017), an event supported by Official Development Assistance seed
funding. Van Ittersum was a member of the Helsinki Working Group on ‘International Law and
Empire’ at the Erik Castrén Institute of International Law and Human Rights, Helsinki, Finland.

Centre for Scottish Culture:
The centre has a strong record of collaboration and wider engagement in this reporting cycle. The
Five Million Questions (5MQ) project, led by Whatley and Michael Marra, shaped public discourse
and debates on the 2014 Scottish independence referendum. Initiated in late 2012 and running to
September 2014, 5MQ drew on Whatley’s expertise as the leading historian of the Union. It
organised over 30 events and attracted a total audience of 10,000 members of the public to the
University to hear talks and discussions involving leading academics, commentators and
politicians, including Alex Salmond, Nicola Sturgeon and Patrick Harvie. A 5MQ guide for younger
voters, The Scottish Referendum: A Voters Guide (2014), was distributed free-of-charge to
hundreds of school children throughout Scotland. 5MQ won the University’s Stephen Fry Award
for Public Engagement (2015) in recognition of its achievements.

The Great War Dundee Commemorative Project (GWD, 2014-19), initiated and led by Kenefick
and Patrick, was a major public engagement project based on extensive collaboration between the
unit and wider society. Its 18 local partners included Dundee City Council, Dundee Heritage Trust,
D. C. Thomson and the Black Watch Museum. GWD organised and hosted a series of WWI
centenary events, including a two-day commemoration of the outbreak of the conflict, televised as
part of the BBC’s World War One at Home series, and the national commemoration of the Battle of
Loos. GWD also played a pre-eminent role in enabling local people to understand the war’s impact
on Dundee, notably through engagement with schools and libraries and our historians’ extensive
contributions to local and national WWI media coverage between 2014 and 2019. The project also
enabled Dundee City Council to win £108,000 of Heritage Lottery funding which was used to
connect the work of GWD to the local community, e.g., through the HLF’s Young Ambassadors
scheme. GWD won the University’s Stephen Fry Award for Public Engagement (2016) in
recognition of its achievements.

MacDonald collaborated with colleagues at the University of Edinburgh on a Carnegie-funded
project to investigate ‘Agriculture and Teind Reform in Early Modern Scotland’ (2015-18). Tindley
worked with Community Land Scotland, the Scottish government and Highlands & Islands
Enterprise on a project to establish criteria to assess the progress of community land ownership
following the 2003 and 2016 Land Reform (Scotland) Acts. Whatley collaborated with Jim
Tomlinson (Glasgow) in directing a Heritage Lottery funded community-based research project on
the 261 original subscribers to Dundee’s Albert Institute, now the city’s McManus Galleries. The
project, initiated to mark the 150th anniversary of the opening of the Institute, ran during 2017-18
and involved 100 local volunteer researchers.

Kennedy and Morton have established a formal partnership between the centre and the popular
journal History Scotland, which disseminates new research to a broader, non-academic
readership. A History Scotland public lecture series is part of this collaboration. The centre also
organises an annual conference (since 2017) on Writings from Scotland before the Union, in
collaboration with colleagues in the School’s English Programme, which explores Scotland’s
literary landscape prior to 1707.

European history:
The unit’s European historians also lead or co-lead substantial collaborative and engagement
projects. For example, Carvalho collaborated with colleagues from the GESIS Leibniz Institute for

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Social Sciences and the University of the West of England on a long-term project, the Qualitative
Election Study of Britain, which attracted funding from the British Academy and UK Data Archive.
She also led a public engagement programme, ‘Referendum Stories’, in 2014-15, which involved
public talks in Dundee and Edinburgh, and a series of focus groups to facilitate public reflection on
the 2014 Scottish independence referendum. Johansen is working with colleagues in Europe,
North America and Japan on comparative police complaints procedures, to establish international
standards for good practice. The wider significance of Johansen’s expertise was recognised
when she was invited to talk about her work on conflict resolution between police and public in
nineteenth-century Germany to the Home Office Seminar Series (2015). Frame was the lead
editor, with colleagues from Russia and the United States, on a two-volume (2014) cultural history
of Russia 1914-22, part of the large multi-volume international project ‘Russia’s Great War and
Revolution, 1914-22: Centennial Reappraisal’. He was also a participant in an RSE-funded
knowledge-exchange network (2014-16) on ‘Scotland and Russia: Cultural Encounters since 1900’
and hosted one of the network’s workshops (Dundee, 2016). Ross organised an international
conference on Russian politics (Dundee, 2019) with support and participation from the Foreign &
Commonwealth Office and the British Embassy in Moscow (£9,300). Willson was the co-
organiser of three public engagement events that drew on her expertise in women’s and gender
history: ‘Women’s Lives. Women’s Voices’, organised as part of the Dundee Women’s Festival in
both 2014 and 2019; and ‘Maw or Mamma? Mothers and Motherhood in the Italian Scottish
Community’, part of the AHRC-funded ‘La Mamma’ project, held in the Scottish Storytelling Centre
and consisting of talks, a debate and a theatrical performance (2014).

4.2 Other Contributions to Discipline Research Base
Members of the unit have made sustained contributions to the general operation of the discipline at
national and international levels during this reporting cycle. Morton served as editor of Scottish
Historical Review (2014-2018); Johansen served as editor of Crime, History & Societies (2009-
17); Kennedy is editor of History Scotland (since 2017); Ross is editor of European Politics &
Society (since 2000) and founding editor-in-chief of Russian Politics (since 2016). A number of
members serve on the editorial or advisory boards of academic journals: Itinerario (Van Ittersum,
since 2008); Modern Italy (Willson, since 1995); Notes and Records of the Royal Society
(Bhattacharya, since 2018); Investigaciones Históricas (Storrs, since 2017); Vestnik of Northern
(Arctic) Federal University (Frame, since 2015). Morton is on the boards of the Scottish Economic
and Social History Society (since 2014) and the Scottish Records Association (since 2018). Van
Ittersum is an Associate Editor of the Brill series Studies in the History of International Law (since
2014).

Members of the unit have peer-reviewed article manuscripts for more than 30 academic journals,
and book manuscripts for almost 20 different publishers. Bhattacharya is a member of the AHRC
Peer Review College (since 2019) and has served as an external assessor for grant applications
for the ESRC and the Wellcome Trust, and Whatley is an external assessor for the Carnegie
Trust’s Research Incentive Grants scheme (since 2014). Seven members of the unit have served
as external examiners for PhD theses.

The unit’s research is widely recognised, as indicated by the range of invited talks in this reporting
period. Johansen presented a keynote address at a colloquium at the Universidade Federal do
Rio de Janeiro (2017). Regan gave the plenary lecture at the American Conference of Irish
Studies in Boston (2019). Willson was a keynote speaker at a conference at the Ludwig-
Maximilians-Universität, Munich (2015). Other invited international talks included: Bhattacharya
at the University of Pennsylvania (2015); Frame at the European University St Petersburg (2016);
Johansen at the University of Padova (2018); Morton at Simon Fraser University (2016) and the

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Annual Tartan Day Lecture, Vancouver (2016); Ross at the Distinguished Professor Conference,
University of Helsinki (2018); Van Ittersum at the University of Utrecht (2015); Willson at the
German Historical Institute, Rome (2016).

Invited talks within the UK included: Bhattacharya at the universities of Oxford (2016) and
Manchester (2018); Carvalho at the universities of Strathclyde (2015) and Portsmouth (2017);
Frame at the universities of Aberdeen (2015), Glasgow (2015), Oxford (2014) and at the Open
Russia foundation, London (2017) and the Scottish Arts Club, Edinburgh (2020); Graham at the
universities of Bath (2017), Lincoln (2016) and Oxford (2014 and 2015); Kennedy at the University
of the Highlands & Islands (2018), the Al-Maktoum College of Higher Education (2018) and the
Scottish Legal History Group conference, Edinburgh (2019); MacDonald at the Institute for
Historical Research (2016) and the University of Edinburgh (2016); Morton at the universities of
Edinburgh (2015) and Northumbria (2015), as well as at the Abertay Historical Society (2014);
Regan at the University of Aberdeen (2019); Ross at Oxford University (2016); Van Ittersum at
the Institute for Historical Research, London (2016) and the German Historical Institute, London
(2015); Whatley at the Scottish Parliament (2014); Willson at the University of Cambridge
(keynote address, 2016).

Awards, honours and visiting positions
Whatley was awarded an OBE in 2015 for his contribution to Scottish history. He is also a Fellow
of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Kennedy received two prizes for his research: the Frank
Watson Prize (2015) for his book, Governing Gaeldom (2014), and the Emile Lousse Prize (2015)
for his article ‘Representing the Periphery’ in Parliaments, Estates and Representation (2016;
published online in 2015). Bhattacharya was a Herbert Doan Short-Term Fellow at the Chemical
Heritage Foundation (now the Science History Institute), Philadelphia (2015); Johansen was a
Visiting Researcher at the Marc Bloch Centre, Humboldt University (2017); Ross was a Gaidar
Fellow at the Russian Presidential Academy of the National Economy & Public Administration
(2016); Willson was a Federico Chabod Visiting Professor at the Università Statale di Milano
(2019).

Other service to the discipline
Livesey is a member of the Education Committee of the Creative Industries Federation and the
Creative Clusters Evidence and Impact Working Group. MacDonald serves on the Preservation
Sub-Committee of the Scottish Council on Archives (since 2013) and is the Treasurer of the
Society for Scottish Medieval and Renaissance Studies (since January 2020). Willson was Vice-
Convenor of Women’s History Scotland (2004-19). Whatley chairs the Saltire Society’s Scottish
History Book of the Year award, the most prestigious prize in the field of Scottish history. He also
chairs the Scottish Records Association (since 2018).




                                                                                             Page 14
