Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of East London (UEL)

 Unit of Assessment: 32 Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview
Researchers in Art & Design at the University of East London are internationally renowned
practitioners in sculpture and installation, independent artists’ film and video, and practice-based and
historical studies that critically engage with issues of identity, race and gender. Supported by a
dedicated technical team and energised by our location in a thriving area of London's Docklands,
our artists regularly exhibit in the local area as well as in global locations and specialist galleries. Our
flagship Professional Doctorate in Fine Art offers students the opportunity to develop their
professional practice in a vibrant environment, supported by world-leading artists and thinkers.


As researchers, we share the key strategic aims of ensuring that the work produced has a positive
and enriching impact on both our students and the communities in which we are embedded,
while continuing to build on our core strengths and established indicators of excellence. The Art and
Design researchers submitted here produce independent work which leads the field in originality,
significance and rigour. At the same time, we are committed to ensuring that our research informs
teaching at every level. Our staff work together to foster an environment which:
    • Supports the development of original ideas into world-leading outputs, whether text or
        practice-based
    • Provides facilities for art-making based around collaboration and participation
    • Offers practical and targeted professional development support
    • Is enriched by the diversity of our workforce and student body


The people whose outputs are being submitted to this UoA include some who are administratively
located within the School of Architecture, Computing and Engineering, and others who are in the
School of Arts and Creative Industries. These cross-school connections support interdisciplinarity
and dialogue between theoretical and applied research, offering opportunities to maximise
research and teaching synergies across complementary fields. For example, during the Covid crisis
in 2020-21, colleagues from Computer Science and Architecture supported us to develop virtual
exhibition spaces and provide digital resources to facilitate our research. Further benefits include:
    • Expanded opportunities for collaborations across practice-based and design-oriented
        disciplines
    • Sharing of new techniques and innovations across adjacent and divergent fields.
    • Important and thriving relationships with researchers in music, film and creative writing.


Researchers in the UoA interact with colleagues in the interdisciplinary research centres in the
university: The Sustainability Research Institute and the newly formed Institute for Connected
Communities (formerly, the Institute for Health and Human Development).




                                                                                                    Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   a. Progress since REF2014
In REF2014, 63% of the overall quality profile for our Art & Design submission was rated 3* or 4*. In
terms of ‘modern’ HEIs, UEL was ranked within the top 25% of the institutions submitted, coming
10th out of 40.


The key strategic aims that underpinned the UoA’s REF 2014 submission remain at the heart of
our research excellence. These are:
    • To sustain and enhance our research in the core strengths of sculpture and installation,
       independent artists’ film and video, and critically informed practice-based and historical
       research in visual culture and identity.
    • To ensure that our research informs our teaching and directly benefits students at all levels.
    • To sustain and grow archival resources and exhibition facilities


In the current REF period (2014-20) we have also identified several further key objectives:
• To nurture and support researchers across the career ladder (including PGR students)
    (Section 2)
• To further enhance opportunities for interdisciplinary research (Section 3d)
• To facilitate grant capture from a diverse range of funding bodies, aided by the university’s
    Research and Development Support Team (Section 3e)
• To further our engagement with local communities, making our research accessible to diverse
    groups and demonstrating real world impact (Section 4c)
• To enhance the quality of our research outputs (Section 4e)


These strategies have supported considerable growth in the number of staff with significant
responsibility for research. Our submission in 2014 included 13 researchers (8.4 FTE). New
appointments and succession planning have allowed a significant increase in the number of staff
who are eligible for submission, with 16 researchers included (11.3 FTE). Our flagship PGR
programme, the Professional Doctorate in Fine Art continues to thrive with a current cohort of 29,
including 4 international students. It also offers our own staff opportunities for continuing professional
development, with 4 academics currently enrolled on the programme.


   b. Strategic aims for 2021-28
In 2018-19 academic year, the University of East London developed and started to implement a new
10-year strategy, Vision 2028, to transform our curriculum, pedagogy, research impact and
partnerships to make a positive difference to student, graduate and community successes. In line
with the Vision 2028 ‘Future Life’ objective, which commits us to increasing the economic, social and
cultural impact of our education, research and enterprise activities to the communities we serve, our
‘research with impact’ strategy is based on the idea of fostering research excellence in a place-based
context, which includes our locality but extends internationally. Our strategic aims for the next seven
years are to build on our existing strengths and objectives, and to realise the principles of Vision
2028, under the themes of research, collaboration and community engagement:


Research
   • To sustain and grow our dynamic and world-leading research activities in the key areas
      outlined above.
   • To expand the PhD and Professional Doctorate in Fine Art programmes and enhance the

                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       research environment through internal investment in the recruitment of high-quality research
       students with PhD scholarships.
   •   To grow a sustainable, vital and ethical research environment aimed at increasing grant
       capture from external funding bodies and non-HESA sources.
   •   Supporting the development of our new staff members through targeted investment, reduced
       teaching loads and mentoring.
   •   Funding the implementation of creative projects through our Public and Community
       Engagement Fund


Collaboration
   • To continue to exploit the interdisciplinary benefits and synergies of our connections with
      the humanities disciplines, performing arts and other practice based and public facing
      disciplines within the university and with researchers submitted to adjacent UoAs
   • To encourage disciplinary collaborations through our flagship research institutes (the
      Sustainability Research Institute and the Institute for Connected Communities)
   • To continue our commitment to academic partnerships and interdisciplinary collaborations
   • To further develop facilities for virtual exhibitions and digital art making in collaboration with
      colleagues in Computer Science and Architecture


Community Engagement
  • To produce research that is artistically enriching, intellectually stimulating and beneficial to
    communities in our East London setting with its vital global connections.
  • Exploring and addressing challenges, issues and concerns as articulated with/by our
    community partners through the recently-formed university-community consultation group
  • To continue to develop our experience of working with leading art museums,galleries and
    arts organisations.
  • To continue to develop opportunities for community engagement through residencies,
    exhibitions and collaborations in the local area.


   c. Research Impact
Impact-generating activities (exhibitions, performances and public commissions) are central to the
production of practice-based research, and we are committed to outreach and public engagement
as a key element of our work. Our location in East London places us at the heart of a thriving and
fast-developing location for innovative art-making, and amid diverse communities with high levels of
deprivation and marginality, which is reflected in the diversity of our staff and student body. Our paths
to impact accordingly focus on these diverse communities. (Section 2e/3d). The Unit encourages
and supports staff engagement in impact-generating activity by:
    • facilitating flexible working
    • having a dedicated impact champion
    • providing small grants to enable purchase of art-making equipment and materials and to
       further engagement in outreach and community engagement (Section 2b)
    • incorporating research impact into annual personal development reviews; public
       engagement activity (Section 2a)
    • providing a cross-disciplinary peer-to-peer mentoring programme to share best-practice
       examples and impact-related expertise (Section 2a).




                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
A series of institutional initiatives focus specifically on outreach and community engagement. We
subscribe to the NCCPE’s Manifesto for Public Engagement, with the aim that public and community
engagement will be fully embedded at all levels of impact and innovation. The recently formed
school-level Community Consultation Committee will enable us to explore and address challenges,
issues and concerns with community partners, and a dedicated Public and Community Engagement
Fund supports the implementation of creative projects. Researchers in the UoA and across the
School have for many years continuously sponsored and supported thousands of local East London
school children to produce and exhibit their community artwork at the School’s art gallery (See video
clip of Art Matters 2019).

 2. People

   a. Staff Overview
The UoA has seen considerable staff turnover in the years since 2014; of the 16 researchers in this
submission, fewer than half were included in REF 2014. Our succession planning has accordingly
focused on developing research capacity, bringing mid-career and more senior staff into
leadership roles, and supporting those at more junior levels to develop as researchers to
ensure continuity in expertise and knowledge base. Two professors entered in REF2014 (Brauer,
Wilson) and one entered in both 2008 and 2014 (Brauer) have continued to guide the consolidation
of the UoA’s research profile, and we have recruited emerging scholars (Winter, Keogh) to invigorate
and refresh our research culture. We have also increased our interdisciplinary range, with
researchers in animation and fashion joining us from the School of Arts and Creative Industries.


In the current submission, the levels and FTE of researchers submitted in the UoA are as follows:


                            Name                    Level        Fraction
                            Brauer                  Professor    1.0
                            Davey                   Professor    0.6
                            Wilson                  Professor    0.2
                            Pinsky                  Reader       0.4
                            Bishop-Stephens         SL           1.0
                            Georgeson               SL           0.7
                            Great-Rex               SL           0.5
                            Harding                 SL           1.0
                            Lifschitz               SL            0.6
                            Memou                   SL           1.0
                            Miles                   SL           1.0
                            Pottenkulam             SL           1.0
                            Stockwell               SL           0.4
                            Keogh                   L/ ECR       0.4
                            Winter                  L/ ECR       1.0
                            Logue                   L/ECR        0.5



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Over the last six years the UoA has benefitted significantly from the policy of employing part- time
staff who are actively engaged in professional practice. Professor Richard Wilson, for example, a
renowned sculptor who guest teaches our students on art practice. His 'Slipstream' has featured at
Heathrow Airport Terminal 2 since its opening in 2014. The porous boundary between artistic
practice, academic research and teaching enriches our research, enabling practising artists to move
between creative and academic work, opening our networks to the wider communities in which our
artists are embedded, while the cohorts of practising artists enrolled on the Professional Doctorate
in Fine Art (see below) are also active members of our wider research community. This makes for a
diverse and busy environment, with successful working artists, professional self-starters and full-
time academic staff interlinked between one another’s networks and collaborative enterprises.




Figure 1: Professor Richard Wilson’s Slipstream


Established Researchers also submitted to REF2014
Through the continued activities of our established world-leading practitioners in sculpture and
installation (Davey, Pinsky, Stockwell, Wilson) we have maintained and consolidated our
international reputation.


The UoA continues to produce and disseminate outputs and historical studies that critically engage
with issues of identity, race, empire and gender. Internationally renowned researchers Memou and
Brauer submitted to REF2014 are again leading our submission for REF2021.


Early Career and Developing Researchers
During the period of the current REF assessment, early career and developing researchers have
benefitted from targeted support for both development and dissemination through our Researcher
Development Fund.

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Miles, Bishop-Stephens and Lifschitz represent a cohort of filmmakers, entered here for the first time,
who have extended and enhanced the university’s reputation in this culturally significant field. Great-
Rex (ceramics), Harding (painting), Keogh and Winter (installation/sound/performance) and
animator Pottenkulam are included for the first time in REF2021.




                              Figure 2: Alexis Harding's Space Debris

Management Structure
Research at University level is managed by the Pro-Vice Chancellor: Impact and Innovation and an
annual planning conference shapes research imperatives, strategy and future initiatives. The
management of research within the School is directed by the Dean and the School Management
Team via the Director of Impact and Innovation, in close consultation with leading active researchers,
professors and readers. The School Research Degrees and Ethics Committees provide an overview
of research, ensuring that agreed policies and procedures are followed in respect of research and
that researchers are kept aware of changes in policy, professional standards or ethics.
Such focused research management and leadership has sustained the high quality of the UOA’s
research outputs, maintained the dynamism of its research environment and expanded its activity in
the field. Our plans for the next period involve:
• Investing in emerging multi-disciplinary and established research areas. We will further invest in
    staff and infrastructure that will help to position us as a recognised department for delivering
    research that has a positive and enriching impact on both our students and the
    communities in which we are embedded,




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   Manage and deliver impact from our research and communicate this to scientific, business and
    public audiences. Alongside investment in research areas that can generate impact, we will
    monitor and facilitate impact, and embed impact delivery into our research training.
•   Continue the use of internal and external funding to provide a useful budget for all research-
    active staff.
•   Increase the number of PhD scholarships, and set aside funding for PhD students to buy
    equipment and attend conferences and doctoral summer schools.
•   Increase our research focus by utilising the expertise in the department held by our more
    teaching-focused staff and early career researchers.


Support for established and developing researchers
The School is keen to encourage both newly appointed and longer-standing staff to develop as
independent researchers, especially in areas where research capacity is currently low. New
staff are assigned mentors and encouraged to engage in research, outreach and engagement,
including registering for doctoral study where appropriate. In the recently introduced university
researcher development       framework,     staff   who      identify   as    developing   or    re-
engaging researchers participate in research training workshops on topics such as planning research
projects, impact, ethics, doctoral supervision, and writing grant applications. One such example is
the ‘Research Resolutions’ workshop series, which moved online with the pandemic, and has proved
very popular.


Mentors support staff in achieving research targets set in annual personal development reviews, as
well as providing more general advice and feedback. The School allocates research time in the
workload model for all staff identified as having significant responsibility for research, as well as staff
undertaking doctoral research. The School’s mentor scheme allocates experienced mentors to less
experienced researchers (and in particular ECRs) to provide advice on research plans, grant and
sabbatical applications, publishing outlets, exhibition and performance opportunities and conference
presentations.


The UoA has benefited in significant ways from School support. Text based researchers in the
School are eligible to apply for up to GBP 500 per year for conference fees between 2014 and 2018
(now increased to over GBP 1,000), accommodation and travel as well as help with indexing and
artwork costs. Practice based researchers can apply for similar sums to help with the cost of
materials, travel and studio hire.


UEL’s Research and Development support team provides researchers with information on research
funding opportunities and supports individuals in writing funding bids. They also organise the
university’s Annual Research Conference ‘Research is Open’, in which all staff are encouraged to
participate; this fosters a collegial atmosphere across schools while providing an opportunity for
researchers to present their work.


Alongside our investment in local impact activity, staff have established international reputations and
are encouraged to share paths to dissemination through both national and international networks.
Staff producing text-based research are encouraged to attend international conferences and to take
advantage of internal multidisciplinary networks (Section 4).




                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   b. Partnerships
Continuing our ongoing commitment to enriching and sustaining our links with the diverse
communities of East London, we have invested in community partnerships focused on local
engagement.


The collaboration between the university and Eastbury Manor House aims to promote a commitment
to education’s civic mission by building a team of bridge builders that can transcend the boundaries
between the academy and the local community. The house was built during the reign of Elizabeth 1
and is currently administered by the National Trust and Heritage Lottery Fund. The aim of the
collaboration is to promote a commitment to civic engagement facilitating a programme of
residencies and exhibitions at Eastbury Manor, that explore the “Nature of Place” and its heritage in
the community. The UoA has engaged in a series of innovative pedagogic art and design
projects that investigate and explore the themes and strategies of ‘Place Making’ in and around
Eastbury Manor. This enables art and design professionals and their students to foster powerful real-
world community connections and deepen relationships to engender active citizenship enabling vital
civil democracy.


Similarly, the Fine Art Project Space at Trinity Buoy Wharf, inaugurated in 2015, aimed to showcase
short (2-4 week) projects bringing together university staff, professional artists, current students,
alumni and local schoolchildren. Trinity Buoy Wharf is a creative industries enclave on the Leamouth
peninsula. The building is constructed from re-claimed shipping containers, previously used as the
media centre for the London 2012 Summer Olympics and made available to the university, free of
charge for three years by the Trinity Buoy Wharf Trust. Projects and exhibitions have included In
Transition (2016), Dead Rubber (2016) and Antepenultimate (2017).




    Figure 3: Projects and exhibitions at the Fine Art Project Space at Trinity Buoy Wharf have
         included In Transition (2016), Dead Rubber (2016) and Antepenultimate (2017).

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The University has recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding with V & A East, to which
members of the UoA will be contributing as it develops. This partnership focuses on community
outreach and also on innovative art-based pedagogies.


   c. Research Students
Reflecting its international reputation for excellence, the UoA recruits students from across the globe,
particularly to its thriving Professional Doctorate in Fine Art programme (Prof-Doc). This is a
practice-based research degree established in 1996 that enables students to demonstrate a high
level of professional commitment and research expertise, and to develop their independent
professional practice. We also supervise students on PhD programmes with 18 PhD completions in
this period, and offer an MA in Fine Art. For REF 2021, the UoA has increased the number of
successful Prof-Doc completions from 25.5 in 2008-13 to 30. Of these completions, 5 were members
of Art and Design staff, 4 of whom are still employed by the university. We also join in supervisory
teams for PhDs in cognate disciplines including film and cultural studies.


The Professional Doctorate is a key community in the UoA, which productively blurs the boundaries
between learners and teachers: artists enrolling on the degree over the years have included existing
staff members, while students and graduates of the programme have also joined the school staff in
temporary or permanent teaching positions. Among current members of staff in Art and Design who
have completed the ProfDoc, Great-Rex (2013) and Georgeson (2020) are included in the current
submission. Currently we are supervising 29 Prof Docs (of whom 4 are members of UEL staff
teaching on a range of disciplines in the school), with competitive bursaries and targeted financial
support available to encourage completions.


Graduates from the cohort since 2014 have successfully established international profiles as
practising artists and teachers, including:
   • Max Hattler (2014): Internationally recognised animation artist and Assistant Professor at the
        School of Creative Media, City University of Hong Kong.
   • HaYoung Kim (2014): Internationally exhibited painter with work in Jerwood Collection.
   • Chin Wu (2014): Internationally exhibited painter and curator and Assistant Professor,
        National Taiwan University of Arts.
   • Lesley Logue (2014): Solo exhibition From Paper to Gold, Edinburgh Printmakers Gallery,
        2017; Curator of Processes and Possibilities, prints from Edinburgh Printmakers, Edinburgh
        Printmakers Gallery, 2017.
   • Kangwook Lee (2015): Artist exhibiting internationally in UK, Singapore, Tokyo, Korea.
        Professor at Hongik University, Korea.
   • Jake Abrams (2017): Associate Professor in Illustration and Animation, Kingston University
   • Mary Crenshaw (2018): exhibitions in Italy and the US; she received the Clark Hylings Fund
        fellowship and was an Awesome Foundation finalist. Forthcoming exhibitions in 2018 and
        2019 in UK, Italy and South Korea.
   • Hwa Seon Yang (2018): recent exhibitions of her painting in Seoul, Paris and London.
        Chosen for the Liverpool Biennial (2018),’Inside Job’ at Tate Modern (2018), and received
        an award from Bloomberg New Contemporaries, South London Gallery (2018). Her work was
        selected by the Art Bank collection at Museum of Contemporary Art, Seoul.




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                           Figure 4: Matt Hattler’s Divisional Articulations




                              Figure 5: Haw Seon Yang’s A Safe Zone

Research students are supported in their progress by a strong infrastructure of professional
development opportunities. The UoA provides students (and staff) with a dynamic and nurturing
environment. Researchers deliver a programme of intellectually challenging seminars and artists’
presentations, some of which are run collaboratively with colleagues in the School of Arts & Creative
Industries. Research students are encouraged to participate in the wider research culture, including
events run by research centres such as the Centre for Cultural Studies Research, and in
postgraduate research conferences and seminars. They also contribute to internal conferences,
including the annual university research conference: a roundtable discussion run by nine ProfDoc
students at this event in July 2020, during the Covid crisis, addressed the material losses and virtual
gains of the online exhibition, which in turn informed the development of the ‘Between Walls’
exhibition. They are also encouraged to participate in international conferences through the
availability of travel grants as well as through an externally funded overseas-research travel bursary.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research Students – Engagement and Collaboration
Our Prof Doc students engage creatively with the East London communities that we serve and play
an important part in developing relationships with independent galleries and social spaces in the
local area and adjacent boroughs.
The Prof Doc programme also offers opportunities for overseas internships to develop creative
practice. From 2014 to 2016, cohorts of artists (both staff and ProfDoc students) took part in
Directional Forces, a short residency model for the development of creative practice for early career
researchers, creative professionals and doctoral students, based in locations across Europe and
funded jointly by UEL and the University of Bedfordshire. Sponsors of individual artists included Bath
Spa University, Flowers Gallery, Belgrade Academy of Fine Art and Weiling Gallery, Malaysia. Works
were exhibited at various galleries including 0ZOne in Serbia (2014) and Trinity Buoy Wharf in
London (2016. see Section 4). In 2016, five Prof Doc candidates, three of whom are members of
UEL staff, took part in Inside, Inside, a short intensive residency at the 3rd Istanbul Design Biennial
jointly sponsored by UEL and ISKV (Istanbul Cultural and Arts Foundation).




   Figure 6: Directional Forces, a short residency model for the development of creative practice




                                        Figure 7: Inside, Inside

    d. Equality and Diversity
Equality and diversity, in the staff body and in our teaching as well as in our research, are central to
our ethos, as a UoA, as a School, and as a university. Our research engages strongly with questions
of cultural and national identities, with social justice and exclusion, and with global perspectives; our
location in the culturally and ethnically diverse East London area ensures that community outreach
and engagement activities are constantly engaging with these issues.




                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
These principles underpin our efforts within the School and the UoA to promote equality and diversity
across the entire range of our activities. The university was awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze Award
in 2015, and more recently, the School has received the Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2020. The
university was awarded a Bronze level Race Equality Charter in May 2019. The university also holds
the Level Two Disability Confidence award recognising our commitment to equality of opportunity for
people with disabilities. In October 2019, the university established the Office for Institutional Equity,
the first of its kind in a UK HEI, to lead work on equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI). It was created
following an extensive review of the university’s demographics and student outcomes, as well as its
existing EDI activities. One of its key aims is to ensure that the gender and Black, Asian and Minority
Ethnic mix of university senior staff will be representative of the population of London by 2020 (as
stated in EDI policy). The OIE administers a mentoring scheme, staff networks and the Many Voices
reading group which focuses on giving participants the opportunity to engage with essays and
narratives by African diaspora authors, ensuring that both text-based and practice-based research
is informed by a more diverse knowledge base.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Researchers at the university benefit from the university’s central research hub, the Research and
Development support team, which supports the institution’s research community by working closely
with academics, funders and partners to provide expertise on income generation and project
management both pre and post award. The team offers a high level of professional support in
navigating the increasingly complex criteria of investors and funders and facilitates a programme of
workshops and one-to-one advice for all staff.


      a. External Funding
Many of our researchers are internationally recognised artists and scholars who receive
commissions, awards and prizes for their work. For the same reason, significant funding comes
primarily from non-HESA sources. Some highlights of this external funding include:

Example 1 – In 2014, The Jewish Museum Munich mounted a solo exhibition of the work of Sharone
Lifschitz. This related to a funding value of EUR230,000.


Example 2 – In 2019, Pinsky’s Strata Permanent commission for Fez, Morocco; commissioned by
Mossessian & Partners and financed by the Millennium Challenge Corporation fund, valued at
EUR400,000. His Pollution Pod project has received funding from a variety of sources, such as the
Research Council of Norway/Norwegian Institute of Science & Technology (GBP 30K) and the Arts
Council England (GBP 15K).




                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




           Figure 8: Jewish Museum Munich exhibition of the work of Sharone Lifschitz




                            Figure 9: Michael Pinsky's Pollution Pods

     b. Exhibition Spaces
We have continued to invest in the public gallery space at the Docklands campus, Way Out East
(formerly the AVA Gallery) and have also added Container Space, a repurposed shipping container
made available to staff and students. This is located outside and adjacent to the main gallery. We
have also embarked on partnerships in the local area which make spaces available to students
and staff for residencies and exhibitions, notably Eastbury Manor House and Trinity Buoy Wharf
(see Section 4). During this period, we have also invested in developing enhanced technical
resources, enabling researchers to access advanced digital materials manipulation devices.




                                                                                         Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 10: Way Out East gallery at Dockland’s Campus


     c. Research Institutes
Researchers in the UoA benefit from engagement with two major research institutes, both of which
are focused on real-world relevance and cross-disciplinary collaboration:


The Sustainability Research Institute is the university’s Centre of Excellence for environmental
research and development, collaborating with industry, government, public agencies and charities

                                                                                        Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
to enable changes in physical infrastructure and social capital that benefits the environment,
promotes sustainable living and creates a carbon neutral society. Outputs from researchers in the
UoA that have benefitted from involvement with the SRI include Michael Pinsky’s Pollution Pods.


The Institute for Connected Communities focuses on social, psychological, legal, economic and
cultural factors that influence safety, security, health and wellbeing.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

   a. Galleries
Practitioners in the UoA have, throughout the REF period, exhibited in established galleries both
nationally and internationally, for example:


     Davey 2014             Chelsea Space, London
   Harding 2016/2017        Luca Tomassi Fine Art, Milan
             2019           Museo d’Arte Contemporanea, Rome
             2020            Lissone Museum
    Keogh 2019              Centre Pompidou, Paris
   Lifchitz 2014            Jewish Museum, Munich
    Pinsky 2014             Museum of Contemporary Art, Chengdu,
             2017           China
                            Somerset House, London UK
     Smith 2015             Museum of Contemporary Art, Leipzig
 Stockwell 2014             National Army Museum, London UK
             2017           Venice Biennale, Italy
             2019           Patrick Heide Contemporary and Bartha
                            Contemporary, London UK
    Wilson 2014             Heathrow Airport, Terminal 2 (permanent)
             2018           Galleria Fumagalli, Milan




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                Figure 11: Alexis Harding’s The Invisible Hand, Lissone Museum




Figure 12: Pinsky’s work at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chengdu

   b. Collaborations, Commissions
UoA researchers have developed numerous relationships as part of their sustained and wide -
ranging contribution to the discipline, often involving residencies. They have entered into
collaborative arrangements and partnerships with leading arts organisations such as Tate Modern
(Lifchitz, Stockwell), Edinburgh Printmakers (Logue), The Photographers Gallery (Aleman), and The
Association of Photographers (Aleman). Additionally, they have received prestigious commissions

                                                                                        Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
for both art-making and curation and have been invited to develop and direct programmes and devise
educational workshops. Both text-based and practice-based researchers have delivered keynote
addresses and performances.


Commissions, Development Projects, Curation and Consultancies


      Pinsky 2019          Permanent commission for West Bay, Dorset by Dorset Coastal
                           Fund (Biker’s Bench).
                           Permanent Commission (Strata) for Fez, Morocco by Mossessian
                           & Partners
                2017       Year-long commission as part of ‘Look Up’ for Hull, City of Culture
                2015       Viral Planting – Ebola, commissioned for ART15, London
                           I’m Laughing at Clouds, a permanent commission for Anglia
                           Ruskin University, Cambridge
                           L’eau Qui Dort, commissioned by COAL for La Villette during
                           COP21 in Paris
      Lifchitz 2019        Major collaboration with Pritzker Prize-winning Chinese architect
                           Wang Shu (The Visitor)
     Harding 2019          Curated ‘4 Corners’ for Credit Suisse, Canary Wharf (40 works by
                           UEL BAME staff and students)
                2020       Curated group exhibition 'CUTS' at the Matthieson Gallery in
                           Piccadilly
  Georgeson 2017           Joint Creative Director of Blakefest, supported by Arts Council
            and            England.
            ongoing
                2019       Delivered performative seminars for the Society for the Study of
                           Affect Summer School, Millersville University, PA USA
     Bishop- 2017 -        Workshop leader for ‘Blink Uni 2’, co-ordinating and leading in-
    Stephens 18            house staff development for Blink Industries, the BAFTA
                           nominated entertainment arm and development studio of Blink
                           Productions.


Keynotes and other esteem indicators
     Harding 2019      Keynote address: 4 Corners, Canary Wharf
     Memou 2019        Keynote address: Fire of Ideas, Ffotogallery, Cardiff
               2016    Keynote address: Revolutions, Records & Rebels, Victoria & Albert
                       Museum, London.
               2014    Keynote address: Keywords: A (Polemical) Vocabulary of
                       Contemporary Art, Fruitmarket Gallery, Edinburgh



                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Brauer 2018      Keynote address: Subverting Censorship, Victoria & Albert Museum,
                       London
                2017   Keynote address: Representing the Sixth Sense in Art & Visual
                       Cultures, UCL Institute of Advanced Studies, London
                2016   Keynote address: Mapping the Olfactory: Modernist Representations of
                       the Body and Sensory Aesthetics, Senate House, University of London
                2015   Keynote address: Culture, Memory and Extinction, Natural History
                       Museum, London
                2014   Keynote address: Artists as Geneticists: Evolutionism, Transspeciation
                       and Transgenic Art, University of Hertfordshire School of Creative Arts,
      Pinsky 2019      Keynote address: Disposable, University of Melbourne, Australia
                2018   Keynote address: Creative Green Awards, Roundhouse, London.
                2018   Keynote address: Making Connections, UEL, Stratford Circus, London.
                2017   Presidential Keynote Lecture: Art, Science and Nature, State House,
                       Port Louis, Mauritius (personally invited by President Ameenah Gurib-
                       Fakim of Mauritius)
 Georgeson 2019        Performance keynote: Fiction Machines, Bath Spa University
                2018   Performance keynote: Affect & Social Media, UEL, Docklands, London.


Additionally, researchers in the UoA have been invited to present at international venues, often as
a complement to exhibitions and screenings and have been nominated for awards:
    • Pinsky spoke at the First Global Conference on Air Pollution at the World Health
       Organisation in Geneva (2018) and delivered ‘Cars: it's a question of culture’ for
       TEDxFreiburg, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=87zoSgPAmNk
    • Memou was invited to speak at the IWK (Institute für Wissenschaft und Kunst) Public Talks
       (public talks organised by the University of Vienna) and at The Revolutionary Imaginary:
       Visual Culture in an Age of Political Turbulences, National Gallery of Vilnius, Vilnius,
       Lithuania, both in 2017. She was also invited to take part in a roundtable discussion with
       Marcelo Brodsky, Gideon Mendel, Oliver Ressler, Artem Loskutov and Christine Eyene, part
       of the Summer of Photography: Resist! The 1960s Protests, Photography and Visual Legacy,
       Bozar, Brussels, Belgium in 2018.
    • Bishop-Stephens’ Two Films About Loneliness has been screened at multiple
       international film festivals, including Sundance (2015) and won first prize (1000 euros) at
       the CORTI SUL FILO DEL LIMITE festival at Cinema Conca Verde in Bergamo on May
       16th, 2019.
    • Pottenkulam’s What Will You Do Now John? was nominated for the AHRC Research in
       Film awards (2020).




                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




             Figure 13: Stills from Bishop-Stephens’ Two Films About Loneliness




                                                                                  Page 19
