Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Surrey

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 27 English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

    1.1. Context and structure
 UoA27 at Surrey is comprised of 38.4 FTE research-active staff from the School of Literature and
 Languages (SLL) and the Guildford School of Acting (GSA), both based in the Faculty of Arts and
 Social Sciences (FASS). This UoA covers research in English Literature, Creative Writing, Film
 Studies, Theatre Studies, Intercultural Communication, Translation and Interpreting Studies, and
 Theoretical Linguistics. The diversity of our research is united by the study of language as it emerges
 in quotidian and specialist discourses across the world and in literature, cinema and the theatre. Our
 vibrant research culture thrives on our commitment to interdisciplinarity, open access, and
 research impact arising from collaborations with local, national and international stakeholders.

 Since 2014, due to University investment and external funding successes, this UoA has expanded
 considerably and generated £4.8M in research income. Additionally, in 2019, one of our research
 centres was among the 13 that won funding from the ‘Expanding Excellence in England (E3)’
 scheme, awarded £3.56M by Research England. These grants have facilitated the appointment
 of new staff, and the acquisition of new researchers supported by a range of awards from the
 AHRC, ESRC, the British Academy Newton Fellowship and Global Professorship programmes,
 and the Surrey Research Fellowship scheme. Our postgraduate community has also grown
 significantly, and includes students acquired competitively via the AHRC-funded Block Grant
 Partnerships 2 consortium, ‘Techne’, of which Surrey is a founding member; University-funded
 individual and collaborative doctoral studentships; and self-funded doctoral students.

 This UoA includes two established research hubs: the Centre for Translation Studies (CTS) and
 the Surrey Morphology Group (SMG); an emergent interdisciplinary research centre: Mobilities
 in Literature and Culture; two smaller research and practice centres: the Surrey Shakespeare
 Centre and the AHRC-funded Centre for Performance Philosophy (CPP); and three research
 groups: New approaches to Medieval Literature; Victoriographies, and Potential Literatures
 (LitPo). This organisational structure supports a strong research culture and provides internal
 support mechanisms. Researchers in UoA27 work within and across research centres and groups,
 each of which have leads who oversee direction and provide cohesion for the staff members,
 ECRs, and PGRs attached to them.

    1.2. Aims achieved during the REF assessment period
 UoA27 has achieved the strategic aims proposed in REF2014:

 (a) We have developed existing research groups as international hubs for high-quality,
 high-impact research in conjunction with national and international collaborators:
 Key examples include the Centre for Translation Studies (CTS), led by Braun, and the Surrey
 Morphology Group (SMG), led by Corbett.
 CTS is now one of the top translation centres in the UK in terms of its concentration of research
 skills, output quality, level of funding and significance of impact, attracting research income that
 operates above the sector average for Modern Languages. Its mission to combine human
 knowledge of the processes and principles of translation/interpreting with translation/interpreting
 technology and cutting-edge advances in artificial intelligence has resulted in large grants,
 including the E3 grant, for a series of innovative projects that have been facilitated by academic
 collaborations and work with British and European stakeholders ranging from the Office of the
 Sussex Police & Crime Commissioner to the European Council. Braun’s research on video-
 mediated distance interpreting has led to significant national and international impact, informing
 policy changes implemented by the European Council and incorporated into UK, US and German
 policy documents/standards as ‘best practice’.


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SMG is a world-class research centre, and its work on theoretical linguistics and endangered
 languages has transformed the field. Since 2014, members of SMG have won major grants for a
 range of significant projects and its global reputation has attracted independent research fellows
 and a Global Professorship acquired through competitive funding. The Centre’s international
 renown has led to productive research collaborations with institutions in Europe, Australia, and
 Mexico, and its global fieldwork involves engagement with individual communities worldwide to
 preserve endangered languages.

 (b) We have increased high-quality external research grant applications to consolidate
 external funding acquisition across the UoA:
 In this REF period, this UoA has seen an increase in the number of awards won which have risen
 substantially from 3.8 to 7 per year. These successful bids were submitted by members of CTS,
 SMG, Mobilities, CPP, LitPo, Victoriographies, and New Approaches to Medieval Literature
 demonstrating a widespread culture of bidding across a range of disciplines. They have been
 funded by a variety of bodies in the UK and the EU as well as charities, and local authorities. ECR
 funding successes have been especially rewarding (see Section 3.2 (a)). This growth in funding
 successes has been enhanced and facilitated by internal initiatives and mechanisms, including
 alerts, mentorship processes, pump-prime funding, teaching buy-outs, and bid-development
 support from the faculty’s Research and Innovation Services team (see Section 3.2 (a), (b)).

 (c) We have grown emerging areas of research excellence and produced outputs of the
 highest international quality:
 The support mechanisms provided by FASS pump-priming initiatives have helped this unit to
 develop areas of growing research excellence, facilitating collaborative networks nationally and
 internationally, as well as the production of high-quality outputs and public engagement
 opportunities. Such mechanisms have benefited Mobilities (led by Bantman and Mathieson),
 recently awarded centre status and internal funding to further enhance its national and
 international profile. In addition, the judicious appointment in this REF cycle of full-time staff in key
 areas of emerging strength (e.g. Rose, Pulham, Morgan, Shaughnessy) has led to the
 development of new research centres and groups: Victoriographies (led by Pulham), which
 focuses on research in the long nineteenth century; the Shakespeare Centre (led by
 Shaughnessy), a collaboration between scholars in SLL and GSA; and New Approaches to
 Medieval Literature (led by Watt). Notable outputs submitted by members of these developing
 centres and groups include: Climate Change and the Contemporary Novel (Johns-Putra, 2019),
 Shakespeare in the Theatre: The National Theatre, 1963-1975, Olivier and Hall (Shaughnessy,
 2018), Suffragist Artists in Partnership: Gender, Word and Image (Rose, 2017); Victorian
 Narratives of the Recent Past: Memory, History, Fiction (Kingstone, 2017); The Sculptural Body
 in Victorian Literature: Encrypted Sexualities (Pulham, 2020); and Women’s Writing and Religion
 in England and Beyond, 650-1100 (Watt, 2019), a key output from Watt’s Leverhulme Major
 Research Fellowship project.

 (d) We have increased PhD applications and completions: our UoA has benefited from
 successful membership of the AHRC’s BGP2 consortium, Techne, along with Royal Holloway,
 University of London, Brunel, Kingston, Loughborough, University of the Arts, London,
 Roehampton and Westminster. Techne’s remit to support outstanding students pursuing the ‘craft’
 of research through innovative, interdisciplinary and creative approaches across the range of the
 arts and humanities, lends itself to the specialisms in this UoA and to its interdisciplinarity. This
 unit has also benefited from Surrey’s investment in doctoral studentships, and from the high profile
 of its researchers which attracts funded and self-funded candidates. We currently support and
 supervise 54 PGRs, and in this period we have produced 50 completions, a significant increase
 on the 19 reported in REF2014.

 (e) We have extended the impact potential of existing non-academic partnerships and
 developed new regional, national, and international partnerships:
 Impact is now a fully embedded feature of research throughout this unit, a goal emphasised post-
 2014. The Impact Case Studies we have submitted demonstrate how, through collaboration with
 a variety of regional, national and international stakeholders, our research has influenced

                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 European policy recommendations (Braun); advanced professional practice (Braun, Dippold);
 empowered vulnerable communities in Latin America (Bell); and aided the preservation of
 endangered linguistic traditions in Nuer indigenous and diasporic communities (Baerman, Bond,
 Corbett). Our ongoing impact strategy involves identifying ‘impact leaders’ and providing them with
 support to pursue this aspect of their research, through faculty and university initiatives such as
 ‘pump priming’ and access to an ESRC Impact Accelerator Account. We also encourage public
 engagement initiatives that may lead to research impact. For example, during this REF period
 Dippold’s research, supported by pump-prime funding, has led to the development of a highly
 successful MOOC (Massive Open Online Course), which has impacted on the academic study
 and commercial implementation of communication practices (see Section 3.2 (b)). Since the last
 REF, researchers in this UoA have contributed to a series of annual outreach events held at Surrey
 or based in the local area. Their research has additionally informed newspaper articles, podcasts,
 TV and radio programmes. International stakeholder partnerships developed in this REF period
 include those with the Stavanger gallery, Norway; the Copenhagen Medical Museum; the
 Associazione Culturale Il Palmerino, Florence; Casa de Povo in São Paulo, and Cartonera
 communities in Brazil and Mexico. These have contributed to collaborative events such as
 performances and exhibitions (see Section 4.6 for details).

    1.3. Research Strategy: 2021-26
 Our research strategy aligns with that of the University which understands research and innovation
 in their broadest senses, encompassing all societal benefits that emerge from them, not only their
 monetisation. We abide by the University’s commitment to open research and make our research
 outputs as open as possible, ethical or commercial restrictions permitting.

 Staff in this UoA are committed to transparency, open communication and making research
 findings widely available to other researchers and the public. For example, SMG’s findings have
 led to the development of over 20 open access endangered language archives, online dictionaries
 of undocumented languages and datasets compiled through cross-linguistic research that
 contribute to research impact on user communities. Drawing on this expertise, from 2012-18, Bond
 served as academic member of the University-level Research Data Management Steering Group,
 sharing best practice.

 This commitment to open research will continue throughout the next REF cycle, and the University
 has strategies in place to support this. The University promotes and supports open and immediate
 access to publications, data, and other research outputs to encourage transparency,
 reproducibility, and the re-use of our research; to allow us to build on each other’s work; to lift
 barriers to knowledge access; and to engage and increase impact. The Surrey Research Insight
 (SRI) team advises on open access and enhancing research visibility. Data and publications are
 shared through the SRI open access repository. Researchers deposit all outputs at the point of
 acceptance and, upon completion, all PGRs deposit an electronic copy of their thesis in the SRI
 repository.

 Researchers in this unit subscribe to the University’s culture of integrity. Formal processes ensure
 research is of the highest ethical standards, and the University Research Integrity and Governance
 Office (RIGO) provides guidance on proposals and ethical reviews of submissions. This ethos and
 accompanying practices will continue to inform our research.

 Over the next five years this UoA’s over-arching strategy will be to utilise our research centres and
 groups as supportive frameworks through which to sustain and build the quality of our research
 environment. This will be implemented by a range of contributory strategies aimed at:

    a) maintaining and increasing the production of high-quality research outputs through
       mentorship processes, sabbatical support mechanisms, and successful fellowships;
    b) augmenting the diversity, quality, and quantity of our external funding bids by encouraging
       further collaboration across research centres and groups within and beyond the UoA to



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       maximise our potential for interdisciplinary research, and to capitalise on existing expertise
       in bid development and funding acquisition throughout our institution;
    c) expanding our outward-looking approach to research partnerships across the University,
       with other HEIs, non-HEIs and industry partners by encouraging participation in the
       University’s theme-led research hubs, utilising the University’s Industry Partnerships
       Managers, and enhancing opportunities for research impact by working with local, regional,
       national and international communities;
    d) continuing to build our PGR communities by attracting high-quality students through
       successful competition in the AHRC Techne consortium, University investment, and
       collaborative doctoral awards in under-represented areas of research;
    e) growing our ECR community and research culture through the acquisition of internally
       and/or externally awarded research fellowships and research assistantships. In line with
       the University’s strategy to make Surrey the ‘go to’ institution for ECRs, we will institute
       formal and informal mechanisms within and beyond research centres and groups to
       increase mentorship and support for their career development.

 Working with the FASS Executive Dean, Associate Dean (Research and Innovation), the Director
 of Research, and the Heads of Schools, we will continue to assess progress annually. We will
 maintain a flexible, responsive, and creative approach to research support and development to
 maximise our potential and meet our strategic aims.

 2. People

 This UoA’s current Category A eligible staff includes 8 Lecturers, 14 Senior Lecturers, 4 Readers,
 9 Professors, 1 Principal Research Fellow, and 4 Research Fellows. Two members of staff are
 retained on a 0.2 contract. All of these are permanent posts excepting those of Research Fellows
 who are employed on fixed-term contracts which match the length of the funded project. The
 composition of staff in this UoA consists of 15 nationalities, thus contributing to the international
 flavour of its research networks.

 2.1. Recruitment Strategy
 Since REF2014, the staffing strategy of this UoA has been founded on the following principles:

 (a) recruit high-quality researchers across all disciplines
 In this REF cycle, this UoA has recruited 14 permanent members of staff: 3 Professors, 1 Reader,
 2 Senior Lecturers and eight ECR Lecturers, as well as several Research Fellows and PDRAs
 attached to specific projects on fixed-term contracts. All staff recruited benefit from the
 development and support mechanisms outlined in Section 2.

 (b) expand the diversity of our research portfolio to strengthen existing and augment
 developing areas of research
 Of the permanent staff recruited, the appointment of 1 Professor (Orasan), 2 Senior Lecturers (do
 Carmo and Guerberof-Arenas) and 5.2 post-doctoral researchers on fixed-term contracts was
 enabled by the E3 grant awarded to CTS. The professorial and senior lecturer posts are open-
 ended and will be funded by Surrey once the E3 period ends in 2022. These posts are mainly
 research-focused and their expertise relates to automation in translation, thus complementing
 existing strengths in the uses of technologies in translation/interpreting. New staff in SMG similarly
 complement the Centre’s existing research in theoretical linguistics. Franjieh adds expertise in
 Oceanic languages, and Christopher, knowledge of Turkic languages of Central Asia, thus
 expanding SMG’s potential, furthering existing projects and future funding possibilities.

 In the feedback received following the last REF, the panel highlighted ‘a notable cluster of outputs
 of world-leading quality in Victorian literary studies’. The appointment of Mathieson, Rose,
 Thompson and Pulham, has provided UoA27 with the opportunity to enhance its strengths in the
 literature of the long nineteenth-century and in Victorian visual cultures, leading to the formation
 of the new research group: ‘Victoriographies’. This strength in nineteenth-century studies has
 attracted a significant number of strong PhD applications, as well as a University-funded Surrey
                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Fellow (Kingstone) and, in addition to edited books and journal articles, staff members
 working in this field have contributed four monographs to this submission.

 Three other areas that have benefited from recruitment strategies are Shakespeare studies,
 Medieval studies and Creative Writing. Shaughnessy’s appointment as Professor in GSA adds
 the dimensions of disability studies, theatre history and applied performance to Wynne-Davies’s
 focus on Shakespeare and gender; Morgan’s research on queer sexualities and spatiality adds
 new components to Medieval tudies at Surrey while complementing Watt’s cutting-edge
 research in the field; and Szczepaniak’s experimental verse has enhanced the LitPo research
 group’s existing strengths in contemporary, innovative poetry.

 2.2. Staff Development
 Surrey’s staff development strategies are informed by the University’s commitment to the
 Principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and adheres to
 the following three tenets:

 (a) Enable research capacity at all career stages:
 The University supports the contributions of all its researchers, from Professors to PGRs, and has
 held an HR Excellence in Research badge since 2012. The University makes a range of training
 and continuing professional development opportunities available to staff, via the Learning and
 Development programme, Research and Development programme, and Higher Education
 Department. Staff uptake of training opportunities is encouraged, and priorities are identified
 throughout the initial 3-year probation period, mandatory on appointment, and subsequently
 through annual appraisal processes, as well as by ongoing discussions with research centre and
 group leads. Research excellence and potential are highlighted in appraisal documents via a
 ratings system, and staff in this UoA are nominated by their respective schools (SLL & GSA) for
 University-wide prize-giving initiatives such as the Vice Chancellor’s awards of ‘Researcher of the
 Year’, held by Bell (2017-18) and Braun (2019-20) and ‘Innovator of the Year’ awarded to Dippold
 (2019-20).

 Strategic research-related guidance is provided at institutional level. University strategies are
 underpinned by research development support (training and facilitation) provided at
 departmental and faculty level, including bidding workshops, advice on development, design, and
 impact initiatives, and individualised feedback afforded by internal and external professionals. SLL
 makes its training sessions available to both staff and PGRs in SLL, and GSA, and runs a series
 of PGR-led thematic Research Exchange Seminars (RES), featuring panels composed of staff
 and students from across the UoA’s research centres and groups, to facilitate the interchange of
 ideas and experience.

 Staff in this UoA are entitled to sabbatical leave once in every five-year cycle to facilitate the
 development and/or completion of larger projects and, where possible, teaching is divided into
 one ‘light’ and one ‘heavy’ semester each year to maximise research time. Staff also benefit from
 a designated research day each week and have a guaranteed research/conference allowance
 of £750 per person. Additional discretionary amounts, to a maximum of £1,250 per person, are
 available on application to cover costs of overseas travel when it is considered vital to research
 initiatives and collaboration.

 Research grant applications are supported by the Director of Research (Pulham), the Faculty
 Research Facilitation Officer, Research Co-ordinator, and a team of Research Pre-award Officers,
 as well as by bidders’ mentors or senior colleagues where appropriate. Several faculty-wide
 funding schemes also exist to support research bids, including competitive streams of pump prime
 funding for grant development and associated activities, and the Faculty Research Fellowship
 (FRF) scheme which provides eight months of teaching buy-out and training support for focused
 bid writing, complementing our existing sabbatical scheme (see Section 3.2).

 The University supports career progression at all levels; its academic promotion scheme
 includes promotion tracks for all academic contract types, and individual performance and

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 promotion potential are discussed at the annual appraisal meetings. Promotion panels meet in the
 Spring of each year, and applications are assessed by the Faculty and University academic
 promotions committees. The criteria for promotion are published on the HR website and include
 Academic Performance Indicators and Academic Role Profiles. Staff wishing to apply for
 promotion are supported by their line manager or senior colleague, who reads and offers feedback
 on applications if required. Anyone unsuccessful in the promotion process is offered a debrief with
 their line manager and/or HR and the Faculty Executive Dean. Staff promoted within this REF
 period are: Braun to Professor and Cull Ó Maoilearca to Reader in 2016; Frankenberg-Garcia to
 Reader, and Vlitos to Senior Lecturer in 2017; Bell, Davitti, Dippold, Kilner-Johnson, and
 McCormack to Senior Lecturer in 2018; and Bond to Reader, Asimakoulas to Senior Lecturer,
 Mathieson and Gough to Lecturer B in 2019. In addition, Baerman has accepted an open-ended
 research contract and been promoted to Principal Research Fellow.

 (b) Encourage and provide continuing support for the career development of ECRs
 On appointment ECRs are allocated a senior colleague. They meet their line manager and senior
 colleague at the start of the probationary period; with their senior colleague at scheduled points
 each year; and with their line manager at the end of each probation year. Research targets are
 set and reviewed each year and training needs are identified. Senior Colleagues provide support
 for career and research development throughout the probationary period. Guidelines for probation
 are set centrally and provided to staff at induction. After the probationary period, the appraisal
 process is undertaken annually by all staff with their line manager or other senior member of staff.

 The University’s Doctoral College (DC), launched in 2016, supports ECRs at all stages, i.e.
 doctoral and post-doctoral researchers, and early-career lecturers. Specific training opportunities
 exist for ECR staff through the Researcher Development Programme in the DC. Several staff
 members have benefited from the Aurora leadership scheme (Bell 2016-17; Bantman 2016-17;
 Honess Roe 2016-17; McCormack 2017-18) and Barbour is enrolled in the Springboard scheme
 (2020-21). The DC offers skills development through courses/events, career and employability
 support, mentoring, and opportunities to present, network and organise events. All ECRs are
 offered a one-to-one coaching session to identify their specific career and professional
 development goals and the Researcher Employability and Engagement Manager supports
 network-building with employers. Furthermore, all ECRs are offered a mentor from the sector of
 their choice, utilising the vast-experience pool of Surrey Alumni and local supporters. ECRs can
 access seed funding through the DC and other faculty initiatives to develop new research and
 collaborations.

 PDRs include PDRAs on fixed-term contracts include researchers employed by SMG and CTS
 on externally-funded research projects and one Surrey Research Fellow who is funded by the
 University. The University embeds a time-allocation of two weeks p.a. for PDRs on fixed-term
 research-only contracts to pursue their own professional and research development. The career
 progression of PDRs is very well supported through highly structured programmes. The research
 centres meet regularly with their PDRs for grant workshops and PDRs have formal monthly
 meetings with their mentors where they may discuss research progress and professional
 development. Where possible, they are also included in PGR supervision teams. SLL has also
 recently instituted a ‘Visiting Researcher’ scheme to support PDRs who have completed their
 PhDs but are not yet in post. This offers institutional affiliation for one year; continued mentoring
 by senior figures in their field; and the opportunity to develop a research, impact or public
 engagement initiative to enhance their CVs. ECRs at all levels are considered part of the UoA’s
 community of researchers and invited to participate in research group meetings and staff
 committees. Post-doctoral researchers supported by this UoA have gone on to acquire full-time
 posts in academia and become successful authors, e.g. Dr Liam Bell, Lecturer in Creative Writing
 at Stirling, Dr Nathan Ashman, Lecturer in Crime Writing at the University of East Anglia, and Dr
 Melissa Addey who has held the post of Leverhulme Writer in Residence at the British Library and
 won the ‘Novel London’ prize in 2019 for her novel, The Cold Palace.

 (c) Promote equality, diversity and inclusivity


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and diversity have been important considerations in the construction of this UoA’s
 REF2021 submission: UOA level output selection panel meetings were held in accordance with
 guidance set by the University’s published code of practice and members of the University’s
 REF2021 team and SLL’s ED&I representative (Watt) were present to ensure that this was
 implemented. In addition, all attendees completed REF2021 ED&I training and members of the
 output selection panels took account of the population characteristics of the UOA. Our unit is
 comprised of 63% female and 38% male academics. This gender composition was taken into
 consideration when selecting outputs for submission.

 Members of this UoA adhere to the University’s core values of respect, ambition, collaboration,
 integrity and excellence. The University is committed to conducting its business by valuing equality
 and diversity in people, cultures and ideas, and to building a vibrant and caring environment that
 supports people based on humanity, compassion and fairness. PGR admissions are based on the
 same principles, and all procedures connected with the application and admission of research
 students are Equality Act compliant. The DC offers a Disability and Neurodiversity Service for
 prospective doctoral students with disabilities. It also encourages students with disabilities to apply
 for non-means tested support such as the Disabled Students Allowance (DSA) or the research
 councils’ equivalent allowances to fund assistive technology and non-medical helpers. The
 University of Surrey makes funds available to provide similar support for EU and International
 students who are not eligible to apply for the DSA.

 The University’s commitment to ED&I principles is evidenced by participation in various national
 schemes, e.g. Athena SWAN, Disability Confident, Race Equality Charter Mark, Stonewall Index.
 SLL was awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze award in 2019 and is currently working towards a
 Silver Award. Staff recruitment policies stress the importance of ED&I across the whole process.
 Job purposes and advertisements are scrutinised to ensure that language and imagery are not
 inadvertently biased towards certain groups. Recruiters consider whether the job could be
 performed flexibly, and all staff undertake the University’s online Unconscious Bias training course
 on appointment. Recruitment panel members complete face-to-face training with ED&I advisors
 and all interview panels must have at least 25% of the minority gender. Being committed to
 Disability Confident, all disabled candidates meeting core competencies are offered an interview.

 The University offers several training opportunities that are specifically aimed at countering gender
 inequality, including the Aurora leadership programme and Springboard from which staff in this
 UoA have benefited (see 2.2 (b)). The institution adheres to a University-wide maternity policy
 which entitles research-active staff to reduced teaching hours upon their return to work so that
 they can focus on their research. Staff members in this UoA returning from maternity leave have
 benefited from additional support through the provision of research assistance, funded by the
 SLL Head of School (Palmer, Rose) and by the Vice Chancellor’s Inclusion and Career
 Investment Award (Dippold), to enable their return to research activity. Research assistance has
 facilitated the completion of outputs and provided impact opportunities which have fed into this
 submission. In line with SLL’s ethos regarding access to research support, part-time and fixed-
 term staff are treated identically to permanent research and teaching staff. Where there is a desire
 or opportunity to transition to permanent research positions, feedback and support are provided.

 2.3. Research Students
 (a) PGR Recruitment
 Since REF2014, the postgraduate community in this UoA has grown considerably, recruiting high-
 quality doctoral students. Registered PGRs have increased from 38 in 2013 to 53 in July 2020. Since
 2014, this UoA has gained 16 new AHRC-funded students through the Techne DTP including 2
 collaborative doctoral award students co-supervised by staff members in SLL and curators at Watts
 Gallery, and 8 students funded via Surrey’s Doctoral College studentships (representing total AHRC
 funding of £704,436 in this REF period and £234,385 in University investment). Recruitment
 strategies have been both responsive and strategic: when contacted, staff assess the viability of the
 prospective candidate’s project. If viable, potential supervisors work with interested candidates to
 facilitate the initial application to Surrey. Research centres and groups also engage in the strategic
 recruitment of doctoral students who enrich established and/or developing areas of research in

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 relevant fields, as well as working with stakeholder partners to identify collaborative projects of mutual
 benefit to which candidates might be recruited.


 (b) Supervision, support and mechanisms for successful completion
 In this REF period, UoA27 has produced 50 PhD completions, up from 19 reported in REF2014,
 an increase from 3.8 per year to 7.1, and in the 2020 PRES Survey both schools contributing to
 this UoA scored 100% for overall satisfaction, outperforming the University average.

 This significant rise in completions and rewarding satisfaction scores are due to a combination of
 factors including nurturing, yet robust supervisory and progression processes; the support
 provided by the Directors of Postgraduate Studies in SLL and GSA; and the training offered by
 the Doctoral College’s Researcher Development Programme for both supervisors and
 students. All staff new to supervision and/or new to the University must undertake supervision
 training. All students are co-supervised, a policy change that enriches students’ experience and
 enables supervision to be spread across the staff base and across disciplines where appropriate.
 Supervisory teams meet monthly with supervisees and notes of these meetings are logged by the
 student and confirmed by the first supervisor in a centralised database. Progress is formally
 reviewed every 6 months and a Confirmation process takes place within 12 months (F/T), 24
 months (P/T). For this, students must write a Confirmation Report of approximately 20,000 words
 and undergo a viva voce examination attended by two internal examiners. Students who are not
 confirmed at this stage are given the opportunity to revise the report and resubmit after 3 months
 (6 months for P/T students) with or without another viva. During the period of study, PGRs must
 attend compulsory workshops covering the Confirmation process and the viva examination.

 (c) PGR Research Culture
 Postgraduate and postdoctoral research culture is integrated with the collaborative research
 culture in SLL and GSA. To assist their career development and to ensure an investment in the
 school’s research culture, PGR students take responsibility for a regular research activity
 programme each semester that includes a series of Research Exchange Seminars (RES).
 These provide a platform, based on key themes, for papers given by panels composed of staff
 members, MA, and PhD students designed to foster a productive dialogue across disciplines,
 periods, and career stages. PGRs also organise two themed symposia per year attended by
 invited speakers, one of which dovetails with the theme of the annual Guildford Book Festival
 event hosted by SLL. PGR students in this UoA also run a monthly Theory Reading Group
 attended by staff and students, and work with a faculty-wide PGR-led hub, the Surrey Arts &
 Humanities Research Group (SAHRG), who run regular events, and contribute to FASS’s annual
 Festival of Research. In addition, the DC runs an annual two-day conference that provides PGRs
 with the opportunity to meet researchers from across the University and to gain experience of an
 academic conference in a familiar and supportive environment. PGRs in this UoA are active on
 social media and have designated Twitter accounts: @Surrey_LitPGRS and @Surrey_SAHRG
 which they have used to foster PGR community spirit and support, advertise events, promote their
 own work and communicate with PGRs nationally and internationally.

 Techne students in this REF period have had access to the Techne Research Training Support
 Grant (RTSG) which provides funding of up to £2000 over their period of study to support study
 visits and conference attendance, as well as other research costs necessary for the students’
 primary research. They may also avail themselves of a £300 p.a. ad hoc allowance to attend
 training and other non-Techne events at member institutions and Partner organisations, or study
 trips to libraries, galleries or archives. PGRs in possession of a Surrey Doctoral College
 Studentship are allocated a Research Training Support Grant of £1000 over the duration of
 study, and all PGRs who do not have external funding benefit from research funding support of £500
 p.a. for F/T students and £250 p.a. for P/T students. In addition to providing support through the DC,
 Surrey contributes to Techne administration costs. PGR research culture in this UoA has benefited
 from funded Techne confluxes (extended training, development, exhibition or performance
 programmes), and DC initiatives. Techne confluxes hosted by Surrey include ‘Philosophy and
 Critical Methods’ (2019) and ‘Extra-mural Psychoanalysis, Freudian and Lacanian Approaches

                                                                                                    Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 after Theory’ (2020), and DC-funded programmes such as ‘Building Research Communities’ led
 to the organisation of ‘Feminist Futures’, a one-day, interdisciplinary, intersectional feminist
 research retreat, organised by this UoA’s PGRs, that took place at the University of Surrey in 2019.

 (d) Support for PGR skills development and careers advice
 PGR skills development and careers advice are provided by the DC’s Researcher Development
 Programme which runs workshops on the practical aspects of thesis production: research tools
 and processes, time-management, writing and copy-editing skills. Additionally, it offers
 professional training in public engagement and conference participation and organises virtual
 writing retreats. The programme also includes career-focused PGR workshops on careers within
 and beyond academia and provides professional development planning that includes advice on
 how to write Curriculum Vitae, search for posts, and hone interview skills. SLL runs an additional
 programme of postgraduate training seminars, organised by the Director of Postgraduate
 Research (Palmer), that includes sessions on all aspects of pursuing a sustainable academic
 career, including advice on publishing, conferencing and applying for funding.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Research Awards and Income
 Our total income in this REF period: £4.9M constitutes a 92.6% increase in research income, our
 average annual income having risen from £0.5M in REF2014 to £0.7M in this submission. Awards
 have been granted by a range of funders including EU and UK governments, UK charities, UKRI
 councils (AHRC/ESRC), the Leverhulme Trust and the British Academy. In addition, CTS won a
 major award, £3.56M, from Research England’s ‘Expanding Excellence in England’ (E3) scheme.
 This considerable increase in funding successes is testament to the efficacy of the bid-
 development strategies outlined below, and these awards have also fostered significant research
 impact of national and international value.

 3.2. Strategies for generating grant income, outputs, and research impact have centred
      on the following:
 (a) Proactive identification of funding calls, targeted faculty support, intention to bid
 notifications, mentorship and peer-review systems:
 The University has invested in one Research Facilitation Officer (RFO) for each faculty. The FASS
 RFO regularly compiles and disseminates suitable funding calls to Research Directors who are
 then able to target staff with relevant research interests. FASS benefits additionally from a
 Research Co-ordinator who provides Heads of School and Research Directors with active grants
 lists. These administrators liaise between staff in this UoA and the University’s Research and
 Innovation Services (RIS) to alert Research Directors to funding opportunities; organise bid-
 development training; help manage and support high-quality strategic bids and research
 proposals; assist staff who require ethical approval for research projects; and offer dedicated
 support for European funding applications.

 Staff planning external funding bids are required to submit an intention to bid form which alerts the
 department’s Research Director, who can target preliminary support and informal feedback (e.g.
 through senior mentors and/or research centre/group leaders). This form is also sent to colleagues
 in the faculty’s Research and Innovation team who plan admin support, budget development, legal
 and governance checks, and facilitate formal peer-review processes.

 These support systems have contributed to the acquisition of several large and/or complex grants
 submitted by our two research hubs, e.g. in CTS: Braun’s £3.56M Research England award; £95k
 from the European Commission for ‘AVIDICUS3: Assessment of Video-Mediated Interpreting in the
 Criminal Justice System - Assessing the Implementation’ (Braun and Davitti; 2014-16); £285k from
 the European H2020 programme for ‘MeMAD Managing Audiovisual Data: Improving Automatic
 Processing with Human Accuracy’ (Braun; 2018-21); and £563k won by Frankenberg-Garcia to
 develop an AHRC-funded project, ‘Collocaid’ (2017-21), a text-editing tool to help learners and
 translators write more idiomatically. In SMG, such bids include Corbett’s ESRC award for ‘Optimal

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Categorisation: the origin and nature of gender from a psycholinguistic perspective’ (£534k; 2018-
 21); and a series of AHRC awards: ‘External agreement’ (Chumakina, £415k; 2018-21); ‘Seri
 verbs: multiple complexities’ (Baerman, £365k; 2017-20); ‘Lexical splits’ (Corbett, £446k; 2016-
 19); and ‘Loss of inflection’ (Baerman, £410k; 2016-18). Such support systems have been
 especially beneficial to ECRs in this UoA, including Bell who was awarded AHRC GCRF funding
 for the project: ‘Precarious Publishing in Latin America: Relations, meaning and community in
 movement’ (£116k; 2017-20) and McCormack who won an AHRC Leadership Fellowship (£117k)
 for the project ‘Transplant Imaginaries: Rethinking Temporality, Spatiality and the Body Politic’
 (2018-21).

 (b) Research support infrastructure through internal pump-prime funding initiatives and
 global partnerships:
 Staff in this UoA have benefited from University initiatives and key streams of pump-prime funding
 provided by FASS to enable networking and collaboration, bid generation, output development,
 and impact facilitation:

 Networking and bid development
 Surrey is a founding member of the University Global Partnership Network (UGPN) which
 includes the University of São Paulo, North Carolina State University and the University of
 Wollongong, Australia. These four universities fund joint research activities as well as providing
 opportunities for staff and students to undertake study or research placements at partner
 universities. In 2017 Nicol was awarded c. £10,000 for a UGPN project: ‘The Global Novel’ in
 partnership with the University of São Paulo. This has resulted in strong links with Brazilian
 academics emerging from exchange visits and a series of workshops held at both institutions, and
 to collective seminars at conferences held by such bodies as the Brazilian Studies Association
 (BRASA) and the Association of Brazilianists in Europe (ABRE).

 Pump-prime funding provided by FASS has also aided the development of collaborative
 networks and partnerships, some of which have contributed to high-quality external funding
 applications. Beneficiaries have included Palmer for a workshop to strengthen international
 collaboration between Surrey staff, PGRs and the Neo-Victorian Research Network in Spain
 (VINS); Davitti, whose collaboration on a pilot study with European colleagues led to a successful
 ESRC grant for ‘Shaping Multilingual Access through Respeaking Technology’ (£426k; 2019-22);
 and Bell, who received support to develop stakeholder partnerships that led to follow-on funding
 from the AHRC for ‘Activating the Arts for International Development’ (£84k; Feb-Nov 2019).

 FASS also runs a Faculty Research Fellowship (FRF) programme that provides prospective
 bidders with teaching buy-outs and a comprehensive support system, including individual and
 collective peer reviews as well as individualised central support from Finance and Research and
 Innovation Services. Two beneficiaries of this scheme in this UoA subsequently submitted
 successful funding bids: Cull Ó Maoilearca won an AHRC Leadership Fellowship for the project
 ‘Performance Philosophy & Animals: Towards a Radical Equality’ (£199k; 2019-2022), and Watt
 was awarded a Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship for ‘Women’s Literary Culture Before the
 Conquest’ (£103k; 2017-19).

 Pump-prime funding for archival research also led to the acquisition of two British
 Academy/Leverhulme Small Research Grants: Hughes for ‘Radioactive Documentary’ (£7.5k;
 2016-17) which led to a monograph due out in 2021; and Mathieson for ‘Sunburn and Tanning in
 Nineteenth-Century Medicine and Culture’ (£8.5k; 2017-18) which led to an AHRC Leadership
 Fellowship bid.

 Funding from this stream additionally facilitated the establishment of a new inter-faculty,
 interdisciplinary, Sex, Gender and Sexualities centre at Surrey co-founded by Watt, of which
 several staff in this UoA are members, along with researchers in Sociology and Psychology.

 Output Generation


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pump-prime funding has also been awarded for fieldwork, archival research, and overseas
 collaborations that have contributed to outputs. Beneficiaries include Asimakoulas who was
 awarded funding to conduct fieldwork leading to a published monograph; Bantman for archival
 research on 19thC anarchism in Paris leading to key outputs including articles, an edited collection
 and a contracted monograph; Honess Roe to co-convene and attend a ‘Women in Animation’
 conference and network with academic partners at the University of Southern California that will
 result in edited collection; Johns-Putra to collaborate on an article with colleagues at the National
 Chung-Hsing University, Taiwan; and Morgan for archival research that will contribute to a future
 monograph.

 Impact and public engagement facilitation
 Dippold’s research, emerging from a project funded by the British Council, has yielded important
 impact through the implementation of a Futurelearn MOOC entitled ‘Communicating with Diverse
 Audiences’. The development of this MOOC was supported by pump-prime funding and was
 subsequently selected by the British Council to be included in its ‘Study UK’ campaign. It has had
 significant reach, accessed by individuals in 153 countries, including many developing nations.
 Pump-prime funding has also been deployed to facilitate public engagement initiatives with
 relevant stakeholder communities based on staff members’ research with a view to developing
 future impact. Beneficiaries include Kilner-Johnson for an event in collaboration with Treadwell’s
 Books, London, and the Theosophical Society; and Mooney for an interdisciplinary symposium,
 ‘Innovative Poetry as Clinical Technique’ developed with non-academic partners.

 (c) Operational infrastructure supporting research
 Following investment in the refurbishment of University buildings, Staff in this UoA have regular
 use of collective spaces that facilitate collaborative research. The areas allocated to CTS have
 been augmented and refurbished to support their expansion, providing new offices and meeting
 spaces for collaborative work, and training initiatives. In addition, vital equipment and software
 have been provided including interpreting labs with video-conferencing technology, upgraded with
 new software platforms to support distance interpreting and audiovisual translation, for the
 purpose of simulations and experimental research. CTS has also been provided with a dedicated
 server to support high-speed computing in translation automation/machine learning, and there has
 been specific investment in translation tools, and electronic and library resources for translation.
 In addition, CTS will benefit from the investment of £100k through the UKRI World-Class
 Laboratories programme to upgrade the University’s Moot Room into a Court of the Future,
 enabling opportunities to research the use of remote interpreting and translation tools in courts.
 Similarly, SMG staff have designated areas that consist of staff offices and a communal room for
 group work, and staff in the other research groups have a designated meeting room for
 collaborative activities.

 PGRs in this UoA have designated Postgraduate Common Rooms, one each for PGR students
 in Translation and Interpreting; English Literature, CW, Film and Performance; and Theoretical
 Linguistics and benefit from a Researcher Networking Room in the library. In addition, all
 research centres and groups benefit from administrative support. CTS recently recruited a Centre
 Manager and a Research Technician; SMG are assisted by two designated Project Administrators;
 and the other groups and centres receive the support of SLL’s administrator, a fraction of whose
 remit is to assist with event organisation, and of SLL’s Marketing Manager, who promotes events
 and research successes via social media. All research centres and groups also benefit from
 technicians who provide specialist support for project website development and general IT needs.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 This unit’s contribution to the research base is evidenced across disciplinary and interdisciplinary
 boundaries. Researchers in this UoA have been engaged in a range of local, national, and
 international collaborations with universities and non-academic stakeholders; have received
 national and international invitations to disseminate their research; are committed to academic
 citizenship, taking key roles in editorial capacities and as peer-reviewers; and participate actively


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in public engagement fora to ensure the broader dissemination and impact of their research. This
 section includes selected examples only.

 4.1 Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 Through its research projects and activities CTS has forged strong bonds with partner
 universities in the UK (Bangor, Heriot Watt, Manchester); in continental Europe (e.g. Aalto,
 Bologna, Granada, Helsinki, Leuven, ParisTech, Poznan, UNINT Rome, Stockholm, Vienna); Asia
 (e.g. Zhejiang Gongshang, Taiwan Normal Univ.); South America (Rio Grande do Sul, São Paulo
 State); and Australia (Western Sydney). CTS is also a strategic partner of China’s first Research
 Centre for the Integration of Linguistics and Artificial Intelligence, a collaboration with the Chinese
 Academy of Social Sciences and Nanjing Normal University. CTS collaborates additionally with
 non-academic partners, including professional bodies such as the Chartered Institute of
 Linguists (Higher Education Language Partnership); the Institute for Translation and Interpreting
 [ITI]) and the new ITI Research Network; the National Register of Public Service Interpreters; and
 the International Association of Conference Interpreters’ Technologies Committee. Industry
 partners include technology companies who partner CTS projects (e.g. Veasyt in SHIFT, Lexical
 Computing in ColloCaid) and CTS has worked on projects with public bodies (e.g. Ministries of
 Justice in the UK and the Netherlands, several police forces in the UK).

 The externally-funded research of SMG builds on and extends our national and international
 collaborations. Established relationships with partner universities include Edinburgh, Essex,
 SOAS and York. Other partnerships within Europe (e.g. L’Aquila, Basque Country, Helsinki, Oslo,
 Sofia and Zurich, and the Serbian Academy of Sciences) include several institutions in France
 (CNRS; Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes; INALCO; SeDyL-CELIA; Paris 8; Paris Sorbonne);
 Germany (Cologne, Mainz, Max Planck Institute (EVA); ZAS); and Russia (four Moscow
 institutions). Collaborations beyond Europe involve partners in Asia (Tribhuvan), Africa (Nairobi),
 North America (Chicago; Maryland; NAU Mexico; North Dakota; SIUE, UMass), the Pacific
 (Massey; New Caledonia; South Pacific), and Australia (ANU, Melbourne, Newcastle,
 Queensland). SMG’s research benefits from several non-academic partnerships involving
 stakeholders in governmental bodies (Loyalty Islands Council, New Caledonia; Ministry of
 Education and Training, Vanuatu), NGOs (SIL, South Sudan) and educational institutions
 (Ranwadi High School, Vanuatu).

 CPP’s institutional collaborators include the Centre for Philosophy and the Visual Arts (King’s
 College, London); the Aesthetics Research Centre (University of Kent); the Labanarium, an online
 international resource and network centre for the Movement community; and the international
 network, ‘Performance Philosophy’. In 2017, the CPP launched a ‘Researcher in Residence’
 scheme and has since hosted international visiting scholars from: Ouro Preto University in Brazil
 (2017-18); SOAS, and the performance group, State of Encounter from Lima, Peru (2018-19); the
 Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil; and from the University of Graz, Austria (2019-
 20).

 In addition, individual researchers in this UoA are or have been members of funded networks
 nationally and internationally, working collaboratively with academic and non-academic
 partners. These include the Leverhulme-funded Women’s Literary Culture and the Medieval
 Canon network (led by Watt); the French consortium AsilEurope19 (Bantman); the MINECO-
 funded ‘Trace Network’ (Pulham) in collaboration with the University of Málaga; the UGPN-funded
 ‘Global Novel’ project in collaboration with the University of São Paulo (Nicol, Pulham, Mathieson,
 Thompson); ‘Monsters, Myth and Media’ and ‘Haunted Humanity’ in collaboration with
 Scandinavian universities (McCormack, Morgan). Local collaborations include work with the
 Surrey History Centre (Rose, Thompson, Palmer); Watts Gallery (Bantman, Rose, Pulham); and
 academics in SLL have an established partnership with organisers of the annual Guildford Book
 Festival, participating in and hosting key events at the University and other locations (Nicol, Kilner-
 Johnson, Palmer, Pulham).




                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2 Wider contributions to society and engaging with diverse communities and publics
 Staff in this unit are committed to the dissemination of their research in non-academic venues,
 acknowledging the importance of impact and its development through community outreach,
 collaboration with local, national and international stakeholders, and public engagement.



 (a) Community outreach
 Researchers in this UoA contribute to a series of annual outreach events held at Surrey or based
 in the local area: SLL has collaborated with the Guildford Book Festival (GBF) organisers since
 2016 hosting a range of invited speakers and interviewing high-profile authors for the GBF such
 as Alan Hollinghurst, Anthony Horowitz, and Sarah Perry. SLL hosts a Distinguished Writer in
 Residence post, held by world-renowned practitioners, currently by Iain Sinclair (2018-present),
 and previously by Monica Ali (2016-18), as well as an annual Poet in Residence post designed to
 support young, innovative poets. This post is currently held by Rob Kiely (2019-present). Holders
 of these posts contribute to SLL-sponsored public events such as the annual Morag Morris Poetry
 Lecture, the Surrey Poetry Festival, and the Surrey New Writers Festival. The poetry festival has
 been running since 2012 and attracts up to 80 attendees per year and the Surrey New Writers
 Festival, launched in 2016, has become increasingly successful and, attracts approx. 60 attendees
 per year.

 Staff also engage with local and regional schools: SLL has hosted schoolchildren from the
 Guildford Education Partnership, aiding their study of A-level texts, and Barbour organised a
 translingual creative writing workshop (2019) aimed at primary school children, particularly migrant
 and heritage language children.

 Further afield, Mooney, who co-publishes Veer books, has worked in partnership with other small
 presses to develop events such as the ‘Non-normative Book Fair’, held in activist community
 centres in London (at T-Chances in Tottenham, 2018 and the MayDay Rooms in Fleet St, 2020),
 to facilitate the performance and dissemination of radical political poetry.

 (b) Collaboration and public engagement with stakeholders
 Research impact has also been generated through our engagement with a variety of stakeholder
 communities. Watt’s co-edited collection, The Lesbian Premodern (2011) led to her position as a
 steering group member of the ‘Pride of Place: England’s LGBT History’ project commissioned by
 Historic England which resulted in the listing of six historic LGBT venues as reported by the BBC:
 https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-37438800 and the allocation of English Heritage blue plaques for
 LGBT individuals as reported in The Guardian (26 Sept. 2016).

 Similarly, Rose’s research on suffrage and artistic collaboration in Suffragist Artists in Partnership:
 Gender, Word and Image (2018) has been the foundation for a strong partnership with Watts
 Gallery, Surrey, leading to work with schoolchildren, students, teachers, inter/national tourists, the
 elderly, and artists through the gallery’s ‘Art for All’ Learning Programme. Rose’s research on
 suffrage also led to her contribution to the Guildhall Art Gallery’s ‘Work and Power lecture
 programme’ (2018). McCormack’s work on ‘transplant imaginaries’ has informed a variety of public
 events, including a collaboration with artists at the local Stavanger gallery, and a public lecture in
 Norway (2018).

 Pulham’s research on Vernon Lee and pacificism informed her collaboration with the Associazione
 Culturale Il Palmerino in Florence and the ResExtensa company which staged Lee’s Ballet of the
 Nations for the first time in 2019; and Bell’s work on cartoneras has included workshops at the
 Hay Festival (2018) and led to collaboration with the British Library, Senate House Library, and
 Cambridge University Library, to develop the world’s second-largest cartonera collection.

 Staff have also given public talks to a variety of audiences at national and international venues:
 Rose at the De Morgan Foundation, the Surrey History Centre, and to the Pre-Raphaelite Society;
 Thompson at the Bodleian Library and Chawton House; Hughes at the ICA and BFI in London;
                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Pulham at the Swedenborg Society, London and the Accademia delle arti del disegno,
 Florence.

 (c) Contribution to Media Outlets: literary journalism, TV, radio, podcasts
 Since the last REF, researchers in this UoA have contributed literary journalism to The
 Conversation, writing on Climate Change Fiction (Johns-Putra); Dickens and Alice Munro
 (Palmer); post-truth culture and British politics (Nicol); women’s writing and literary prizes (Watt,
 Wynne-Davies); George Eliot (Kingstone); pacifism during WW1 (Pulham); and Johns-Putra has
 been interviewed for articles based on her research by The Independent and Wired. Researchers
 in this unit have featured as experts on TV, Radio and podcasts: Kingstone, Pulham and Rose
 on BBCTV; Rose on ‘That’s Surrey TV’; Vlitos on Channel 4; Kilner-Johnson on BBC Radio 3’s
 ‘Free Thinking’ programme and on Radio Jackie London; Mooney on Beton 7 radio (Athens);
 Watts on the Moncrieff Show on Newstalk and on Swiss National Radio (SRF 2 Kultur); Pulham
 on episodes 9 and 20 of Sherds podcast; Bell on an episode of the British Library podcast series
 (‘Anything but Silent’, Jan 2019); and one of Vlitos’s ‘kindle singles’: Mister Noone: An Alex
 Bilzzard Story, was released by Audible in 2015.


 4.3 Wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base
 (a) Awards, fellowships and visiting professorships/lectureships
 Staff in this unit have won or been nominated for prestigious prizes in their fields: Honess Roe
 was the 2015 winner of the Evelyn Lambart Best Book on Animation, awarded by the Society
 for Animation Studies and, in 2018, Baerman and Corbett’s Morphological Complexity was
 nominated by CUP for the Linguistic Society of America Leonard Bloomfield Book Award. In
 2016, Thompson was awarded the Katherine Pantzer Fellowship by the Bibliographical Society,
 and in 2019, Palmer was awarded a Curran Fellowship. Other staff in this unit are currently or
 have been Visiting Professors (Johns-Putra, Hong Kong; Pulham, Málaga) or Visiting Lecturers
 (Thompson, the Indian Institute of Technology, Bhubaneswar) at overseas universities and are
 elected Fellows of prestigious societies: the Royal Historical Society (Bantman), the Learned
 Society of Wales (Watt); the Linguistic Society of America, the Academy of Social Sciences, and
 the British Academy (Corbett).

 (b) Research Council reviewing and consultancy
 This unit encourages researchers to develop and pursue academic citizenship by participating in
 Peer-Review Colleges and engaging in external consultancy for academic and non-academic
 bodies.

 Several staff members sit on and/or review for national and international research councils
 such as the AHRC; the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship programme; Leverhulme Trust; British
 Academy; Irish Research Council; ESRC; Maison des Sciences de l’Homme; Netherlands
 Organisation for Scientific Research; Swiss National Science Foundation; Horizon 2020 Research
 and Innovation Programme; National Research Council, Canada; and the Marsden Fund, New
 Zealand.

 Staff in this UoA have also acted as external assessors for promotion panels at seven UK HEIs
 and international universities including ANU, the University of West Virginia, and the University of
 Queensland Australia. Others have participated as externals on appointment panels: Nicol at the
 University of Warwick, and Corbett at the Max Planck Institute, Nijmegen and at the Australian
 Academy of the Humanities. Staff also offer consultancy as members of steering groups and
 international committees: Mooney sits on the steering committee of the Contemporary Poetics
 Research Centre in Birkbeck College; Watt is on the steering group committee of Cilia-LGBTQ+
 citizens in four European countries (2018-21), a project funded by NORFACE, and was a steering
 group member of the ‘Pride of Place: LGBT History project (2015-17) commissioned by Historic
 England; Thompson was an advisory board member for the AHRC-funded ‘Curious Travellers’
 project (2015-18); Shaughnessy sits on the board of Flute Theatre, which supports young people
 with disabilities and performs new adaptations of Shakespeare at international festivals across
 Europe; Braun is a member of the German Institute for Standardisation (DIN) Working Group on

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Interpreting Services and Technologies; and Gough sits on the Professional Development
 Committee of the Institute of Translation and Interpreting (ITI). Braun is also a member of
 REF2021 sub-panel 26, representing Translation Studies, and Watts, Nicol, and Wynne-Davies
 have served as REF output assessors for other UK universities.


 (c) Learned societies and subject associations
 In this REF period leading positions in specialist subject associations and learned societies have
 been held by Mathieson (Chair of the Feminist and Women’s studies Association UK and Ireland);
 Johns-Putra (President of ASLE-UKI: the Association for the Study of Literature and Environment,
 UK and Ireland); Hughes (Secretary of ASLE-UKI); Pulham (Secretary of the British Association
 for Victorian Studies); and Barbour (executive committee member of the MLA Galician Forum).

 (d) External examining
 Staff in this UoA regularly serve as PhD external examiners. In this REF period, researchers in
 this unit have examined over 50 PhDs at over 25 UK HEIs and over 15 international universities.

 (e) Conferences, symposia, exhibitions
 Researchers in this UoA have worked collaboratively within and beyond the University of Surrey
 to co-ordinate national and international events of disciplinary and interdisciplinary significance.
 Since 2014, they have organised and co-organised over 75 national and international
 conferences, symposia, workshops, study days and exhibitions, 19 of which have been hosted by
 the University of Surrey. The latter include: ‘IMDI: Integrating Multimodality in the study of Dialogue
 Interpreting’ (Davitti, 2015); ‘Aardman Animations: Contributor Workshop Day’ (Honess Roe,
 2015); ‘Too Cute to Kill: From the Depiction of Animals in Children’s Literature to the Framing of
 Policy by Adults’ (Johns-Putra, 2016); ‘What is the Monstrous?’ (McCormack, 2017); ‘Innovative
 Poetry as Clinical Technique’ (Mooney, 2017); ‘New Fields for Morphology’ and ‘The 10th
 Austronesian and Papuan Languages and Linguistics Conference (APLL10)’ (Corbett, 2018);
 ‘Centennial Reflections on Women’s Suffrage and the Arts: Local, National, Transnational,
 University of Surrey’ (Mathieson & Rose, 2018); ‘FUTURESEX2018’ (Morgan, 2018); ‘Spirit in a
 Materialist World’ (Cull Ó Maoilearca, 2018); ‘BAVS Talks’ (Pulham, 2018); ‘Remote Interpreting:
 Shaping Present Practice and Future Directions’ (Braun and Davitti 2018); and ‘Sensing the
 Victorians: Neo-Victorians and the Senses’ (Palmer, 2019).

 Staff research in this unit has also contributed to national and international exhibitions; Rose
 curated the exhibition: ‘Mary Watts: Pioneering Suffragist’ shown at Watts Gallery (March-Dec
 2018), and Bell’s partnership with Cartonera communities, led to an exhibition in São Paulo:
 Cartoneres: Latin-American Re-Readings, Casa do Povo (Oct 2018-Feb 2019).

 (f) Keynote and invited lectures
 Since 2014, researchers in this unit have given over 200 keynote and invited lectures at over 25
 UK HEIs, including Oxford, Cambridge, Durham, and King’s College, London, and at over 25
 universities worldwide, in Europe, Scandinavia, the US, Canada, India, Australia, and Latin
 America.

 (g) Editorial and peer-review activities
 This UoA encourages and supports its researchers’ engagement in editorial and peer-review
 activities to reflect the University’s commitment to academic citizenship, and to provide
 opportunities to support new research and set agendas in their respective fields.

 Three members of staff are currently journal editors: Cull Ó Maoilearca of Performance
 Philosophy; Kilner-Johnson of Correspondences; and Pulham of Victoriographies (EUP). Prior to
 2015, Mooney was UK editor of VLAK Magazine, and until 2020 Powrie was editor of Studies in
 French Cinema. Six staff members are book series editors: Braun edits the Routledge Yearbook
 of the International Association of Translation and Intercultural Studies (IATIS) and is co-editor of
 the Cambridge Elements Translation and Interpreting series; Corbett is co-editor of Routledge’s
 Understanding Language; Cull of Palgrave’s Performance Philosophy book series; Mathieson is

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 co-editor of Palgrave Studies in Mobility, Literature and Culture; Mooney is editor of Veer Books;
 Watts is co-general editor of Religion and Culture in the Middle Ages series (University of Wales
 Press) and of the Medieval Gender series (Boydell and Brewer).

 Several researchers in this UoA also sit on the editorial or advisory boards of over 20
 international journals including Journal of American Culture; Short Fiction; Australian Journal of
 Linguistics and of Russian Linguistics; Early Middle English; Victorian Popular Fictions; Linguistics
 and Morphology; Green Letters: Studies in Ecocriticism; Journal of Victorian Culture; Studies in
 Crime Writing; Interpreting; Interpreter and Translator Trainer; Journal of Natural Language
 Engineering; New Voices in Translation Studies; and on the editorial boards of book series such
 as Palgrave Animation and Natural Language Processing.

 Since 2014, researchers in this UoA have collectively peer-reviewed articles for over 70
 scholarly journals in their related fields such as The Political Quarterly, Early Modern Women,
 Bulletin of Hispanic Studies, Modern Language Open, Journal of Linguistics, Morphology, Studies
 in Language, Victorian Review, Review of English Studies, Journal of British Studies, Studies in
 the Novel, Religions, Body & Society, English, C21: Journal of 21st Century Writings and
 European Romantic Review, Modern Language Journal, Studies in Documentary Film; CLINA;
 Corpora, Computer Speech and Language Journal, Interpreting; Interpreter and Translator
 Trainer; and IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing. Additionally, researchers in this UoA
 have reviewed monographs for over 17 academic presses including Oxford University Press,
 Cambridge University Press, Edinburgh University Press and Cornell University Press.




                                                                                              Page 16
