Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Bradford

 Unit of Assessment: C17 Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The academic staff submitted in the Unit of Assessment (UoA) are based in the triple-crown
 accredited (AMBA, EQUIS, AACSB) School of Management (SoM). Established in 1963, it is the
 largest of three schools in the Faculty of Management, Law & Social Sciences (FoMLSS).

 Since our last submission in REF2014, the SoM has moved to a brand-new facility on the city
 campus, hired key researchers with excellent research track records/trajectories to strengthen
 key disciplinary areas and develop new areas of expertise, attracted major research grants from
 various funding bodies, and showed strength in making real impact on people and businesses
 through our research (see our impact case studies below). Our 2021 submission comprises 34.6
 FTE (compared to 19.2 FTE in REF2014).

 Nine new professorial appointments were made (see Section 2) in areas of organization studies,
 finance, sustainability, digital innovation, and green technologies, significantly extending our
 range and depth of disciplines. The UoA’s particular research strengths, as demonstrated by
 publications and external funding, are: organization studies, industrial relations, small business
 and entrepreneurship, international business (IB), finance, marketing, governance, information
 systems and technology, circular economy, supply chains, big data, business analytics and
 artificial intelligence (AI), public sector transformation and digital government.

 In 2017-18, four new Research Centres (RCs) were established in the UoA to align closely with
 the University’s strategic theme of Sustainable Society and growth areas of digital innovation
 and green technologies. This recalibration exercise helped to ensure that the strengths of the
 UoA were recognised to meet future challenges. Each RC is designed on cognate disciplines
 and a core of research-led activities to enable shared learning amongst members and nourish a
 viable and vibrant research environment. The four RCs are:

 −   Accounting, Finance and Economics (AFE)

 −   Business Analytics, Circular Economy and Supply Chain (BACES),

 −   International Business, Marketing and Branding (IBMB), and

 −   People, Organizations and Entrepreneurship (POE).

 Research Centres

 AFE: The RC’s principal focus is corporate performance and market behaviour. Staff study the
 role of accounting information, regulatory environment, governance mechanisms, corporate and
 country characteristics, asset price dynamics and market behaviour in influencing the positive
 potential for sustainability. Other research covers socio/economic sustainability issues on the
 well-being of immigrant labour, workplace flexibility practices, real exchange rate behaviours,
 and tourist expenditure variation. (Akbar (Lead), Baimbridge, Fry, Grillini, Hearn, Li, Lu, Waqas,
 Wu).

 BACES: This RC operates in the fields of circular economy and big data, food security, supply
 chain, information technology, digital innovation and governance, and corporate performance
 and effectiveness. (Irani, Mahroof, Maruyama, Sharif, Sivarajah (Lead), Vincent, Weerakkody).

 IBMB: Here, the focus is on the impact of external factors, government involvement and rivalry,
 knowledge sharing opportunities, joint venture and entrepreneurship characteristics, innovation,
 and ethical and sustainable management; in marketing the focuses include digital marketing and


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 innovation, acculturation, consumer behaviour and technology, and value-creation. (Adomako,
 Chu, Ismagilova, Kizgin, Rana (Lead), Tamilmani, Trivedi, Trouille, Wang, Waseem).

 POE: Within this RC, the focus is on sustainable human resource management (HRM), digital
 and internet-based recruitment procedures, applicant perspectives, innovation and creativity
 within the workplace, employee relations and work-life balance, organizational change,
 entrepreneurial ventures, and social enterprises (Anderson (Lead), Costa, Danquah, Omar,
 Smith, Wallace).

 Sustainability is studied across all RCs within a prescriptive decision-making framework with real
 options, equity release, and data envelope analysis (Adkins, Fry, Mousavi, Vincent). The UoA
 saw growth in two emerging areas of research which are relevant in all RCs: digital innovation
 and green technologies. Growth areas in digital innovation research include social media use for
 optimising emergency evacuations (Fry), discerning public responses to governance policy
 changes (Rana, Weerakkody), customers’ acculturation (Kizgin), differentiating buyer intentions
 (Ismagilova), digital selection and assessment (Anderson, Costa), knowledge sharing in product
 design (Sharif), consumer e-business adoption (Sivarajah, Weerakkody), and digital government
 implementation (Maruyama, Sivarajah, Weerakkody). In green technologies we are working on
 lean-green sustainability strategy (Adomako), green purchasing (Trivedi), and green supply
 chain management (Sivarajah).

 Research and Impact Strategy

 The UoA’s research mission is to conduct fundamental, applied and market-driven research
 having beneficial impact on academia, government, industry and society in the UK and
 internationally. We promote a collegial research culture that is:

 −   intrinsically developmental through recruiting expertise in the burgeoning knowledge areas;

 −   inclusive by nurturing staff at all stages of their career development;

 −   interdisciplinary by encouraging collaborative research across the three Schools in FoMLSS
     and with other Faculties; and

 −   international in the breadth of inter-country collaborations which currently span the United
     States, Europe (e.g. Netherlands, France, Spain), the Middle East (e.g. Turkey, Saudi-
     Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman), Asia (e.g. Bangladesh, India, Malaysia, Pakistan,
     China, Taiwan); and Africa (e.g. Ghana, Tanzania, Kenya). These collaborations include
     excellent interdisciplinary research linkages on themes of sustainability, governance, and
     structured and innovative financing between the UoA and Peace Studies & International
     Development (PSID, in Social Sciences – SoSS), particularly the John and Elnora Ferguson
     Centre for African Studies (JEFCAS) in PSID.

 Staff are provided with significant research support (see Section 2) to develop as independent
 researchers and to empower them to contribute to our vibrant research culture and community
 through full participation, where both early career (ECR) and established researchers can
 flourish together.

 Professor Vishanth Weerakoddy (Dean, FoMLSS), supported by Professor Sankar Sivarajah
 (Head of School, HoS), provides leadership to the SoM. Effective RC leadership is provided by
 Research Centre Heads (RCHs). RCHs have overall responsibility for RCs managing research
 activities; monitoring research quality and impact; providing on-going support for staff, managing
 staff retention, recruitment, mentoring and appraisal; coordinating and enacting research policy
 formation and joint endeavours across the SoM; teaching portfolio and associated administrative
 duties. The RCHs report to the HoS and are supported by other leading researchers in each
 Centre, and they represent their respective centres in the Faculty’s Research and Knowledge
 Transfer (RKT) Strategy Committee (FRKTSC).

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Strategic objectives

 In line with REF2014 research strategy, our aim continues to be to create high-quality,
 innovative, relevant, impactful RKT that is capable of forging sustainable outcomes and bringing
 differential and tangible benefits to our stakeholders, and has international reach, to fulfil UoB’s
 broader theme of “shaping future societies”.

 The underpinning objectives of our research strategy are to:

 −   To develop research excellence as manifested by our output publication and dissemination.
     This will be achieved through supporting our staff in their research careers (see Section 2);

 −   To establish engagement and research impact through forging closer ties with our
     stakeholders (see below);

 −   To develop the research income base (see Section 3); and

 −   To foster interdisciplinary research efforts (see below).

 Impact strategy – establishing engagement and impact

 Staff members are encouraged to generate impact in society outside academia through
 engagement with partners, knowledge transfer and co-creation. The following mechanisms are
 in place supporting impact and engagement:

 1. SoM has an International Advisory Board with 24 prominent leaders from a broad range of
    public (e.g. UK Ministry of Defence) and private (e.g. BBC, BMW, Coca Cola, Emerald
    Publishing, Google, Harvard Business School, SAP) organizations, and an MBA Industry
    Advisory Board with 21 members (Bank of America, Merrill Lynch, WWF, Santander,
    Bradford Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust: BTHFT). Both provide researchers with
    routes into industry and policymaking circles, creating opportunities for co-creation and
    routes to impactful innovation, and providing a sounding board on research relevance and
    impact;

 2. Our Impact Champion (Li) supports impact generation endeavours and actively promotes
    and encourages staff to engage with impact generating activities and related training offered
    by UoB’s Research & Innovation Services (RaIS) team, external providers (e.g. Fast Track
    Impact), and funders (e.g. EPSRC);

 3. staff training on approaches to dissemination (e.g. the use of social media and publishing for
    non-academic audiences);

 4. use of Performance Development Review (PDR) for identifying ‘pathways to impact’
    connected to output planning;

 5. Impact Officer from RaIS advises on recording impact activities and provides support to staff
    on impact;

 6. infrastructure available for impact recording;

 7. Business and Community Engagement (BCE) strategy and dedicated team comprising an
    Administrative Manager and an Academic Director (Spicer).

 The UoA builds on strong track record of working in partnership and actively seeking links with
 commercial enterprises, both ‘blue-chip’ (ATOS, Gfi World, Harman International, Knauf Interfere
 SE, Microsoft Africa, Nexans, Perfetti Van Melle, Qatar National Bank, Shell Petroluem Nigeria,
 TELUS Corporation, Vodafone, Wema Bank) and SMEs/start-ups (AVIE Ltd, Finely Fettled, TF
 Automation); not-for-profit (UNDP in Africa, WWF in Central and Eastern Europe – WWF-CEE,

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Yorkshire Asian Business Association); public sector and governmental organizations (Bradford,
 Leeds and Hounslow Borough Councils; Chambers of Commerce; Ministry of Petroleum
 Resources, Nigeria; NASA Johnson Space Centre; UAE Civil Defence; West Yorkshire Police);
 and health organizations (NHS, Bradford Institute for Health Research (BIHR), BUPA). Joint
 collaborations with these partners are sought for external grant applications, either directly or in
 partnership with MBA/DBA/PhD students, which provide opportunities to engage with real
 organizational issues. SoM’s corporate relationship with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation has
 attracted delegates from global organizations such as Coca-Cola, Cisco, BT, Renault, Unilever
 and IKEA.

 The strategy is also realized through the Knowledge Transfer Network (KTN), a mutually
 supportive community of SMEs working in collaboration with the School and the University. Over
 a decade the network has impacted on more than 5,000 SMEs and it has a current membership
 of over 1,500 firms, mainly local SMEs from Bradford. The UoA also engages with large
 organizations within the Bradford district (Barclays, NHS and Yorkshire Police). It demonstrates
 our commitment to the City and its environment which is home to a significant ethnic minority
 population and has one of the highest rates of business start-ups (UK’s 2nd most
 Entrepreneurial City), and some of the largest businesses in the north including FTSE 250
 companies (e.g. Morrison’s, Provident Financial). This provides a dynamic environment for the
 KTN and business engagement activities, and has led to over 50 consultancy, research and
 workshop opportunities as well as forging an enduring link with city and business bodies. Our
 excellence and expertise in supporting small businesses and our engagement in and
 commitment to our local economy are recognized through SoM’s recent Small Business Charter
 award.

 Our Impact Case Studies (ICSs) evidence the relevance and engagement achieved by our
 impact strategy. The ICS (C17-2) on Forgotten Workers investigated the work-life balance
 complexities of low-paid workers sustained only by having more than one job and uncovered
 their experiences of in-work poverty, precarious employment conditions and limited opportunities
 (Smith). The research resulted in citations by the Houses of Commons and Lords in relation to
 the employment prospects of young people and in the 2018 Budget Debate on the effect of
 austerity on precariously employed workers. Policy changes have been enacted by local
 authorities (Kirklees and Leeds City councils) governing their treatment of low paid workers, and
 practices and campaigns developed by the Trades Union Congress and Union of Shop,
 Distributive and Allied Workers (USDAW).

 The ICS (C17-1) on increasing citizens’ participation through ICT adaptation (EMPATIA)
 (Sivarajah, Weerakkody, Irani, Omar), was an EU H2020-funded project involving academic
 partners, the Universities of Coimbra (Portugal) and Milano (Italy), and non-academic partners,
 Democracy 2.1 (Czech Republic), OneSource, ZebraLog (Germany). The development and
 implementation in four local authorities in Portugal, Germany, Italy and Czech Republic of a
 versatile digital platform for supporting user-involved participatory budgeting processes has
 resulted in transparency and greater accountability, enhanced civic engagement, and led to
 project co-design based on local needs.

 The digital-led transformation in public administration ICS (C17-3) addressed the problems of
 implementing digital systems to enact government policies. It resulted in representations to the
 Science & Technology Parliamentary Select Committee and to local and central government
 bodies on the intrinsic flaws of e-government initiatives and the realized socio-economic welfare
 gains resulting by adopting a holistic worldview and context sensitive methodology
 (Weerakkody, Irani, Omar).

 SoM has also been quick to respond to the Covid-19 pandemic with e.g. a UKRI funded project
 on mental health consequences (Waqas); a joint project with the University of Hamburg on
 hygienic products during Covid-19 (Trivedi); and eight projects funded by UoB’s Covid-19
 Response Fund to help with business recovery (research topics on panic buying, food waste


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 generation, consumer confidence, agile and resilience capabilities of SMEs and post Covid-19
 business recovery plan, and impact of pandemics on Financial Markets).

 Support for interdisciplinary research

 The UoA has actively encouraged interdisciplinary research, allowing researchers to combine
 their expertise and join forces, as many of the major problems facing society cut across
 traditional academic boundaries. One burgeoning initiative at FoMLSS has been the
 establishment of quarterly cross-faculty research summits to identify cognate research threads
 amongst the Faculty’s three schools (SoM, SoSS, School of Law – SoL) and tap into the variety
 of available expertise for development of novel interdisciplinary research ideas. It is also
 intended that these deliberations will create exciting opportunities to enhance rigour through
 involving a more diverse participation across expertise and experience, produce outputs of
 greater relevance, and submit more successful grant applications.

 FoMLSS has come together around key interdisciplinary themes that cut across the three
 Schools, i.e. sustainability; innovation in health; global governance; organizational and societal
 studies; equality, diversity, ethics and responsibility; international and financial development and
 stability; cryptocurrency and blockchain; digital age; and study of/in Africa. The SoM is a pivotal
 part of all the research clusters formed.

 The Wolfson Institute for Applied Health Research (Wolfson) and Digital Health Enterprise Zone
 (DHEZ) also promote opportunities for interdisciplinary collaborations (see the ILES for details).
 Mahroof (BACES) is the Wolfson academic champion at FoMLSS who advocates applied health
 research and draws attention to joint working opportunities.

 We have seen increased interdisciplinary research over the current REF period. Examples
 include a digital health and circular economy (DICE) PhD project (jointly supervised by Sharif,
 Sivarajah, and the Faculties of Engineering & Informatics (FoEI) and Health Studies (FoHS)). On
 the borderline between health and education is the co-design of a sustainable implementation
 intervention in school food systems (Sharif). Joint doctoral supervisions across Schools and
 Faculties are encouraged, which extends our research portfolio and creates opportunities for
 cross-fertilisation of ideas. Other examples include Sivarajah and Thakker (FoEI) – privacy of
 users of Internet of Things (IoT); Sharif and Anand (SoSS) – Community Based Water
 Management Institutions for Delivering Water & Health; Danquah and Jalilian (SoSS) –
 Implementing total quality management (TQM) philosophy in Bangladesh (see Section 4); Irani
 and Kapsis (SoL) – effect of victim’s consent on civil liability.

 Future strategy

 Our research capabilities have been invigorated through the recruitment of additional key
 researchers (e.g. Adomako, Fry, Trivedi, Vincent, Wu) in addition to the new professorial
 appointments, which has resulted in improved research activities. We are resolved to build on
 these gains in a deepening of our four research objectives, continued adherence to the
 sustainable societies theme, and pursuing other growth areas. We will continue to attract and
 retain high-calibre research-productive staff to further strengthen our research capacity in areas
 of focus and strength, supported by mechanisms and initiatives outlined in Section 2. Research
 excellence and knowledge sharing will be accentuated through deepening of the collegial
 research environment and contributing to external activities such as staff holding positions of
 responsibility in editorial boards and learned societies as presented in Section 4.

 Progress on collaborative and applied research has been facilitated and supported by ramping
 up our BCE Programme. This will continue to be the showcase for our research achievements to
 regional public and private sectors, and to facilitate opportunities for research collaborations.
 The leadership team will continue to actively support staff particularly early career researchers in
 building partnerships with research institutions in the UK and internationally.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Open research and research integrity

 As a signatory to the UUK concordat on Research Integrity, UoB has an ethics policy and is
 committed to support research integrity. UoB conducts an annual review of research integrity,
 and produces an annual public report detailing current and future activities to demonstrate
 compliance with the concordat. Training from the University on research integrity including
 research ethics is available to all staff in the UoA.

 Our staff and students follow the ethical standards set by the University when conducting
 research, and all our projects must secure ethics approval from the University Ethics Committee
 before fieldwork commences. The Dean sits on the University Ethics Committee and eight SoM
 staff members are members of the relevant University Research Ethics Panels.

 We engender the highest standards of integrity and rigour in our research informed by University
 policies and procedures ensuring compliance with the Research Concordat and Open Access
 (OA) requirements for outputs, data, computational codes resulting from publicly funded
 research. UoB has implemented an OA and Publications Policy which is widely communicated
 through periodic emails and Open Research Week for staff and postgraduate (PGR) students.
 All staff are reminded to make full text of their papers available in UoB’s OA repository. There
 are also opportunities for Gold OA publishing via UoB’s arrangement with selected publishers.
 Staff are also encouraged to disseminate their research and findings via open media channels to
 increase visibility and impact.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy, development and support

 The University and School continue to invest in staff, and our People Organization Development
 (POD) Strategy is designed to build a balanced portfolio of researchers at all levels with cognate
 or overlapping research interests, expertise and experience that match our needs, and to build
 our capability and capacity.

 Our recruitment policy supports our strategy, where we appoint established/experienced active
 researchers and ECRs with prospects, whose interests are aligned to the specifics of the
 pertinent RC and UoB’s theme of sustainable societies and the growth areas of digital innovation
 and green technologies. We follow processes that are open and transparent, and all academics
 are appointed on permanent contracts with a nine-month probation period. We also ensure
 opportunities are adequately resourced and staff are empowered to excel. At the heart of our
 policy is the nurturing of ECRs and junior staff to foster their growth to fully-fledged researchers,
 which is reinforced through a dedicated system of rewards and promotion.

 In implementing our research strategy, we retain senior staff and place emphasis on attracting
 key staff to provide research leadership. Since refocusing, apart from recruiting nine professors
 (AFE: Akbar, Hearn; POE: Anderson, Costa; BACES: Irani, Sharif, Sivarajah, Weerakkody;
 IBMB: Rana), across the four RCs, we have recruited eight ECRs and six other junior staff (AFE:
 five, BACES: four, IBMB: four, POE: one). Currently, the balance of experience and expertise is
 also reflected in the distribution of REF submitted staff with two senior professors with leadership
 roles at the School/University, nine Professors, nine Associate Professors (including Readers),
 and 15 Assistant Professors and Lecturers.

 The University is a signatory of the UUK Research Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers and has developed a framework "Bradford Academic Career” for
 career progression with clear expectations of staff at all stages of their careers (see the ILES for
 details). Early career staff can apply for a fast-track re-grade after completing an initial nine-
 month probation period, under clearly published criteria, at the end of which they complete a
 two-year supported development from lecturer to Assistant Professor, and then to Associate
 Professor and Professor. ECRs are supported by protected research allowances, mentoring,

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 training, and flexible working patterns (see below). All staff exceeding expectations are invited to
 apply for UoB’s annual ‘Performance Recognition’ scheme.

 We encourage and support staff in their career progression by creating opportunities for staff to
 fulfil promotion criteria, e.g. open invitations to all staff research, administration/leadership
 initiatives as they arise. This led to internal staff career developments: Irani, Dean to DVC;
 Weerakkody, HoS to Dean; Sivarajah, RCH to HoS; Li, Impact Champion and ADRKT. We are
 also proud that some of our staff have attained external promotion: Dr Eva Alfoldi, Assistant
 Professor, University of Delaware; Dr Xiaoxia Ye, Senior Lecturer, University of Liverpool. Since
 2014, over 25% of the 35 staff submitted have been promoted, two to Professor (Sivarajah,
 Wang), two to Reader (Li, Smith), one to Associate Professor (Trivedi), and four to Assistant
 Professor (Chu, Ismagilova, Mahroof, Omar).

 Staff research allowances are assigned through UoB’s normalised workload model according to
 responsibility, research productivity and portfolio. Staff having a significant research
 responsibility are assigned a minimum research allowance of 15%; those with a strong research
 portfolio an additional allowance (up to a total of 25%), supplemented by a 10% scholarship
 allowance. The additional research allowance reflects research productivity and is intended to be
 motivational and reward performance to encourage continued high-level research engagement
 through high-quality publications, grant applications and impact generation. Staff in receipt of
 external funding have the requisite project time added to their research time.

 All staff are offered, on a competitive basis, the opportunity to seek research sabbatical leave to
 develop research capabilities and participate in international research networks. Flexible mini-
 sabbaticals of up to 6-weeks duration within term time are also available to support short-term
 needs, e.g. for imminent deadlines for finalising grant proposals or completing a project.

 Early Career Researchers are the seed-corn sustaining our research future, and our research
 allowance policy for ECRs supports their transitioning to an academic career and to developing
 their research prowess. In addition to the research allowance stated above, ECRs also receive a
 10% development allowance. FoMLSS also offers a special ECR support scheme with GBP500
 seed-corn funding for 10 projects a year for training/data collection purposes. In addition to the
 ECRs, probationary staff are also assigned 10% development allowance.

 Each ECR, both probationary and post-probationary, is assigned a research mentor, normally a
 professor within the respective RC/cognate discipline, to act as research guide and writing
 coach. Regular meetings are convened to discuss research direction, progress and potential
 developments; to offer advice on drafting quality articles and research bids, generating and
 evidencing impact from their research; and to actively integrate the mentee into research
 networks. In 2020, the AFE RC initiated group mentoring, where a self-selected group of junior
 staff in cognate areas, supported by at least one professor, meet to develop research funding
 proposals. ECRs with wellbeing concerns can access an informal system of peer support.

 Research quality and productivity are evaluated and monitored through target-oriented
 performance review systems of PDR and Personal Research & Innovation Plans (PRIP). The
 PDR involves a two-way discussion with line-managers (typically the RCH). It is designed to
 review the past year’s achievement and progression of each staff member; set objectives and
 plans for the year ahead; and identify ‘pathways to impact’ connected to output planning, areas
 of strengths and professional development needs; enabling staff to achieve their full potential.
 PDRs are conducted on an annual cycle, with one main meeting, followed by three quarterly
 meetings in each cycle. Workload, skills development, resourcing and opportunity seeking are
 critical elements of the PDR process. Professors, who conduct their review with HoS, with
 approval from the Dean, are also expected to demonstrate leadership through mentoring junior
 staff and teams and delivering research bids and outputs. The annual PDR process is
 complemented by the PRIP covering longer-term (5-year) staff research planning.

 Staff are incentivized to devote time to research and research activities are materially supported
 in various ways, firstly by financial support for training and conference attendance (GBP100,000
                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 available per year). Conference funding is normally granted for the first application while further
 applications are decided on merit and fund availability. Staff also have access to the FoMLSS
 research budget (GBP20,000 per year) to fund RKT activities including kick-starting research
 endeavours, impact generation, and journal submission fees. Staff are invited to bid for the
 competitive annually awarded University internal grant schemes including the Research
 Development Fund (GBP200,000 per year) which is distributed across PhD studentships (as
 staff projects), international mobility, ECR pump-priming, research concept development, a
 monthly publication award, and writing retreats; Collaboration, Capacity and IP Development
 Grants for interdisciplinary proposals that will develop impact; the International Development
 Fund (IDF) drawn from Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) to fund activities that
 promote economic development and welfare in developing countries eligible to receive aid, and
 provide opportunity for full-time funded PhD studentships; and ad-hoc pump-priming support
 schemes (e.g. Covid-19 Response Fund to help with business recovery post Covid-19) for kick-
 starting experimental ideas and early-bird research endeavours. Eight of the 22 Covid-19
 projects funded are from SoM, totalling over GBP10,000.

 Staff development opportunities are promoted at RC, Faculty and University levels. At RC level,
 RCHs have the responsibility for organizing research seminar series involving internal and
 external speakers. Current funding support for seminar series is GBP6,000 per year. These
 regular research seminars act as a forum for staff to disseminate their findings, evaluate new
 opportunities, and to engage in shared learning. Notable guest speakers hosted by RCs in this
 REF period include Professors Lambrecht (Cambridge), Stark (Alliance Manchester Business
 School, AMBS), Walker (AMBS), Cumming (Florida Atlantic University), Dedman (Surrey), and
 Mangena (Nottingham). Each RC also runs ‘away-days’ where research successes are
 showcased, ideas shared, opportunities explored, and collaborations initiated. SoM provides
 additional annual funding of GBP8,000 to the RCs for supporting research activities including
 data collection, transcription and travel. At Faculty level, the quarterly Faculty Research Summit
 facilitates the identification of common research themes, the scoping and formation of
 collaborative links across FoMLSS, and promotes joint venturing. At University level, research
 seminars and targeted sandpits for forthcoming/anticipated funding calls organized by RaIS,
 other Faculties, Wolfson, or DHEZ help to identify opportunities for cross-Faculty research
 collaborations.

 Staff development is also underpinned by training. The UoB offers regular specialized research
 workshops and other training initiatives to all UoA members, including on-campus sessions and
 off-campus retreats. The portfolio of research focused training includes those relating to
 research methods, data analyses skills and software, grant writing workshops, supervision and
 examination of PGR students, research ethics & integrity, OA, impact, dissemination workshops
 (e.g. social media), management and IT skills.

 PGR students

 SoM has an established and well-developed doctoral programme based on PhD (full-time and
 part-time) and DBA (part-time) degree structures. PGR students, DBA and PhD, are crucial to
 our research profile and make a vital contribution to our research culture and community. Where
 appropriate, eligible and high-calibre doctoral candidates can be offered internally (via IDF, RDF)
 and externally (e.g. UK Prevention Research Partnership (UKPRP), ‘ActEarly’ Scheme, the
 Commonwealth – see Section 3) funded studentships. Staff with PGR projects on offer advertise
 their availability through “FindAPhD”. The programmes were systematically and
 comprehensively reviewed in 2018-19. The benefits of the changes are currently being realized
 in an increasing number of completions (13.5 PGR in 2017/18, which is a 50%+ increase from
 2015/16 and doubles the 2016/17 figure). Thirty-one doctoral degrees (PhD: 7, DBA: 24) were
 also awarded to part-time extramural students since 2014.

 PGR students are normally assigned two supervisors with the appropriate skills and experience
 to guide them to completion. To be eligible, new staff are required to attend supervisor training
 provided by the University, and existing staff are required to attend refresher courses at least

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 every three years, all organized by UoB’s POD team in HR. At least one supervisor must have
 established supervisory experience and a successful track record of bringing students to full
 completion. Typically, the second supervisor is an ECR or junior staff member who, by working
 alongside the senior colleague, gains hands-on experience and training, before working as a
 principal. More recently, there have been increasing number of cross-School and cross-Faculty
 joint supervisions, in line with our interdisciplinary research strategy (see Section 1).

 Doctoral students are offered a variety of compulsory and optional training opportunities both
 general and discipline specific. During their first year, PGR students are obliged to attend
 research training modules, alongside other training offered by FoMLSS (e.g. Paper Development
 Workshop delivered by a visiting Professor with substantial journal editorial experience) and by
 UoB through the PGR Framework team, aligned with all 12 domains of the Vitae ‘Research
 Development Framework’.

 PGR students regularly meet with their supervisors to review progress and conduct Training
 Needs Analysis to identify skill/knowledge gaps and propose remedies. Generalized training
 opportunities include courses relating to literature review, critical thinking & problem solving,
 research methods, data collection and analysis methods and software, research ethics,
 academic writing, and wellbeing. We offer supportive ‘shut up and write’ sessions and training on
 academic transitioning (Bradford:Fellowship Graduate Pathway scheme) as the first step
 towards the Higher Education Academy Fellowship. Further, external training is available
 through White Rose Social Sciences Doctoral Training Partnerships (WRDTP) and Northern
 Advanced Research Training Initiatives (NARTI). WRDTP is a collective of seven Universities,
 including Bradford, that delivers social science PGR training.

 We offer competitive scholarships including those consistent with ESRC guidelines (fees and
 living expenses) and others meeting UK fees to doctoral students: nine scholarships were
 awarded during this REF period. A competitive funding scheme to support PGR students’
 external training and conference attendance is also available, running twice a year. Since 2014,
 FoMLSS has held an Annual Faculty Doctoral Research Conference, organized by PGR student
 volunteers, supported by Director of PGR studies (DPGR). In 2020, due to Covid-19, it was run
 as a series of online research seminars and peer review workshops and attracted international
 researchers from e.g. France, Spain, Netherlands, Russia, Cameroon, Qatar, Bahrain, Oman
 and India, with keynote speakers from the UK, US (Harvard) and France streamed live on SoM’s
 social media pages. PGR students are expected to present their research at this conference,
 giving them the opportunity to showcase their work, gain presentational experience and receive
 feedback. This experience is underpinned by the biannual PGR Peer Review Workshops for
 honing their skills. FoMLSS awards an annual Doctoral Prize to best PhD and DBA students
 recognising innovation and impact.

 A crucial element of the doctoral programme is the full assimilation of PGR students within our
 culture. Integration is enabled by (a) assigning them to a RC, (b) regular meetings between the
 student and supervisors for spotting and resolving emerging critical issues, (c) an obligation to
 attend RC research seminar series, (d) the physical location of PGRs in close proximity to staff
 (Section 3), and (e) encouraging student-supervisor joint-authorship. We have an inclusive,
 trusting research environment based on integrity, and our PGR students benefit from having
 quality research discussions, exposure to a variety of disciplines and experts, and learning
 opportunities in research dissemination.

 PGR students can access PGR Connect, UoB’s peer support network. This student-led scheme
 helps our PGR students to adjust to and/or progress in their studies through sharing experiences
 and ideas, tackling common challenges, and developing a sense of community and belonging
 together. The scheme aims to support the wellbeing of our PGR students. For students who are
 struggling, there are supporting procedures in place, e.g. the unsatisfactory progress procedure
 (UPP) which helps to set clear and manageable objectives to help get students back on track,
 suspension of studies and extension of registration.


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI)

 SoM recruits staff from a wide variety of countries and diverse ethnic backgrounds: there are 10
 different nationalities and ethnicities represented, a “white/non-white” ratio of 31:69, and a
 “female/male” ratio of 20:80, amongst staff with significant responsibility for research.

 Omar is the Faculty EDI lead facilitator, supported by EDI facilitators from the three constituent
 schools; the SoM facilitator is Chu. The Faculty EDI facilitator is a member of the FRKTSC,
 responsible for facilitating a supportive research environment and promoting EDI for all staff. The
 FRKTSC also have ECR and PGR representations to ensure their views and voices are heard.

 As a UN Principles of Responsible Management Education (PRME) signatory, principles of
 ethics, responsibility and sustainability govern our RKT activities. In line with PRME Principle 4,
 research projects focusing on EDI and Sustainability that contribute towards achieving
 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are actively encouraged. As well as sustainability, EDI
 topics are reflected in our research including digital selection bias (Anderson, Costa);
 entrepreneurship for women in Africa (Adomako) and the Middle-East (Weerakkody, Irani,
 Omar); workplace flexibility practices (Baimbridge); insecurity and precarious work (Smith);
 heritage acculturation of immigrants (Kizgin); the socio-economic impact of increasing citizen
 participation in local government decision making (Sivarajah, Weerakkody, Irani, Omar); and
 network formation for socio-economically deprived communities to improve well-being
 (Weerakkody).

 All staff are required to attend training on ‘Equality & Diversity’, GDPR, Health, Safety &
 Wellbeing, complemented with optional sessions on ‘Personal Resilience’, ‘Mindfulness’ ‘Dignity
 & Respect’, ‘Managing Conduct in the Workplace’, and ‘Equality Impact Assessment’. Line
 managers are required to attend training on ‘Managing Remote Workforce’, ‘Leading Others in
 Changing Times’, and ‘Recruitment & Selection’.

 Staff conducting internal reviews of research outputs are required to attend training organized by
 RaIS. UoB is a signatory to DORA (the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment),
 endorsing and affirming our commitment to developing and promoting best practice in the
 assessment of researchers and scholarly research.

 We are committed to ensuring researchers are not disadvantaged due to issues relating to their
 personal circumstances or characteristics. Research allowance systems, applications for
 research sabbatical leave and PDRs take full account of maternity, paternity and parental leave,
 and other long-term absence due to health or disability issues or caring responsibilities that
 might affect research performance. Staff returning from maternity leave can be assigned a
 female mentor to support their journey back to research activities. Staff are also supported with
 phased return to work after long-term absence (e.g. maternity or sick leave) through reduced
 workload and opportunities for remote and flexible working to facilitate caring or childcare
 responsibilities. An anonymous annual staff survey invites staff to suggest potential
 improvements, which has resulted in novel staff training developments such as mentoring for
 mentors and mentees.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The University and School continues to invest in infrastructure and facilities to support our long-
 term vision for a sustainable research environment and enable world-class research. Our staff
 have recourse to research development and support aids, centrally facilitated by the University,
 on topics such as bid preparation, costing, ethical approval, knowledge transfer, auditing, impact
 and dissemination. Centrally offered facilities also include the provision of workshops and
 targeted cross-institutional sandpit events.

 In the REF period, the UoB invested significantly in the Research Information System (RIS) for
 enabling staff to create and up-date their online profiles and the monitoring and evaluation of

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 publications. Importantly RIS also facilitates the preparation of and approval processes for grant
 applications.

 Research Funding

 Our research funding effort maps onto the themes of sustainability and digital innovation, and
 awards from funding sources are primarily from the UK Research Councils (67%), EU (15%),
 charity, international funding bodies and industry funding (18%). We saw a substantial increase
 in 2017-18 (2.4 times of 2016-17), and 56% increase in 2018-19. In 2019/20 Covid restrictions
 and consequent extensions and delayed starts to some grants have curtailed our spending from
 research grants.

 An important element of our research strategy is to support and incentivise high quality funding
 applications. Apart from support for funding applications outlined in Sections 1 and 2, we have
 the following measures in place to improve the quality of applications. Staff are required to
 register in a timely fashion their expression of interest for any upcoming grant proposals on RIS,
 producing a comprehensive pipeline of future research grant and knowledge transfer
 applications. All research bids to external funders must undergo a mandatory internal review
 process by two academics not involved in the application with support from an expert RaIS
 officer. The RaIS team provides detailed guidance on standards, academic rigour, methodology,
 originality and impact, and potential partner identification across the University. The use of
 internal peer review of proposals has led to improved bids and helped to target submissions to
 appropriate agencies, while the bidding pipeline information is designed to encourage staff to
 track grant opportunities proactively and to allow planning and monitoring of grant application
 activities at UoA level.

 External Funding has come from a diverse portfolio of sources. We list examples of our grants:

 EU

 −    European Commission (EC) (GBP222,222) (09.2016 – 12.2020) on East African Community
      regional integration, Jean-Monnet Network (Trouille);

 −    Erasmus Plus, EU-funded, on Mediterranean and African Integration in the Global Age,
      AMENET, Jean-Monnet, GBP9,744 (Trouille);

 −    ERDF (EU-funded) (GBP142,646) (04.2017 – 03.2020), Ad:Venture project;

 −    EU Horizon 2020 (total EUR1,483,625, EUR100,000 to Bradford) (01.2016 – 03.2018) on
      Participatory Budgeting (EMPATIA) – Sivarajah, Weerakkody, Irani, Omar in collaboration
      with a multidisciplinary consortium in Portugal, Czech Republic, Italy and Germany;

 −    EC (total EUR4,872,649, GBP88,056 to Bradford) (01.2014 – 12.2017) on Social Innovation
      – Driving Force for Social Change (SI-DRIVE) – Weerakkody, Irani. The project involves 25
      partners from 16 EU member states and nine non-EU partners;

 •    Marie Curie (GBP118,937) (03.2015 – 02.2016) on value-based entrepreneurship, studying
      the Cultural, Organizing and Leadership Dynamics of Social Ecopreneurship.

 Research Councils

 −    EPSRC (total GBP1,034M, GBP600,037 to Bradford) (04.2017 – 01.2021) on regenerative
      buildings and products for a circular economy – led by SoM, in collaboration with the School
      of Engineering and the University of Manchester to look at the construction industry and how
      high value materials can be reused in new developments (Re:Build project). The project has
      partners including Ellen Macarthur Foundation; professional associations including Leeds
      College of Building, British Constructional Steelwork Association, the Alliance for Sustainable
      Building Products; local councils including North Yorkshire County Council, City of Bradford
                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     Metropolitan District Council, Leeds City Council, Manchester City Council; and corporates
     including BAM, BRE Trust, Eco-Res Ltd, National Federation of Demolition Contractors, Arup
     Group Ltd, KTN Ltd;

 −   MRC (total GBP149,801, GBP5,684 to Bradford) on co-design of a sustainable and
     acceptable implementation intervention to maximise the impact of whole school approaches
     to food within primary schools (Sharif, with collaborators from the Universities of Leeds, Bath,
     Queens Belfast and Newcastle, BIHR);

 −   UKRI (total GBP255,159, GBP142,849 to Bradford) on neighbourhood effect on mental
     health consequences of Covid-19 (Waqas, Principal Investigator, in collaboration with
     University of Leeds);

 •   Innovate UK, KnoWaste KTP project on digital tracking of waste, GBP26,498 (Sharif,
     Sivarajah).

 UK Government

 −   Office of Students (OfS), Department of Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS), Office for
     Artificial Intelligence (OAI) (GBP700,000) (2020-2023), Irani, on Artificial Intelligence and
     Data Science;

 −   British Council on Bandar Lampung Enhance Smart-Health Services with Smart Ubiquity
     (BLESS U), GBP87,707 (Hou with FoEI), and funding from Harrogate Borough Council,
     Hounslow Borough Council;

 −   British Commonwealth PhD studentship for three years (GBP53,196, ends July 2022) on
     TQM Practices in Bangladesh (supervised by Danquah, Spicer, POE).

 Other examples of funding include:

 −   British Academy (BA) Leverhulme on longitudinal assessment of fairness reactions in a
     promotion context, GBP1,750 (Anderson, Costa); and other funding from e.g. Ellen
     MacArthur Foundation and the Institute for Family Business Research Foundation;

 −   Yorkshire Water on circular economy system redesign, GBP34,700; Institute of Banking &
     Payments Federation on bank lending to Irish SMEs, GBP2,000; and

 −   QNRF Lifelong Learning, GBP54,517, Weerakkody, Irani; Safeguarding Food and
     Environment in Qatar, GBP17,340, Irani, Sharif; Entrepreneurship for Women in Qatar,
     GBP57,190, Weerakkody, Irani, Omar; BlockChain in Qatar, GBP77,603, Weerakkody,
     Sivarajah;

 −   BIHR 3-year PhD studentship (GBP60,000, ends April 2024) on city-wide food systems and
     their impact on health between UoB (Sharif) and BIHR/BTHFT as part of the GBP6,500,000
     UKPRP-funded ‘ActEarly’ research project.

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 In 2018-2019, SoM relocated from its Emm Lane campus to the main campus closer to the city
 centre in Bradford with larger, state-of-the-art facilities. The relocation was a strategic decision
 taken by the Senior Management Team led by the Vice-Chancellor and the Dean of the Faculty
 in full consultation with staff and students. The relocation to the main campus marked the final
 phase of the refocusing exercise and by physically placing SoM at the centre of the University
 campus, the School is better able to contribute to the strategic direction of the University and
 provide a high-quality environment for staff and students. Our staff are now in a better position to
 access the wide range of resources and facilities available at the main campus, to promote
 management research, education and training to other disciplines, and take advantage of
                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 opportunistic links with other Faculties. Opportunities for interdisciplinary research for both staff
 and PGR students have also increased. Staff offices for the RCs are clustered around a
 communal space that can be used for formal meetings, informal or social gatherings. This
 physical environment is designed to foster togetherness and reciprocity.

 The School made significant investments (GBP2,250,000) during the REF period including a
 new dedicated Bloomberg suite, a Community Innovation Lab (CIL), and computing facilities for
 staff. The Bloomberg suite, with a real-time LED share price ticker, has simulation trading
 software for finance, ethics and behavioural research. As part of this investment, our staff and
 students can now use a new Data Analytics Centre facility. The CIL is for supporting
 entrepreneurship and start-ups, facilitating deeper interaction and synergies between the School
 and local businesses and providing a network to enhance research collaborations with
 businesses. It also provides dedicated DBA/MBA teaching/training facilities. SoM had committed
 GBP100,000 further investment in the CIL, which was unfortunately delayed due to Covid-19
 and is now commissioned for September 2021. FoMLSS PGR students have dedicated study
 spaces, close to staff offices, with an investment of GBP50,000 in IT facilities. All PGR facilities
 are accessible for those with disabilities.

 We have access to other University infrastructure, including the central High-Performance
 Computing facility (HPC). Sivarajah and colleagues in the AI Research (AIRe) group are
 collaborating on several projects and co-supervising PhD students, who amongst others
 frequently make use of the HPC facility.

 SoM continually reviews its library provision and research databases to keep them relevant and
 world class. The UoA provides access to databases such as Thomson Eikon, Datastream,
 FAME, Thomson One Banker, and data analysis software including MatLab, R, SPSS, Stata and
 EMOS. SoM has a dedicated academic member of staff (Wang), who is the Bloomberg Suite
 and Database Lead. Research is further supported by dedicated, full-time Academic Subject
 Librarians. The Library at UoB has continued commitment to resources such as books (with
 more than 17,000 physical management texts; 28,000 eBooks including collections of ProQuest
 Academic Complete, Emerald Business, Management and Economics eBook Archive, and
 Sustainable Organization Library), journals (41,000 journal titles including extensive full text
 collections available through ProQuest ABI/Inform, EBSCO Business Source Premier and
 JSTOR), and databases. In addition to the existing subscription databases, management
 research has been enhanced by investment in two new databases (Business Source Complete
 and Sage Online Journals). The Library continued to subscribe to the ‘eBrary’ package,
 providing more than 86,000 titles of multidisciplinary content for researchers. Library access is
 24/7, with interim arrangements for online access during Covid. Remote access to cluster PCs
 with specialist software is available 24/7, and a range of software is available (e.g. SAS, SPSS,
 NVivo, Matlab, Minitab, Endnote) for staff and students to download to their personal devices
 where vendor licensing allows. Online provisions, e.g. Zoom, Teams, and OneDrive, are also
 available to staff and PGR students on and off campus.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Staff actively contribute to the development of their discipline. These contributions include
 keynote/invited speakers at conferences/events, external awards, journal editorships,
 representation on professional/public bodies, organization of research events, collaboration,
 media/public engagements, and visiting professorships and scholars.

 Keynote/invited addresses

 We have a long track record of staff invited to give keynote/plenary addresses at major research
 events or contribute as panel speaker. Notable examples are listed below.

 Organization Studies: innovation and creativity in organizations – National University of Taiwan
 (2014); International Association of Administrative Professionals Conference, Paris (2014); and
 recruitment and selection – 1st International Selection Research Workshop, University of Surrey
                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (2017) (Anderson); team trust in Long Duration Space Explorations, NASA, Johnson space
 centre, USA (2017) (Costa, Anderson).

 Circular Economy and Development: Circular Economy and Smart Cities – e.g. Smart Cities
 World Expo, Barcelona (2019) (Sharif), Circular and Green Economy at Warsaw Circular
 Economy Summit, Poland (2018) (Sivarajah); Food, Water, Energy Security – Water
 Symposium, World Technology Universities Network, Bradford (2019), 7th International
 Symposium on Energy, Manchester (2017), Food, Water and Energy Security at Oxford Food
 Forum, University of Oxford (2017) (Sharif); Sustainable Development – e.g. International
 Conference on Global Economy and Sustainable Development, Beijing (2018) (Sivarajah).

 Digital Innovation: Artificial Intelligence (AI): e.g. AI Tech North Summit (2020) (Sharif), AI in
 Security and Defence, Beirut (2019) (Sivarajah); Blockchain: e.g. International Congress on
 Blockchain Business & Security, Rabat (2019); Digital Government: e.g. Digital Leaders UK
 Saloons (2016, 2017), International Congress of Education Innovation Management of the
 Public Sector, Brazil (2015) (Weerakkody).

 Supply chain management: 3rd International Conference on Projects and Logistics, La
 Rochelle (2017) (Sharif), Value Creation in West Yorkshire's Procurement and Supply Chain
 Management, ARUP, Leeds (2019) (Sivarajah).

 International Business: European Economic Integration – Genshagen Foundation, Weimar
 Triangle Roundtable Discussions, Berlin (2017), plenary address at the ICQAHEA Conference
 Yaounde (2018), panel speaker at EU Commission on Jean-Monnet Activities, Brussels (2019)
 (Trouille); International Joint Ventures in Emerging Economies – Joint Conference of College of
 Economics and International Trade, Hunan University and Chinese Economic Association
 (UK/Europe) (2016) (Wang).

 Awards

 Some staff have received recognition for high-quality research through external awards.
 Examples include Wang’s work on Innovation-Export Relationship which was a Best Paper
 Award Finalist for the International Management Division, Academy of Management (AOM)
 (2020); Chu’s work on the Influence of Confucianism and Buddhism on Family Business
 Practices and Identity, was awarded Best Paper in the Management, Spirituality and Religion
 (MSR) stream, AOM (2019); and Rana’s paper on Mobile Wallet Usage in India won the
 Commendable Research Paper Award, IFIP WG 8.6 Working Conference (2020). Further,
 Anderson’s work published in Journal of Management (JoM), was the winner of the AOM/JoM
 Scholarly Scientific Impact Award (2019), and Rana received the Highly Cited Researcher 2020
 Award (top 1% for the field) from Clarivate Web of Science.

 Contribution to and influence on the research base

 Journal editorships

 Staff are encouraged to develop their expertise, raise their individual and Bradford’s profile, and
 contribute to their discipline by undertaking journal editorial roles. Many staff, 24 of 35 submitted,
 have editorial roles covering a range of journals – three Editors (three journals), 11
 Associate/Senior/Technical/Handling Editors (14 journals), 13 Editorial Board Members (20
 journals), and eight Guest Editors (13 journals).

 In AFE, Hearn is Associate Editor of Research in International Business & Finance and Senior
 Editor of International Journal of Emerging Markets (IJEM); Fry, Li and Mousavi are on the
 editorial boards of Cogent Economics & Finance, Journal of Accounting & Emerging Economy,
 and Journal of Finance & Accounting Research respectively.

 In POE, staff are on the editorial boards of Journal of Management (Anderson), European
 Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology (EJWOP), Journal of Business and Psychology,
                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and International Journal of Selection and Assessment (Anderson, Costa). Other editorial
 positions include Costa (EJWOP, 2011-2018) and Wallace (Personnel Review and Journal of
 Quality and Wellbeing Research), while Smith reviews for New Technology and Work and
 Employment.

 In BACES, Irani is founding editor of Transforming Government: People, Process & Policy and
 edits Journal of Enterprise Information Management (JEIM). Other editorial roles include
 Sivarajah, JEIM; Vincent, Journal of the Operational Research Society (JORS) and International
 Journal of Business & Emerging Markets; Weerakkody, Editor-in-Chief for International Journal
 of Electronic Government Research (IJEGR) (2008-2020) and Information Systems Frontiers
 (ISF).

 In IBMB, staff serve on editorial boards including Adomako (Corporate Social Responsibility and
 Environmental Management Journal), Rana (Government Information Quarterly, GIQ), Trivedi
 (Journal of Promotion Management), Trouille (Review of European Affairs) and Wang
 (International Business Review and Management and Organization Review). They also hold
 editorial positions, for example Adomako (Journal of the International Council for Small
 Businesses), Rana (IJEGR, International Journal of Information Management – IJIM, and ISF),
 Trivedi (IJEM) and Trouille (Public Policy Studies, SGH Warsaw)

 Guest Editors include e.g. Anderson (EJWOP); Adomako (Technological Forecasting & Social
 Change); Akbar (Sustainability); Irani (Journal of Business Research, JORS); Kizgin (e.g.
 Journal of Consumer Behaviour, IJIM); Rana (e.g. GIQ, ISF, International Marketing
 Management).

 ECRs with an editorial role include Ismagilova, Tamilmani (Associate Editor, IJEGR), Mahroof
 (Editorial Board, JEIM), Omar (Guest Editor – IJEGR, ISF).

 Representation on professional bodies

 Staff participate on grants committees, are members of research councils or similar national and
 international committees, and act as grant proposal reviewers.

 Reviewers of funding bodies include those from the UK research councils (e.g. EPSRC, Irani,
 Sharif; ESRC, Hearn, Sharif, Trivedi, Weerakkody; UKRI, MRC, Sharif), charities (e.g. British
 Council Newton Fund and British Academy, Sharif), and internationally (e.g. EU, Sharif; Danish
 Council for Independent Research, Fry; Czech Research Foundation, Danish National Research
 Foundation, National Natural Science Foundation of China, and Swiss National Science Foundation,
 Sharif; National Science Foundation, US, Irani; QNRF, Irani, Sharif, Weerakkody; Research
 Council Academy, Finland, Weerakkody; Marsden Fund, New Zealand, Wang). Trouille is an
 accredited independent evaluator and ethics expert appointed by the EU Commission's
 Directorate-General for R&I (H2020) and the Agence Nationale de la Recherche, Paris.

 Other key associations of staff include Anderson - Elected Fellow, American Psychological
 Association (APA), Society for Industrial-Organizational Psychology, Division 14 of APA; Smith –
 Executive Committee Member, British Universities Industrial Relations Association; Vincent –
 Fellow, Royal Statistical Society (RSS), Pan-Pacific Business Association; Wallace – Fellow,
 RSS; Weerakkody – Fellow, British Computer Society.

 Further, Wang was Academic Quality Committee member of WRDTP, and Hearn is Deputy
 Director, Sustainability Growth, Management and Economic Productivity pathway of WRDTP,
 both contributing to the training and development of future researchers. Kizgin is deputy Chair
 for Digital Marketing and Data Analytics Special Interest Group.

 Contribution to the discipline through organizing conferences and research events

 Chu with others organized the symposium in AOM (2019) on MSR and won the Best
 Symposium & Best Show Case in MSR stream prize. She also organized the panel for Society
                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 for Business Ethics (2019). Rana (chair), Tamilmani (co-chair) chaired the Social Media track
 (IFIP WG 8.6 Working Conference). Sivarajah co-chairs the e-business and e-government track
 (forthcoming British Academy Management, BAM, 2021 Conference). Trouille’s ongoing work on
 the regional integration of East African Community and Africa-Mediterranean-Europe (AMENET)
 within the Jean-Monnet Network involved the organization of 15 international activities between
 2017 and 2019. These included three research and policy workshops, four training and dialogue
 sessions, two roundtable debates and six conferences, in seven countries (Belgium, Ethiopia,
 Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda and China). In the future these activities are expected to
 encourage innovations on creating sustainable societies in Africa. Weerakkody chairs the e-
 Government track (Americas Conference on Information Systems, 2014-2020) and organizes
 the Transforming Government (tGov) workshop (Bradford, 2017-2021).

 Collaborations

 We actively seek out collaborations from within and outside academia, national and
 international. Existing research collaborations extend across the globe. Staff published with
 researchers from more than 32 other UK universities, and institutions from 30 other countries in
 Europe (12), the Middle East (three), Africa (six), South-East Asia (five), North America, and
 Australasia. Research of 19 staff in our submission involve an overseas dimension, with
 potential for international impact.

 Significant project partners on key research themes include e.g.

 −   Trust Development in Workplace – with University of Valencia (Spanish Ministry for Science
     and Technology grant); and the team trust project (NASA Johnson Space Centre funded)
     advises space crew teams on developing and maintaining team trust within small teams in
     extreme environments of long duration, isolation and confinement, which led to further work
     on how the findings can contribute to shaping the selection and training practices for long
     duration space missions (Costa, Anderson);

 −   Food Security – e.g. with Georgetown University-Qatar (USA/Qatar), Cranfield, Warwick
     (UK), Western Sydney University (Australia), the QNRF-funded project provided an in-depth
     analysis of food supply/demand and identified key drivers of food waste using causal
     mapping and simulation, which had significant impact on policy-making and consumer
     behaviour in Qatar, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh (Irani, Sharif); and with Brunel University
     London, the British Council-Tubitak joint funded project studied food security in humanitarian
     contexts for refugee camps in Turkey (Irani);

 −   Circular Economy (e.g. IDF-funded projects) – 1) the project ‘Feasibility study for an
     Affordable Microplastic Pollution Mitigation Solution of Water Supplies’ aims to build on
     strengths in resilient and re-usable engineered materials for affordable and sustainable clean
     drinking water and sanitation, collaborating with partners including academic institutions in
     India, Egypt, Uganda, a charity (Ellen MacArthur Foundation) and industry (Lambson Ltd,
     UK) (Sivarajah, FoLS); 2) collaborating with Universities in Tanzania, the Digital Health and
     Circular Economy project aims to contribute towards the design of a circular economy-
     enabled digital health network infrastructure in rural Tanzania to improve access to and
     quality of maternal and new-born healthcare (Sharif, Sivarajah, FoEI, FoHS);

 −   Health Interventions (e.g. MRC-funded projects) – school food systems with York,
     Newcastle, Bath and Queens (Belfast) universities, and city-wide food systems (‘ActEarly’
     programme) with UCL, Leeds, York and QMUL universities (Sharif);

 −   Digital Government – In addition to the e.g. Participatory Budgeting project (EU H2020-
     funded), we are also involved in the Digital Transformation on Public Services and Citizen
     Participation project with HSE University (Russia) (Weerakkody, Sivarajah);



                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 −   QNRF-funded projects: Lifelong Learning – with Qatar University (QU); Blockchain – with QU
     and TU Delft; Entrepreneurship for Women with TU Delft, QU and non-academic partners
     from UK, Netherlands and Sweden, the project is developing a digital platform to promote
     Female Entrepreneurship in Qatar through co-innovation (e.g. Sivarajah, Weerakkody, Irani);

 −   EU Economic Policy – with the Franco-German Institute (Ludwigsburg), the French Institute
     of Foreign Relations (Paris-Brussels), the German council on Foreign Relations (Berlin) and
     BMW Center at Georgetown University (USA); and Jean-Monnet Erasmus EU-funded
     projects on Regional Integration and Sustainability involving 14 universities from 11 countries
     (Trouille).

 Another example of collaborations leading to impactful research is the digital engineering
 platform (DEP) project, conducted in collaboration with Tyco International, an MNE. The
 engagement started out with a KTN event, leading to a research project, where an in-house
 multifaceted DEP was implemented. The DEP provides a unitary data repository and a decision
 support system that has been having real impact on Tyco’s working processes and employees.

 International research collaborations are also at the forefront in ECRs’ agenda. Examples
 include digital transformation of public sector (Omar), partnering with Qatar University (Qatar),
 Swinburne University of Technology (Australia), local and central government agencies (Oman);
 and post Covid-19 hospitality industry recovery (Waseem), partnering with researchers from
 Universities of Otago (New Zealand) and Macquarie (Australia).

 Knowledge transfer is evidenced in joint publications with non-academic partners which led to
 tangible impact, e.g. Tyco on DEP (Sivarajah); Conwy County Borough Council on cloud
 computing (Irani, Sivarajah); Cambridgeshire County Council, Open Service Engineering group
 on e-Participation and open data in local government policy decision making (Sivarajah,
 Weerakkody, Irani); and Hardeck Möbel GmbH (Germany) on print advertisements (Trivedi).

 UoB signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with WWF-CEE to promote Circular
 Economies and Sustainable Development, with SoM playing a significant role. SoM signed an
 MOU with IIMJ to promote and share knowledge on eco-friendly ‘circular economies’ from a
 community and urban perspective and enable research collaborations.

 Media/public engagements

 Staff seek to disseminate and maximise the benefits of their research to businesses and
 academic communities, public policy makers and broader society, through open media
 channels. Staff regularly disseminate their research via blogs (e.g. Chartered Association of
 Business Schools, London School of Economics academic blog), major newspapers/media (e.g.
 features in FT, Guardian, Telegraph, Independent, Times Higher Education, Economia, Gulf
 News), and interviews (on TV/radio, e.g. Adomako interviewed by major Ghana TV stations
 about his findings on entrepreneurship in Ghana; Ismagilova on panic buying during Covid-19).
 UoB is one of the founding partners of The Conversation, and our staff are regular authors for
 the platform. Staff give guest speeches at professional conferences, e.g. Smith gave a talk on
 ‘The Forgotten Workers’ at the National Conference of Movement of Christian Workers, a
 charitable organization, whose mission is to tackle injustice and inequality.

 The UoA promotes engagement with parliamentary committees (e.g. modelling of emergency
 evacuations, Fry; low-paid workers, Smith; digital government, Weerakkody); government
 departments (e.g. Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy, Fry); local councils
 (e.g. Bradford, Leeds, Hounslow, Weerakkody); and trade unions (e.g. Trade Union Congress,
 USDAW Union, Smith).

 Representation on public bodies

 Irani is Chair of the Bradford Economic Recovery Board, a public-private-cultural sector
 partnership linked with the West Yorkshire Combined Authority and charged with spearheading
                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Bradford’s post Covid-19 recovery plan. He is also a member of the External Industry Reference
 Group for MOD (UK), was member of the United Nations (Economic Council for Muslim
 Countries) and was full-time seconded as a Senior Policy Advisor at the Cabinet Office (Jan-Oct
 2014). Sharif is a member of the Bradford Council Stronger Communities Partnership Board,
 Advisory Board Committee and the Climate Change Steering Group at West Yorkshire and
 Harrogate Health and Care Partnership. Spicer is a member of the Bradford Chamber of
 Commerce Leadership Group.

 Visiting professorships and scholars

 Notable visiting professor positions at institutions overseas, include Hearn, Armenian State
 University of Economics (Armenia), IESEG School of Management (France), and previously
 Dunya University (Switzerland/Afghanistan); Rana, Indian Institute of Management
 Tiruchirappalli (India); Akbar, Comsats University Islamabad (Pakistan); Anderson, University of
 Valencia, Maastricht University, University of Santiago de Compostella (Spain) and Costa,
 University of Valencia (Spain), resulting in funding for a visiting Professor’s 6-month visit to
 Bradford; Wang, Hunan University and South Western University of Finance and Economics
 (China), both led to fruitful research collaborations; and Weerakkody, Qatar University (Qatar)
 for three years, leading to substantial and continued collaborations on successful joint grant
 applications (GBP189,310).

 Visiting scholars contribute to our vibrant research environment through knowledge sharing with
 staff, doctoral students, and the wider School. Since 2014, there have been 29 visiting
 professors/fellows – over half of whom are international. Examples of academic visitors include
 Professors Marijin Janssen (TU Delft) and Ashique Jhatial (University of Sindh, Pakistan). Other
 visiting fellows include those from government departments e.g. Paul Waller (International
 Advisor on Government and Public Administration) who supported the Digital Government ICS,
 Jamie Saunders (Bradford Council), William Barker (Ministry for Housing, Communities and
 Local Government), and practitioners/professionals (e.g. Dr Gabriel Ivbijaro, Practice Principal of
 three large GP surgeries in Waltham Forest (London), a specialist in Integrated and Primary
 Care Mental Health, with expertise in service re-design).




                                                                                            Page 18
