Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: The University of Leeds

 Unit of Assessment: UoA6 (Agriculture, Veterinary Science and Food Science)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1A. Vision and Highlights.
 The School of Food Science and Nutrition (SFSN) at the University of Leeds (UoL) has an
 established track record of internationally recognised research in Food and Nutritional Sciences.
 Our research addresses the primary drivers for public health and the food industry, through
 multidisciplinary research and innovation. Central to our strategy is the integration of Food Science
 with Nutrition, the aim being to elucidate the mechanisms by which foods and diets influence health
 outcomes as part of a sustainable food system. Strategically, SFSN is part of the Faculty of
 Environment (FEnv), with a global reputation for research in climate, earth sciences and
 environmental sustainability. Aligned to FEnv’s strategy, our research also considers the
 environmental impact of food production and consumption.
 Our vision is to be a world leader in food science and nutrition research that underpins food and
 nutritional strategies to enhance health, taking into consideration food safety, consumer
 acceptability, and environmental sustainability. Our research outputs influence industry practice,
 food policy and dietary guidelines that benefit consumers across the lifespan, at a regional,
 national and globally scale (Figure 1). Selected indicators of success since REF2014 include:
    •   Academic FTE has doubled to 29.4 through 21 new appointments to support existing
        strengths in food colloids and nutrition epidemiology, and created new areas of activity in
        bioprocessing, molecular nutrition and sustainable food systems.
    •   PhD awards have trebled to 83, with significant growth in industry-facing Centres for
        Doctoral Training (CDTs).
    •   Research income has increased nearly fourfold to £16.4 million. Highlights include one
        European Research Council Starting Grant (£1.7 million), Global Challenges Research
        Funding (£2.3 million) and industry funding (£2 million).
    •   Three-fold increase in Scopus-indexed publications to 1060 with 48% in top decile journals
        (CiteScore), 56% with international and 7% with corporate co-authors, 10% increase in
        field weighted citation index to 1.90.
    •   Prestigious awards: Nutrition Society Elsie Widdowson award for Excellence in Public
        Health Nutrition (2016, Evans); Nutrition Society Silver Medal (2018, Moore); Royal Society
        of Chemistry Food Junior Medal (2020, Sarkar); Elected Fellow of the Royal Society of
        Wales (2020, Collins).
       Achieved Silver Athena Swan Award and gender balance across academic grades through
        appointments and promotions.
    •   Research outputs has influenced industry practices, dietary and food safety guidelines
        internationally.
    •   Research has resulted in 5 patent applications and a spin-out company.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1. SFSN vision, strategic drivers and impact goals.
 1B. Structure and context.
 The R&I Committee develops the five-year rolling strategic plan considering internal and external
 influences (Figure 2). The Committee consists of the Director of R&I (DoRI), Research Group
 Leaders, International Leader, Innovation Leader, Director of Postgraduate Research Studies
 (DPRS), REF Leader, and an Early Career Researcher (ECR) representative. A research
 administrator supports the implementation of the strategic plan by overseeing open access
 procedures, data sharing, public and policy engagement, and equality, diversity and inclusion
 (EDI). The Head of School (HoS), Head of the Technical Team and School Administrator (who
 oversees HR and finance), are ex-officio members.
 The DoRI contributes to faculty and university strategy and identifies opportunities for cross-faculty
 research programmes, including CDTs, Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs) and strategic
 investment in staff, facilities and equipment. Other members of the R&I Committee also contribute
 to Faculty and University strategy in areas within their remits. SFSN staff contribute to leadership
 of University, national and international initiatives (see section 4).




 Figure 2. Pathways for R&I strategy development, implementation and feedback.


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1C. Research and Innovation Strategy.
 Research activity is primarily driven through by two Research Groups: Food Colloids and
 Bioprocessing and Nutritional Sciences and Epidemiology. However, new strategic
 appointments have allowed the creation of a third group, Sustainable Food Systems. There is
 extensive collaboration, between the groups and more widely across the University, nationally and
 internationally.
 Over the last 10 years, our strategic aims have been implemented through the following five
 objectives:
 Objective 1- Increasing research capacity to create a vibrant, inclusive and sustainable
 academic community.
 SFSN has undergone significant strategic expansion, transforming it from a unit of research
 excellence primarily focused on fundamental physical and chemical aspects of food to one that
 now embraces major global challenges. Academic numbers have doubled during the REF period,
 from 14.9 to 29.4 FTE (table 1), through an ambitious recruitment programme in specific areas
 that has attracted international talent with multidisciplinary expertise, contributing significantly to
 international research outputs and scholarly activity (section 4).
 Postgraduate Researcher (PGR) provision has increased from 29 to 83 awarded degrees,
 supported by three industry-facing CDTs and investment in scholarships, training, and facilities.
 High employability of these students in academia, industry and government highlights SFSN’s
 strong contribution to increasing national and international scientific capacity.
 Food Colloids and Bioprocessing:
 The group has a global reputation for colloids research. It uses physico-chemical approaches at
 various scales to understand the behaviour of food components within their processing and
 biological contexts, addressing the needs of the food industry to improve the nutritional quality,
 food safety and environmental sustainability of processed foods. The strategy of the FCB group
 has been to consolidate their position as a world-leading group in food colloids research through
 strategic expansion in two interlinked areas of existing strength: ‘Biophysics and Bioprocessing’
 and ‘Colloidal Aspects Impacting Human Health’.
 Biophysics and Bioprocessing: This area of research aligns with EPSRC’s strategic priorities in
 Biophysics and Soft Matter Physics. Research by Povey on the physical properties of food lipids
 has led to new understanding of triglyceride polymorphisms. To provide critical mass and extend
 the scientific approaches to study the properties of lipids and membranes, Rappolt was appointed
 as Chair in Lipid Biophysics. This area of research was enhanced with the appointment of Tyler
 as University Academic Fellow (UAF) in Lipid Biophysics, Smith as Lecturer in Biochemistry with
 a focus on lipid biochemistry and computational biology, Simone as Lecturer in Food Crystal
 Engineering. Two further appointments Castronovo as Lecturer in Biochemistry and Ponjavic as
 UAF in Biophysics, have established new areas of activity in nanoscale molecular biology
 Colloidal Aspects Impacting Human Health: Health is a key driver for the food industry and a
 priority area for funders and consumers, it continues to be a key strategic driver for SFSN, for over
 10 years. Complementing expertise in fundamental food colloids (Murray, Ettelaie) with health
 aspects, Sarkar was appointed as Lecturer in Food Colloids. In collaboration with global food
 industries and researchers from a range of academic disciplines, they have undertaken research
 on how surface and colloidal properties affect oral processing and satiety responses. Research
 activity impacting health was further enhanced through appointments of Mackie as Chair in Colloid
 Chemistry and Goycoolea as Chair in Biopolymers with research expertise in digestion and
 mucosal interactions, biopolymer science and biotechnology. The modelling capability of the group
 was enhanced through the appointment of Chappell as Lecturer in Food Colloids whose research
 focuses on the interaction of mineral nanoparticles with the gut mucosa and other biomaterial
 interfaces.




                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nutritional Sciences and Epidemiology:
 The group addresses global health challenges related to diet and nutrition using a combination of
 approaches. Using evidence from epidemiological research, and more recently molecular
 nutrition, the group designs interventions for health outcomes and carries out research in
 preclinical models elucidating mechanisms at the cellular and physiological level.
 The group was traditionally known for research excellence in nutrition epidemiology (Burley, Cade,
 Evans) and food and nutritional biochemistry (Williamson, Bosch, Marshall, Morgan, Orfila). Over
 the REF period, the group has strategically expanded nutrition epidemiology research and
 extended existing strengths in biochemistry with mechanistic molecular nutritional sciences.
 Nutritional Epidemiology: Strategic appointments widened experimental approaches and
 international scope. Ensaff was appointed as Lecturer in Nutritional Epidemiology to enhance
 capability in mixed methodology interventions for improving public health nutrition in children and
 adolescents. Zulyniak was appointed as Lecturer in Obesity to enhance molecular epidemiology
 research, including the application of Mendelian randomisation to understand diet-related disease
 risk in different ethnic groups. Gong was appointed as Associate Professor of Food Safety and
 Global Health. Their research uses epidemiological and clinical trial interventions to examine how
 food toxins influence biochemical pathways and health outcomes.
 Mechanistic Molecular Nutritional Sciences: Strategic appointments were made in this area,
 highlighted as a priority in the 2015 UKRI cross-council vision for Food, Nutrition and Health.
 Thorne was appointed as UAF in Diet and Epigenetics, having long-standing collaborations with
 research groups at St James Hospital in Leeds and applying a range of cellular and molecular
 biology tools to investigate how cancer biology can be modulated by dietary components. Moore
 was appointed as Associate Professor of Obesity to establish molecular nutrition as a research
 area at Leeds and uses genomic, proteomic and systems biology approaches to understand the
 role of hepatic nutrient metabolism in healthy ageing, obesity and metabolic-associated fatty liver
 disease. Hopkins was appointed as Lecturer in Nutritional Physiology to extend research to
 regulation of appetite and energy metabolism, both in experimental and free-living conditions,
 building on strong collaborative links to the Human Appetite Research Unit, School of Psychology
 (Blundell and Finlayson). Campbell was appointed as Lecturer in Metabolism and Metabolic
 Disease, taking a multidisciplinary approaches to understand the role of nutrition and exercise in
 the prevention and management of type 1 diabetes. Guo was appointed as Lecturer in Nano-
 Glycobiology, extending expertise in molecular biology to investigate adaptive immune responses
 mediated by carbohydrate binding receptors. Hernandez was appointed as Lecturer in Nutrition
 and Global Health. With the World Health Organization (WHO) and Food and Agriculture
 Organization (FAO), their research has contributed to new protein quality values for traditional and
 alternative proteins.
 Sustainable Food Systems:
 Environmental sustainability is and will continue to be a driver for societal and economic
 development. Our most recently developed research activity in sustainable food systems aims
 to tackle the pressing, linked issues of climate change and malnutrition across the lifespan,
 complementing expertise from the other two research groups. As part of this strategy, SFSN has
 made key appointments. Collins was appointed as Chair in Animal Sciences, N8 Agrifood Chair
 in Smart Agri-systems, and Director of the National Pig Centre (NPC). Research aims to develop
 systems-level forecasting tools by quantifying predictors of animal health and performance, using
 data from multi-platform monitoring systems and machine learning techniques. Dunshea was
 appointed as Chair in Animal Growth and Development, specializing in dietary strategies to
 prevent heat stress in livestock and humans. The joint appointment with the University of
 Melbourne is increasing international industry links. The expertise in animal science complements
 human nutrition expertise, and aligns with international targets for net-zero agriculture. Morganti
 was appointed as UAF in Food Transport and Logistics with expertise in sustainability and social
 aspects of food e-commerce and distribution, extending expertise in mixed methodologies and
 whole-systems research approaches.



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Objective 2- Promoting interdisciplinary working to address global issues in food and
 nutrition.
 Interdisciplinary research led by SFSN combines experimental with theoretical modelling
 approaches to propose and validate new mechanisms of how food and diets influence health.
 Interdisciplinary working is facilitated through themed seminars, sandpits and crucibles to
 generate collaborative grant ideas, and through joint supervision of PGRs. Ten research themes
 facilitate integration of new staff members and exemplify key areas of interdisciplinary activity.
 Interdisciplinary posts shared with other schools have driven interdisciplinary working (Gong with
 the School of Medicine, Morganti with the Institute for Transport Studies and Ponjavic with the
 School of Physics). Several projects exemplify SFSN’s interdisciplinary working, including the
 LubSat project (Sarkar, ERC grant 757993) with collaborators from Physics, Dentistry, Mechanical
 Engineering, Electrical Engineering and Psychology. Together they developed the first biomimetic
 tongue using 3D-printing that will help streamline research and development for oral care, food
 products and therapeutic technologies (Sarkar). In collaboration with the Faculty of Medicine and
 Health, iron nanocomposites to address iron deficiency have been formulated aided by
 computational design principles (Chappell). The PigSustain project (Collins, BB/N020790/1)
 brings together biologists, vets, epidemiologists, engineers, data analysts and economists to
 investigate resilience of the UK pig industry to future stressors. The project has been included in
 an OECD report offering international guidance on interdisciplinary working as an example of best
 practice.
 UoL research institutes, overseen by the Dean for Interdisciplinary Research (Ref5a), facilitate
 cross-disciplinary working. SFSN contributes to the following UoL institutes: the Bragg Centre for
 Materials Research (Murray and Simone on the Management Board), the Astbury Centre for
 Structural Molecular Biology (Guo is member, leading several interdisciplinary grants
 (BB/R007829/1) and the Wellcome Trust (097354/Z/11/Z); and the Global Food and Environment
 Institute (GFEI, Orfila is Associate Director).
 Externally, SFSN contributes to several national and international initiatives that facilitate
 interdisciplinary research (section 4). SFSN academic staff contribute to the leadership of the N8
 Agrifood initiative (Collins, Mackie, Moore, Morganti, Sarkar), a £10 million HEFCE-funded
 programme that evaluates the integrity and resilience of global Agri-food supply chains in the face
 of environmental and socioeconomic challenges. The programme has led to multi-partner and
 multi-sector projects (>£15 million in grant funding to UoL) and policy impacts.
 Objective 3- Enabling ethical, reproducible, open research in an inclusive environment.
 SFSN actively promotes and enables reproducibility of research, from conception to
 dissemination. This is facilitated through tailored training sessions and support for all researchers
 on reproducibility, research design, ethics in research and data management (Ref5a). Central to
 our participation in multi-centre studies is the harmonisation and validation of transparent
 protocols. Examples of success include several multi-centre dietary trials (Optifel, Pathway27,
 BBSRC DRINC green tea trial), multi-cohort epidemiology studies (InterLACE) and INFOGEST
 digestion protocol harmonisation and validation (Mackie, protocol cited >1600 times). All research
 involving human participants has ethical approval from the relevant ethics committees (University
 or NHS REC), and clinical trials and meta-analyses are preregistered in international databases
 (clinicaltrials.gov, ISRCTN, Prospero).
 Data sharing is supported by UoL Open Research Team and The Leeds Institute for Data Analytics
 (LIDA). An example of a substantial open data set is the UK Women’s Cohort data set consisting
 of around 20,000 dietary records linked to NHS disease and mortality data and accessible to
 researchers through LIDA. The UK Women’s Cohort has made numerous fundamental
 contributions to the understanding of the impact of diet on women’s health. A recent output by
 Cade on the influence of diet on age of menopause onset received worldwide attention (in the top
 5% of research outputs scored by Altmetric).
 SFSN provides a vibrant, supportive, nurturing and inclusive environment for researchers at all
 stages of their career to enhance their creativity and critical independence. Alongside the strategic
 expansion in academic staff numbers, SFSN has invested in new laboratory facilities and

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 equipment, support staff (technicians, data manager, impact and research support administrators,
 bespoke training and networking opportunities). We are committed to the principles of EDI, and
 have developed and implemented detailed action plans for gender and race equality (section 4).
 Objective 4- Building strategic international partnerships in Food Science and Nutrition
 research.
 SFSN has a long history of research collaboration with European universities, research institutes,
 industry and policy makers. Our international strategy has been to maintain our strong European
 links whilst expanding collaborations and strategic partnerships with China and Sub-Saharan
 Africa. SFSN appointed Gong as International Leader to implement the international aspects of
 the R&I strategy. SFSN’s track record of international collaboration is evidenced by 40% of
 research income and 56% of outputs occurring with international collaborators. Our international
 outlook is additionally reflected in recruitment and support practices. Fifty-five percent of academic
 staff are classed as international, fostering scientific collaborations that address global challenges.
 Staff are supported to collaborate internationally through funded sabbatical and exchange
 programmes (Sarkar to ETH Zurich, Simone to South China Institute of Technology, Evans to
 University of Tokyo, Ettelaie and Morgan to Zhejiang Gongshang and Shanxi Universities). Since
 2014, SFSN has hosted 119 visitors from 17 countries and established multiple strategic
 partnerships with prestigious research organisations in China and Africa.
 Examples of strategic partnerships and projects with Chinese Institutions:
 - The ‘International University Consortium of Food Science and Nutrition’, established in 2015 with
 founding members from SFSN, consists of researchers from leading Food Science departments
 including the UoL, and Universities of Guelph, Massey, Massachusetts, Kyoto University and
 Wageningen. The Consortium funded 4 Postdoctoral Fellows to address the role of food oral
 processing across the age span on health outcomes.
 - The ‘Food Reassurance Joint Laboratory’, established in 2015 between Jiangsu University and
 SFSN, was supported with a £1.0 million investment to develop remote sensing technologies for
 food safety. Leeds joined the Jiangsu 2020 Consortium in Agricultural Technologies to broaden
 opportunities across the food-environment nexus with partners globally. The initiative has led to
 staff and student exchanges, international meetings, and 26 joint publications.
 - Long-standing collaborations with the National Institute for Nutrition and Health and the Chinese
 Centre for Disease Control and Prevention has led to a UKRI GCRF project entitled ‘Combined
 Food Systems Approach to Scaling-up Interventions to Address the Double Burden of Malnutrition’
 (Gong, Ensaff, Moore, BB/T008989/1).
 - A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between Zhejiang University and UoL in
 2017. Collaboration led to a successful IUK/BBSRC/Newton proposal to valorise Chinese citrus
 waste for food and non-food applications in line with China’s clean growth agenda (Orfila, Bosch,
 Goycoolea, BB/S020950/1).
 Examples of strategic partnerships and projects with African Institutions:
 Building on a 20-year history of collaborative research with institutions in Tanzania, Benin and
 Gambia, collaborative links have broadened and strengthened over the REF period, benefitting
 from GCRF funding. The BBSRC-GCRF AFRICAP project (Gong, Orfila, BB/P027784/1) will
 contribute to the evidence base for policy advocating climate-smart and nutrition-sensitive
 agricultural approaches in sub-Saharan Africa.
 The University signed a MoU with the University of Pretoria in 2019. The strategic collaboration
 has led to a PhD training grant in Nutrition-Sensitive Agriculture (Orfila, Ensaff, BB/T017309/1)
 and the recent award of the BBSRC FSNet ARUA Centre of Excellence in Food Security. This will
 involve SFSN staff mentoring up to 20 African ECRs following a network+ model.
 Objective 5- Maximising impact on public health policy and industrial innovation.
 Our impact strategy aims to create and disseminate knowledge that influences industry practices,
 public health policies and dietary guidelines for the benefit of consumers, regulators and industry,
 both locally and globally. SFSN’s impact activities are supported from inception to dissemination
 by a dedicated UoA6 Impact Support Officer, as well as UoL support from ‘Policy Leeds’, ‘Engaged


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research’ and commercialisation teams (Ref5a). Collaboratively, SFSN staff (Moore, Evans) lead
 nutrition policy activity as part of the N8 Agrifood Policy Hub.
 Impact on public health policy and society: Research from SFSN influences policy and practice
 through commissioned research and expert advice (see section 4). We support co-creation of
 research questions through multi-stakeholder sandpits and end-user workshops, and engage
 policy makers and users in project design, evaluation and dissemination of outcomes.
 - Policy-oriented research outputs contribute to the evidence base for dietary guidelines and safety
 standards worldwide. For example, research commissioned by the Department of Health by Evans
 contributed >50% of the evidence to the report by Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition
 (SACN) on ‘Carbohydrates and Health’, which underpinned the change in dietary guidelines for
 sugar and fibre intake in 2015, and the introduction of the Soft Drinks Industry Levy in 2018 (UoA6-
 1). Research by Gong in collaboration with policy stakeholders (e.g., EFSA) has led to policy
 development establishing safe levels of aflatoxins in foods (UoA6-2). In 2018, SFSN was
 designated a WHO Collaborating Centre for Nutritional Epidemiology (Evans is co-director), with
 the remit to support WHO in collecting, analysing and interpretation of dietary data in the context
 of nutritional epidemiology.
 - Patient-oriented research involves patients and medical practitioners in research co-design.
 Collaborative research with the Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust is extensive and includes
 validation of biomarkers of nutrient status and toxin exposure in healthy and diseased individuals
 (Cade, PR-R10-0514-11004). Research involving the Breast Cancer Research Action Group
 (BCRAG), Breast Cancer Research UK and the NIHR’s Nutrition and Cancer Collaboration Group
 has led to greater understanding of dietary interactions with cancer biology and therapeutics
 (Thorne, 3T57/9R17-02 and PO 1605-382). Research involving diabetes charities and patient
 groups (JDRF, Diabetes UK) has led dietary and lifestyle recommendations for type 1 diabetes
 management (Campbell).
 - Engagement of civil society includes the design of food interventions that inform school food
 policies (Evans, Ensaff, UKPRP School Network GENUIS MR/S03756X/1). Strategic engagement
 with stakeholders in the Leeds City region, including council leaders, businesses and charities,
 has established an ‘Urban Food Observatory’ as a living policy lab to contribute evidence for urban
 strategy and policy development (Ref5a). Internationally, we engage with FANRPAN to co-create
 research that generates evidence for policy change, promoting sustainable development in Africa
 (UoA6-2).
 Impact on industrial innovation: Research in SFSN addresses primary drivers for the food industry,
 namely health, safety and sustainability delivered through innovative research. We deliver
 industrial impact by engaging industry in innovative research and by translating knowledge,
 expertise and discoveries into innovation outputs. The innovation strategy has been to i) increase
 collaboration with industries, both large and small, through various funding mechanisms; ii) build
 a strong Intellectual Property (IP) Rights portfolio and iii) to seek IP licensing and spin out
 opportunities where appropriate. Industry-relevant outputs include industry co-authored
 publications (7% of total outputs), patents (5 filed) and the creation of a spin-out company (Dietary
 Assessment Ltd).
 SFSN appointed Sarkar as Innovation Leader to implement this aspect of the R&I strategy. Sarkar
 is the N8 AgriFood Lead for innovation at UoL and is supported by the SFSN Industry Advisory
 Board (IAB). Membership of the IAB has increased to include representatives from 28 industries
 across the food system. The new Nexus Innovation Centre supports SFSN with expertise in IP
 protection and commercialisation of research, supports spin-out activity, and brings new
 commercial opportunities (REF5a). SFSN has hosted industry-networking events every two years
 for the last 10 years, providing opportunities for networking and co-creation.
 Over the REF period, industrial interactions have increased and broadened. Over >46% of
 research income involves industry partners, with £2.0 million in direct industry funding, £5.2 million
 in industry-driven research (IUK/KTP) and a further £1.0 million through financial support for
 studentships. SFSN is involved in the leadership of three industry-facing EPSRC CDTs: Molecules
 to Product, £5.1 million, 2019-27), Soft Matter for Formulation and Industrial Innovation (£5.6

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 million, 2019-24) and Soft Matter and Functional Interfaces (2014-19). The CDTs include over 20
 multinational member companies (e.g., GSK, Nestlé, Pepsico, Syngenta). As an example, Povey
 has led a programme of research on lipid crystallisation in collaboration with both multinationals
 and SMEs. Through a long-standing collaboration with the Nestlé Research Centre in York, the
 research has led to the design and adoption of a novel tempering unit operation that improves
 product quality and reduces energy utilisation in the chocolate manufacturing process (UoA6-3).
 Other examples are included in section 4.
 In all the areas above, SFSN engages with relevant stakeholders through leadership activities
 including the scientific planning, hosting and chairing of associated international conferences
 which contain embedded policy or industry-focused discussions. Stakeholder groups include
 national and international learned societies (e.g., British Dietetic Association, Nutrition Society,
 Institute of Food Science and Technology, British Medical Association, Institute of Physics, Royal
 Societies), food industries, and policy makers (e.g., Food Standards Agency, Parliamentary
 Committees, European and Chinese Food Safety Authorities) and NGOs (e.g., WHO, World
 Cancer Research Fund, OECD).
 1D. Future plans.
 The R&I strategy for the next 5 years will continue to build on interdisciplinary and international
 collaborations to address the global challenges of sustainable food production, dietary health and
 food safety.
 A planned Chair appointment in ‘Microbiome and Energy Metabolism’ would interrogate how the
 physical and chemical forms of food affect metabolic health through microbial interactions. SFSN
 has already invested £0.8 million in research laboratory space suitable for biosafety category 2
 microbiology. This area would align with fundamental and applied research activities at SFSN, the
 NPC and clinical activities of the Gastroenterology Group in the Faculty of Medicine and Health.
 A planned chair appointment in ‘Artificial Intelligence in Food and Nutrition’ will use large data
 approaches to understand the interplay between food production, consumption, health and
 sustainability, building on ongoing activities of GFEI, and strengthening links with LIDA and the
 Alan Turing Institute (REF5a). These areas will be supported with associated lectureships and
 dedicated facilities.
 2. People

 2A. Values and Codes of Practice.
 SFSN’s values align with the University’s values of inclusivity, integrity, ethical research and
 international impact. We promote and implement institutional policies that support staff to work
 effectively (Ref5a). We regularly gather feedback from our staff and students, adopting a local
 approach to improve practices and culture. Over the REF period, we have increased participation
 of diverse staff groups and students in committees, and work closely with HR, the Leeds Doctoral
 College (LDC), Organisational Development and Professional Learning (ODPL) and the Research
 and Innovation Service (RIS), in providing training and mentoring to develop staff and students to
 their full potential. Over the REF period, SFSN has improved its EDI performance in terms of
 gender, achieving gender balance across staff grades, most notably at professorial level. We
 recognise the need to increase ethnic diversity and are committed to the principles of the Race
 Equality Charter with an action plan to improve representation of Black and Asian scientists across
 all areas of activity and leadership.

 2B. Staffing strategy.
 SFSN is committed to providing staff and students with an environment that provides flexible
 opportunities for professional, personal development, and career progression. SFSN follows the
 University’s Code of Practice for the Management and Career Development of Staff and
 implements local action plans developed to meet the needs of staff and PGRs.
 In 2010, SFSN set out an ambitious strategy to expand in specific areas (section 1, table 1),
 supported with investment in facilities, equipment, technical and administrative support, and
 studentships. Chair/Associate and Professor appointments have enhanced leadership capability

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Mackie and Collins are HoS, Goycoolea is DoRI, Moore leads the NSE Research Group, Gong
 is International Lead, and Sarkar is Innovation Lead).
 Professional and career development support for staff:
 Staff receive a comprehensive induction on aspects of research, student education and
 administrative processes. Staff are allocated to a line manager who facilitate achievable and
 measurable objectives for the probation period (2 years for academic staff), reviewed annually
 through the UoL Staff Review and Development Scheme (SRDS). Staff are supported to achieve
 their career aspirations through mentoring, training and access to internal (e.g., committee
 membership, leadership roles) and external opportunities (e.g., membership of advisory boards).
 A suite of training is available to all staff through ODPL (REF5a). When staff leave, they are offered
 an ‘exit interview’ to feedback on their experience in SFSN. Annual culture surveys provide
 information and feedback for action planning. The Reward and Recognition Exercise has
 rewarded several SFSN staff for significant contributions to the University. A University-wide
 mentoring platform is in place to connect mentors and mentees in different areas of expertise.

                                       REF2014        REF2021      New Posts      Promotions
       Academic Staff
       Category A submitted            14.9 (47%)    29.4 (52%)     20.2 (48%)       8 (75%)
       Professors                        5 (16%)     8.6 (50%)      3.2 (25%)       2 (100%)
       Associate Professors              5 (60%)     4.8 (60%)       2 (100%)        3 (66%)
       Lecturers                       4.9 (66%)      16 (50%)      14* (50%)        3 (66%)
       Independent Researchers          1 (100%)          0              0               0
       Support Staff
       Research Technicians                 0          6 (66%)       6 (66%)         2 (50%)
       Research Admin Support               0          2 (50%)       2 (50%)        1 (100%)

 Table 1. Staff profile of SFSN in FTE (percentage female) over REF census periods). * three of these
 appointments are tenure-track University Academic Fellows (UAFs).

 Additional support for Academic Staff: New academic appointments are supported through
 workload remission during the first year for grant and output writing. They are also provided with
 start-up funds for equipment, consumables, travel and studentships. Support for new chair
 appointments also include funded Postdoctoral Fellows. Through annual academic meetings with
 the DoRI and HoS, academic staff discuss strategy, career development and promotion
 opportunities, while also considering workload and personal circumstances. Plans and mentoring
 are put in place to support the promotion application process. There have been 8 academic
 promotions in the REF period.
 In addition to University wide support by RIS and ODLP (REF5a), grant and manuscript writing
 are supported through surgeries, peer review and mock interviews. Support for specific fellowships
 schemes is provided centrally (e.g., EU office, RIS) and complemented with local support. UAFs
 have a dedicated programme of training and development, organised centrally (REF5a). UoL
 central teams support staff with data management plans, and developing meaningful public
 engagement and impact activities. In 2017, SFSN implemented a new sabbatical policy to enable
 research activities, for example large grant applications, spin-out activities and international
 collaborations.
 Additional support for research staff: SFSN supports the personal and professional development
 of postdoctoral researchers. Hence, we work to the principles of the Research Concordat
 (including a minimum of 10 days p.a. on professional development) to support the development
 of researchers at all stages of their career. SFSN actively supports the transition of researchers
 to academic or industry positions through their involvement in academic activities (e.g., co-
 supervision of PGRs, lead authorship, support for fellowship applications), membership of
 committees, student education and public engagement.
 Postdoctoral researchers have an active ‘researcher forum’ where they discuss issues and share
 practices. In 2019, SFSN appointed an ECR champion (Hernandez) to develop local action plans
 to enhance the research environment. The ECR champion has representation at School and

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Faculty R&I Committees, feeding into higher-level plans. Funding is available for their professional
 development, research visits, conference attendance and specialised training. The Faculty has
 also appointed a postdoc champion (Ensaff), to develop new initiatives for researcher career
 development, such as a postdoc network, induction activities, masterclasses and interview
 schemes.
 2C. Training, professional and career development support for PGRs.
 PGRs are very important to our overall strategy to develop the next generation of scientific
 innovation leaders. PGR students are recruited via a rigorous application process that includes a
 research proposal and an interview. Support for PGRs is coordinated by the LDC, which provides
 a central hub for information and support across the University. PGRs are additionally supported
 by the DPRS, who provides school-level induction and holds regular meetings with all PGRs, both
 as a group and in 1:1 meetings. All students have a supervisory team (min 2 members) allocated
 at the start of the project and regular meetings (min 10 per year) are mandatory. Furthermore,
 PGRs have an informal peer support buddy system.
 The University’s Graduate Record of Achievement and Development (GRAD) electronic system
 records all aspects of the PGR journey, from admission through to final examination. A detailed
 training plan is agreed at the start of the research period by the student and the supervising team,
 and reviewed at least annually. Progress against training objectives are recorded in GRAD, giving
 students the opportunity to reflect on their own progress. Elected PGR representatives sit on
 school and faculty PGR committees to influence change.
 Training is a combination of generic research training offered by the LDC, supported by ODPL
 and the UoL Library, and individual discipline-specific training. Generic training includes sessions
 on research methodology, management, data management, ethics, academic writing and
 dissemination. The refurbishment of the Edward Boyle Library included the creation of a dedicated
 Research Hub and Researcher Support Service for PGRs (REF5a) offering 1:1 support on many
 aspects of research training (e.g., literature searching, academic writing, data management) in
 addition to self-help resources through an online learning platform. SFSN supports PGRs to
 develop academic skills for publication, dissemination and impact through training, peer and
 school support (e.g., writing groups, peer review). In 2018, the SFSN introduced the option of the
 ‘thesis by publication’ format (requiring 2 accepted papers and one more in draft form), and since
 then 23% of students have taken this opportunity.
 Discipline-specific training is co-created by PGRs and their supervisors and involves participation
 in group meetings, SFSN and institutional seminars, attendance at national and international
 conferences, internal and external technical training, access to taught modules via Blackboard,
 and visits to other labs and/or industry facilities. In line with UoL strategy to implement blended,
 research-informed learning, SFSN secured funding to develop two Massive Online Learning
 Courses (MOOCs) aimed at PGRs from around the world (Gong, British Council Educational
 Partnership and Orfila, Ensaff, BB/T017309/1).
 Industry-relevant training is a central part of CDT training, which not only provides scientific cohort-
 based training to create future leaders (e.g. large-scale food processing), but also transferable
 skills training to translate science to business (e.g. MiniMBA, innovation tools, enterprise skills).
 All PGRs are encouraged to disseminate their research. SFSN PGRs organise an annual
 conference, and present at UoL and LDC events. Funding is provided to attend one international
 conference (independent of funder). PGRs contribute to output and impact activities (e.g., 11% of
 REF outputs, 20% of patents, delivery of public engagement activities such as Pint of Science).
 The SFSN PGR population is largely international (62% international, 10 nationalities) and to
 support them, UoL offers dedicated language support and a popular programme of inclusive social
 events (e.g., Chinese New Year, Christmas and Eid celebrations). Beyond graduation, PGRs
 remain part of the SFSN community, connected through the alumni office and the SFSN group on
 LinkedIn. Many are mentored after they leave by their supervisor or research group leader.
 2D. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion.
 EDI is embedded into SFSN’s culture, policies and practices, so that all staff and students are
 treated in a fair and equitable manner, empowering them to perform to their full potential. The UoL
 has clear policies and processes designed to support and protect all staff and students, including

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the EDI Framework, the Policy for Dignity and Mutual Respect and the ‘Partnership Agreement’
 (REF5a).
 Using the guiding principles of institutional policies, SFSN develops local-level action plans
 through the EDI Committee which has representation from many groups (academic, technicians,
 PGRs, admin staff) and characteristics (gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, disability and those
 with and without caring responsibilities). A dedicated EDI Officer chairs the Committee, with the
 HoS and HR lead attending ex-officio.
 The committee identifies barriers and enablers to EDI practices and behaviours, and proposes
 local solutions for long-term improvement, feeding into faculty and university level EDI policies.
 The recent Athena Swan Silver Award shows the drive for continuous improvement. We recognise
 the need to increase representation of some ethnic groups in SFSN and became a member of the
 Race Equality Framework to improve mutual understanding and put measures in place to address
 racial inequalities.
 SFSN promotes a family friendly culture. Pre- and post- parental and carers support is offered
 through flexible working opportunities, ‘Keep in Touch’ days, workload reductions, and support
 with PGR and project supervision. For parents, there is funding for childcare to attend training
 outside working hours, and a safe space for infant feeding.
 The sense of collegiality in SFSN is evidenced by the high scores in the annual Partnership
 Survey. The majority of students and staff agree that SFSN recognises and celebrates diversity.
 In the 2019 Staff Culture Survey results, 92% of female and 97% male staff agreed with the
 statement ‘I feel that my School is a great place to work’.
 Advancing female careers has been a priority over the REF period. SFSN has been successful
 in achieving gender balance across academic grades, with strong representation of females in
 academic Committees and leadership responsibilities. In particular, the number of female
 professors has increased from 1 (20% of professors) to 5 (50% of professors). SFSN has worked
 strategically to diversify leadership positions both in terms of gender and ethnicity - Director of
 Student Education (Marshall), DoRI (Orfila until 2019), DPRS (Bosch), Innovation Lead (Sarkar),
 and International Lead (Gong). Female staff engage with targeted training programmes such as
 Springboard and Aurora (Evans, Gong, Orfila, Sarkar) and note improved confidence in taking the
 next step in their career, as well as becoming mentors to colleagues. SFSN has played an active
 role in ensuring that conference, meeting and committee programmes are inclusive and
 representative in terms of gender and race. We invite female external speakers from academia,
 government and industry to give keynote presentations and departmental seminars, and arrange
 follow-up meetings with staff and students.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3A. Research Income.
 During the REF period, the strategy has been to increase and diversify our portfolio of research
 income, resulting in an increase from £4.3 to 16.4 million (table 2). We have a balanced funding
 portfolio, with diverse sources of income (Figure 3A). UKRI funding is from BBSRC, EPSRC, MRC,
 STFC, NERC and IUK, including GCRF. EU funding includes FP7, Marie Curie, ERC fellowships
 and EU governments (e.g., Danish Research Council). Direct industry funding from a range of
 companies (e.g., AB Agri, Arla Foods, Cranswick, Christian Hansen, Danone, DSM, Kellogg’s,
 Mars, McCain’s, Nestlé). Charity funding includes many patient-based charities (e.g., Breast
 Cancer Research BCRAG, British Skin Foundation, Diabetes UK) and international charities (e.g.,
 WHO, Bill, Melinda Gates Foundation, Newton). In-kind research income from successful large-
 scale facility awarded proposals amounted to £738k. Processes are in place to support grant
 writing including monthly grant surgeries by research groups, peer review of grants above £100k,
 mentoring, mock interviews, and sabbaticals. This is in addition to centralised support RIS and
 NEXUS (REF5b). Given the uncertainty of EU funding landscape, our strategy to diversify income
 streams and to explore other international funding will ensure sustainability.




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                                                 REF2014                REF2021
              Research Income (£/FTE)            287,609                559,346
              Research Income (£ million)          4.3                    16.4

 Table 2: Summary of research income over REF periods.

 3B. PGR funding.
 Funding for PGR research comes from a variety of sources (Figure 3B), including UKRI, industry,
 international funding agencies, and charities. UKRI funding has been primarily through three
 EPSRC CDTs: SOFI, SOFI2 and M2P, through White Rose DTP BBSRC allocations and through
 BBSRC and EPSRC Case studentships. Industry support is through CDT and Case studentships
 with cash contributions in excess of £1.0 million, and fully funded scholarships.
 SFSN has invested >£900k in studentships and financial support for PGRs. This included PGR
 studentships for newly appointed academic staff, match funding for Home and International
 Scholarships and financial support for PGR training.




 Figure 3: Percentage grant (A) and PGR (B) income by funding source.

 3C. Research infrastructure, facilities and support.
 SFSN has invested £2.2 million in research infrastructure and equipment, and £1.0 million in
 research support staff.
 Infrastructure.
 Investment in research infrastructure included the refurbishment of nearly all existing research
 facilities (£625k investment), as well as extending laboratory footfall through a £1.5 million
 investment in new high spec 755 m2 of new laboratory space and associated office space. This
 includes facilities for biopolymer and food digestion research, for human appetite and exercise
 physiology experiments, extended cell culture facilities to handle human biopsies, with associated
 molecular biology laboratories, laboratories suitable for category 2 microbiology, new computer
 clusters for high performance computing and modelling work, and a new analytical suite for food
 and nutrient analysis. We have also extended computer clusters, so that each PGR has an
 allocated desk with a computer, from their first year until thesis completion.
 Technical and administrative support for research activities.
 Technical support for research has significantly increased, and now includes 4 full-time
 technicians to assist with laboratory management, training, H&S and technical assistance in the
 following research areas: (i) analytical chromatography instrumentation, (ii) biological research to
 support cell culture, microbiology, and molecular biology, (iii) colloids and physical sciences

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research. In 2020, UoL became an official Partner Affiliate with the National Technician
 Development Centre. In addition, a database manager was appointed to support epidemiological
 research and general data management.
 Equipment and facilities.
 SFSN invested £900k in capital equipment, £500k in laboratory equipment, and £225k in service
 contracts for equipment. All equipment is available to staff and researchers across SFSN,
 supported through dedicated technical support. Most equipment can be booked through an online
 booking system and is networked with central UoL IT servers, ensuring primary data safety. All
 equipment is accessible to researchers across the unit, and are listed in institutional and N8
 instrument databases.
 Generic equipment and facilities.
 Analytical equipment is hosted within analytical air-conditioned suites and include HPLC and LC
 with a range of detection systems (MS, DAD, fluorescence, ELSD, PAD, including a Waters Xevo
 TQ-XS LC-MS for the analysis of biological small molecules in metabolomic, nutritional, and
 toxicological studies (Gong, Mackie, Marshall BB/R013500/1), GC-MS, and asymmetric flow field-
 flow fractionation (AF4)/size exclusion chromatography (SEC) platform equipped with auto
 sampler, sample collectors and multidetector systems (DRI, MALS, DLS, UV/VIS), several high-
 resolution scanning spectrophotometers; atomic absorption, fluorescent spectrophotometers,
 FTIR, and semi-automated equipment for proximate analysis. Preparative equipment includes 2
 ultra-fast centrifuges (static and swinging rotors); microwave extractors, ultrasonic homogenisers,
 freeze-dryers, lyophilisers, polymer separation and purification equipment (ACTA protein
 fractionation and system). Microbiology facilities have category 2 hoods with static and shaking
 incubators. Food preparation equipment include pilot scale retorts, evaporators, mixers, grinders,
 homogenisers, dryers.
 Specialised equipment and facilities.
 Food Colloids and Bioprocessing laboratories are equipped with various specialist pieces of
 equipment that measure the dynamic nature of colloidal assemblies, including interfacial
 rheometers, surface tension apparatus (static and oscillatory Wilhelmy plate and drop/bubble
 shape) contact angle Langmuir troughs, controlled stress rheometers, texture analysers;
 tribometers, quartz crystal microbalance with dissipation monitoring (QCM-D), Foamscan with
 bubble-forming rigs and pressure drop apparatus for foam stability measurements, ultrasound
 velocimeters, Acoustiscan apparatus for monitoring creaming/sedimentation; high pressure flow
 through food processor, Brewster angle microscopy, atomic force microscopy (AFM), ultrasound
 microscopy, small and wide angle X-ray scattering (SAXS & WAXS), light scattering apparatus for
 particle sizing (Ultrasizer ultrasound spectrometer) and electrophoretic mobility of aqueous and
 non-aqueous dispersions, UV/Vis spectrophotometry, differential scanning calorimetry (DSC),
 temperature controlled crystallisers , immersion turbidity and acoustic probes for real-time
 monitoring of multiphase processes, and high pressure emulsifiers.
 We have developed a number of simulations including the INFOGEST static and semi-dynamic
 simulations of upper gastrointestinal tract digestion. These simulations include specifically
 designed tribology equipment that incorporates a biomimetic tongue surface with right
 deformability, wettability and topology to measure lubrication, tongue-food-saliva interactions and
 pH-stat devices and other flow devices to simulate gastrointestinal conditions. The models are
 combined with GC-MS, LC-MS, microscopy, cell culture, and SAXS to measure kinetics of oral
 and gastrointestinal release.
 Molecular Nutrition laboratories are equipped with variety of modern molecular and cellular
 biology techniques to study the mechanisms by which nutrients affect cell function and metabolism
 at the organ, cellular and molecular levels. The molecular biology laboratories are equipped with
 state-of-the-art equipment and facilities for different workflows covering extraction and
 characterisation of small molecules, DNA/RNA and protein workflows, tissue and cell culture
 facilities equipped with automated cell counter and camera as well as automated device for
 measuring the trans-epithelial/endothelial impedance of cell monolayers under physiological
 conditions, cell homogenisers, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) with high

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 throughput capability for >4000 reactions/day (Quant Studio 7) for analysis of mRNA, miRNA, and
 synthetic RNA species, multi-infrared and near infrared scanning and imaging system (Odyssey
 CLx), high-end sonication for chromatin and DNA shearing (Picoruptor), liquid handler for
 dispensing liquid with 1uL resolution, multi-mode microplate reader with advanced LVF
 monochromators, highly sensitive filters, and an ultra-fast UV/vis spectrometer (CLARIOstar Plus)
 and atmospheric chamber for modulating environmental gas composition (SPARK10M), as well
 as more conventional protein/nucleic acid analysis methods (ELISA, gel electrophoresis, etc).
 We have recently established a purpose-built energy balance laboratory with equipment for the
 measurement of human body composition (dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (Lunar iDXA), air
 displacement plethysmography (BodPod) and multi-frequency bio-electrical impedance (Tanita
 mc-780ma) and energy expenditure (indirect calorimeter fitted with a ventilated hood system
 (Cosmed Quark RMR) in response to food intake and exercise (cycle ergometry using a breath-
 by-breath metabolic cart). This facility also includes a research kitchen and experimental cubicles
 that allow the measurement of appetite and food intake. There are dedicated human dietary trial
 facilities for blood and urine collection. Blood samples are processed for isolation and culture of
 lymphocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells; blood lipid analyser (Affinion); glucose and
 hormone measurement. Close liaising with clinical staff at St James’s and LGI allows tissue
 sampling including ultrasound-guided biopsy.
 Central and Collaborative Facilities at UoL.
 SFSN researchers have access to facilities and equipment throughout the University and Leeds
 Teaching Hospitals. Examples of facilities and equipment regularly used by SFSN include
 chemical characterisation facilities (mass spectrometer, NMR, fluorescence spectrometer), bio-
 imaging facilities including high-throughput imaging (Operetta), live cell imaging/tracking
 (IncuCyte), confocal, SEM, TEM and cryo-TEM), cell sorting (FACSMelody and Cytoflex, BBSRC
 equipment grant, Thorne Co-I), confocal and super-resolution microscopy, dual AFM/confocal
 (JPK Nanowizard PicoQuant). Biological samples can also be assessed using an array of -omics
 techniques including core RNA/DNA sequencing (HiSeq 3000, MiSeq, ONT minion), protein
 mass-spectrophotometry, all with bioinformatic analytical support via LIDA and Leeds-omics.
 Other specialised facilities include flow mediated dilation (FMD) measurements, higher risk
 microbiology, gut microbiome sequencing. We also have access to a clean room and e-bean
 lithography, state-of-the-art AFM imaging facility for in-liquid scanning (Brucker FastScan and
 Nanowizard AFM), single-molecule total internal reflection microscopy and other structural biology
 techniques through Bragg and the Astbury Centre.
 National facilities.
 We are part of the White Rose High Performance Computer initiative, allowing access to cloud
 and grid computing facilities at the UoL, UoSheffield and UoYork for implementation of in-house
 and open access code for Monte Carlo and Brownian Dynamics simulations. Additionally, we
 share and have access to other equipment through the N8 equipment database.
 The Diamond-Leeds SAXS Facility (£1.5M EPSRC strategic equipment grant, Rappolt, Tyler) is
 an open user and multidisciplinary SAX and WAX research facility at Harwell offering a rich
 scientific access point for UoL and UK stakeholders. More than 160 days of experimental
 beamtime per year allows the development and testing of new sample environments, a focus for
 training the next generation of X-ray scattering experts. This industry-led research facility helps to
 create a Network of Excellence with other related research labs in the UK. The Leeds headed
 facility is managed within the framework of the Diamond-Leeds Collaboration agreement and
 strengthens the research axis between the Bragg Centre and the Diamond Light Source.
 The University farm and the NPC hosts a smart agriculture testbed and presents a £12.4M
 investment to support sustainable food systems research. The NPC is part of the Centre for
 Innovation Excellence in Livestock (CIEL), a collaboration between twelve of the UK’s leading
 livestock research institutions and a growing network of industry partners.
 Supporting reproducible and open research.




                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As outlined in section 1, SFSN has invested in infrastructure, support and training to enable open
 research, and in particular, sharing of data through the White Rose Data Repository, and access
 to secure data storage for every researcher.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Awards: Nutrition Society Elsie Widdowson award for Excellence in Public Health Nutrition Award
 (2016, Evans); Nutrition Society Silver Medal (2018, Moore); Royal Society of Chemistry Food
 Junior Medal (2020, Sarkar); Medtech top 10 Regional start-ups (Dietary Assessment Ltd) (2019,
 Cade); European Federation of Chemical Engineering - Excellence Award in Crystallisation (2017,
 Simone).
 External fellowships: Humboldt Fellow (Bosch); EU Marie S. Curie RISE (Castronovo); Italian
 Ministry of Health Junior Researcher (Castronovo); MRC Career Development Fellowship
 (Chappell); Elected Fellow of the Royal Society of Wales (Collins); Wellcome Trust Career Re-
 entry Fellowship (Guo); NSERC Visiting fellowship (Hernandez); CONACyT Postdoctoral
 Fellowship (Hernandez); Fellow of the Institute Physics (Povey); ERC European Research Council
 Starting Grant Fellowship (Sarkar).
 Visiting Professorships and Scholarships: Visiting Professorship at the UoSouthampton
 (Cade); Visiting Scholarship Department of Archaeology, UoCambridge (Chappell); Visiting
 Scholarship UoCambridge in the Department of Applied Maths and Theoretical Physics
 (Chappell); Visiting Lecturer UoCambridge at the Institute of Metabolic Sciences (Smith).
 Scientific advisory board and committee memberships: Association for Applied Biologists
 (Bosch); Committee on Toxicology (Cade),; Advisory Group member for NIHR funded BRC Bristol
 Nutrition BRU (, Cade); NHS England Diabetes Prevention (Campbell); Agada Diabetes Research
 and patient education (Campbell); UK Society for Behavioural Medicine (Ensaff); Institute of
 Physics (IOP) liquid and complex fluids committee (Ettelaie); European Food Standards Agency
 (EFSA) (Gong); Evorion Biotechnologies GmbH (Goycoolea); Food Hydrocolloids Trust
 (Goycoolea); Board of European Chitin Society (Goycoolea); ISEKi-FOOD Association and
 Accreditation Committee (Ho); Advisory Council to Trustees and Scientific Committees, The
 Nutrition Society and BAPEN (Moore); BBSRC Post-harvest network (Orfila); International
 Standards Organisation (Povey); Specialist Nutrition Advisory Board Member of Apetito Ltd
 (Sarkar); FSTA Advisory Board (Sarkar); Steering committee member and work stream chair for
 the NIHR Nutrition and Cancer Collaboration (Thorne); CFSA Gong); Children Challenging
 Industry project, UoYork (Evans), Advisory board member for project on School lunch transitions
 during the Covid epidemic, UoDundee (Evans); Fellow of the Institute Physics Food Physics
 Committee (Povey; Tyler).
 Scientific leadership: WHO Collaborating Centre in Nutrition Epidemiology (Evans); First
 Registrar of the Association for Nutrition (Cade); European Nutrition Leadership Programme
 (Ensaff, Moore); INFOGEST lead (Mackie); Management board of EPSRC CDT SOFI (Murray);
 Steering group of the DL-SAXS Facility; (Rappolt); Product Functionalisation and Performance
 Theme Lead and Management board member of EPSRC CDT Molecules to Product (Sarkar);
 Management board member of EPSRC CDT CP3 (Simone). Representative of the Soft
 Condensed Matter Science Group on the Diamond User Committee (Tyler).
 Funding or research council panel membership: WCRF International (Cade); EU Expert
 Evaluator, MSCA-ITN and MSCA-IF, LIF Panel (Bosch); Academic Advisor Panel for
 Commonwealth Scholarship Commission (Bosch, Ensaff); Joint EPSRC/NERC grant review panel
 (Chappell); EPSRC Peer Review College (Chappell, Tyler); BBSRC Committee E and A (Collins);
 Newton Fund for the British Council (Environment, Agriculture and Food Sciences and Biological
 and Medical Sciences panels, Ensaff); Wellcome Trust re-entry discussion panel (Guo); UKRI
 Future Leaders Fellowships programme Peer Review College (Murray); Diamond Light Source
 Panel 2 (Rappolt); EPSRC early career manufacturing forum member (Simone); ISIS neutron and
 muon source panel 8 (Tyler).
 Editorial board membership: Toxicology Reports (Bosch); Food & Function (Goycoolea); Food
 Hydrocolloids (Goycoolea, Sarkar); Food Hydrocolloids for Health (Goycoolea; Sarkar); Scientific

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Reports (Goycoolea); Pharmaceutics (Goycoolea); Journal of Food Quality (Holmes); Food
 Chemistry (Holmes); Food Research International (Mackie); Current Opinion in Colloid & Interface
 Science (Murray); Advances in Biomembranes and Lipid Self-Assembly (Rappolt); Journal of
 Texture Studies (Sarkar), Public Health Nutrition (Evans).
 International scientific conference leadership: 17th Food Colloids Conference (2018, Sarkar,
 Murray); Nutrition Society Summer Conference (2018, Bosch, Moore); ‘’Crystal Conversations”
 series of webinars with the British Association of Crystal Growth and Cambridge Crystallographic
 Data Centre (2020, Simone); Nutrition Society ‘Nutrition and Cancer Networking Meeting’ (2019,
 Thorne); Physics in Food Manufacture Conference (2020, Povey).
 Contributions to public health policy: SFSN has provided expert advice to international policy
 makers including WHO, FAO, EFSA, the Chinese Food Safety Authority (CFSA), and SACN,
 amongst others. SFSN has provided evidence and expert advice to WHO on trans-fatty acids
 (Cade) and polyunsaturated content of foods (Zulyniak), nutrient standards for baby foods (Cade),
 and aflatoxin prevention strategies (Gong, UoA6-2). SFSN has provided evidence and expert
 advice to EFSA on the allergenicity of proteins (Mackie) and aflatoxin limits for food and feed
 (Gong). Evans provided evidence to SACN on the impact of dietary carbohydrates on metabolic
 disease, which led to Government policy change including the Sugary Drinks Industry Levy and
 brought about change in industry practice to reduce sugar content of foods and beverages (UoA6-
 1).
 Contributions to business and enterprise:
 Novel manufacturing processes: Research by Povey on the polymorphic crystalline behaviour of
 lipids has led to the design of novel, disruptive processes, including an alternative to industrial
 chocolate tempering (UoA6-3) and applications in non-food processes (Povey, patents
 US2019091602A1 and GB2548117A), and sensing techniques for industrial granulation
 processes (EPSRC grant EP/M026310/1, IUK grant 31587-233189 with P&G, and BBSRC DTP
 BB/N504294/1 with Nestlé). Patent WO/2019/008059/A1 has been granted to Murray, Sarkar
 (2019) on fabricating stable water droplets to reduce fat in food (Assignee: Nestlé). A GB Patent
 (application number 2007546.1) has been filed by Sarkar (2020) for aqueous lubricant solution to
 address dry mouth conditions arising from ERC AquaLub Project (Assignee: UoL). Mexican patent
 was filed (application number MX/a/2015/00691) by Goycoolea on the formulation of antibiotic-
 free colloidal particles with the ability to prevent the attachment of Helicobacter pylori bacteria to
 stomach cells (Assignee: LKPMN S.A. de C.V., Mexico).
 Re-formulation of food products: The fat content of mayonnaise was lowered by exploiting protein
 cross-linking (Murray, IUK funding with Bakkavor EP/J501694/1); new emulsifiers were developed
 for chocolate manufacturing (Murray, industrial funding from Mars); molecular modelling was used
 to optimise gravy formulation (Ettelaie, Holmes, KTP with GoldenFry 509597). Industry funded
 research by Miller has led to reformulation of over 80% of weaning pig feeds in Europe.
 Spin-out activity: Research by Cade developed a new online 24h dietary recording tool called
 myfood24 (MRC funding G1100235). This tool has strong academic underpinning with detailed
 feasibility and validation studies. A spin out company (Dietary Assessment Ltd), created in 2017
 by Cade is commercialising this tool. With IUK and Venture Capital investment, the tool is used by
 around 50,000 research and clinical users globally.
 Consultancy: Staff engage in consultancy activities for up to 12 days/year, which can be extended
 with the permission of the HoS.
 Contributions to research base: Nutritools is an open access resource, created by Cade, for
 dietary assessment research through guidance and access to validated interactive dietary
 assessment tools.
 Significant Academic Collaborations: Over the REF period, SFSN has collaborated with over
 40 international academic and non-academic institutions, 56% of outputs have international co-
 authors (see section 1).




                                                                                               Page 16
