Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of Edinburgh

Unit of Assessment: UoA4: Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience


1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Overview
Edinburgh Neuroscience is a vibrant community of 201 independent researchers in neuroscience,
psychology and clinical psychology who work together with a shared vision to (i) discover new
knowledge of the workings of the brain and mind across the life-course, in health and disease,
and (ii) translate this into individual and societal health and wealth gains. To achieve this we have,
since 2014, invested strategically in growing and promoting a deeply collaborative and cross-
disciplinary culture that cuts across psychology, psychiatry and neuroscience in three themes that
are linked to life-course (Fig. 1.1). Our strategic growth since 2014 in staff number (56% increase)
and diversity (now 40% female, 11% BAME) and strategic investment received (£257M; 2.5-fold
increase) has shaped and exploited exciting new opportunities in data-driven knowledge,
innovation, translation and impact.




Fig. 1.1: Our integrated life-course approach is underpinned by inter-disciplinary research hubs

1.2 Research and impact strategy
Edinburgh Neuroscience aims to deliver world-class discovery-to-translation research into the
brain and mind across the life-course, which is:
   -   Cross-disciplinary, collaborative, resilient and sustainable
   -   Conducted openly and with the highest standards of ethics and integrity
   -   Influential for the policy and practice of medicine and healthy living across the life-course




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
This research vision is underpinned by three important concepts: i) basic science broadens our
understanding of the brain and underpins advances in treatments; ii) brain disorders do not occur
in isolation from the wider body and are closely linked to developmental, psychological and socio-
cultural factors, often variably affecting different genders and ethnicities; and iii) although brain
conditions/variations across the life-course are distinct, they share core clinical and
neurobiological features and psychosocial influences. For example, dysregulation of the innate
immune response is common to autism spectrum disorders, major mental illness and
neurodegeneration.

These foundational concepts have inspired us to invest in a fluid inter-disciplinary environment
where multiply-affiliated researchers work in hubs led by the science rather than their discipline,
organisational structure or role. These wide-ranging teams — comprising basic, clinical,
psychological and/or translational researchers, as well as health professionals, industrial partners,
students and technicians — are poised to shape, as well as respond rapidly and flexibly to changes
in, the research landscape.

Our strategic aims during this REF period, and the success we have had in achieving these, were:

Grow, strengthen and diversify our research community
Edinburgh Neuroscience has grown substantially since the last REF. We have increased the
number and diversity of staff and students, support for translation and impact, internal and external
funding and engagement (detailed in subsequent Sections). Headlines are:
   -   56% increase in independent researchers including 48 early-career researcher (ECR)
       appointments (42% female, 10% BAME). We also appointed 12 new Chairs (25% female,
       8% BAME)
   -   £27M in successful personal fellowships (31% ECR, 34% female, 7% BAME)
   -   2.5-fold increase in strategic awards, plus £305K internal seedcorn funding to 114
       awardees
   -   three new flagship PhD programmes; £9M from Wellcome (plus £2M from UoE) for
       Translational Neuroscience programme (54 students over 9 intakes, initial award 2016,
       renewal 2020–2024), £450K from Scottish Government for SPRINT-MND/MS programme
       (12 students over 3 intakes, 2017–2019); £2M for Simons Initiative for the Developing Brain
       PhD programme (28 students over 8 years)
   -   12.3FTE new posts in research support: science management, funding specialists, impact,
       commercialisation, information governance, communications, knowledge exchange and
       public engagement


Develop cross-disciplinary teams anchored around major brain conditions across
the life-course
Building on our highly successful model of specialist research hubs, with £135M of external
investment (Section 3.1) we have grown and created additional hubs, bringing our total to 13 (Fig.
1.1). New hubs include (i) £32M Simons Initiative for the Developing Brain; (ii) £23M Edinburgh
node of the UK Dementia Research Institute (UK DRI) and (iii) £58M Edinburgh Dementia
Prevention.



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Inter-disciplinary research membership provides strength in diversity and improved validity of
research by using multiple approaches to a single problem, as well as streamlining discovery-to-
translation pipelines. Furthermore, they provide focus and impetus for researchers, a clear link to
patients and charities and a ‘hook’ for knowledge exchange and public engagement. To ensure
the focus of all our research hubs reflects expressed patient need and public health priorities, we
have embedded engagement with patients, charities and policy-makers into our practices.

The success of our hub model can be evidenced by: (i) additional funding leveraged (Section 3.1),
(ii) sparking and facilitation of innovative and cross-disciplinary work (Fig. 1.2); (iii) opportunities
for funded studentships and ECR mentoring (Section 2); (iv) improved two-way engagement with
patients and charities (Section 4); and (v) the transformational impact that our research is having
on policy, practice and health and welfare outcomes across the UK and beyond (REF3s).




Fig. 1.2: The authorship list on a publication from the Euan MacDonald Centre exemplifies
diversity, inter-disciplinarity and cross-theme collaboration. Green = research theme 2; blue =
research theme 3. Authorship 42% female including first and senior author; 42% BAME


Embed impact as an integral part of the research journey
The research highlighted in our impact case studies has resulted in changes to 58 policy
guidelines, with over £228M a year saved by the NHS and 7 million people reached through
education impact. In this REF period we have evolved our culture to foster impact, through
transformed UoE support units for research grants, translation and commercialisation, clinical
research studies and trials, patient and public engagement (Sections 3.3, 3.4) and by offering
competitive seedcorn funding specifically targeting translation and impact (Section 3.2). We have
employed 1.9FTE impact professionals to proactively identify potential impact from publications
and work one-to-one with academics and research support to drive, deepen and record impact.



                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Assessment of impact is now mandatory in the annual Performance and Development Review for
academics, with metrics recorded systematically in five categories: (i) practice and practitioners;
(ii) policy; (iii) commercialisation and translation; (iv) public, community and patient engagement;
and (v) education. Staff can then be rewarded for achieving impact; for example, the promotion of
Fletcher-Watson to Chair (Section 2.2.1) considered her research on the use of technology by
children with autism, as well as her interactions with Scottish Government, the BBC and the
National Autistic Society to improve education and quality-of-life for these children.

Increase external engagement through research, training and knowledge exchange
New initiatives (detailed in Section 4) include:
   -   International research-led collaboration and investment (e.g. £36M Zhejiang University-
       University of Edinburgh (UoE) Institute; £3.8M Medical Research Council (MRC) funded
       Generation Malawi project; two Fondation Leducq Transatlantic Networks of Excellence
       (€6M each)
   -   Expansion in online postgraduate teaching and CPD programmes (Neuroanatomy,
       Imaging, Stem Cells and Translational Neurology (1,493 students enrolled 2019/20)
   -   New and strengthened relationships with charities and the third sector; our researchers
       have direct involvement with 69 patient-facing charities including Alzheimer’s Society, MS
       Society and Stroke Association, and have established two new charities
   -   Emphasis on inclusion of patients/public throughout the research journey, from focus
       groups and lived-experience panels convened before grant application, to promotion of
       research using web, blogs and podcasts, press and social media


Drive collaborative inter-disciplinary research through infrastructure investments
We have made great strides towards coalescing Edinburgh Neuroscience on three campuses:
Royal Edinburgh Hospital (Psychiatry), George Square (Psychology) and BioQuarter, Edinburgh’s
clinical, research and translation campus (detailed in Section 3). Clinical neuroscience is now co-
located with the new £150M NHS Lothian Department of Clinical Neurosciences and Royal
Hospital for Children and Young People (opened 2020). Basic neurosciences will follow, fuelled
by £12.1M investment in the future Brain-Body Institute.



1.3 Research Themes
Our research is focussed on three themes that span the life-course (Fig. 1.1):

       Theme 1: Neurodevelopment and Neurodiversity (foetal to childhood)
       Theme 2: Mental Health and Mental Wealth (adolescence to early adulthood)
       Theme 3: Ageing, Degeneration and Regeneration (middle to old age)

Our 13 research hubs are centred on one theme but span the other two. Researchers are strongly
encouraged to join any hub that supports and benefits their science; thus, many are members of
more than one.




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

1.3.1 Theme 1: Neurodevelopment and Neurodiversity

                                       Research Strengths
                                        This theme encompasses pre-clinical, clinical and
                                        psychology research to address brain development,
                                        neurodiversity and disorders, and their impact on learning,
                                        education and behaviour (see Fig. 1.3 for key metrics).
                                        Four research hubs underpin this theme. The £32M
                                        Simons Institute for the Developing Brain led by Kind,
                                        integrating 30 Principal Investigators (PIs), aims to
                                        discover mechanisms underlying autism. The £2M
                                        Theirworld Edinburgh Birth Cohort (Section 3.3.3), led by
                                        Boardman (UoA1) as part of the Jennifer Brown Research
                                        Laboratory, with co-Investigators (co-Is) including
                                       Fletcher-Watson, Bastin, Chandran, Chin, is a 25-year
 Fig. 1.3: Theme 1 – key metrics
                                       study of brain health in 400 premature babies. The £5M
Salvesen Mindroom Research Centre, led by Fletcher-Watson, is focussed on research and
practice to benefit children and young people with learning difficulties. The Muir Maxwell Epilepsy
Centre led by Chin investigates the causes of childhood epilepsy and develops new treatments.

Investment in People
New appointments since 2014 include Cobb (molecular neuropathology of neurodevelopmental
disorders), Czopka (oligodendrocyte-neuronal communication), Kyranides (ECR; deviation from
normative development), Wang (learning and memory mechanisms), Brunton (prenatal maternal
stress in foetal brain development), Gillespie-Smith (social and cognitive development), Girard
(social-behavioural development), Menzies (neural correlates of appetite control), Luksys (ECR;
computational mechanisms of learning, memory and decision making); A.Murray (ECR;
developmental aspects of mental health), Obsuth (developmental psychology and
psychopathology) and Sharpe (development of body dissatisfaction across childhood and
adolescence).

Vitality and Sustainability
Fellowships awarded include four Wellcome Investigators (Brophy, R.Morris, Nolan, Cousin), a
Wellcome Senior Research Fellowship (Lyons), a British Academy Newton Advanced Fellowship
(Rabagliati), three Wellcome Sir Henry Dale Fellowships (Osterweil, Rochefort, Surmeli), a
Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC) New Investigator Fellowship
and Alzheimer’s Research UK Senior Fellowship (Wang), an Epilepsy Research UK Fellowship
(Sulser), a Royal Commission 1851 Fellowship (Padamsey) and an Economic and Social
Research Council (ESRC) Open Research Area grant (Chevalier).


1.3.1.1 Neural development, circuit formation and function
Researchers in this sub-theme aim to elucidate how the brain develops, neurons differentiate and
form functioning networks. The fundamental processes targeted include action, perception and
learning.




                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Price and Pratt have found unprecedented subclass diversity in cortical interneurons that is
determined much earlier than previously thought [Science 2018]. Duguid found that cerebellar
interneurons control the activity of Purkinje neurons that underpin simple and complex motor
behaviours [Nat Comm 2016]. Rochefort and Padamsey identified how visual input and
locomotor activity affect the activity of cortical neurons, applying in vivo imaging of mouse visual
cortex [eLife2019]. Using C.elegans, Busch showed that high neural activity accelerates the
decline of cognitive plasticity with age [eLIFE 2020]. Using a Xenopus tadpole model, Zhang
identified a cation current in descending interneurons that is pivotal in the control of locomotor
patterns [Curr Biol 2018]. Nolan and Sürmeli found that specific transcription factors regulate
the differentiation of interneurons in the entorhinal cortex, influencing signal processing during
learning [eLIFE 2020; Neuron 2015].

Investigating the role of neuronal activity and plasticity within networks during development and
how this contributes to autism, Kind, Osterweil, Booker and Wyllie identified hyperinnervation
of dendrites as the underlying mechanism of hyperexcitable circuits in Fragile X patients and
autistic people [Nat Comm 2019a, b; Neuron 2017; Brain 2019]. Cobb develops gene therapy
approaches for monogenetic developmental conditions such as Fragile X and Rett Syndrome and
identified pivotal target binding sites on the MeCP2 protein [Nature 2017].

Grant and Komiyama characterised the synaptome of the mouse and human brain across the
lifespan [Science 2020] and found that areas controlling higher cognitive function contain the
greatest synapse diversity, and mutations causing cognitive disorders reorganise synaptome
maps [Nat Neurosci 2018]. Cousin and Smillie study regulation of synaptic vesicle formation
and identified VAMP4 as essential for activity-dependent endocytosis [Neuron 2015]. Deary
identified genetic loci that influence cognitive function and implicate a role for neurogenesis and
myelination in intelligence [Nat Comm 2018; Mol Psychiatry 2019].

Axonal and network functions are largely determined by the myelination of axons yet many
principles of myelin formation and maintenance are not yet known. Using zebrafish, Lyons
showed electrical activity-dependent myelination [Nat Neurosci 2018] and Czopka identified
functionally distinct subgroups of oligodendrocyte precursors [Nat Neurosci 2020]. ffrench-
Constant showed that oligodendrocytes also responded to the physical cues provided by axon
size [Curr Biol 2015] and Meijer identified transcription factor Zeb2 as essential for peripheral
myelination and nerve repair [Nat Med 2015].

Long-term potentiation has long been recognised as essential for the formation of memories.
R.Morris coined the concept of ‘silent learning’, having found that new memories can be formed
through network computation of dendritic activity in the absence of cell firing [Curr Biol 2018].
Whether everyday events are committed to long-term memory is in part determined by the co-
occurrence of a novel event. Duszkiewicz and R.Morris reported that this novelty is encoded by
TH1-positive neurons in the locus coeruleus [Nature 2016].

Brain function is influenced by hormonal and other signals from the body. Leng showed that touch
promotes inter-female communication via activation of parvocellular oxytocin [Nature Neurosci
2020]. Auyeung showed elevated foetal steroidogenic activity in people later diagnosed with
autism spectrum disorders [Mol Psychiatry 2015]. A.Murray, Booth and Auyeung’s study of
people with ADHD found that females showed an increase in symptoms in adolescence while
males’ symptoms increased throughout childhood [Dev Sci, 2019].


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.3.1.2 Cognitive and social development
This sub-theme comprises researchers concerned with the development of cognitive control,
communication, neurodevelopmental disorders, early infant development and development of
criminality.

Doumas investigates how children and adults represent and use relations to solve problems, and
has developed and tested a computational model of how constituent parts are bound into relational
structures [Phil Trans B, 2020]. Rabagliati investigates how we translate concepts into words
and sentences. His team demonstrated that children prepare responses by predicting what the
other is about to say [Psych Sci 2019].

Chevalier found that increasingly efficient cognitive control during childhood is supported by more
differentiated recruitment of prefrontal cortex as a function of cognitive control demands [Dev Cog
Neurosci 2019]. He also found that 3-year-old children fixated on target objects before they fixated
on cues that indicated how they should act, whereas 12-year-olds and adults fixated on the cues
first, demonstrating a developmental shift in information prioritisation [Dev Sci 2018].

Applied psychologists investigate the basis for abnormal development and precursors of later
mental health difficulties. Girard identified, in a population study, limited positive impacts of
breastfeeding for children’s cognitive and noncognitive development [Pediatrics 2017]. Gillespie-
Smith relates core socio-cognitive characteristics and their impact on wider areas of functioning,
and identified key targets for early intervention [J Child Psychol Psychiatry 2016].

Fletcher-Watson charts psychological development including intervention design and evaluation,
focussing on autism and social cognition. With Boardman (UoA1) she showed in a cohort study of
26,341 Scottish children that neighbourhood deprivation and lower gestational age were
associated with additive risks for speech, language and communication concerns in toddlers
[JAMA Netw Open 2019].

Sharpe identified developmental precursors of emerging eating disorder and depression in
preadolescence linked to negative affect and early body dissatisfaction [J Child Psychol
Psychiatry 2015]. Chan identified key neurophysiological and neurofunctional characteristics
identifying individuals at high risk of depression [J Child Psychol Psychiatry 2015].


1.3.2 Theme 2: Mental Health and Mental Wealth
Research Strengths
This theme unites research into individual differences in personality and cognitive function, risk
factors and disease mechanisms to better understand the behavioural and neurobiological
processes underlying psychological resilience, and psychological and psychiatric risk (see Fig. 1.4
for key metrics). Underpinned by the Centre for Applied Developmental Psychology (Lead:
Williams) and the Sackler Centre for Developmental Psychobiology (Lead: A.Mcintosh), we have
particular strengths in genome-wide meta-analysis in large human cohorts, particularly the world-
leading Lothian Birth Cohort studies that examine individual differences in relation to environment
and genetics, and Generation Scotland, which is uncovering the genetic architecture of depression
(Section 3.3.3).




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                        Investment in People
                                        New appointments since 2014 include Bramley (ECR;
                                        computational models of human learning, problem solving
                                        and intelligence); D.Mirman (neural organisation of
                                        spoken language processing); J.Mirman (social
                                        determinants of health and well-being for vulnerable
                                        populations); Hoffman (processes of semantic cognition),
                                        Silson (ECR; functional organisation of human visual
                                        cortex) and Stanton (cognitive and affective aspects of
                                        close relationship dynamics).

                                        Vitality and Sustainability
   Fig. 1.4: Theme 2 – key metrics     Grants and fellowships awarded include: Wellcome £5M
                                       renewal of Generation Scotland, a 40K-person resource
to study the genetic basis of common complex diseases (Porteous UoA1, Deary, A.McIntosh);
MRC £3.8M for Generation Malawi, a study of family, maternal and childhood mental health
(A.McIntosh, Macbeth, Stewart), a Wellcome Sir Henry Dale Fellowship (Gkogkas), National
Institutes of Health USA (NIH) CReATe Clinical Research Fellowship (McHutchison), Royal
College of Physicians Edinburgh Sim Fellowship (Rooney) and a British Academy/Leverhulme
Senior Research Fellowship (Branigan). Awards include a Philip Leverhulme Prize for
‘Understanding and attributing mind, humanity and morality’ (Loughnan) and a Marie
Skłodowska-Curie Actions Innovative Training Network: COBRA to investigate mechanisms that
allow conversation to unfold (Pickering).


1.3.2.1 Cognitive processing and individual variation
Researchers in this sub-theme study adult cognition and cognitive neuroscience primarily from the
perspective of processing, complementary to other groupings researching development and
decline. The work focusses on language and communication, perception, memory, concept use
and social cognition.

Branigan and Pickering demonstrated that experimental tests of the tendency to repeat linguistic
structure lead to a theory of language representation that is superior to one based on
grammaticality judgements [Behavioral Brain Sci 2017]. The Continuation Task, based on this
research, was developed for teaching English in China, and has reached over 3 million students
[Case Study E:Interactive Alignment]. Such representations help explain how people use
language production to predict what they are going to hear [Psych Bull 2018]. D.Mirman used
imaging and behavioural assessment to dissociate linguistic meaning from form and recognition
from production [Nat Commun 2015]. Silson used fMRI to explain apparent cortical redundancy
in representational distinctions in the visual field [J Neurosci 2015].

Bramley investigates human learning and developed a computational model of causal structure
in which learners represent only a single global hypothesis that they update locally as they gather
evidence [Psych Review 2017]. Hoffman used fMRI to show that the neural correlates of
semantic cognition and its executive control dissociate from the default mode network [Proc Natl
Acad Sci USA 2015], informing a unifying, neurally plausible computational model of normal and
impaired semantic cognition [Psychol Rev 2018].


                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Using novel psychophysical methods, R.McIntosh showed that the tendency for people with least
skill to overestimate most (Dunning-Kruger effect) is not driven by metacognitive differences, but
by statistical artefacts [J Exp Psychol Gen 2019]. Logie found strong dual-task and suppression
costs that helped adjudicate among theories of working memory [J Exp Psychol Learn Mem
Cogn 2018].

Stanton found effects of positive intimacy relationship experiences on individuals with attachment
avoidance [J Pers Soc Psychol 2017], suggesting simple techniques to support relationships.
Templeton showed that disgust (in response to smelling sweat) is attenuated for people with a
shared group identity and affects their willingness to interact [Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2016].

A large group of researchers studies the psychology of personality and other individual
differences. Luciano discovered genes and biological pathways underlying neuroticism [Nat
Genet 2017]. Mottus studied twin pairs and found that personality nuances contribute to individual
difference and prediction of outcomes [J Pers Soc Psychol 2017]. Weiss’ work on non-human
primates showed association between specific personality traits and longevity in chimpanzees,
with higher ‘agreeableness’ related to long life in males [eLife 2018].

Cox conducted the largest single-sample study of structural and functional sex differences in the
human brain [Nat Commun 2016], and Davies reported the world’s largest genetics study of
cognitive function and educational attainment, identifying genome-wide genetic variants
associated with reasoning and cognitive processing speed [Mol Psychiatry 2016]. Harris was
the first to map the extent of pleiotropy between cognitive function and physical/mental health [Mol
Psychiatry 2016]. Bates found an interaction between genetics, socioeconomic status and
intelligence/attainment scores, which is pronounced in the US but not in Europe or Australia
[Psychol Sci 2016].

Stone and Carson (both NHS) are world-leaders in the study of functional neurological disorders
(Sections 4.1.3, 4.1.4 and Case Study D:Functional Neurological Disorders). They were co-Is
on the Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) for Adults with Dissociative Seizures trial (King’s
College London-led, 2014–2018), which showed that while CBT did not reduce seizure frequency,
it did confer improvements in secondary outcomes such as quality-of-life and psychosocial
functioning [Lancet Psychiatry 2020, PMID:32445688].


1.3.2.2 Risk factors in mental health
The span of mental health and resilience research within this sub-theme extends from early-life to
adolescence, adulthood and later life.

Lawrie, Whalley and Chandran found dysregulation of key pathways controlling development
and morphogenesis in oligodendrocytes derived from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from
people carrying a genetic anomaly that increases the risk of schizophrenia [Mol Psychiatry 2019].
Lawrie probed the impact of genetic risk factors on brain structure and function in schizophrenia
and related disorders [Biol Psychiatry 2015]. Owens employed human imaging to explore
correlations between grey matter loss and negative symptoms in learning-disabled adolescents at
risk of psychosis [Br J Psychiatry 2016]. Physicist Bastin develops magnetic resonance imaging
(MRI) methodology that is applied to longitudinal studies of the brain’s white matter structure
across the life-course, including the influence of conditions such as schizophrenia [Neuroimage
2018].

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


A.McIntosh applies genome-wide meta-analysis approaches to large human cohorts such as
Generation Scotland to uncover the genetic and structural architecture of depression, identifying
the role of prefrontal brain regions in depression [Nat Neurosci 2019]. He is co-I on a €6M EU
Horizon 2020 programme (Lead: Oslo) to predict comorbid cardiovascular disease in individuals
with mental health disorders. Whalley uses the latest neuroimaging and genomic approaches
(genetic, epigenetic and multimodal imaging) to explore mechanisms underlying psychiatric
disorders [Biol Psychiatry 2019; Transl Psychiatry 2020].

Williams, funded by the SPCA and DEFRA, showed attachment to pets was associated with a
beneficial effect on quality of life of adolescents [Attachment and Human Dev 2017]. Funded by
National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) and MRC (£4M) Schwannauer used machine
learning to develop prognostic prediction models for people with first-episode psychosis [Lancet
Digit Health, 2019]. J.Mirman conducted randomised controlled trials of low-intensity
interventions targeting adolescent risk-taking, demonstrating a reduction of harmful behaviours in
relation to driving performance as well as sexual behaviours and alcohol use [JAMA Netw Open,
2019]. Quayle studies psychological factors related to online sexual exploitation of children and
young people. Three studies on indecent images of children led to the joint coordination of a G8
meeting plus World Health Organiation (WHO) and United Nations (UN) guidance on technology-
mediated sexual crimes [Child Abuse Review, 2018].

1.3.3 Theme 3: Ageing, Degeneration and Regeneration
                                       Research Strengths
                                     This theme integrates laboratory, epidemiological and
                                     clinical research to understand the pathobiology of
                                     disorders of the ageing brain and its protection and
                                     regeneration. Key disease areas include cerebrovascular
                                     disease, motor neuron disease (MND), multiple sclerosis
                                     (MS) and the dementias (see Fig. 1.5 for key metrics). The
                                     theme includes the new £23M MRC UK DRI
                                     (Hardingham), the renewed National Creutzfeldt-Jakob
                                     Disease (CJD) Research and Surveillance Unit (£11M;
                                     Smith), MS Society Edinburgh Centre for MS Research
                                     (£4M for two renewals; Chandran, ffrench-Constant),
                                     Euan MacDonald Centre for MND Research including the
    Fig. 1.5: Theme 3 – key metrics MND-SMART platform trial (£4.2M; Chandran), Row
                                     Fogo Centre for Research into Ageing and the Brain
(£0.9M; Wardlaw), Edinburgh Dementia Prevention (£58M; C.Ritchie), Alzheimer Scotland
Dementia Research Centre (£0.8M; Starr (deceased), Russ (NHS)) and Anne Rowling
Regenerative Neurology Clinic (£15M second donation; Chandran).

Investment in People
New appointments since 2014 include Crow (Chair of Genomic Medicine); Priller (UK DRI, Chair
of Brain Inflammation and Repair); Diaz-Castro (ECR, function and dysfunction of the blood-brain
barrier), Durrant (ECR, synaptic pathology of Alzheimer’s disease); Gan (ECR, neural circuit
dynamics in dementia); Selvaraj (ECR, mechanisms of selective vulnerability in motor neurons);
Breen (ECR, circadian rhythm disruption in Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s); Pal (clinical trials in
neurodegenerative disorders).

                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Vitality and Sustainability
In addition to the hubs mentioned above, significant awards include: £7.5M from Dementias
Platform UK (Wardlaw, Chandran, Deary), Wellcome Investigator (ffrench-Constant),
Wellcome Senior Clinical Fellowship (Hunt), Wellcome Clinical Career Development Fellowship
(Breen), European Research Council (ERC) Consolidator Award (Spires-Jones), UK DRI
Momentum Award (Priller), two Chief Scientist Office Senior Clinical Fellowships (Mahad,
Whiteley), Alzheimer’s Research UK Senior Research Fellowship (Fowler), Race Against
Dementia Dyson Fellowship (Durrant), Daphne Jackson Trust Research Fellowship (James),
Stroke Association Clinical Lectureship (Mair) and Postdoctoral Fellowship (Wiseman), £0.5M
Chief Scientist Office SPRINT-MND/MS five-HEI PhD programme (Chandran).

1.3.3.1 Neuronal, glial and vascular interaction
Although the clinical expression of neurological disease reflects dysfunction and/or loss of neural
circuits, the underlying pathobiology is often one of failed brain homeostatic mechanisms and
maladaptive responses of neurogliovascular cell types. Accordingly, this cluster unites world-
leading expertise in the biology of the three principal components of the brain: neurons,
vasculature and glia, to better understand the cellular autonomy of neurological disease and its
potential regeneration. Priller showed spatial and temporal heterogeneity of mouse and human
microglia including in MS tissue [Nature 2019]. ffrench-Constant and Jaekel used single nucleus
RNA to show both interspecies difference and oligodendrocyte heterogeneity in MS [Nat Med
2018; Nature 2019]. Diaz-Castro identified astrocyte heterogeneity in Huntington’s disease [Sci
Transl Med 2019]. Wardlaw showed that endothelial dysfunction is a reversible cause of white
matter pathology in a model of small vessel disease [Sci Transl Med 2018]. Hardingham showed
that neuronal activity controls astrocyte gene expression [Nat Commun 2017]. Gillingwater
showed widespread vascular abnormalities in spinal muscular atrophy [Ann Neurol 2016] and
Miron found that targeting pro-inflammatory microglia promotes regenerative remyelination [Nat
Neurosci 2019].

Edinburgh Neuroscience has a long-established record in human neurovascular imaging research
and large multi-national clinical trials. Wardlaw, Dennis and Sandercock showed that MRI is not
cost-effective for secondary stroke prevention after a transient ischaemic attack or minor stroke
[Ann Neurol 2014, PMID:24085376]. Wardlaw and colleagues previously demonstrated that
computerised tomography (CT) scanning was the most cost-effective; this has changed guidelines
and clinical practice internationally (10% increase in UK stroke patients receiving an immediate
CT scan 2015–2019), and is estimated to result in 42,000 more quality-adjusted life-years in the
UK, reducing the cost of stroke to the NHS by £1.1–2.2 billion per year [Case Study H:Stroke
imaging].

Dennis showed the benefit of intermittent pneumatic leg compression after stroke to prevent deep
vein thrombosis. This is now embedded in clinical guidelines and practice and is estimated to save
786 UK lives per year [Lancet Neurol 2014; Case Study F:Intermittent Pneumatic
Compression]. Mair showed that pre-hospital administration of glyceryl trinitrate by ambulance
crews in acute stroke did not improve functional outcomes [Lancet 2019]. Salman showed in the
PATCH and RESTART trials that antiplatelet therapy but not platelet infusion is beneficial in the
long-term management of intracerebral haemorrhage [Lancet 2014, 2016, 2019; Lancet Neurol
2019]. The finding that survivors of brain haemorrhage need not stop taking antiplatelet drugs is
expected to have widespread clinical benefit. Whiteley, Sandercock showed that irrespective of

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
age, alteplase significantly improves stroke outcome if delivered within 5 hours of stroke onset.
This research has led to 80,000 more people globally benefitting from reduced disability and better
quality-of-life after acute stroke [Lancet 2104; Lancet Neurology 2016a, b; Case Study
B:Alteplase]. Extending the methodological principles and know-how from large-scale stroke
trials has led to innovation in pragmatic trials of repurposed medicines. Chandran found no benefit
of three repurposed oral medicines for progressive MS in the MS-SMART multi-arm trial [Lancet
Neurology 2020]. Dennis found no benefit of fluoxetine after stroke [Lancet 2019]. C.Ritchie
leads an EU-Pharma consortium that has established the methodological and outcomes
framework for early intervention multi-centre trials for dementia [Alzheimers Dement 2017,
PMID:28365321].

Our expertise in large-scale, multi-centre clinical trials has resulted in Sandercock chairing the
independent Data Monitoring Committee of the RECOVERY trial, the world’s largest randomised
controlled trial of treatments for COVID-19, coordinated from the University of Oxford. This led to
a change in intensive care treatment for COVID patients worldwide.

1.3.3.2 Neurodegeneration and repair
The relationship between synaptic pathology, neuronal loss and function remains understudied.
Exploiting patient cohorts, accelerated brain tissue retrieval and state-of-the-art quantitative
microscopy Smith showed that prefrontal cortical synapse loss is associated with cognitive decline
in MND [Acta Neuropath 2018]. Spires-Jones showed region-specific depletion of synaptic
mitochondria in Alzheimer’s brains [Acta Neuropath 2018] and Gillingwater showed no loss of
the neuromuscular synapse in patients with cancer cachexia [J Clin Invest 2020].

Edinburgh Neuroscience hosts the £11M Department of Health National CJD Research and
Surveillance Unit that anchors a range of prion-based research. Findings, including Knight’s
development of a new diagnostic blood test for presymptomatic and symptomatic variant CJD
[Science Transl Med 2016], feed into public health policy-making. The group has demonstrated
negligible transmission risk associated with specific areas of clinical blood use, which has resulted
in a change in UK and Irish laws. This has dramatically increased the number of permitted blood
donors and the availability of plasma and pooled platelets, with estimated savings to the NHS of
£814M over a 50-year period [Case Study J:vCJD surveillance]. Green has extended her novel
RT-QuIC assay for variant CJD diagnosis to alpha-synuclein detection to differentiate uncertain
cases of Parkinsonism [Ann Neurol 2016, 2019]. Manson showed that misfolded prion protein
alone is insufficient for neurodegeneration [PLoS Biology 2016].

In addition to rodent models, Edinburgh Neuroscience has invested heavily in a suite of
experimental systems including C.elegans, zebrafish, large animal and human iPSC platforms for
discovery and screening (Section 3.4). Doitsidou identified a probiotic bacillus that protects
against alpha-synuclein aggregation in C.elegans [Cell Reports 2020]. Using zebrafish, Sieger
showed that neoplastic cells hijack endogenous neuron-microglial signalling pathways to promote
proliferation [eLife 2019] and Becker found that Wnt signalling controls pro-regenerative Collagen
XII in spinal cord regeneration [Nat Commun 2017]. Lyons, in collaboration with Biogen, used
an in vivo zebrafish screen to identify novel chemical regulators of myelination [eLife 2018].
Selvaraj found C9ORF72 mutation-dependent upregulation of GluA1 in patient iPSC-derived
motor neurons [Nat Commun 2018] and Chandran also used a human platform to identify
autophagy-inducing drugs that promote TDP43 turnover and cell survival [Nat Chem Biol 2014].



                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Combining machine learning and artificial intelligence approaches with big data — pre-clinical and
clinical — Macleod has championed structured and systematic analysis of existing research to
reduce translational failure of laboratory studies and drive research improvement [Lancet 2014;
Case Study G:Rigour]. Pal used the National MND Research and Care Cohort to define the
genetic epidemiology of MND-associated variants in the Scottish population [Neurobiol Aging
2017]. Muniz-Terrera demonstrated the feasibility and benefit of conducting analysis across
multiple international studies to show that education can delay cognitive decline in later life
[Alzheimers Dement 2018], and with MacLullich demonstrated at the population level that
delirium adds independently and multiplicatively to the pathologic processes of classic dementia
[JAMA Psychiatry 2017]. MacLullich has developed and evaluated the 4AT test for delirium,
now the most-used clinical tool for delirium assessment in the NHS [Case Study A:4AT Delirium
Assessment Tool].

Abrahams and Bak devised and validated a new cognitive and behavioural tool for MND patients,
the Edinburgh Cognitive ALS Screen (ECAS), which has been adopted internationally as the
benchmark for evaluating cognition in MND [Case Study C:ECAS]. Hunt identified a new side-
effect of interferon beta treatment in MS, thrombolytic microangiopathy (TMA) [New Engl J Med
2014]. This observation has led to a warning on the drug’s safety sheet, and all patients taking
high-dose interferon beta are now monitored for early-warning signs of TMA [Case Study I:TMA].

1.4 Ethical Open Research
Edinburgh Neuroscience is committed to the highest ethical standards in the planning, conduct,
analysis and dissemination of research. Macleod is the University’s Academic Lead for Research
Integrity and Improvement. Under the umbrella of the University Research Ethics and Integrity
Review Group, Edinburgh Neuroscience assists researchers with the planning and
implementation of methodologically robust, ethically approved research and driving improvements
in research design, data management and publishing. Moreover, our extensive engagement with
key stakeholders, especially patient bodies (Section 4), is a key element of our ethical, open and
inclusive research strategy.

We are committed to helping researchers navigate the research regulatory landscape as well as
the development and implementation of guidelines, such as ARRIVE 2.0 (animal research). For
example Calia, E.Grant (UoA1) and colleagues developed a Global Research Ethics Toolkit
designed to support researchers address the ethical challenges in global health contexts such as
COVID-19.

Building on our experience of human clinical research [Salman, Macleod; Lancet series on
Research Waste, 2014, PMID:24411643], Edinburgh Neuroscience is a leader in identifying
priority areas for improvement in pre-clinical and in psychological research. Pernet contributed to
the Open Science Collaboration: Psychological Science Reproducibility Project [Science 2015]
and participates in the #EEGManyLabs Study. Under the editorship of Della Sala, Cortex became
the first journal to establish ‘Exploratory Reports’ and ‘Verification Reports’ article types: novel
publishing formats to advance Open Science. Macleod and Sena (UoA1) established
CAMARADES, a collaborative group (six global national coordinating centres on three continents)
pioneering meta-analysis and systematic review to assess reproducibility in pre-clinical studies.
Macleod co-leads The UK Reproducibility Network, a peer-led consortium investigating robust
research; Macleod and Sena’s work has influenced major publishers, including Nature Publishing
Group, to implement strict criteria for reporting study methods, funding bodies to examine

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
experimental design and pharmaceutical companies to define a shared quality management
framework [Case Study G:Rigour].

Edinburgh Neuroscience is committed to Open Science aiming to increase the proportion of (i)
conducted research that is published, and (ii) published work that is open access. We have gone
above and beyond the HEFCE Open Access policy since its implementation in April 2016: 95%
(3886 of 4086) of the peer-reviewed articles published by our constituent Schools have been made
compliant in our institutional repository, PURE.

Edinburgh Neuroscience supported the launch of the Edinburgh ReproducibiliTEA Open Science
Journal Club, organised by two PhD students. This group meets monthly, with 70+ attendees, and
has a monthly ‘Open Research@EN’ corner in our weekly News email (reach >1,500).

                             Two new fully open access journals have been launched under the
                             inaugural editorships of Spires-Jones (Brain Communications; Fig.
                             1.6) and Sena (UoA1; BMJ Open Science). In 2016, Spires-Jones
                             published findings from a survey of ECRs on the challenges of
                             making publications and data open [Eur J Neurosci 2016,
                             PMID:26950407]. Rochefort has co-developed two free, open-
                             source software tools: FOCIA (Fast, Open, Cellular Imaging Analysis
                             Toolbox) and FISSA (a neuropil decontamination toolbox for calcium
                             imaging signals); Luksys co-created the COSMOS platform
                             (COgnitive Science Metrics Online Survey) [J Tech Behav Sci,
                             2018, doi.org/10.1007/s41347-018-0071-5], a free, online research
                             tool for assessment of cognition.
 Fig. 1.6: Cover of Brain
 Communications

1.5 Future Strategy
Our aim is to continue to grow excellence and impact in neuroscience, psychiatry and psychology
with a focus on driving data-driven innovation and translational inter-disciplinary research across
the life-course, and specifically:

1) To better understand and interrogate whole-body influences on brain health across the life-
   course, we will create a Brain-Body Institute. This will break down traditional barriers by
   coalescing into shared research space expertise in vascular science, metabolism and
   inflammation along with brain sciences so as to integrate the genetics, 'omics, imaging and
   clinical phenotyping skills of each discipline.

2) Edinburgh Neuroscience will capitalise on the opportunities offered by the £661M Edinburgh
   City Region Deal (2018), the vision of which is to make Edinburgh the data capital of the world,
   by working with data informatics expertise and the NHS-linked dataloch of the new Usher
   Institute building (£68M, opening 2023) to exploit big data collected across the life-course to
   examine the normal, ageing and diseased brain.

3) To address the mounting global burden of psychological ill-health in young people, we will
   establish a Centre for Understanding Risk and Resilience underlying psychiatric disorders.
   The Centre will leverage human population-based prospective longitudinal studies alongside


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   experimental research to create a centre of international excellence in data-driven biological
   psychiatry and global mental health.

4) To examine the individual, family and societal triggers and drivers of mental health and ill-
   health, we will establish a University-wide inter-disciplinary Mental Health and Society
   Network that integrates humanities and arts alongside clinical practitioners. The network will
   develop and implement new cross-cutting preventative strategies and influence policy more
   effectively.

5) To train and promote the entrepreneurial skills of our postgraduate students and ECRs, we
   will form an Edinburgh Neuroscience Innovation Cluster. An explicit focus will be growing
   new company formation, increasing patent filing and establishing strategic partnerships with
   industry.


2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy
Our staffing strategy is centred on recruiting, growing
and retaining the best researchers, while addressing
structural barriers to promote a diverse and inclusive
environment.

We follow the key principles of the ‘Concordat to
Support the Career Development of Researchers’
(UoE is a signatory) and have the following aims:
   -   To make new appointments that further an
       area of strategic importance and promote new
       collaborations, with a focus on expanding the      Fig. 2.1: The make-up of our research
       ECR community                                      community and our new researchers
   -   To actively encourage diversity in all dimensions among new appointments and throughout
       our community
   -   To support academic staff at all career stages and encourage their development towards
       open-ended academic posts or along parallel career trajectories, recognising outreach,
       impact and other activities allied to the research in promotions panels
   -   To employ talented technical and professional services staff to underpin our aims, and to
       support these staff in their careers and personal development

2.2 Recruitments, promotions and career development

2.2.1 Independent researchers, including ECRs
The 201 researchers returned here (189FTE) represent a 56% increase since 2014 (129 were
returned). Of this increase, 61 represent new recruitment to UoE, while the remaining 17 represent
internal career progression (Fig. 2.1). 24% of our researchers are clinically active.




                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Fig. 2.2: Internal career progression: ECR to Personal Chair in Developmental Psychology

Overall, 27% of our researchers are at professorial level, including 12 new Personal Chairs. New
recruitments were: Crow (neuroinflammation), Priller (innate immunity/psychiatry), K.Ritchie
(cognition in pre-clinical dementia) and Waldman (structural and positron emission tomography
[PET] imaging); eight were internal promotions (Chin, Duguid, Fletcher-Watson, Hunt, Lyons,
Mason, Nolan, Spires-Jones). Career trajectories of two representative ‘case studies’ are
illustrated in Figs. 2.2 and 2.3, both highlighting membership of multiple research hubs and
external engagement activities that contributed to promotion, but reflecting different routes
(internal promotion versus external fellowships).




Fig. 2.3: Career progression by fellowships: Clinical Fellow to Personal Chair in
Neuroinflammation Medicine

24% of our researchers are ECRs. Among the 29 Chancellor’s Fellows and Edinburgh Scientific
Academic track (ESAT) tenure-track scientists in REF2014, 14 have now transitioned to open-
ended contracts at UoE, with six promoted to Reader (Auyeung, Chan, Chevalier, Luciano,
Mottus, Rabagliati) and two to Professor (Fletcher-Watson, Spires-Jones). A further 16 tenure-
track appointments have been made (50% female, 31% BAME). Five clinical academic ECRs are

                                                                                        Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
on the Wellcome-funded Edinburgh Clinical Academic Track (ECAT) or Scottish Clinical Research
Excellence Development Scheme (SCREDS) (Fernandes, Gregory, Marwick, Romaniuk,
Woodfield), which provide an integrated training and career development pathway to facilitate a
senior clinical academic appointment and a clinical Certificate of Completion of Training.

Some ECRs have achieved prominent PI roles within our research hubs: Spires-Jones is a Group
Leader in the MRC UK DRI at Edinburgh, Osterweil and Rochefort are leads in the Simons
Initiative for the Developing Brain and Fletcher-Watson leads the Salvesen Mindroom Research
Centre.

Since 2014, our researchers have been awarded 32 external fellowships (31% to ECRs, 22% to
clinical, 34% to female, 22% to BAME researchers). Non-clinical fellowships include eight
Wellcome Investigator/Senior Fellowship (Brophy, Cousin, Duguid, ffrench-Constant, Lyons,
R.Morris, Nolan, Osterweil), four Wellcome Sir Henry Dale Fellowships (Gkogkas, Osterweil,
Rochefort, Surmeli), four from major charities such as Alzheimer’s Research UK or Stroke
Association (Durrant, Fowler, Wang, Wiseman), a British Academy Leverhulme Senior
Research Fellowship (Branigan) and a British Academy Newton Advanced Fellowship
(Rabigliata). Clinical fellowships include a Wellcome Senior Clinical Fellowship (Hunt), two Chief
Scientist Office Senior Clinical Fellowships (Mahad, Whiteley), a Stroke Association Senior
Clinical Lectureship (Mair) and a Wellcome Clinical Research Training Fellowship (Breen).

2.2.2 Postdoctoral researchers
In July 2020, we had 177 non-independent postdocs within Edinburgh Neuroscience. A further 17
transitioned to independent status during REF period, remaining at UoE, including Hampton (who
started our online MSc in Stem Cells and Translational Neurology), Marwick (who was a PsySTAR
PhD student and is now a SCREDS Clinical Lecturer alongside Gregory and Romaniuk), Rooney
(who holds a Royal College of Physicians Edinburgh Sim Fellowship) and Selvaraj who was
appointed Chancellor’s Fellow.

2.2.3 Professional services staff
Since 2014 we have substantially enhanced and broadened our senior professional services staff
and now have a team of 12.3FTE to support strategy, impact, commercialisation, communications
and public engagement. We have increased the Edinburgh Neuroscience Scientific Coordinator
role and employed an Assistant. Other new posts include: Science Manager to oversee strategy,
recording and reporting; two Impact Officers to promote an impact culture and guide our
researchers in achieving impact; a Business Development Executive who supports industry
engagement and commercialisation; a Knowledge Exchange Manager and a Communications
Manager.

We often partner professional services teams with an academic lead to bring a different
perspective: positions include Data and Open Research Director (Macleod) and Academic Lead
for Public Engagement (Rhodes).

2.2.4 Postgraduate students
The number of doctoral degrees awarded this REF period has increased to an average of 49.5
per year (38.4 in REF2014) and, in a major change, since 2019 our flagship PhD programmes
have been able to offer full funding for overseas students (including low-and-middle-income
countries).

                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


We have created two new fully funded PhD programmes led from Edinburgh Neuroscience,
including one with UoE’s new 4-year ‘PhD with integrated study’ model:
   -   Wellcome 4-year PhD Programme in Translational Neuroscience (Director: ffrench-
       Constant then Lawrie): 24 basic science students (4 intakes, 2016–2019; £4.5M, £1M
       from UoE) plus successful renewal for an additional 30 students (5 intakes 2020–2024;
       £6.4M, £1M from UoE)
   -   Chief Scientist Office (Scottish Government) SPRINT-MND/MS PhD Programme
       (Director: Chandran): pan-Scotland, involving five University partners: Aberdeen, Dundee,
       Edinburgh, Glasgow, St Andrews (12 students, 3 intakes, 2017–2019; £0.45M)
Our researchers actively contribute to four other flagship programmes:
   -   MRC Precision Medicine: 23 students awarded to UoA4 researchers in REF period
   -   Advanced Care Research Centre PhD Academy: 12 students per year, 6 UoA4
       supervisors in pool (new in 2020)
   -   Wellcome-funded ECAT programme: 9 students awarded to UoA4 researchers
   -   BBSRC-funded EASTBIO programme:16 students awarded to UoA4 researchers
In addition, our Schools and research hubs offer PhD and doctorate schemes:
   -   Simons Foundation-funded Simons Initiative for the Developing Brain (new; 28 students,
       £2M, 2018–2026); Euan MacDonald Centre for MND Research (10 students, £750K);
       Rowling Scholars clinician-scientist PhD scheme (new; 7 students, £600K)
   -   PhD in Psychology (17 students per year, £940K) and Clinical Psychology (11 per year,
       £360K)
   -   NHS Education for Scotland-funded three-year Doctorate in Clinical Psychology (42 per
       year)
We have expanded our postgraduate taught portfolio with a new online Masters in Stem Cells
and Translational Neurology (Directors: Hampton, Chandran; 12 students a year). This
complements our on-campus Masters by Research in Integrative Neuroscience (Director: Becker)
which has seen a 62% increase in enrolment since REF2014 (now capped at 42 students a year),
our MSc in Applied Psychology for Children and Young People (30 students per year) and five
Psychology-themed MSc programmes (70 students per year).

2.3 Supporting our staff

2.3.1 Support for career development
Edinburgh Neuroscience staff have access to an extensive suite of career and personal
development opportunities, and support provided by UoE (Sections 2.3.3, 3.2 and REF5a, 3a,b).

All staff (including postdocs, technicians and professional services) have a mandatory
Performance and Development Review annually, which provides an opportunity for both staff
member and line manager to reflect on achievements, training and career development
aspirations.




                                                                                        Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
A one-stop-shop for staff and students’ training and career development is provided by the UoE
Institute of Academic Development (IAD). A comprehensive portfolio of free courses and
workshops, mapped against the UK’s Researcher Development Framework, allows staff to
evaluate their current skillset and plan their personal development. Additionally, IAD staff offer
one-to-one consultations with a professional careers advisor.

Academic staff with >3 years’ service can request sabbatical leave on full pay, relieving them of
administrative and teaching duties and providing space for further developing their research (33
have taken this opportunity).

The staff Mentoring Connections programme provides a platform for all staff to seek support and
motivation over an extended period. Local Mentoring Champions advocate and promote
mentoring as a positive development tool.

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic UoE has supported staff with home-working and caring
responsibilities, including flexible working hours and University-wide respite days. Extensive
measures were implemented to enable researchers to return to laboratories as soon as permitted.
The disproportionate career impact on fixed-term staff was recognised: formalised ways to
quantify disruption were implemented and ECRs, postdocs and final-year postgraduates were
given priority in terms of access to labs and facilities, technical support and seedcorn funding.

2.3.2 Support for funding and impact
Edinburgh Neuroscience, in conjunction with Edinburgh Research Office and Edinburgh
Innovations, prides itself on providing start-to-finish grant and fellowship support. This starts with
collating relevant opportunities, providing funder intelligence and analysis of previous success
rates, moves to help with costings and bid preparation to internal senior peer review to extensive
interview preparation and mock interviews. Unsuccessful applications are discussed with a senior
colleague and redirected/shaped where appropriate.

Focussed support at career transition points is particularly beneficial, so provision of opportunities
has been a strategic priority. UoE and Edinburgh Neuroscience provide a portfolio of seedcorn
funding schemes targeted at different career stages (Section 3.2), which prioritise securing pilot
data to support substantive grant and fellowship applications and developing impact. Of the
awards made in the RS Macdonald scheme, 43% were to female researchers and 37% to
ECRs/postdocs, while 60% of Neuroresearchers Fund awardees were female (scheme is for
ECRs). Finally, 30% of the RS Macdonald fund is reserved for postdoctoral applicants.

2.3.3 Training
In conjunction with the UoE IAD, Information Services and Research Data Services we offer a full
spectrum of training opportunities in research and related transferable skills.
Skills-based initiatives include:
Management and supervisory skills: UoE offers three levels of leadership and management
programmes to cater for aspiring, established and senior leaders; PIs are required to attend the
1-day workshop ‘Managing your Research Group’, which focusses on the people-management
aspects of the role. PhD supervisors must complete initial training, including mental health first-
aid training, and must refresh it every 5 years. ECRs and senior postdocs are included as assistant
supervisors on our PhD programmes, where they are paired with experienced supervisors and

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
receive bespoke training. Postdocs and ECRs are actively encouraged and supported to supervise
short duration (10 week–6 month) research projects undertaken by BSc and MSc students.

Commercialisation and industry engagement: Our community has a dedicated Business
Development Executive for Neuroscience, who provides specialised advice and contacts for
developing partnerships with industry and venture capital, plus assistance with patent-filing, new
company formation and consultancy. Since 2017, nine researchers have held partnerships worth
£9M with 13 industrial companies (63% increase on REF2014) while 51 (33% female, 8% BAME)
have held 358 consultancies with 120 companies, worth £3.6M.

Patient and public engagement: The Edinburgh Neuroscience Scientific Coordinator, with
the Edinburgh Neuroscience Academic Lead for Public Engagement (Rhodes), UoE Public
Engagement with Research Manager and College Communications team, collates and promotes
public engagement opportunities and works with researchers to devise, conduct and evaluate
activities, in alignment with UoE strategy (See REF5a 2e).

                                                  We have strong connections with patient groups
                                                  (Section 4.1.4). Many of our non-clinical students
                                                  and postdocs will have never met people living
                                                  with the particular condition they are researching;
                                                  we therefore invite students to sit in on clinics and
                                                  listen to patients at focus groups. They are
                                                  encouraged to take part in Open Evenings (e.g.
                                                  twice-yearly at the Anne Rowling Clinic), small-
                                                  group patient:scientist exchanges, present their
                                                  work at patient support groups, and devise
                                                  creative ways to enthuse the public about their
   Fig. 2.4: Euan MacDonald Centre PhD
   students talk to a local football team about   research to community fundraisers and at science
   their work                                     festivals (Fig. 2.4).

International experience: The Centre for Developmental Synaptopathies at InStem,
Bangalore (Associate Directors: Chandran, Kind), provided opportunities for PhD students and
postdocs to work alongside researchers from this jointly managed centre. Seven students have
each spent >6 months in India, alongside four postdocs from Edinburgh who established research
techniques there. Complementing this, 17 Indian PhD students and postdocs have spent time in
Edinburgh. Our partnership with Brain Centre Rudolf Magnus has funded 30 PhD students to visit
Utrecht for workshops and lab visits.

Other initiatives are aimed at particular career stages:

Postdoctoral support: Postdoc societies provide networking / peer-support and training (grant
writing, publishing, engagement and career paths) and educational retreats at the UoE Firbush
field station in the Highlands. We promote postdoc ‘visibility’ through individual web profiles,
external communications and leadership roles in the research hubs, such as co-I status or
managing events and chairing academic sessions.

Postgraduate support: Students benefit from dedicated Postgraduate Administrators to
oversee progression and provide pastoral support, plus a PhD Thesis Committee, which meets at


                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
least annually and is chaired by an academic unrelated to the research project. PhD students are
encouraged to present their work at scientific meetings (e.g. Neuroscience Day, Scottish
Neuroscience Group, School-level and research hub meetings and Away Days) as well as
participate in the University ‘3-minute thesis’ competitions (in 2018, student Owen James won the
UK final with his one-slide talk ‘Human Myelin in a Dish’). Students are encouraged to undertake
paid undergraduate demonstrating and tutoring up to 9 hours a week, and to apply for
postgraduate teaching contracts.

To prepare for life post-PhD, we have developed a
portfolio of activities that not only look at academic
careers but also explore other career paths, e.g. our
annual Autumn School for PhD students, ‘Beyond a
PhD’ webinar series, talks by alumni and transferable
skills workshops. Four students have undertaken paid
internships with the Scottish or UK Government,
contributing to policy research (Fig. 2.5) and the
‘Violence in the Scottish Crime and Justice Survey’. The
Wellcome-funded PhD programmes now provide post-
PhD transition funding, whose contributions UoE has
matched.
Technician and facilities support: Technical
expertise and facilities are vital for our research
programmes. UoE has instigated initiatives to provide      Fig 2.5: A PhD student’s internship
support and career development for technicians             resulted      in   her     writing    a
                                                           ‘POSTNOTE’ on Autism for the UK
(REF5a, 3d), including a newsletter with special issues
                                                           Parliament
related to COVID-19 planning. The Core Facility Staff
Network, initiated in July 2018, comprises managers from the 26 College core facilities,
technicians, technologists, researchers and administrators. Its intentions are to share best practice
and promote the four pillars of the Technician Commitment (career development, recognition,
visibility, sustainability). Among its achievements, the network has published a ‘fair publication
policy’ (2020) to recognise the contribution of technicians in authorship lists, which Edinburgh
Neuroscience has adopted (e.g. see Fig. 1.2), and facilitated professional registration of 10 staff.

2.3.4 Communities
A cornerstone of the Edinburgh Neuroscience philosophy is that we are — from final year
undergraduates to Professors, and across research themes — a single community.

This strong sense of community is anchored in our cross-disciplinary approach to research (32%
of outputs submitted are inter-disciplinary), and reinforced by our bespoke website (average 90K
hits a year), weekly email digests (distributed to >1,500 people) covering everything including
successes, funding opportunities, jobs and events.




                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                                  Collaboration is fostered via our cross-community training
                                  activities, our PhD programme retreats at the Firbush field
                                  station (Fig. 2.6) and our annual ‘Neuroscience Day’ networking
                                  event (c.300 attendees, 70 posters, talks across all career
                                  stages, plus external Annual Distinguished Lecture) following
                                  which 29% of attendees report starting new collaborations
                                  (Section 4.1.1).

                                  Fig. 2.6: Translational Neuroscience
                                  PhD student retreat at Firbush



2.4 Supporting Equality and Diversity
UoE and Edinburgh Neuroscience are committed to promoting equality and diversity. Our
community is both global and diverse and this enrichment has increased since REF2014. The 201
researchers returned here:
   -   Come from 25 different countries with 34% non-UK, an increase that has been maintained
       from REF2014 (RAE2008 12%, REF2014 29%)
   -   Are 40% female, a consistent increase on both RAE2008 (29%) and REF2014 (32%). Of
       our Professors, 20.4% are female (up from 17.5% in REF2014)
   -   11% identify as BAME and this includes Professors, senior researchers and ECRs
   -   32% are under 40 years of age and 33% over 50


                                                       Our submitted REF2s reflect the
                                                       researchers in this return by both gender
                                                       and career stage, with good agreement at
                                                       almost all career grades (Fig. 2.7). Initial
                                                       selection of REF2s was undertaken by an
                                                       algorithm that was blind to gender and
                                                       career stage. We then performed manual
                                                       checks of all associated authors on
                                                       outputs being submitted, affording the
                                                       opportunity to make substitutions to
  Fig. 2.7: Grade and gender profile of researchers    ensure our REF2 submission closely
  (solid line) and REF2 outputs (dashed).              reflects our researcher pool.
  Blue = male; red = female

2.4.1 Recruitment and career progression
Our recruitment process addresses the structural barriers affecting people of different ethnicities
and genders. Of our 78 new academic researchers, 47% are female, 32% clinically active and 8%
BAME (Fig. 2.1). Of these, four were professorial appointments (25% female, up from 11% in
REF2014), while 50% (9 of 18) of those who made a successful transition from ESAT Fellows to
open-ended substantive posts (Senior Lecturer or above) by July 2020 are female, e.g. Spires-
Jones, Fletcher-Watson, Wang, Whalley.


                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Four female colleagues have risen to senior leadership positions: Spires-Jones is Deputy-
Director of the largest organisational grouping in this return, managing 74 PIs; Wardlaw is Head
of Edinburgh Imaging; Fletcher-Watson is Director of the Salvesen Mindroom Research Centre;
Branigan is Head of the School of Philosophy, Psychology and Language Sciences.

2.4.2 Representation and visibility of diverse role models
Measures we have taken include:
   -   The Edinburgh Neuroscience Board consists of 13 senior staff, of whom 38% are female
       and 23% BAME
   -   Our seedcorn-funding committees (Henderson Scholarship, Neuroresearchers Fund, RS
       Macdonald Seedcorn Fund) are 50%, 30% and 50% female respectively, with the latter
       two comprising 13% and 30% BAME members, respectively
   -   Since 2014, female and BAME representation amongst internal speakers at our flagship
       annual Neuroscience Day meeting (c.300 attendees) has increased to 42% and 15%
       respectively (from 29% and 7% in REF2014). 57% of our Annual Distinguished Lecturers
       have been female and 29% BAME (compared with 16% and 0% in REF2014). In 2016 we
       introduced a PhD student session to ensure that researchers at every level are included in
       our programme (61% female, 13% BAME)
   -   Across all seminar series in this return (>300 speakers), the percentage of female speakers
       has risen from <30% in 2014 to 48% in 2020, and BAME speakers from 2% to 33%

2.4.3 Active promotion of equality, diversity and inclusivity
UoE is committed to creating and promoting a positive culture that celebrates diversity, challenges
prejudice and ensures fairness; this is evidenced by the widespread take-up of ‘rainbow lanyards’,
instigated in 2017. It has put in place a portfolio of policies and initiatives, including holding an
Institutional Athena SWAN Silver Award, and establishing the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
Committee to implement its Equality and Diversity Strategy (see REF5a 3e). The University has
an active Staffpride Network, which was named Stonewall Scotland’s Network Group of the Year
(2018) in recognition of its efforts to promote an inclusive and supportive culture for LGBT+
colleagues. Spires-Jones has undertaken Stonewall Allies training.

Edinburgh Neuroscience initiatives include:
   -   We have held Athena SWAN awards since 2008: currently two Silver (Clinical Psychology,
       2017; Edinburgh Clinical Medical School, 2016) and two Bronze (Biomedical Sciences and
       Psychology, both 2017)
   -   To help enable a successful work-life balance, UoE staff have the right to request flexible
       working including working at home (REF5a 3a). Currently, 14% of Edinburgh Neuroscience
       researchers work part-time, and 78% have open-ended contracts. To support these staff,
       we have offered workshops on ‘Understanding the challenges of part-time researchers’
       and a one-day conference addressing ‘Part time research; full time challenge’
   -   Parental and adoption leave now includes ‘keeping in touch days’ and a Returners’
       programme for staff who have taken leave greater than 4 months, providing 6 months
       protection from teaching upon return. During this REF period 42 of our staff have taken
       partner/parental leave.



                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   -   Equality & Diversity and Unconscious Bias training is compulsory for all staff in
       neuroscience. AdvanceHE's Diversifying Leadership programme is designed to support
       early-career academics and professional services staff from BAME backgrounds who are
       about to take their first steps into a leadership role
   -   The University has a zero-tolerance stance towards any form of bullying: the 2019 ‘Don’t
       Cross the Line’ campaign and workshops raised awareness to reduce all forms of bullying
       and harassment. All staff have access to a Dignity and Respect advisor, and the ‘Respect
       at Edinburgh’ web hub is a resource for staff and students. Staff are encouraged to become
       Respect Champions for their work area.


Diversity@EN
In Spring 2019 we established ‘Diversity at Edinburgh Neuroscience’, a grouping from all career
levels representing a wide range of diversity (including wheelchair users, people with hidden
disabilities, hearing and speech challenges, autism, ethnic and social background diversity). This
group provides guidance to the Director (Chandran) and Board. The group has already instigated
many positive changes:
   -   Changed the registration process for Neuroscience Day to better accommodate those with
       hidden disabilities or special requirements and provided a prayer room at one-day
       meetings
   -   Prompted the Board to conduct a survey seeking information and suggestions on issues
       related to ethnicity and religious identity. These issues are now a standing item on the
       Board agenda
   -   Issued a statement in support of Black Lives Matter calling on UoE senior management to
       initiate specific changes. The social media reach was 22K and the website-hosted
       statement has been read 711 times
   -   Organised ‘Diversity Drop-in’ sessions every month that are open to anyone
   -   Established Diversity@EN communications: webpage, Twitter feed (reach 34K since July
       2020) and resource Wiki, plus Diversity Corner: a monthly section in the Edinburgh
       Neuroscience news email to highlight issues, resources and personal experiences
Research community feedback includes: “Diversity EN is a great start”, “Really proud of EN for
putting out this statement”, “Thank you for taking an interest and showing a desire to effect
change”.


Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research funding
Edinburgh Neuroscience has received £257M in strategic awards (Fig. 3.1 for examples),
including £135M to our research hubs, £11M to maintain our National CJD Research and
Surveillance Unit, £11.4M for our PhD programmes and £39.3M for our overseas partnerships. In
addition, £27M has been awarded in 32 Fellowships plus £4.2M for three ERC research awards
(Start-up, Consolidator and Advanced), £7.5M Dementias Platform UK awards and £9.9M
investment in the Generation Scotland and Generation Malawi cohorts. We have also received
£9M in translational and industrial funding plus £3.6M from consultancies with 120 companies.

                                                                                          Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Totalling £257M, this represents a 2.5-fold increase on £103M, the closest equivalent value in
REF2014.




Fig. 3.1: Exemplar large and strategic awards and developments

Strategic funding won by Edinburgh Neuroscience has transformed the research environment
since REF2014. Two awards totalling £32M by the Simons Foundation have created the Simons
Institute for the Developing Brain (Kind). The award of a UK DRI Institute to Edinburgh with an
initial £23M investment (Hardingham, Chandran, Wardlaw), along with the £50M European
Prevention of Alzheimer’s Disease Consortium (C.Ritchie) unifies our research into ageing,
neurodegeneration and dementias. The two renewals of our MS Society Edinburgh Centre for MS
Research, with awards of £2M and £1.9M in 2015 and 2020, respectively (Chandran, ffrench-
Constant), have enabled us to continue our expansion, bringing together myelin biology,
neuroinflammation and neuroimaging, while an additional £15M philanthropic investment into the
Anne Rowling Regenerative Neurology Clinic (Chandran) ensures the prioritisation of human-
centred research. The £11M renewal of the National CJD Research and Surveillance Unit (Smith
and Knight) maintains this nationally important resource for understanding neurodegenerative
prion diseases, while the £10.9M award/renewal of the Wellcome-funded Translational
Neuroscience PhD programme (ffrench-Constant, Lawrie) has created an ambitious programme
training basic neuroscientists in a deep understanding of clinical brain disorders.

3.2 Strategies to generate research income
We have four key strategies to enhance research income and leverage impact:
   -   Nucleation of our research around externally funded research hubs
   -   Actively soliciting philanthropy and community fundraising
   -   Providing seedcorn funding as a springboard to future substantive funding
   -   Providing bespoke end-to-end support for research and translation funding applications
       (Section 2.3.2)




                                                                                       Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
As discussed earlier, our research hubs provide an enabling, collaborative and highly supportive
environment that sparks inter-disciplinary collaboration and innovation. In turn, this grows income
from fellowships, project and programme grants. As an example, the £1M initial donation to found
the Euan MacDonald Centre in 2007 has since leveraged over £20M in MND-related research
grants. We engage with philanthropists through UoE Development and Alumni and have received
or been pledged £64M in donations since 2014; our students and postdocs often conduct lab tours
for donors (including author J.K. Rowling and rugby legend Doddie Weir).

Seedcorn funding enables new collaboration, translation and impact, transition to fellowship
support and/or obtaining pilot data in new research areas. In partnership with Edinburgh Research
Office and Edinburgh Innovations, we have created a portfolio of seedcorn funding options to
ensure maximum eligibility:

   -   UoE Chancellor’s Fellow and ESAT schemes provide starter funding and PhD
       studentships to ECRs (£100K per fellow)
   -   RS Macdonald Trust Seedcorn Fund: This fund promotes new collaborations. Sixty
       awards (£229K) have been made (43% to female researchers, 36% to ECRs/postdocs),
       leveraging £2.1M further funding (7-fold return), including a Wellcome Sir Henry Dale
       Fellowship to Gulsen and a £0.6M MRC grant to Smith to support the small vessel disease
       brain bank
   -   Arts Humanities and Social Sciences Development Award is for mid-career
       researchers. With School-specific pilot schemes it has awarded £155K to Edinburgh
       Neuroscience researchers and led to grant awards totalling £2.1M (13-fold return),
       including three ESRC Future Leaders (Rabagliati, Stanton) and a Leverhulme Senior
       Fellow (Branigan)
   -   Research hub-specific initiatives: For example, the Simons Initiative for the Developing
       Brain offers seedcorn funding (£10M over 8 years) and studentships. The Anne Rowling
       Clinic has awarded £80K in career-bridging funding, plus many 1-year fellowships for
       clinicians and graduate internships
   -   Neuroresearchers Fund is available to PhD students, postdocs and non-tenured staff to
       visit labs for training and new collaborations. The £27K awarded to 35 researchers in this
       REF period has leveraged £250K in fellowships and grants (10-fold return)
   -   Henderson Scholarship supports undergraduate summer research placements,
       including funding the host lab. This low-cost support is particularly beneficial to ECRs;
       £49K awarded to 19 students
Schemes specifically to foster translation and impact:
   -   Institutional Strategic Support Fund: Comprising £5M Wellcome and £3.75M UoE
       funding, this supports early-career researchers, translation, public engagement and other
       strategic challenges. In REF period, 24 Edinburgh Neuroscience researchers were
       awarded £838K (58% to ECRs, which leveraged £24M in further grant funding (28-fold
       return), notably the UK DRI at Edinburgh (Hardingham), an ERC Consolidator award
       (Rochefort) and a Wellcome Henry Dale Fellowship (Gkogkas)
   -   Wellcome Translational Partnership Award: This £1.3M award funds early steps to
       translation; two entrepreneurs-in-residence work with the ECRs. Edinburgh Neuroscience



                                                                                           Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       researchers have been awarded £61K, with five projects currently being developed for
       applications to UKRI or industry sources
   -   MRC Confidence in Concept: Also for translational development, £200K has been
       awarded to Edinburgh Neuroscience researchers, leveraging a further £1.8M from the
       Chief Scientist Office, Brain Research UK and EPSRC, plus forging links with Novartis,
       Dementia Discovery Fund, NRG Therapeutics, Autifony Therapeutics and NHS Scotland

3.3 Infrastructure
Three levels of infrastructure enable the research portfolio of Edinburgh Neuroscience:
organisational (administrative structure), operational (buildings and campuses) and scholarly
(cohort resources).

3.3.1 Organisational infrastructure
Centres/Schools: The Centre for Clinical Brain Sciences, Centre for Discovery Brain Sciences,
School of Philosophy, Psychology & Language Sciences, and Clinical Psychology at the School
of Health in Social Science provide an administrative home for staff and day-to-day finance and
HR support. They unite researchers working around broad themes such as neurodegeneration,
neurodevelopment or psychology. Each is directed by a senior academic, supported by a small
team comprising administrative, financial, knowledge exchange and technical experts. Centres
and Schools are responsible for grant application and awards, recording and reporting, staff
development and student progression. Within each Centre/School there is a strong culture of
promoting career advancement, encouraging grant application and success, with journal clubs,
lab meetings, annual appraisals, mentorship, internal/external seminar series and social events.

Edinburgh Neuroscience forms an umbrella to enhance the research environment and
opportunities for individual development. It has a Director (Chandran), an Executive Board (13
permanent academic members; 38% female, 23% BAME) from across all four Centres/Schools,
and employs a dedicated full-time Scientific Coordinator (Haley) and Assistant. Unburdened by
day-to-day administrative issues, Edinburgh Neuroscience has the freedom and flexibility to bring
the community together through communications and PhD programme coordination, and enhance
the research environment and its impact through training, knowledge exchange and events;
driving cross-College initiatives; facilitating new discussion forums, such as a Brain Epidemiology
Group and ReproducibiliTEA; arranging training/networking activities, e.g. ‘Autumn School’ for first
and third-year PhD students, annual Neuroscience Day and monthly socials for the community.

UoE Edinburgh Research Office has been ‘rebooted’ and dramatically improved since 2014,
providing end-to-end support for grant applications, contracts and awards, with a dedicated team
for Edinburgh Neuroscience. In addition to costing, staff provide expertise and advice on framing
knowledge exchange and data management resources within applications, as well as formalising
partnerships and necessary legal arrangements. For fellowship applications they provide career
development advice and oversee mock interviews. The Research Grants arm is responsible for
financial management and post-award administration.

UoE Edinburgh Innovations representing translation, commercialisation and impact, has also
been transformed in this REF period. The Business Development Officer for Edinburgh
Neuroscience works with individual investigators to develop opportunities ranging from seedcorn
funding through IP generation to spin-out formation (successes described in Section 4). They also

                                                                                            Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
handle consultancy, another area of Edinburgh Neuroscience success: £3.6M from consultancies
between 120 organisations and 51 researchers (33% female, 8% BAME). In 2020, they organised
the ‘Horizons in Neuroscience’ meeting that brought together Edinburgh Neuroscience academics
with representatives from industrial and venture capital firms (comprising 25% of attendees).

3.3.2 Operational infrastructure
Edinburgh Neuroscience is located on three campuses: one in central Edinburgh and the other
two south of the city centre at hospital sites. Importantly, each site houses researchers from all
three of our life-course research themes, promoting interaction and cross-disciplinary working.

Psychologists and the majority of our developmental neuroscientists, including those working on
autism-related disorders, are located at the George Square campus in the city centre, housing
108 researchers in four buildings with >22K m2 space (Fig. 3.2).




Fig 3.2: Edinburgh Neuroscience campus George Square. Our researchers are housed in 1 and
7 George Square, the Hugh Robson and Dugald Stewart buildings.


Here, researchers are adjacent to the data scientists of the Informatics Forum and the £40M Bayes
Centre that nucleates mathematical and physical scientists. This juxtaposition of psychologists,
fundamental neuroscientists and informaticians has been instrumental in driving progress at the
interface, and in analysis of the very large datasets generated by our population cohorts detailed
below.

The remainder of our neuroscience community is located adjacent to two teaching hospitals in
which many of the clinical academics also work. Psychiatrists, imaging and data scientists, and
some psychologists, are located at the 3K m2 Kennedy Tower on the Royal Edinburgh (psychiatric)
Hospital site (including the clinical arm of the Patrick Wild Centre, Clinical Lead: Stanfield). Here
38 researchers and staff undertake translational research into major psychiatric conditions.



                                                                                             Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Fig. 3.3: Edinburgh Neuroscience campus Edinburgh BioQuarter


Our clinical academics and neuroscientists focussed on neurodegeneration and
neuroregeneration are located at Edinburgh BioQuarter (EBQ), a flagship investment in
Scotland's life-science industrial strategy. Four large University buildings house Edinburgh
Neuroscience researchers (Fig. 3.3): Chancellor’s Building incorporating the Anne Rowling
Regenerative Neurology Clinic, the Queen’s Medical Research Institute, the Scottish Centre for
Regenerative Medicine and Number 9 / 9A, housing the Usher Institute and Edinburgh Dementia
Prevention, respectively. The 160-acre EBQ site creates a genuinely translational environment,
also housing over 25 start-ups and life science companies, the University’s Medical School as well
as Edinburgh’s largest teaching hospital, the 1000-bed Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh and the brand
new (2020) £150M Royal Hospital for Children and Young People and Department of Clinical
Neurosciences. The latter relocated all clinical neurology facilities and staff to a single site adjacent
to our research community, creating the considerable added value and resources required for
translation.

Chancellor’s Building houses 60 of our researchers (and their staff) in a 20K m2 space, including
the £23M UK DRI at Edinburgh in newly refurbished facilities, and the £3.5M MRC Edinburgh
Brain Bank. The building provides laboratories and offices for basic, translational and clinical
research as well as for professional services support.




                                                                                                 Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Fig. 3.4: The Anne Rowling Regenerative Neurology Clinic provides a state-of-the-art and
welcoming environment for clinical research

A key translational resource is the Anne Rowling Regenerative Neurology Clinic (Fig. 3.4), which
provides clinical research facilities essential for early translational studies and cohort-based
research focussed on neurodegeneration and neuroregeneration. It has welcomed approximately
42K patients and research participants since it opened in 2013. It currently provides a 450m2
space for 18 researchers, and will be expanded to include enhanced clinical research and trials
capacity with a further philanthropic donation of £15.3M.

The regenerative neuroscience community, which includes groups working on myelin and MS,
funded by two successive c.£2M Centre of Excellence awards from the Multiple Sclerosis Society,
is located within the Institute for Regeneration and Repair. This Institute is focussed around the
£50M Scottish Centre for Regenerative Medicine (opened in 2012) and the adjacent £45M Centre
for Tissue Repair (due to open in 2021), and brings together scientists working in different tissues
including the brain.

The Queen’s Medical Research Institute (22K m2 space) will become home to the fundamental
neuroscientists currently located at George Square in 2024, when their location will unite them
with the neuroscience community and the British Heart Foundation Centre for Cardiovascular
Sciences (a BHF Centre of Excellence housing 200 researchers and staff) to create a new Brain-
Body Institute (Section 1.5).

3.3.3 Scholarly Infrastructure
A key element of our human-led life-course research strategy is the establishment of incisively
characterised longitudinal cohorts that are embedded across our inter-disciplinary research hubs.

Theirworld Edinburgh Birth Cohort is a £2M multidisciplinary study following 400 young
people from infancy to adulthood, drawing on the ground-breaking clinical and scientific research
methods developed by the Jennifer Brown Research Laboratory. It includes social, educational
and clinical information, making this the first research initiative in the world to investigate perinatal
brain injury this comprehensively.

FutureMS is a £2.6M nationwide inception cohort of 440 people newly diagnosed with MS,
established in 2016 as a flagship Stratified Medicine Scotland programme supported by industry
(Biogen and Thermofisher). This cohort has been clinically phenotyped with biological annotation



                                                                                                 Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
including genotyping, RNA-seq and serial imaging. The cohort will be followed-up to develop
predictive tools for personalised disease course prediction and management.

National MND Research and Care Cohort is an integrated research-care-audit web-based
platform that covers 98% of Scotland’s people with MND (c.450 prevalent cases and c.150–170
incident cases). It enables longitudinal evaluation from diagnosis through to death including post-
mortem. This cohort was central to the development of the ECAS cognitive tool for MND
(Abrahams; Case Study C:ECAS) and members have been invited to enrol in our new £3.2M
MND-SMART multi-arm adaptive clinical trial (Chandran, Pal).

The Lothian Birth Cohorts (LBC) were founded in 1998 by Deary and the late Starr (NHS)
and are the longest follow-up studies of cognitive function in the world. Participants took part in
the Scottish Mental Surveys of 1932 and 1947, and were followed up at multiple time-points in
older age. There were 550 people in the Lothian Birth Cohort 1921 (LBC1921), and 1091 people
                                               in the Lothian Birth Cohort 1936 (LBC1936). This
                                               work has led to 25 grants worth more than £19M
                                               since 1998. More than 500 publications analyse
                                               LBC data including three very highly cited papers
                                               on genetic contributions to intelligence [Nature
                                               2012, PMID:22258510], the link between
                                               cognitive ability in childhood and old age [Mol
                                               Psychiatry 2015] and the impact of childhood
                                               intelligence on later life [J Pers Soc Psychol
                                               2004, PMID:14717632]. The research has led to
                                               a long-term collaboration with Age UK and has
                                               informed 60 policy documents and guidelines
                                               addressing health and societal concerns that
                                                affect older people and cognitive ageing, including
  Fig. 3.5: LBC participants at ‘reunion’ day   from the UK government, WHO and the US
                                                Centers for Disease Control.

Generation Scotland is a cohort resource of human biological
samples and health data derived from over 30,000 people from
7,000 families across Scotland. Generation Scotland
underpinned the £4.8M Wellcome Strategic Award for Stratifying
Resilience and Depression Longitudinally (STRADL; £4.8M, PI
A.McIntosh), which aims to subtype major depressive disorder
on the basis of its aetiology, using detailed clinical, cognitive and
brain imaging assessments.

Generation Malawi has partnered with the Wellcome-funded
Healthy Lives Malawi project (University of Glasgow) to create a
unique £4M MRC-funded intergenerational longitudinal
population study of long-term mental and physical health
                                                                        Fig. 3.6: Generation
conditions, conducted in close partnership with three institutions
                                                                        Malawi banner
in Malawi (A.McIntosh, Macbeth, Stewart; Fig. 3.6).




                                                                                               Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

3.4 Facilities
We have made investments in the following facilities:

3.4.1 Human research facilities
Edinburgh Clinical Trials Unit: UoE’s three separate clinical trials units were formally merged
in 2016. The Unit is key to Edinburgh’s clinical trial strategy. It is part of the Usher Institute (UoA1)
and provides comprehensive expertise and support to develop, design and deliver clinical trials.
Working closely with leading clinical trial methodologists, it has been at the forefront of innovation
in brain clinical trials. These include ground-breaking multi-arm and/or multi-stage national trials
such as MS-SMART and the MND-SMART platform trial. In parallel, there has been serial
investment in core imaging facilities to support Phase 2–3 clinical trials [Lancet 2019; Lancet
Neurol 2019] and enable experimental medicine studies (PET-MRI).

Human MRI scanners: We have three new research-dedicated instruments (one adjacent to
A&E, Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, EBQ): two PET/CT and one PET/MR (£8M co-funded by MRC
Dementias Platform UK and UoE) as part of Edinburgh Imaging (Director, Wardlaw). Furthermore,
the new £150M Royal Hospital for Children and Young People and Department of Clinical
Neurosciences at EBQ contains two research-optimised 3T MRI scanners and room for future
expansion.

Electrophysiology labs: Psychology investments include mobile eye-tracking, a near-infrared
spectroscopy system, an ECGMove mobile activity sensor system and state-of-the-art
electroencephalogram/telemetry.

MRC Edinburgh Brain Bank (EBB), part of the UK Brain Bank Network, has been funded
continuously by the MRC (£3.5M) since 2008. Smith directs the EBB and is Director of the UK
Brain Bank Network. It provides access to richly characterised post-mortem brain tissue for
researchers. EBB accepts donations from multiple national cohorts and uniquely, includes sudden
death donations that provide control tissues and pathologies not covered by the key clinical
cohorts, such as early-stage Alzheimer’s, psychiatric conditions and drug misuse. EBB has
generated highly cited publications including proteomic studies of human neocortex [Nat
Neurosci 2018] and transcriptional profiling in epilepsy and MS [Brain 2019, PMID:30932156;
Nature 2019].

 Human iPSC platform for drug discovery: Exploiting long-standing Edinburgh expertise in
 pluripotency (Dolly The Sheep was cloned in Edinburgh), we have established a brain-focussed
 core iPSC facility including gene-editing expertise in the UK DRI at Edinburgh. This supports all
 three research themes and has led to publications in mental health and neurodegeneration [Nat
 Commun 2018; Mol Psychiatry 2019]. In partnership with the co-located EBQ Edinburgh
 Phenotypic Assay Centre, we have established an automated high-throughput screening platform
 that provides world-class multi-parametric imaging-based expertise in human-based drug
 discovery.

3.4.2 Pre-clinical research facilities
 Large Animal Research and Imaging Facility: This new (2020) £27M facility has space for
 six critical care beds, two full operating theatres, a 3T MRI, 64-slice CT Scanner, ultrasound


                                                                                                 Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 imaging, category-2 animal holding facilities and laboratory space, designed for genetically
 modified livestock and infectious diseases work. Thompson is the Medical Imaging Adviser and
 Co-Director (Neuro) for the Clinical Research Facility Image Analysis Core.

 Edinburgh Pre-clinical Imaging consists of a rodent MRI suite with 9.4T MRI (supported by
 Wellcome, BBSRC and UoE; >£2M), a PET/CT suite (£800K; BHF) and ultrasound imaging facility
 (£500K; Wellcome) and analysis labs. A new PET/MRI will complement these facilities in 2021.

 UK Zebrafish Screening Facility (part of the £2.2M 320m2 Bioresearch & Veterinary Services
 Aquatic Facilities) comprises six stock rooms with associated wet labs, 3,200 zebrafish tanks
 linked to a £0.8M medium-content screening facility (co-funded by BBSRC, Biogen and UoE) that
 enables examination of fluorescence in living transgenic fish. The facility has already been used
 to identify compounds that enhance myelination and spinal cord regeneration.

 Optical imaging platforms: We have invested £3M in six multi-photon microscopes, spinning
 disc confocals and four light sheet microscopes, plus fibroscopes for in vivo live imaging, and a
 virtual reality environment with simultaneous live-imaging of the brain. These facilities are
 underpinned by Bioresearch & Veterinary Services, whose staff oversee their provision and
 maintenance.


4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base,
economy and society
The driving ethos of Edinburgh Neuroscience is not only to create and grow collaborative inter-
disciplinary research across the University but apply these principles to our collaborations with
external partners. This begins with our community — the schools, public and patients of Edinburgh
and SE Scotland — and will be enhanced by the £661M Edinburgh City Region Deal, a powerful
example of bringing together government, city, UoE researchers and industry with a focus on
population and health data-driven innovation. Collectively, our culture of open, collaborative, multi-
partner and inter-disciplinary research is at the core of our contribution to a healthier and more
productive society.

4.1 Arrangements and structures to support effective internal and
external collaboration

4.1.1 Collaborative partnership with academia and industry
Edinburgh Neuroscience has invested heavily in personnel and infrastructure to support and
evaluate research collaborations, build networks and partnerships. The numerous pilot / scoping
events we have facilitated include multiple engagement and agenda-setting activities with patients,
charities and educators.

We have prioritised developing a collaborative mindset in our ECRs and graduate students
through formal structures including supervisors mandated from different disciplines (WT
Translational PhD programme) and through engagement events. One example is, each year, 29%
of our Neuroscience Day attendees (c.300) indicate they have started a new internal collaboration
as a result of attending. These partnerships are then reflected in our publications: 32% of outputs
submitted here are inter-disciplinary and 46% have more than one UoA4 author (Fig. 4.1).

                                                                                              Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                                    Fig. 4.1: Internal collaboration: co-
                                                    authorship across theme. Circles represent
                                                    individuals (theme 1, red; theme 2, green;
                                                    theme 3, blue). Lines represent co-
                                                    authored publications submitted for
                                                    REF2021. Line weight reflects the number
                                                    of shared publications




In this REF period >£44M has been awarded to the global initiatives we lead. We have established
a new research and teaching partnership in China (£36M Zhejiang University-University of
Edinburgh Institute) and grown the jointly led Centre for Developmental Synaptopathies in
Bangalore, India. The Network for Studying Psychological Resilience in Low-and-Middle-Income
Countries (A.McIntosh, Lawrie, Stewart and others) is a UKRI £180K pump-priming project with
the University of Costa Rica, the University of Malawi College of Medicine and Emmanuel Hospital
Association India, which led to the £3.8M MRC-funded Generation Malawi.

Our researchers lead two Fondation Leducq Transatlantic Networks of Excellence (€6M each):
Perivascular Spaces in Small Vessel Disease (Wardlaw) and Stroke - Immune Mediated
Pathways and Cognitive Trajectories (McColl). Our cross-disciplinary partnership with the Brain
Centre Rudolf Magnus continues, with 30 funded students visiting Utrecht while, in 2019, we
established a new research partnership in neurodevelopment and degeneration with McGill
University, Canada, providing c.£150K annual funds to support three jointly led projects per year.

In addition to these larger initiatives, our researchers collaborate widely with researchers across
the globe, and have co-authored publications with academics in 119 countries (Fig. 4.2). Some
57% of publications (n=3255) had international co-authorship (2014–2020, Scopus).




                                                                         Fig. 4.2: International
                                                                         collaboration in terms of
                                                                         joint authorship. Circle
                                                                         size represents the
                                                                         number      of    shared
                                                                         publications.




We have grown our partnerships with industry by 60% since REF2014 to 13 (awards worth £9.6M),
including major multi-year discovery programmes, e.g. Janssen £4.8M. Almost 10% of our


                                                                                           Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
publications recorded in Scopus 2014–2020 have both academic and corporate authors. We have
launched three spin-out companies: PhenoTherapeutics (Chandran, with Carragher UoA1),
AstronauTx (Hardingham) and SpeakUnique (Chandran). These demonstrate inter-disciplinary
research, linking founders from cancer–neuroscience, or informatics–neuroscience.

4.1.2 Collaboration with government
Our researchers actively contribute, by providing expert advice, to policy-making worldwide. 12%
of our researchers are members of policy advisory panels and committees that address issues
affecting people throughout the life-course. This ranges from healthy body image for children and
young people (Sharpe, Duffy), adverse childhood experiences (Johnson), online child abuse and
offending (Quayle; Scottish Government, WHO and UN task forces), to prisoner brain injury and
offending (O’Rourke), mental health services (O’Rourke, Lawrie, Schwannauer), healthy ageing
(Deary) and dementia (Spires-Jones). Green, Knight, Manson and Smith advise on CJD and
prion-related health and safety issues, including for the ‘Dangerous Pathogens’ and ‘Safety of
Blood Tissues and Organs’ committees, National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE)
and WHO (Case Study J:vCJD surveillance).

Our researchers also contribute to national and international drug and treatment regulation and
recommendations, e.g. Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency and European
Medicines Agency (Hunt; Case Study I:TMA).

Non-committee policy work includes a Consultation for the Northern Ireland Department for
Communities on the cognitive effects of language learning and practice (Bak), while
Schwannauer contributed to the schizophrenia section of ‘The Matrix: A guide to delivering
evidence-based Psychological Therapies in Scotland’, which is used by Scottish Government for
service planning.

4.1.3 Collaboration with the NHS
Core to our vision for human-led research is the creation of an integrated care-research model, e-
health infrastructure and data linkage assets whereby every health contact (for care) represents
an opportunity for new knowledge. This sits squarely with our belief that the best health care is
inseparable from the best health research. This agenda is driven by and through The Academic
and Clinical Central Office for Research and Development (ACCORD): a partnership between
UoE and NHS Lothian Health Board that provides an integrated streamlined regulatory support
and public/patient engagement framework for all clinical research.

One example of successful partnership between the NHS and University is the Anne Rowling
Clinic that delivers integrated frontline NHS care (40 clinics per week) with cutting-edge clinical
enabled research ranging from observational and interventional trials to biological sampling of
deeply phenotyped cohorts (including MND, MS, early-onset dementias, venous malformation,
functional neurological disorders, Parkinson’s) for discovery studies. The seamless integration of
NHS–University is further reflected in the numbers of clinically active researchers (24% of the
return), who also lead major NHS clinical themes. These include Head of NHS Neuroinflammation
Medicine (Hunt) and Stroke Medicine (Dennis, Wardlaw). Finally, we have prioritised support and
integration of NHS academics who are Honorary University researchers. Examples include
Carson and Stone who lead Functional Neurological Services, Riha who leads Sleep Medicine
and Russ who directs the Alzheimer’s Scotland Dementia Research Centre.



                                                                                           Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


4.1.4 Collaboration with the third sector, public and patient groups
Ensuring our research is relevant requires prospective and continued bi-directional engagement
with key stakeholders and potential beneficiaries (example, Fig. 4.3).




  Fig. 4.3: The Muir Maxwell
  Epilepsy Centre produced an
  educational animation inspired by
  children with epilepsy (2018; 1,645
  views on YouTube)




Furthermore 24% of our researchers contribute time and expertise to 69 patient-facing charities,
including as grant reviewers (e.g. Alzheimer’s Society, Alzheimer’s Research UK, Epilepsy
Research UK), scientific advisors (e.g. Bipolar Scotland, Fragile X Society, Muscular Dystrophy
UK, MQ, MS Society, Epilepsy Action, Stroke Association) or Trustees/Patrons (Cavernoma
Alliance UK, Scottish War Blind, Royal Blind). Two new charities have been founded by our
researchers: SuperTroop (Fletcher-Watson, 2017) and African Alliance for Maternal Mental
Health (Stewart, 2018). Fletcher-Watson was awarded a Certificate of Excellence by Autism
Rights Group Highland (2018) for ‘amplification and inclusion of autistic voices in research’.




                                                        Fig. 4.4: Euan MacDonald, who has
                                                        MND, is a regular visitor to the
                                                        research laboratories and helped
                                                        drive the MND-SMART launch
                                                        campaign




Our research engages directly with patients across the UK and internationally. The recruitment
campaign for the MND-SMART clinical trial platform (2020), featured Euan MacDonald (founder
of the Euan MacDonald Centre research hub) (Fig. 4.4). It reached over 11 million people in the
first week (lead item on the BBC 6 o’clock and 10 o’clock television news), was covered in 500
media print articles and received extensive social media coverage. This encouraged over 1100
people — 20% of the UK MND patient pool — to sign up within 6 weeks.

The Functional Disorders website, neurosymptoms.org, established and maintained by Stone
and Carson (both NHS), has enormous reach: >9 million visits since 2009 (up from 0.5 million in
REF2014), providing valuable information for an under-represented patient group.

                                                                                        Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Researchers at the Patrick Wild Centre continually engage with families affected by Fragile X
Syndrome, including a family-in-residence programme where, over a year, a family with two
children with Fragile X visited research laboratories and welcomed research scientists to their
home. This was shortlisted for a Times Higher Education Leadership and Management award
(2017). In 2018 the Dundee-Edinburgh Parkinson’s Research Initiative was established by
neurologists Chandran and Breen with fundamental researchers Hardingham, Kunath (UoA5)
and colleagues in Dundee led by Alessi. This initiative brings together patients and researchers
for talks and discussions — patients read prospective research grant application lay summaries
— and has recently funded two PhD students, one based in each city.

Dementia ‘Buddy Pairs’ brought patients and carers into the University to meet researchers and
take part in lab meetings. Pioneered by Henstridge (was UoE, now Dundee) with Wilkinson
(UoA20), this successful scheme resulted in a publication [Dementia, 2019, PMID:31718269].




Fig. 4.5: In 2019 PhD students worked with the FOXG1.UK charity to produce website content

Our PhD students are trained to engage directly with patient groups and families. Students in the
SPRINT-MND/MS cohort have attended professional training in patient/public engagement and
have travelled to Glasgow and Aberdeen to participate in patient/public events. In 2020, the
Translational Neuroscience PhD students worked with FOXG1 families to understand their
information needs and create bespoke content for the FOXG1.UK charity website. Their work
changed the charity’s perspective on how they provide information for their community.

4.2 Wider contributions to the economy and society not captured
by impact case studies
Our impact is lasting and sustainable. Revised feeding regimes recommended for stroke patients
by Dennis (REF2014 case study), remain in place and continue to save the NHS £12M a year,
reducing death and disability rates by 1,900 each year. Similarly, not recommending compression
stockings to prevent deep vein thrombosis in post-stroke patients continues to prevent the NHS
from unnecessarily spending £20M per year and saves 6,000 people a year from complications.



                                                                                         Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The creation of the ‘Staying Sharp’ booklet and website in 2018 in collaboration with Age UK
(Deary, Bak, Wardlaw) continues the Lothian Birth Cohorts impact from REF2014; it has been
seen by over 100,000 people.

After undertaking a survey in 48 countries, Brennan campaigned to standardise the worldwide
use of the Glasgow Coma Scale (used to assess people with head injury) [J Neurotrauma 2016,
PMID:25951090]. As a result, he developed GCSAid, a standardised tool now freely available.
Further research has resulted in the addition of the pupillary response (GCS-P) [J Neurosurgery
2018, PMID:29631516].

Wardlaw, Salman, Whiteley, Macleod and Sudlow (UoA1) undertook a systematic review of
potentially serious incidental findings identified in 27,643 brain images [BMJ 2018,
PMID:30467245]. They found that advice on how to deal with these was poorly formulated and
inconsistent, so convened a formal national discussion, including the MRC and Wellcome. This
resulted in a position statement that has been adopted by UK Biobank, (which aims to conduct
brain and body MRI of over 100,000 participants), saving money for the NHS by reducing the
number of futile follow-ups and avoiding unnecessary patient distress.

Bak’s research revealing that bilingualism leads to a delay in the age of dementia onset
[Neurology 2013, PMID:24198291] and improved cognitive outcome after stroke [Stroke 2015,
PMID:26585392] led him, in 2015, to co-establish a new social enterprise, Lingo Flamingo. This
delivers language classes to older adults and dementia patients in nursing homes and community
settings across central Scotland. Informal feedback is very positive with participants appearing
more engaged with activities. Lingo Flamingo-style classes are now being established
internationally.

Neurosurgeons Brennan and Hughes (NHS) identified a need among surgeons and launched
multi-award-winning spin-out company eoSurgical in 2012 to design and manufacture mobile
laparoscopic simulators and software to improve surgical training. Now with six simulation models,
it is used in over 80 countries. eoSurgical also offers scholarships to students from low-and-
middle-income countries to undertake distance-learning surgical science degrees.

A partnership between the Euan MacDonald Centre (Chandran, Bak) and UoE Informatics led to
SpeakUnique, a spin-out company supported by Edinburgh Innovations that launched in 2020. An
idea sparked by MND patient Euan MacDonald, SpeakUnique uses personalised voice synthesis
to give people who have lost the ability to speak (e.g. MND, throat cancer, stroke) a voice of their
own that matches their gender, age and regional accent.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, Thompson and colleagues addressed the impact of masks and
face-coverings on exhaled airflow, informing government advisory groups including SAGE.
Sandercock, an internationally recognised expert in trial oversight, chaired the Independent Data
Monitoring Committee of the RECOVERY trial leading to changes in intensive care treatment for
COVID patients worldwide.

4.3 Engagement with diverse communities and the public
Our community is committed to two-way engagement with the public; 30% of researchers
participate directly in external outreach. Contributions to public engagement and outreach are
recorded in annual staff development reviews and in 2019 we identified an academic lead for

                                                                                            Page 38
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
public engagement, Rhodes. We follow a strategic aims and principles approach to guide our
work: aiming to reveal, involve and embed engagement practices, underpinned by partnership,
training and evaluation. We were delighted to welcome a student in the first cohort of the UoE
Engagement for Impact PhD programme (Lead, Davidson UoA1) to Edinburgh Neuroscience,
supervised by Rhodes.

Public involvement in our research has come to the fore during the COVID-19 pandemic. Our
researchers rapidly initiated five surveys: CovidLife/TeenCovidLife (Generation Scotland - mental
health during lockdown; COVID-19, Sleep and Mood (Riha, NHS), Teenage Irritability (Whalley)
and CoronaReport, which assesses social implications (J.Mirman). Macleod and Sena (UoA1)
harnessed the global researcher community to create a systematic and continually updated online
summary of COVID-19 evidence.

Our outreach programme has directly reached over 4,000 school pupils and 21,000 members of
the public, while our online talks have been viewed 53,000 times. Our online social media activity
reaches an average of 414,000 people a year.

                                             We use a variety of engagement approaches to reach
                                             different communities (Fig. 4.6), including lectures,
                                             film, science-theatre, art, yoga, festivals (science and
                                             arts), schools, youth groups and social media. Our
                                             annual public Christmas Lectures attracted 1,839
                                             attendees in REF period plus 7,719 online views. At
                                             twice-yearly drop-in research open evenings hosted
                                             by the Anne Rowling Clinic, each attracting 50–100
                                             people, ECRs and PhD students discuss and
                                             demonstrate their research with patients and families.

                                             We have worked with brain surgeons, paramedics and
                                             brain injury survivors to deliver ‘Neurotheatre:
                                             simulated brain surgery’ a theatre-style production
                                             that takes the audience through brain injury treatment
                                             (with very realistic surgery) through to rehabilitation.
                                             This incredibly popular event reaches 250 people a
                                             year (mostly teenagers) and is being adopted by
                                             Brown University, USA.
 Fig.    4.6:   Diverse    means     of
 engagement. In 2016 a glass etched            In 2014, we launched FUSION, our monthly art-
 MRI brain scan of one of the Lothian          neuroscience group, partnering with Edinburgh
 Birth Cohort participants was donated         College of Art and independent local artists. The
 to the Museum of Scotland, where it is        creative interactions between these quite different
 on display
                                               groups have led to exhibitions at Neuroscience Day
                                               (c.300 neuroscientists) and Pint of Science (twice, 110
public). The Anne Rowling Clinic exhibits a rotating display of artworks by UoE art students and
hosted ‘Portraits of the Brain’: a series of three student-led art workshops for people with MS.




                                                                                              Page 39
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




    Fig. 4.7: ‘The Brain - is
    Wider than the Sky’ outdoor
    science-art exhibition in
    central Edinburgh




Also in 2014 ‘The Brain - is Wider than the Sky’, an outdoor science-art exhibition in
collaboration with the charity Mindroom, ran for 7 weeks at St Andrews Square, in the heart of
Edinburgh, and received widespread national media coverage (Fig. 4.7).

Our 2015 mini-movie ‘Ages of the Brain - A Day in the Life of Edinburgh Neuroscience’ was
created by our research community with an MSc Science Communication student (>3500 views
on YouTube). We have undertaken regular film screenings for adults and children, with
researchers talking about work relevant to the film.

We worked with the Edinburgh Science Festival in 2015 to produce ‘Brainwaves’ a neuroscience-
themed strand with 24 events, plus a walking ‘neurotrail’ map of Edinburgh (4000 distributed).
Chin, Horsburgh, Lawrie and Oren (former staff) partnered with a yoga instructor to deliver
‘Neuroyoga’, an evidence-based panel discussion on whether yoga influences brain and body
function, concluding with an audience yoga session. This has been delivered at the Edinburgh,
Glasgow and Midlothian Science Festivals (110 participants). Bak, Lawrie, Stone (NHS) and
Schwannauer regularly contribute to the Edinburgh Fringe Festival ‘Cabaret of Dangerous Ideas’.




                                                    Fig. 4.8: Example embroidery of
                                                    a Purkinje neuron, part of the
                                                    Cajal Embroidery Project




To celebrate 100 years since the founding of the Cajal Institute in Madrid, the ‘Cajal Embroidery
Project’ was conceived as an exhibit for the Federation of European Neuroscience Societies


                                                                                         Page 40
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(FENS) Forum Glasgow 2020. Unexpectedly providing inspiration during COVID-19 lockdown, it
united 77 scientists, crafters, artists and professional embroiderers from seven countries to
produce 81 embroideries of Cajal’s illustrations (Fig. 4.8) to be combined into a single piece of
science-art. It was published in Lancet Neurology (2020; doi.org/10.1016/S1474-4422(20)30348-
3) and features on the front cover of this journal throughout 2021.

4.4 Contributions to, and recognition by, the research base

4.4.1 Contribution to Science Publishing
37% of our researchers (up from 18% in REF2014) undertake roles as journal editors, or serve on
editorial boards, including Science, Nature Communications, Nature Science Reports, Glia,
Lancet Neurology, Cell Reports, Brain, eLife, Molecular Psychiatry. Five are Editor-in-Chief (with
two starting new journals in REF period): J Anatomy (Gillingwater), Curr Opin Physiol
(Ribchester), Brain Communications (Spires-Jones), Cortex (Della Salla) and Psychology and
Psychotherapy (Schwannauer). Fletcher-Watson was listed as a top peer reviewer on Publons
– the most reviews for UoE, 2017. Macleod and Sena (UoA1) have made major contributions to
help publishers improve the validity of experimental research (Section 1.4; Case Study
G:Rigour).

4.4.2 Membership of grant- and Fellowship-awarding bodies
24% of our researchers (up from 17% in REF2014) serve on 80 grant-awarding panels in the UK
and internationally (39% for charity funding panels) including: British Academy, MRC, Wellcome,
NIH, with Spires-Jones Chair of Alzheimer’s Research UK grant-awarding panel, ffrench-
Constant Chair of Wellcome Molecular Cellular and Neuroscience Expert Review Group,
A.McIntosh Chair of MQ Data Science Grants Committee, Price Vice-chair of the MRC Board
funding international research to generate an Atlas of Human Cell Types and Logie on the ERC
Advanced Researcher Panel.

4.4.3 Committee membership of Professional bodies, Charities and Trusts
15% of our researchers actively contribute to the vibrancy of learned societies (e.g. Royal Society,
Physiological Society, British Neuropathological Society, FENS, International Brain Research
Organization, International Neuropsychological Society) with significant roles on committees and
boards, including six Presidents/Chairs: Leng, Logie, R.Morris, Valdes-Hernandez,
Sandercock, Smith.
17% of our researchers hold expert advisory positions including: International Consulting Fellow
for the World Innovation Foundation (Grant), Advisor to UN Office on Drugs and Crime
(A.Murray), NICE Guideline Development Group for Motor Neurone Disease (Abrahams),
Paediatric Medicines Expert Advisory Group (Chin), NHS England CSF Prion Health and Safety
Concerns (Green), Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency and European
Medicines Agency (both Hunt; Case Study I:TMA), UK Commission for Human Medicines
(Macleod, Owens), UK Home Office Animals in Science Committee (Macleod) and Secretary of
State for Transport’s Honorary Medical Advisory Panel on Driving and Disorders of the Nervous
system (Salman).




                                                                                            Page 41
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

4.4.4 Honours, fellowships and other awards
Within REF period, 27 researchers were elected Fellows of 16 different societies including: Royal
Society of Edinburgh (Chandran, ffrench-Constant, Hardingham, Price, Macleod, Lawrie),
Academy of Medical Sciences (ffrench-Constant, Hardingham, Grant), Fellow of the Royal
Society of Biology (Becker, Fleetwood-Walker, Gillingwater, Macleod, Manson, Shipston),
World Stroke Organization (Sandercock, Wardlaw), plus two elected to the Royal Society of
Edinburgh Young Academy Scotland (Brennan, Rhodes) and eight to the Higher Education
Academy (Gillespie-Smith, Hampton, Hernandez, Romano, Salman, Sharpe, Stefan).

Deary, Harris, A.McIntosh, Starr (deceased) and Wardlaw were named Highly Cited
Researchers in 2019 and 2020 by Web of Science.

Our Undergraduate students have been recognised for their Honours dissertation projects: six
were awarded the Annual British Neuroscience Association Undergraduate Award over the past
7 years (only missing out in 2018).

                                     Our researchers have been recognised with a number of very
                                     high level awards, including R.Morris, jointly awarded the
                                     2016 Brain Prize and the 2020 Fondation Fyssen Prize in
                                     Neuroscience for his work on the mechanisms underlying
                                     memory, plus the Royal Society of Edinburgh 2014 Royal
                                     Medal for contribution to science. Deary was awarded a
                                     Lifetime Achievement Award from the International Society
                                     for Intelligence Research in 2014, and Sandercock received
                                     the UK Stroke Forum Lifetime Achievement Award (2015).
                                     Wardlaw received the 2017 European Stroke Organisation
                                     Presidential Award and Dennis the 2018 British Association
                                     of Stroke Physicians President’s Award.
                                     Quayle (2018) and Wardlaw (2016) were appointed CBE for
 Fig. 4.9: Jane Haley, Edinburgh
                                     contribution to the online safety of children and services to
 Neuroscience           Scientific
 Coordinator, received an MBE        clinical medicine and neuroscience, respectively. Deary was
 in 2019 for services to Science     made an OBE (2019) for services to the social sciences, and
 Engagement and Education            Haley (Scientific Coordinator) an MBE (Fig. 4.9).




                                                                                          Page 42
