Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Aberystwyth University

 Unit of Assessment: 32: Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview and context
 Encouraged by REF 2014 feedback commending ‘excellent local research resources’,
 exhibitions of ‘very considerable impact’ and their ability to ‘inform public understanding and
 enrich lives’, our staff have worked individually and collaboratively in partnership with high-profile
 national and international museums, galleries and professional associations to ensure we
 maximise the reach and impact of our research.

 The first university art department in Wales, the School of Art (SoA) at Aberystwyth University
 (AU) was founded in 1917 as the Department of Art and Crafts. It administers the School of Art
 Museum and Galleries (SoAM&G), an accredited museum established in 1918.

 Our small team of artists, writers and curators is energised by the hybridity of the SoA as a place
 where art is made, debated and displayed. Our mission to foster academic discourse and public
 engagement is central to the vitality and sustainability of our research environment. To that end,
 staff collaborate across disciplines and beyond academia. Guided by the SoA Research and
 Impact Strategy 2018-23 we are committed to:

    •   further interdisciplinary approaches to art and its histories, to increase opportunities for
        staff collaboration, as well as national and international networking to maximise global
        impact;
    •   regenerating knowledge about historic art practices and marginalised careers to
        stimulate discourse and create new contexts for our research (see SoA Impact Case
        Studies);
    •   drawing on our unique hybridity as an academic department and an accredited museum
        to widen and diversify our range of beneficiaries.

 These aims are aligned to AU’s Research and Innovation Strategy which reaffirms the centrality
 of research that challenges existing approaches and knowledge, promotes inclusivity, supports
 collaboration with external partners, and encourages civic engagement (see REF5a).

 The specific actions articulated in the SoA Research and Impact Strategy 2018-23 are to:

    •   recruit staff with an excellent record of – or potential for – research and/or
        practice-as-research. Since 2014, we have appointed two new full-time research-active
        staff (Heuser, Raybone);

    •   adopt systems that release time and offer support for staff to compete for research
        funding and undertake research of international significance, relevance and
        impact. Since 2014, the capacity for staff to undertake research has increased through
        the introduction of a Workload Allocation and Management Model (WAMM) and annual
        review process, the development of mentoring and research leave procedures, and
        strategic deployment of part-time tutors;

    •   increase and diversify grant income by responding to emerging research
        opportunities and addressing the priorities of funding bodies. Funding in excess of
        £260,000 has been secured during the assessment period, supplemented by corporate
        sponsorship, gifts and in-kind income supporting our research and collections
        acquisitions;




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   build new and strengthen existing local, national and international partnerships
        with public organisations and academic institutions to maximise our research
        potential. We have worked with high-profile partners such as the Royal Academy of Arts
        (Heuser, Meyrick), The Lowry and Tate Britain (Cruise), Manchester Central Library
        (Webster), Courtauld Institute (Harvey), University of Melbourne (Pierse), Changsha
        Normal University and Shenzhen Fine Art Institute (Croft) to achieve impact through
        contributions to culture and society disseminated through publications, exhibitions,
        performances, and broadcasts;

    •   increase home and international PGR student numbers. We are on target to achieve
        our aim of 15% growth in graduate numbers 2018-2023;

    •   maintain and develop SoAM&G collections as a focus of funded research projects
        and postgraduate study. Acquisitions since 2014, valued in excess of £1,300,000,
        enable research by staff, students and visiting scholars.

 Implementing strategic priorities has allowed staff to undertake innovative, impactful research
 across Art Practice and Art History with a shared focus on modern to contemporary visual,
 material and non-material culture. Staff have made important contributions to knowledge and
 practice in three principal areas.

 In the reassessment and recontextualisation of marginalised careers and the generation
 of discourse on critically under-represented practices and media, we have:

    •   established interconnections between art history, connoisseurship, collecting and
        curating as exemplified by our work on the dealer-collector Hugh Blaker (Meyrick) and
        the aesthete philanthropist George Powell (Heuser) as well as our investigation of the
        role played by critics and gallerists Peter Fuller, Bernard Smith and Alannah Coleman in
        the reception of Australian art in the UK (Pierse);

    •   re-examined the work of the French Impressionist painter Gustave Caillebotte in the
        context of his lesser-known activities as collector and horticulturist (Raybone) and
        brought attention to English artist L. S. Lowry’s significance as a collector of Pre-
        Raphaelite art (Cruise);

    •   drawn attention to historically marginalised aspects of British culture in research writing
        and curatorial practice (Cruise, Heuser), including contributions to Queer Wales
        (Heuser) and Tate’s Queer Art in Britain (Cruise);

    •   re-evaluated the controversial work of twentieth-century German photographers Erich
        Retzlaff and Hans Saebens in the context of national identity formation and propaganda
        (Webster), as well as the asylum photographs of nineteenth-century French
        photographer Charles Nègre that traverse boundaries of documentation, politics and
        medicine (Raybone);

    •   introduced contemporary audiences to the practice and history of British printmaking
        through investigations of the work of artists such as Sydney Lee, Stanley Anderson, and
        Charles Tunnicliffe in our ongoing collaboration with the Royal Academy of Arts, London
        (Heuser, Meyrick);

    •   increased the profile of printmaking by facilitating collaborations between artists and
        researchers at our University, as well as in Australia, China and the USA, through the
        establishment of international networks via conferences, workshops and curatorial
        projects (Croft);




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   engaged diverse audiences in current debates surrounding biodiversity, ecology and
        sustainable land management through interdisciplinary practice-as-research and
        collaborations involving photography, film and sound art, poetry and performance, as well
        as panel discussions and publications (Whall).

 In inter- and transdisciplinary engagement with the emerging fields of intermediality,
 audiovisuology and audionarratology, as well as the relationship of art and
 environmentalism in the Anthropocene, we have:

    •   explored visual artists’ engagement with noise, music and text in a sound art conference
        organised in collaboration with the Courtauld Institute (Harvey);

    •   offered new frameworks for the interpretation of now largely unread texts for radio
        broadcasting in the contexts of the performing arts, literature, the canon and the avant-
        garde in various ongoing projects and international collaborations (Heuser);

    •   drawn attention to the local and global significance of the biodiversity of mid-Wales and,
        through research and creative practice, stressed the importance of land management
        programmes to maintain a balanced ecosystem for public benefit (Whall).

 In the ongoing re-evaluation of the visual culture of Wales, we have investigated the:

    •   careers of English artists working in Wales, among them figurative painter Claudia
        Williams and the Royal Academician Charles Tunnicliffe (Heuser, Meyrick);

    •   passions, ambitions and international connections of Victorian dilettante George Powell
        and his largely unacknowledged influence on the cultures of Wales (Heuser);

    •   patronage of modern art collectors and philanthropists Gwendoline and Margaret Davies
        in the context of contemporary debates surrounding the global impact of Impressionism
        (Raybone);

    •   visual and sonic culture of the Bible in Wales in collaboration with the National Screen
        and Sound Archive of Wales (Harvey).

 Research structure and management
 The SoA sits within the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences (FASS) which coordinates research
 policy and practice, encourages interdisciplinary collaboration, and supports research
 development as overseen by the Faculty’s Research Committee and Associate Dean for
 Research, Knowledge Exchange and Innovation. Since its formation in 2018, FASS has
 introduced a range of initiatives to enhance the vitality and sustainability of impactful research,
 including: the appointment of Senior Research Development Leads to stimulate collaboration
 and mentor research grant applicants as well as the establishment of interdisciplinary research
 centres, an Impact Group, monthly Women Doing Research workshops, and a concordat to
 support ECRs.

 All research-active staff in the SoA engage in the development of the SoA Research Strategy.
 There are currently 7 full-time staff on open-ended T&R contracts supported by 5 part-time T&S
 staff (approx. 2 FTEs), 1.5 FTE technical and 1.8 FTE curatorial staff. All staff serve on the SoA
 Management Board and are involved in all levels of policymaking and decision-taking, including
 research.

 As IP and licensing constraints specific to our discipline complicate engagement with Open
 Access publishing, we make our research findings accessible to our subject communities and
 general audiences alike through public exhibitions and online databases.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research and Impact strategy for the next REF period
 Further to diversify our research environment and ensure the sustainability of our work in its
 practical, historical and curatorial dimensions, the SoA commits to implementing its Research
 and Impact Strategy as outlined above. Early priorities for the next REF cycle include:

    •   the appointment of three full-time research-active members of staff from 2021;
    •   streamlining policies and procedures within FASS to release time and provide support for
        staff research and its impact;
    •   the use of research leave and targeted teaching relief for staff to develop research grant
        proposals to support our objectives for increasing UKRI income;
    •   the growth of our postgraduate community, consolidating joint supervision arrangements
        for inter-disciplinary PhDs;
    •   targeted support for the integration of impact activities in the early development of
        research projects;
    •   focus on the research, impact and public engagement potential of new acquisitions for
        the SoAM&G.

 2. People

 In the REF 2021 census period, we have:

    •   ensured the sustainability of our research environment by recruiting staff with excellent
        research potential;
    •   strengthened the vitality of our research environment by releasing staff time for research,
        facilitating interdisciplinary and collaborative research practices, and expanding our
        postgraduate cohort;
    •   promoted inclusivity through flexible working and study leave arrangements, identifying
        career pathways for part-time staff and supporting the wellbeing of our staff and research
        students.

 While the SoA was not subject to restructure under the University-wide Sustainability
 Implementation Plan (SIP), described in REF5a, our staff profile has changed significantly since
 REF 2014, with the retirement of two long-serving members (Cruise, Pierse) and the
 appointment of two T&R Lecturers in Art History (Raybone, 2019, and Heuser transferred from
 part-time T&S to full-time T&R, January 2019).

 SoA support for research-active staff has included the introduction of a Workload Allocation and
 Management Model (WAMM), which has provided a mechanism for allocating research time,
 and the strategic deployment of part-time tutors to release time for research-active staff. These
 measures enabled research leave for Croft, Webster and Whall during the assessment period.

 New University-wide policies (see REF5a) have streamlined practices to support research. This
 includes a research leave entitlement of one semester in eight. Academic staff have access to
 designated AU funds for research support, conferences and impact generation, including the
 University Research Fund, Conference Fund, and Ben Bowen Thomas Fund for Fine Art. SoA
 discretionary funds are also available to staff and PGR students for conference and exhibition
 participation, image rights and activities that support research impact.

 Particular support is provided for early career researchers in line with the Concordat to Support
 the Career Development of Researchers (REF5a). Through AU’s Effective Contribution Scheme,
 probationary staff and the Head of School agree teaching and administrative duties as well as
 research targets. To ensure integration into the research culture, ECRs are assigned a mentor
 who guides them on the focus, scope, pace and impact potential of their research. They also
 benefit from a lighter teaching load at the outset of their academic career. Those new to PhD
 supervision enrol on AU Graduate School’s Research Supervisor Training Scheme. All staff are



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 required to update their skills regularly. They are supported to take external training courses as
 well as those offered by AU’s Learning and Teaching Enhancement Unit.

 Procedures are in place for career progression, supported by evidence from the Effective
 Contribution Scheme, with mentoring for promotion candidates. Despite AU promotions being
 suspended for much of the assessment period due to SIP, there was one Senior Lecturer
 promotion (Webster).

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 The SoA operates in accordance with AU’s Equality and Diversity Policy (REF5a), with a
 member of SoA staff serving as Equality and Diversity Champion at institutional level. With nine
 male and four female staff members, we currently achieve a less even gender balance than in
 2014 (ten male and nine female). We aim to redress this with three new academic appointments
 in 2021 which, combined with further staff retirements in 2022, will significantly alter the SoA
 research environment. To ensure fair recruitment, staff receive training in equality and diversity
 as well as unconscious bias.

 The commitment to equality and diversity of the SoA and AU is recognised by a Disability
 Confident Employer Accreditation and inclusion in Stonewall’s Top 100 UK Employers for its
 LGBTQ+ friendly workplace. Staff are required to complete Equality and Diversity Training.
 Networks promoting equality issues and providing support for researchers include the Women in
 Research, BAME, LGBTQ+ and Disability and Wellbeing.

 SoA Equality Champions have worked with AU’s Diversity and Inclusion Manager on initiatives
 such as a diversifying portraiture exhibition for International Women’s Day 2020 (Garratt) and a
 project examining AU monuments and collections in relation to Black Lives Matter 2020
 (Heuser).

 In collections-based public exhibitions such as Queer Tastes (2015) and Alternative Facts
 (2017), the SoAM&G engages in debates surrounding gender and identity politics, while the
 ongoing project Inconvenient Objects (2020-21) highlights the need for museums to confront the
 colonial legacies of their collections (Heuser). To celebrate the many and varied contributions
 made by female and black makers to 20th-century ceramic practices, we marked the centenary
 of women’s suffrage with our exhibition Chwarae Teg / Fair Play: 100 Years of Women in
 Ceramics (2018), and Black History Month 2020 with an online exhibition Ceramics in Focus:
 Black Ceramicists Represented in the Ceramics Collection (Chennell).

 A multi-award nominated conference All Our Trans Tomorrows at Aberystwyth (2018), co-
 organised and compered by PhD candidate and tutor Holcombe, featured internationally
 renowned trans activists Shon Faye, Munroe Bergdorf, and C. N. Lester among the speakers.
 SoA staff also contribute regularly to Aberration, an annual Arts Council funded LGBTQ+ arts
 event series (Cruise, Heuser, Holcombe)

 Equality and inclusion principles have been incorporated into the REF 2021 selection process,
 as outlined in the University’s Code of Practice. All members of the REF Reading Committee
 and supplementary reviewers completed Unconscious Bias training. The SoA REF Reading
 Committee included an independent member from a cognate FASS department to monitor fair
 practice. Output reduction applications under Individual Staff Circumstances were assessed
 anonymously, with decisions made outside the SoA.

 The fact that our outputs have curatorial dimensions and are predicated on exhibition posed
 challenges to T&R staff at the end of the census period. Rather than regarding Covid-19 as a
 temporary obstacle, we have explored response strategies that we can take forward for the
 benefit of staff, students and our research community at large: from a greater engagement with
 e-learning resources and blended online and in-person modes of delivery to flexible and remote
 working. We aim to develop these tools to provide additional support for full- and part-time staff,


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 personnel with health concerns and caring responsibilities, and increase research opportunities
 to achieve greater equality and diversity.

 Postgraduate students
 With a 100% success rate, ten PhDs have completed between 2014-2020 (compared to two
 from 2001-2007, and nine between 2008-13). There are currently eight PGR students registered
 and/or writing up.

 Our doctoral students are supported by two academic supervisors. Research training needs are
 agreed and recorded in a Research Training Compact that is monitored bi-annually by the SoA
 and AU’s Graduate School. The Graduate School Director oversees the provision of central
 facilities, training and the monitoring of academic progress. AU provides compulsory generic
 research training modules such as Ways of Reading and Research Training. In addition, subject-
 specific training is offered as part of the supervisory process and through SoA seminars and
 workshops, internal and external courses.

 Annual residential writing schools prepare students for the final stages of dissertation writing.
 The SoA provides bespoke training in Effective Academic Writing and Research Skills in Fine Art
 and Art History as well as Self-Reflective Writing and Analysis for students undertaking the PhD
 Fine Art dissertation. Financial support is available from the SoA and from AU’s Graduate
 School to enable doctoral students to attend external courses or work with artists, art historians
 and museums.

 The SoA is part of the AHRC South West and Wales Doctoral Training Partnership. SoA PhD
 candidates have been funded by the AU’s AberDoc Studentships and private charitable sources
 such as the Pantyfedwyn Foundation.

 Research students are encouraged to develop their careers by assisting in teaching, exhibiting,
 delivering papers and submitting articles for publication, as well as by hands-on engagement
 with exhibition preparation, installation and curation. PhD students exhibit internationally and
 organise national and international exhibitions and conferences:

    •   Ruddock’s Strata: Art and Science Collaborations in the Anthropocene (Aberystwyth
        2016) promoted the interdisciplinary potentialities of the current climate change debate.
        His collaborative art-science exhibition 2A: Earth Core: The Hominin Project explored the
        link between climate change and the emergence of modern humans (Aberystwyth,
        2017).

    •   Woodley curated a series of exhibitions with accompanying publications which
        interrogated the praxis, status and reception of still life painting from contemporary and
        historical perspectives: All Coherence Gone? Historical Currents in Contemporary Still
        Life (2014), Still Life: Ambiguous Practices (2015), and Models and Materialities (2016).
        In 2014, Woodley was one of just 25 students worldwide chosen to attend the six-day
        Amsterdam-Maastricht Summer University at the Rijksmuseum and Netherlands Institute
        for Art History.

    •   Thiele convened the Inaugural Conference of Visual Theology (Chichester Palace, 2018)
        and the second Ruskin and the Pre-Raphaelites (Marlborough College, 2019). She has
        given papers at Christ Church College, Oxford (2019), Jesus College, Cambridge (2019),
        Ashmolean, Oxford (2019), Villa La Pietra, Purdue University, Florence (2017), Cardiff
        University (2016), Keble College, Oxford (2016), and Le Moyne University, Syracuse
        (2015). A regular contributor to victorianweb.org, Thiele produced a chapter for Thomas
        Carlyle and the Idea of Influence (Fairleigh Dickinson UP, 2018).

    •   PhD candidate Minogue served as moderator, chair and/or panel member in France
        (2018), Italy (2018), North Carolina (2017), Illinois (2016), Sydney (2015), Maryland
        (2015), and Denmark (2014). She has been resident artist and undertaken workshops in

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Queensland, Brisbane, Gold Coast, Sydney, Hobart, and Canberra. She is co-founder
        and co-editor of the periodical The Log Book (82 issues to July 2020).

    •   Holcombe presented his LGBTQ+ practice-as-research at the Talking Bodies
        conference (Chester, 2019) and staged his PhD exhibition at the CICA Museum, South
        Korea (May 2019).

    •   Calarco curated Cymru Encounters for IMPACT10 Printmaking Conference (Santander,
        2018) and delivered conference papers at the University of Westminster (2015) and
        Nottingham University (2016). She was artist in residence in New York (2015), Adelaide
        (2015-16), Ireland (2016, 2018), Switzerland (2017), and Spain (2017).

    •   Postgraduate printmaking students participated in print portfolio collaborations that
        toured Brisbane, Melbourne, Auckland and Santander (Rivers of Gold, 2017-2019). They
        contributed to The Xiaoxiang Portfolio of International Printmaking (2015-2017) and
        exhibited at The First Hunan International Student Exhibition at Changsha Normal
        University (China, 2016).

    •   PhD candidate Elliott was invited to serve as board member for Women’s Archive Wales
        (2020).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 In the REF 2021 assessment period, we have:

    •   enhanced the vitality of our research by obtaining grant income and in-kind benefits from
        a diversified range of sources;
    •   improved the sustainability of our research environment through the acquisition and
        development of our specialist collections and archives;
    •   promoted inclusivity by extending digital access to our collections, exhibitions and
        research.

 Income
 Funding in excess of £264,640 has been awarded to SoA staff during the assessment period,
 including a Leverhulme Major Research Award (Croft, £43,688), Arts Council Wales Large
 Production Grant (Whall, £25,000), HEFCW and National Library of Wales (Harvey, £6,976),
 Arts Council Wales Project Grants (Chennell, £72,382); The Art Fund and MLA/V&A (Chennell,
 Holland, Meyrick, Webster, £56,614) as well as corporate and private sponsorship, Punter-
 Southall PLC / Stuart Southall in support of research and the realisation of our projects for the
 Royal Academy of Arts (Heuser, Meyrick, approx. £60,000).

 Six SoA designated endowment funds (July 2020 = £4,052,535.88) generate income to support
 collections management and acquisitions as well as research and its dissemination. Since
 January 2014, we have spent £762,777 from our own trust funds (includes salary contributions);
 approximately £53,600 was directed to the purchase of print and photographs and £34,497 to
 ceramics acquisitions. Additional in-kind support for the research environment derives from gifts
 and bequests to the SoAM&G that during the census period amounted to the value of
 £1,270,000 (Section 3).

 Capacity-building for SoA research grant capture is supported by AU’s Department of Research,
 Business and Innovation events such as research cafés, sandpits, and a ‘Grants Factory’
 workshop. FASS Senior Research Development Leads stimulate collaborative interdisciplinary
 research activities and provide mentoring for grant applications. Support for developing
 individual grant applications is provided by a Research Development Officer assigned to the
 SoA. Internal peer review helps improve quality.


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and inclusion in access to research grants is addressed through such measures as an
 annual sandpit event for Early Career Researchers to support the development of ECR projects,
 and Women Doing Research workshops on topics such as international research, mentoring,
 leadership, and the REF.

 Infrastructure, facilities and collections
 The infrastructure, facilities and collections of the SoA underpin the vitality of its research. The
 SoA’s Edwardian Grade II* listed building houses painting studios, print workshops, darkrooms
 and a MacSuite, as well as seminar rooms and a refurbished 1907 lecture theatre. The proximity
 of these workspaces and the ability to move with ease from one area of study to another fosters
 a sense of community and collaboration, while the display of artworks from our collection
 throughout the building is central to our mission of connecting practice and theory by rendering
 history present.

 The building also accommodates the SoA Museum, public galleries and a collection of
 approximately 25,000 works of art and objects of material culture which feed into our research
 outputs and impact. An HLF-supported environmentally controlled store and reference room for
 works on paper is complemented by an MLA Partnership sponsored easel painting conservation
 studio led by Jenny Williamson, currently Vice-Chair of ICON.

 The management of the Museum is fully integrated into the SoA. The Head of School holds the
 honorary title Keeper of Art. External peer oversight is provided by an Advisory Board whose
 members during the current REF cycle have included Professors Simon Olding (University of the
 Creative Arts), Ann Sumner (Barber, Birmingham Museums Trust, Leeds University) and Tim
 Wilson (University of Oxford). Museum Accreditation has been successfully renewed on each
 application since 1992.

 The permanent collections include European prints from the Renaissance to the present day, as
 well as drawings, paintings, photographs and ceramics. They comprise fine art prints
 representing the Etching Revival since Whistler; the Gulbenkian Collection of Welsh and
 European art; an extensive collection of photography 1850 to present with internationally
 significant holdings of 20th-century Italian and German photography; School of Paris prints,
 contemporary prints, and some 5,000 wood-engraved illustrations for 1860s periodicals; the
 George Powell collection of books, manuscripts, Victorian drawings and watercolours (Turner,
 Rossetti, Burne-Jones, Leighton, Poynter, Solomon), bronzes and objets d’art; an internationally
 renowned ceramic collection of approximately 2,400 examples of contemporary British,
 European, American and Japanese studio ceramics, 18-19th-century slipware, as well as
 Swansea and Nantgarw porcelain; and representative holdings of early twentieth-century British
 pioneer studio pottery, which constitute a major strength of our ceramic collections.

 The Ceramic Archive, established at the SoA in the 1980s, holds a comprehensive collection of
 publications, manuscripts, photographs and audio-visual material relating to studio and non-
 industrial pottery. An International Ceramics Festival, staged biennially in Aberystwyth, fosters
 collaborations and provides additional research opportunities.

 Interest derived from six designated endowment funds (Davies Museum Endowment Fund 1918,
 Ben Bowen Thomas Fund for Fine Art 1977, Catherine Lewis Trust 1981, Blaenllwynant Fund
 1998, Handel Evans Trust 2004, and Tessa Sidey Print Purchase Fund 2012) provides income
 for individual acquisitions as well as bodies of works and archival materials representative of
 specific artists’ careers. With the co-operation of artists or estates, and with V&A Purchase
 Grants and Art Fund support, over 2,800 artworks have been purchased or gifted since January
 2014. Representative purchases include:

    •   75 vintage photographic prints by Hans Saebens (1895-1969)
    •   71 prints by Surrealist photographer Angus McBean (1904-1990)
    •   55 lithographs by Honoré Daumier (1808-1879)
    •   43 etchings by London-based Dutch artist Marcelle Hanselaar (b.1945)

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   and the iconic Highgate Ponds Album by Keith Vaughan (1912-1977)

 Since January 2014, we have acquired by purchase and gift 412 ceramic artworks and 2,390
 paintings, drawings, prints and photographs. V&A and Art Fund purchase grants amounted to
 £17,183 (ceramics) and £39,431 (paintings, drawings, prints and photographs).

 Gifts received since 2014 include:

    •   336 pieces of studio pottery by Michael Cardew and potters associated with Wenford
        Bridge
    •   223 etchings and engravings by Edgar Holloway (1914-2008)
    •   187 Gregynog Press woodcuts and engravings
    •   175 paintings and prints by Bert Isaac (1923-2006)
    •   66 contemporary Chinese prints.

 Our successful 2020 application for the permanent transfer to Aberystwyth of over 230 paintings,
 drawings and prints from the Derbyshire Schools Library Service is further evidence of how our
 Acquisition Policy helps maintain the vitality and sustainability of our collections and strengthens
 our research base. The donation, valued at approximately £750,000, included works by Bawden,
 Bratby, Dürer, Heron, Lear, Lowry, du Maurier, Minton, Nolan, Paolozzi, Pasmore, Piper, and
 Rembrandt.

 Unique in Wales and of international importance, our collections offer primary research material
 for staff (Croft, Cruise, Heuser, Meyrick, Webster), PGR students (Elliot, Minogue,
 Westlake) and external scholars. For example, working from rare historic negatives gifted to the
 SoAM&G, Webster produced prints by Erich Retzlaff and Hans Saebens that in many cases
 have not been seen since the 1940s and, in some instances, were never made publicly
 available.

 Efforts to highlight the international significance and draw on the transdisciplinary potentialities of
 rare artefacts from our collection yielded interactive exhibitions such as Recapturing “Mighty Joe
 Young” (2018). Heuser contextualised a unique and never before exhibited album of
 photographs and original artwork documenting the production of a 1949 Hollywood film and
 generated public engagement through stop-motion animation and drawing workshops in our
 galleries. The project resulted in a collaboration with the Ray and Diana Harryhausen
 Foundation, online promotion of which attracted the attention of British and US-based
 researchers and film scholars, with two US publications currently in production.

 As well as facilitating staff and student research, our collections also foster widespread public
 engagement (Section 4). Under the guidance of Alex Flowers, SoA alumnus and former Head of
 Digital Programmes at the V&A, we are exploring opportunities for further engagement,
 achieving greater equality, ensuring wellbeing and extending our reach and impact by improving
 digital access to our collections, exhibitions and research.

 Research in the SoA benefits from local resources such as AU’s RIBA award-winning Arts
 Centre (Dale Owen, Thomas Heatherwick), one of the largest regional arts centres in the UK. A
 major venue for conferences and touring exhibitions of contemporary art, it regularly showcases
 the practice of our Creative Arts PGR students. AU’s Hugh Owen Library has been collecting
 resources on the visual arts since the nineteenth century. Gifts and bequests of rare books,
 catalogues and journals – among them the libraries of Bond Street print dealer Robin Garton,
 print historian-curator Tessa Sidey, Curwen Chairman Oliver Simon, and artist-educator Ronald
 Horton’s collection of early illustrated children’s books 1750-1913 – make AU’s holdings one of
 the UK’s most comprehensive collections related to print history. The National Library of Wales,
 a legal deposit library and art gallery located adjacent to the campus, provides unrivalled
 resources for research in visual and material culture and is custodian of internationally renowned
 art collections.


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Through volunteer and intern opportunities our students get to work under the guidance of our
 museum professionals, gaining valuable hands-on experience in all aspects of collections
 management including cataloguing, object and provenance research, organising loans,
 digitisation and photographing, condition reporting, and inputting database entries.

 Since 2014 and prior to the pandemic, the SoA Galleries alone have staged some 60
 exhibitions: collections-based (17), student-curated (9), postgraduate (23). 19 were external
 touring exhibitions or shows by invited artists. 17 of the exhibitions were generated by staff
 research. An additional 25 exhibitions were staged in our Ceramics Gallery including two online.
 Eight were collections based, one was international (Uzbekistan), and four involved artists such
 as Philip Eglin working with the collection. In addition, we hosted seven touring ceramics
 exhibitions.

 The galleries facilitate staff and student research as well as public engagement. Recent
 curatorial projects include Discourse: Reynolds to Rego; curated by one of our postgraduate
 students (Kirton), it marked 250 years of the Royal Academy of Arts. Featuring works by
 Braque, Cézanne, Dürer, Palmer, Rembrandt, Sutherland and Whistler, Print REbels
 commemorated of the bicentenary of the birth of Seymour Haden, founder and first President of
 the Royal Society of Painter-Printmakers. Visiting artists exhibiting in our galleries included
 Stuart Pearson Wright, who returned to Aberystwyth with his touring exhibition Halfboy.

 Representative exhibitions showcasing staff research include Contemporary Chinese
 Printmaking (2014-2016), which examined the practice of three generations of Chinese
 printmakers from Hunan Province (Croft). Its UK tour provided the first opportunity for these
 artists to exhibit outside China, four of whom visited Britain in 2014. Queer Tastes (2015), an
 exhibition drawn entirely from George Powell’s 1882 bequest to the University, helped promote
 the publication of the anthology Queer Wales (U of Wales P, 2016) in which research for the
 exhibition was presented, while (Im)memorabilia: Ephemerality, Resonance and the Collector’s
 Item (2014-15) generated textual contributions from collectors, researchers and media insiders
 in Britain and the United States (Heuser).

 We are members of the Touring Exhibitions Group, the Museums Association, UK Print Curators
 Forum, University Museums Group, Federation of Museums and Art Galleries of Wales, among
 others. Like other museums, we have reassessed our approach to the display, interpretation and
 management of collections, embraced new technologies, addressed issues of access and
 inclusivity, and developed a policy working with the wider community and online learning. Our
 collections database together with SoA-generated publications accompanying our national
 touring exhibitions – among them Keith Vaughan: Figure and Ground and Philip Eglin: Slipping
 the Trail – also help disseminate our research.

 During the REF review period, our staff engaged in the extensive project of repurposing AU’s
 ‘Old College’, a Grade 1 listed Victorian Gothic Revival building by John Pollard Seddon. We are
 transforming one of Wales’ most iconic buildings into a major hub of culture, learning, enterprise
 and public engagement, as well as a catalyst for regional economic regeneration. Comprising
 143 rooms over seven storeys, ‘Old College’ will house six galleries, including one Grade A art
 gallery covered by Government Indemnity for temporary exhibitions, spaces for music,
 performances, events and festivals as well as a 31-bedroom hotel and a functions room for 200
 people. It will feature interactive science displays, conference and debating facilities, and
 business units for the creative technologies sector, in addition to study spaces and PGR art
 studios. The project includes World of Knowledge displays to engage communities with our
 research. A significant expansion of our physical resources, the completed project will further
 increase our potential for generating high-profile exhibitions and opportunities for
 interdisciplinary research collaboration with our partners, the National Museum Wales (Cardiff),
 National Library of Wales and the prestigious Hay Festival who have committed to help
 programme cultural events around exhibitions.



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To date, the project has attracted funding from the National Lottery Heritage Fund (£10.6M),
 Garfield Weston Foundation (£500K), Wolfson Foundation (£250K), Joy Welch Trust (£170K),
 Gwendoline and Margaret Davies Trust (£150K), Foyle Foundation (£150K), Welsh Government
 and European Regional Development Funding (£7M), Coastal Communities Fund (£300K) and
 over £1M in individual donations. Detailed planning for the £26.2M project is completed and the
 aim is to reopen during the 2022-23 academic year when AU celebrates its 150th anniversary.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 In the REF 2021 assessment period, we have:

    •   demonstrated the vitality of our research with over 100 exhibitions staged, curated or
        toured, contributing to society and culture;
    •   enhanced the sustainability of the research base through conference participation and
        scholarly networks, collaborations with academics, practitioners and institutions, and
        sharing our expertise and collections;
    •   promoted inclusivity in engagement with our research through outreach activities with
        schools and community organisations.

 Collaboration with high-profile institutions and organisations has been essential to furthering and
 promoting our research through a range of outlets including publications, exhibitions, and
 broadcasting as well as social media. The increasingly interdisciplinary and international
 dimensions of our research projects, the diversity of outcomes, as well as the scope and reach
 of beneficiaries attest to the effectiveness of our Research and Impact Strategy 2018-23.

 Building relationships with key beneficiaries, Cruise served as specialist advisor and catalogue
 essayist for Victorian, Pre-Raphaelite and British Impressionist Art (Christie’s Sale 15506, 2018).
 His essay contributions for Christie’s auction catalogues drew on his landmark exhibitions and
 books Pre-Raphaelite Drawing (Birmingham and Melbourne) and Simeon Solomon
 (Birmingham, London, Munich), his chapter in the anthology Pre-Raphaelite Masculinities
 (Ashgate, 2014), as well as his writings on Ford Madox Brown, Rossetti and Burne-Jones.

 By teaming up with institutions such as the Royal Academy of Arts, Heuser and Meyrick have
 been better able to regenerate academic discourse and facilitate public access to wide-ranging
 aspects of early to mid-20th-century visual culture. Their monographs and catalogues raisonné
 on Sydney Lee, Stanley Anderson and Charles Tunnicliffe are now standard reference for
 dealers, salesrooms and museum curators worldwide. Meanwhile, their curatorial activities,
 including touring exhibitions, along with gallery talks and video introductions shared via the
 Royal Academy’s website and Vimeo, have extended the reach of their research for the benefit
 of a broader, more diverse audience.

 Smaller museums provide us with further partnership opportunities. Working with provincial
 venues, Heuser has created bespoke exhibitions catering to regional audiences. For instance,
 adapting research he conducted for the exhibition An Abiding Standard: The Prints of Stanley
 Anderson RA at the Royal Academy of Arts, he created new narratives and displays for
 Unmaking the Modern: The Work of Stanley Anderson RA – staged at Thame Museum (2016),
 Buckinghamshire County Museum (2016-17), Oxfordshire County Museums (2017) – to
 resonate with local interest and reflect regional histories associated with the artist’s home
 counties. Having created more than a dozen exhibitions for our galleries since 2014, including
 annual shows developed in collaboration with his curating students, Heuser continues to explore
 exhibition curating as a transdisciplinary and public-oriented alternative to the delivery of art
 history.

 Another transdisciplinary dimension of our research builds on Heuser’s post-doctoral research
 for Immaterial Culture: Literature, Drama and the American Radio Play, 1929-1954 (September
 2013). Since his appointment as full-time T&R in 2018, Heuser has networked internationally in
 the emerging fields of audionarratology, broadcasting modernism and neo-avant-garde sound

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 art. This resulted in an invitation to deliver a paper at the conference Tuning in to the Neo-Avant-
 Garde (Ghent, 2018), in collaboration with an international team of researchers based in
 Germany and Belgium, and subsequent chapters completed for two anthologies (Ohio State UP,
 Manchester UP).

 Working with the University of Melbourne, Pierse served as Principal Investigator for an ARC
 Discovery Grant to research the role of the Abbey Art Centre and Museum in London as a hub
 for mid-20th-century expatriate Australian artists. Related outcomes of his ongoing research into
 Australian painting and its reception in Britain include a chapter on Australian art in England for
 Antipodean Perspective: Selected Writings of Bernard Smith (Monash UP, 2018); an article on
 gallerist Alannah Coleman for Melbourne Art Journal (2018); a catalogue essay on Sidney Nolan
 in Britain for Pallant House Gallery, Chichester (2017); and on Peter Fuller as critic of Australian
 art for The Legacies of Bernard Smith (Sydney, 2016). Pierse has given papers at the Royal
 Academy of Arts, London (2017), Cambridge University (2016), Tate Britain (2016), Institute of
 Commonwealth Studies, UCL (2015), University of Melbourne (2014), and University of Western
 Australia (2014).

 By contrast, Webster’s collaborations are rooted in the SoA’s own collection of mid-20th-century
 photography by focussing on German photographers active during the Third Reich. As a result
 of his collaborative research and initiatives, over 500 archival prints by German photographers
 have been added to the SoAM&G collection, both through grant-aided purchases and donations.
 In conjunction with a touring exhibition at the German Historical Institute, London, Webster
 published the monograph Erich Retzlaff: Volksfotograf (2014). His touring exhibition A Radical
 Tradition: Völkisch Photographers of the German Reich was staged at Manchester Central
 Library (2019). The research was expanded for Photography in the Third Reich: Art,
 Physiognomy and Propaganda, his edited anthology of essays by an international group of
 scholars (2021). The interdisciplinary research makes contributions to the study of Modernism,
 visual propaganda, colour film technology, as well as politics and German cultural history.

 In her collaborative Arts Council Wales funded multi-media practice, Whall employs
 interdisciplinary alternatives to strictly scientific research in order to encourage greater civic
 engagement with the climate emergency. Through contributions from curators, environmental
 scientists, a documentary filmmaker, a photographer and a poet, Crossed Paths (2016-
 onwards) looks beyond the scientific and technical solutions used to address climate change
 and invites affective, intellectual and practical responses to the crisis. A public field trip with
 colleagues from the AU Pwllpeiran Upland Research Centre (2018) included readings,
 performance art and music, as well as talks on plant species and land management aimed at
 assisting local communities better to understand upland farmed ecosystems in the Cambrian
 Mountains. Follow-up events included group exhibitions at Huddersfield and Ormskirk (2019)
 and papers at Plymouth (2019) and Leeds (2020).

 Since the publication of his influential technical manuals Stone Lithography and Plate
 Lithography, Croft has continued to share his extensive knowledge in and enthusiasm for
 printmaking. A Tamarind-trained master printer, he has collaborated with colleagues at
 Changsha Normal University, Changsha Central South University and Hunan University of
 Science and Technology (2014, 2015, 2017), as well as Guanlan International Printmaking
 Base, Shenzhen (2015) and Yue Yang University (2017). Croft has conducted invited workshops
 and masterclasses in lithography in Belgium (Frans Masereel Centre, 2014), Australia
 (Federation University Ballarat, 2014), and China (Changsha Normal University, 2014-17;
 Guanlan International Printmaking Base, 2015).

 Our tutors, all of whom are practicing artists and/or researchers, make valuable contributions the
 SoA research environment. Baldwin has staged solo exhibitions at University of Rio Grande
 (Ohio), Zea Mays (Massachusetts) and Hänisch Kunsthaus, Kappelin (Germany). He developed
 Baldwin’s Ink Ground (BIG) as part of his research into safer etching techniques, which he
 demonstrated BIG at IMPACT8 International Printmaking (Dundee), Vancouver Island School of
 Art and Malaspina Printmakers (Vancouver), and Ohio University. Artists from Argentina,

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany and the USA have travelled to Wales to attend
 his BIG workshops. BIG is now sold to artists, print workshops and universities worldwide, with
 clients including South African artist William Kentridge.

 Beyond our curatorial efforts, touring and loaning works from our collection broadens public
 awareness of our research and attracts international scholars whose engagement with our
 collections not only benefits their studies but also increases our global reach. Loans from our
 collections carry both our name and our research to international audiences. During the census
 period, 231 artworks have been loaned to 29 national and international institutions including Tate
 St Ives (2014, 2017); Craft Study Centre, Farnham (2015); National Library of Wales (2016);
 Turner, Margate (2017); Fry Art Gallery, Saffron Waldon (2017); National Museum of Wales
 (2018); Yale Centre for British Art, New Haven (2018); National Garden Museum, Lambeth
 (2018); Karimanzutto Gallery, Mexico City (2018); Hepworth, Wakefield (2019); Whitechapel
 Gallery (2020); and the Mashiko Museum of Ceramic Art, Japan (2020) as well as loans to
 Turner and the Poetics of Landscape which toured 5 venues in Japan.

 We have welcomed numerous external visitors during the assessment period either to exhibit or
 undertake research using the SoAM&G collections. These include curators Simon Oldling (Craft
 Study Centre, UCA , Farnham), Conor Heaney (Ray and Diana Harryhausen Foundation) and
 Yuko Matsuzaki (Mashiko Museum of Ceramic Art, Japan); artist-makers Philip Eglin, Jane
 Joseph, Edward Twohig and Stuart Pearson Wright as well as Alisher Nazirov, Alisher Rakhimov
 and Abdulla Narzullaev, Ceramic Masters from Uzbekistan. Approximately 300 international
 delegates visited for the International Ceramics Festivals (2015, 2017, 2019).

 In November 2019, Unnar Örn (Artist) and Guðmundur Oddur Magnússon (Artist and Professor
 at the Iceland Academy) visited to see our watercolour by Johann Baptist Zwecker (1814-76)
 Iceland; or, Fjallkonnan, Lady of the Mountain. It is the first female personification of the
 Icelandic nation (Powell Bequest, 1882). Commissioned from a German artist by a Welsh
 patron, the image is deeply embedded in Icelandic culture yet until 2019 was only known in
 Iceland through a much-reproduced black-and-white wood engraving.

 Our Curator of Ceramics (Chennell) has been engaged in an ongoing collaboration with the
 National Library of Wales to digitise recordings in the Ceramic Archive as part of Unlocking Our
 Sound Heritage (2015-). The project is led by the British Library and supported by the National
 Lottery Heritage Fund. Chennell worked with artist Adam Buick and AU’s Computer Science
 robotics team on the project Crossings: Adam Buick and the Legend of Tresaith for which they
 sailed pots across the Irish Sea (2017). She initiated the Toshimaru Nakamura Sound Project
 with Ceredigion Museum (2018) and worked with Nantgarw China Works and Museum on a new
 and emerging makers programme (2019).

 Networking enables us to extend the reach of our research and to contribute to the research
 base. An elected Honorary Fellow of the Royal Society of Painter-Printmakers in recognition of
 his ‘contribution to the art of printmaking in Britain’, Meyrick is an active member of the UK Print
 Curators Forum, a network group established to support professionals studying, cataloguing and
 exhibiting prints. He is one of the five original Trustees of The Gregynog Trust (est. 2019) which
 serves to maintain Gregynog Hall and Estate, former home of Impressionist art collectors
 Gwendoline and Margaret Davies, as a setting for creativity and dialogue. He was Wales’ only
 representative on the steering panel of the Public Catalogue Foundation’s Oil Paintings Expert
 Network (2013-17), now called Art Detective. In 2016, Meyrick was adviser and guest speaker
 for National Museum of Wales’ exhibition marking the centenary the Battle of Mametz Wood.

 New work is shared with the research base at national conferences and symposia. Cruise has
 delivered papers at the Ashmolean, Oxford (2019), Midland Institute, Birmingham (2019), British
 Art Network, BMAG (2017), Liverpool Hope (2017), Pre-Raphaelite Society Annual Lecture,
 BMAG (2017), Royal Academy, London (2015), Queen’s University, Belfast (2015), Edinburgh
 University (2015), Leighton House, London (2015), York University (2015), and the National
 Gallery, London (2014).

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Raybone is at the heart of cutting-edge developments in the field of Impressionism studies, as
 evidenced by his selection to convene a session at AAH2021 on the topic of ‘Provincialising
 Impressionism’. His call for papers achieved national and international reach, with responses
 from Auburn, Temple, Duke, Birkbeck and York. He has served as a peer-reviewer for Atlantic
 Review and Nottingham French Studies, has given an invited lecture at Nottingham (2020), and
 was invited to review books and exhibitions by the Oxford Art Journal (2020), The Burlington
 Magazine (2017) and Art History (2016).

 His research on the globalisation of French Impressionism and focus on its translation by
 marginalised communities on the global periphery responds to the AHRC theme ‘Translating
 Cultures’. It aims to impact the public discussion around this much-loved movement by
 showcasing its reliance on globalised connections between diverse cultures. He has shared his
 research at conferences in Rouen (2020, 2016), Ghent (2018), Durham (2017), Leeds (2015),
 Courtauld (2014), Wellcome (2014) and Galway (2014). In addition to a monograph Gustave
 Caillebotte as Worker, Collector, Painter (Bloomsbury, 2020), a trade publication Post-
 Impressionists: Masterworks (Flame Tree, 2017), and articles in refereed journals such as
 nonsite.org (2018) and the International Journal of Žižek Studies (2015), Raybone contributed to
 the public understanding of photography through an article in The Conversation which garnered
 8,500 unique readers and was followed up by non-academic publications including National
 Interest.

 As art historian and practitioner, Harvey has undertaken 11 workshops, collaborations and
 public sound-art performances in Aberystwyth (2014, 2016, 2017) and Chichester (2018). He
 delivered the paper ‘Noisome Spirits: An Audition of Apparitions’ at the Religion and Art
 symposium at Goldsmiths College, London (2020). Harvey has delivered papers in Aberystwyth
 (2014 & 2017), Leicester (2016), and Chichester (2018) and London (2020), and contributed to
 published conference proceedings, among them ‘The Retrieval of Revival: Recollecting and
 Revising the Evan Roberts Wax Cylinder’ (Courtauld, 2015) and ‘The Hearing Ear and the
 Seeing Eye: Transformative Listening to the Biblical Image’ (Chichester, 2018). Harvey was
 featured on BBC Radio Wales’ All Things Considered (2020) in a broadcast that explored how
 different religions approach the face of God.

 Our research and our strategies for engagement continue to exert influence beyond academia,
 making contributions to society, culture and the economy. Meyrick’s research on Hugh Blaker’s
 art collection, for instance, has led to the positive identification of a previously disputed
 Modigliani portrait (Annie Bjarne, 1919) as well as new insights into the Louvre’s canvas St
 Joseph the Carpenter, which is now positively attributed French Baroque painter Georges de La
 Tour. Following up from his invited talk at the world press launch of Mona Lisa: Leonardo’s
 Earlier Version in Geneva in 2012, Meyrick contributed filmed interviews that formed part of the
 interactive tablet-led exhibition The Earlier Mona Lisa shown in Singapore (2014-15), Shanghai
 (2016) and Florence (2019). He contributed an invited chapter on Blaker as a dealer and
 collector of Old Masters to Leonardo da Vinci’s Mona Lisa: New Perspectives (Fielding UP,
 2019). Meyrick was guest of the President of the Regional Council of Tuscany for the preview at
 the Palazzo Bastogi, Florence. Media involvement ranged from sharing provenance research on
 Blaker’s Botticelli painting for BBC4 Britain’s Lost Masterpieces to discussing the role that Blaker
 played in the formation of Gwendoline and Margaret Davies’ art collections for Michael Portillo’s
 BBC2 series Great British Railway Journeys (2019 & 2020).

 As an invited panel member for the landmark show Queer Art in Britain 1867-1967 (Tate, 2015-
 17), Cruise disseminated his research by contributing an essay to the exhibition catalogue. He
 also served as an advisor for, as well as participant in, the accompanying three-part series
 Public Indecency: Queer Art in Britain presented by Simon Callow and broadcast on BBC Radio
 4. Similar collaborative projects include the exhibitions Lowry and the Pre-Raphaelites (Lowry,
 2018) and Edward Burne-Jones (Tate, 2018).



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Whall’s work has attracted widespread national and regional media interest from BBC national
 and ITV regional news programmes to The Daily Post, Country Times and New Welsh Review.
 In 2020, Whall was invited as the only Wales-based artist to participate in the global live art
 event Be-coming Tree, a virtual international gathering of 32 livestreamed performances that
 aims to expand current debates around our relationship with the natural world. Her outputs
 demonstrate that impactful research of international reach can be produced at national and
 regional levels.

 Croft has staged four solo exhibitions in China as well as curated touring exhibitions of
 contemporary Chinese printmaking (UK, 2014-16) and international printmaking (China and UK,
 2015). In addition to his international activities, Croft helped establish the Print Council of Wales
 and developed exhibitions, community education programmes and print publishing for the
 regional cooperative Aberystwyth Printmakers. He has brought many collaborating artists –
 among them Anne Desmet RA, Shani Rhys James, Marcelle Hanselaar and Stuart Pearson
 Wright – to the SoA, where they work alongside our postgraduates.

 Outreach through public learning and social engagement activities takes our research and
 expertise to a wider public and diverse communities. Over 1,500 individuals have participated in
 Chennell’s Family Learning sessions. She has initiated two major projects working with schools:
 the Hot Pot project (2015) and Great Art Quest (2018). In addition to artist demonstrations and
 talks, community events have included the Family Arts Festival (2014), The People’s Collection
 Wales (2015), Ceramics Collection Creative Writing Workshops (2015) and Hey Clay! (2018,
 2019). Curatorial assistant Westendorf provides outreach activities through exhibition- and
 collections-focussed multi-lingual discussion groups, museum blog and social media feeds and
 updates to our webpages and databases. In addition, SoA Assistant Curator and Tutor Garratt
 works closely with community groups and uses our collections as focus of outreach activities.
 These include semester-long art history modules, visits from artist groups and, in 2019, delivery
 of an ArtUK funded Sculpture Around You project exploring the George Powell bronzes which
 connected Aberystwyth residents to their local history partly by extending SoA research on
 Powell (Heuser) into the community.




                                                                                               Page 15
