Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London School of Economics and Political Science

 Unit of Assessment: 34: Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and
 Information Management


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and Structure

 The Department of Media and Communications conducts critical, empirical and engaged
 research into the crucial role of media and communications in contemporary society. Consistent
 with the LSE 2030 Strategy, our aim is to conduct research and achieve impacts of the highest
 international standard. We bring to multiple agendas a deep understanding of changes in the
 media and communication environment which shape and are shaped by complex socio-
 technical, political-economic, cultural and historical developments.

 We are committed to conducting high quality, robust and independent empirical research and
 intellectually ambitious, theoretically grounded critical analysis. We sustain a distinctive,
 interdisciplinary, thriving and inclusive departmental research environment, working with other
 LSE departments and external institutions. Our research culture is enriched by the diverse
 activities of all Department staff, researchers, students and visiting fellows. Collectively our
 research generates significant intervention in policy and practice with impacts on public debate,
 policy, industry and third sector agendas and practice.

 In the QS World University Rankings by subject for Communication and Media Studies in 2020
 we ranked first in the UK, and third internationally after the University of Amsterdam and
 University of Southern California and ahead of Stanford University, the University of Texas at
 Austin and University of Pennsylvania. Our position as one of the world’s leading Departments in
 our field has been achieved by sustaining a cohesive small-to-medium size faculty with an
 engaged and collaborative research culture.

 Research and Impact Strategy – 2014-2020

 A clearly articulated strategy for research and impact contributes to the vitality and sustainability
 of the Department. Our strategy is subject to formal annual and quinquennial reviews by LSE –
 the latter involving external advisors. Our REF2014 submission strategy was developed as the
 result of ambitious, but realistic collective decisions. Our strategic objectives for research and
 impact were:

 •   to become a medium-sized department in LSE, growing from 15 to 20+ FTE permanent full-
     time faculty – achieved in 2019;

 •   to enhance the range and depth of our research coverage – achieved with seven strategic
     appointments since 2014 and revisions to and expansion of our research themes;

 •   to increase our external research fundraising success; despite highly competitive conditions,
     our strong research environment has resulted in a gradual and sustained improvement in our
     overall funding;

 •   to extend the visibility/reach of our research and increase our capacity to maximise research
     impact in policy-relevant areas where we have major strengths – exemplified by three impact
     case study submissions among other impacts;


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   to ensure strong and enduring impact through robust mentoring and review practices,
     allocating Knowledge Exchange and Impact (KEI) funding from School and Department
     resources to faculty and research students to support impact, and contributing to School-
     wide impact related initiatives – achieved by POLIS, the Media Policy Project (MPP) and a
     new Department Media@LSE hub and the various successes of individual faculty,
     researchers and research students.

 In a media and communications field characterised by extremely fast-moving multi-dimensional
 change, our research strategy was, and remains, to stay broad and timely in addressing the
 challenges posed by the evolving digital landscape and world events which emphasise the
 crucial role of online activity in people’s lives. The Department’s work is anchored in intersecting
 themes encompassing fundamental aspects of media and communication in society. Our diverse
 interdisciplinary and disciplinary expertise (cultural studies, history and feminist studies,
 linguistics, politics, sociology, social psychology, science and technology studies, and science,
 technology and innovation studies) enables us to draw upon, and contribute to, multiple
 disciplinary agendas across the social sciences and beyond.

 Research Themes

 Four overarching, non-exclusive research themes inform the Department’s intellectual agenda
 and efforts to respond to social problems. All staff and visitors affiliate with one or more of these
 and affiliations change as projects and interests evolve. Cross-cutting ethical concerns with the
 norms of democracy, equality and inclusiveness, quality of life and recognition of ‘the other’
 infuse and link these themes. Our sustained effort to construct research agendas that concern
 the global North and South reflects our commitment to decolonise our scholarship and teaching.

 The research themes are reviewed and revised at our inclusive annual Away Days to ensure
 they reflect and inspire faculty commitment to within- and cross-theme debate, research and
 novel methods (e.g. ‘data walks’ employed in urban spaces) and impact. We aim to maximise
 our contributions in these targeted areas while responding to societal developments without
 trying to encompass everything in the media and communications field. The four themes are:

 Media Culture and Identities: How do media and communication shape narratives, identities
 and lived experience? Research focuses on the symbolic power of media and audience
 practices and examines how they support or constrain identities, cultures and solidarities and
 how distributions of media and communication resources condition voice, violence and systems
 of inequality.

 Media Participation and Politics: What role do media and communication play in political
 socialisation, mobilisation and protest around the world? Research examines the political agency
 of citizens, civic engagement in conventional politics and activism, and the way participation is
 shaped by media and communication and other resources.

 Communication Histories and Futures: How do media and communication mediate history,
 collective memory and narratives about the future? Research addresses the history and
 imaginaries of media and communication technologies and institutions in national, regional and
 global contexts, and how their origins and histories are connected to broader social change
 processes.

 Communication, Technology, Rights and Justice: What rights and justice issues are
 significant for media and communication developments? What policy and regulatory responses
 are needed? Research focuses on privacy, political mobilisation and marginalisation, and
 governance issues related to the media and datafication practices and their consequences.

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Impacts, Users and Beneficiaries

 The Department’s research underpins our aim to significantly impact policies and practices in
 areas where we have major strengths by informing and influencing evidence-based policy and
 practice. The most significant users and beneficiaries of our research are public policy
 organisations (UK and overseas local and national government departments and regulators,
 regional bodies including the EU and intergovernmental agencies), third-sector and advocacy
 organisations concerned with social justice, industry bodies concerned with the strategic
 communications and journalistic professions, and information and communication technology
 companies (see Section 4). We pay particular attention to delivering benefits for vulnerable and
 marginalised communities, e.g. Livingstone’s Global Kids Online research, Helsper’s digital
 exclusion in Latin America research, and Gangadharan’s and Banaji’s work on disadvantaged
 groups in New York and India, respectively.

 We are committed to fostering a research environment that values outreach and positively
 impacts activities, throughout rather than only at the conclusion of research projects. We take full
 advantage of LSE’s KEI training (see REF5a) and celebrate our impact achievements at
 Department Research Committee meetings. Our Career Development Review process
 recognises impact, and achievements are highlighted in our monthly Research Newsletter
 circulated internally and externally using Media@LSE email lists and social media (see Sections
 2 and 4). LSE has recognised our achievements, e.g. the LSE 2019 prize for a publicly
 accessible research poster on ‘Understanding Automated Decisions’ awarded to Powell. We
 have introduced termly ‘impact lunches’ to discuss and share experience and progress, including
 sessions for research students led by LSE experts on achieving impact.

 Pathways to Impact

 Impact involves applied research and collaborative and participatory methodologies with
 contributions from relevant stakeholders and the wider public to the research design and
 engagement strategies. Faculty were invited to offer impact case studies. Many nascent ideas
 were mentored, individually and collectively, before the final selection was made. The
 consequence was a rich choice for REF 2021 as well as support for future impact case studies
 and a better understanding of the value and nature of research impact. Our selected ICSs
 involve sustained engagement with target communities over long periods. Consistent with our
 ambition to influence stakeholders and achieve positive change for beneficiaries including adults
 and children, Livingstone’s ICS1 Realising Children’s Rights in a Digital World influenced
 UNICEF, an organisation with huge global reach and authority; Helsper’s ICS2 From Skills to
 Outcomes: Improving digital inequalities metrics, policy and interventions led to an international
 shift towards measurement of socio-economic outcomes resulting from online participation; and
 Tambini’s ICS3 Regulating Media Power in Democracies influenced legislation and the
 regulation of online digital platforms in the UK and Europe.

 POLIS, our journalism and society think tank, provides numerous opportunities for impact
 through its forum for public debate on key news journalism issues. The Media Policy Project
 (MPP) and our Media@LSE strategic initiative have enhanced our impact through engagement
 with research beneficiaries including policymakers, the third sector and businesses across the
 issues addressed by our research themes (see Section 4).

 Integrity of Research and Impact Strategy



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We are committed to ethical conduct in line with field-relevant Ethical Research codes and
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) principles and practices set out in REF5a. This
 commitment is enacted individually and collectively through regular discussion of and sensitivity
 to equity and social justice issues arising from our research. The Department’s Research
 Committee, research student supervisors and a research administrator work to ensure that
 research and impact-related practices achieve the highest ethical standards.

 Open Access Publishing and Open Data Culture

 The Department strongly supports both in its research on copyright issues and data archives
 (Cammaerts, Edwards, Mansell, Meng, Plantin). Our outputs are 100% compliant. We meet
 sponsors’ requirements for access to large datasets. Our work is available on LSE Research
 Online: 76% of 2,355 outputs (including blogs) are open access (downloadable); 78% are full
 text (August 2013 to 19 June 2020). Monthly downloads increased from 6,777 in August 2013 to
 32,325 in May 2020 with 1.8m over the period. Livingstone and Sefton-Green's, The Class:
 Living and Learning the Digital Age (NYU Press) is open access. We use research funds to
 support 'gold' access when feasible.

 The visibility achieved by our blogs – Media@LSE, Parenting for a Digital Future and POLIS -
 promotes open access reports and findings, e.g. My Data and Privacy Online: A Toolkit for
 Young People –Livingstone; Facelook – Georgiou, Our Data Bodies – Gangadharan; Data
 Walking – Powell. We support the LSE’s library open access and data management initiatives
 and its Love Data and Open Access weeks. Open access toolkits are archived on Zenodo (e.g.,
 City of Refuge Toolkit – Georgiou; a Digital Defense Playbook in use in the US and Europe –
 Gangadharan; EU data on young people’s citizenship – Cammaerts, Banaji). The UK Data
 Archive has been used for analysis of UK general election campaigns – Anstead.

 Strategic Aims and Goals – 2021-2026

 The Department’s commitment to undertake world-leading, original and influential social
 science-based research, provides an excellent research-led education for PhD students and
 committed and impactful engagement with national and international debates will remain at the
 core of our research and impact strategy. In the next five years, we aim:

    •   to pursue growth to 24 full-time permanent faculty;

    •   to sustain the provision of an inclusive and equitable environment for faculty, research
        students, researchers and research visitors;

    •   to deepen our expertise in current research themes, while being open to exploration of
        new topics; extending and strengthening our links with other LSE departments,
        enhancing collaboration with external researchers and working to raise external funding;

    •   to consolidate and expand the Media@LSE hub as an effective platform to reach the
        broader research community while retaining flexibility to introduce new initiatives to
        extend our impact and build on areas of strength;

    •   to continue to invest in training and activities to support engagement and impact with
        public, private and third sector beneficiaries of our research, build capacity of early
        career researchers and continue efforts to secure KEI funding.

 Implementation of this strategy will be guided by our Research Committee, chaired by Georgiou,
 promoting an environment conducive to world-leading research and significant and far-reaching
 impact. We invested in the MPP until 2019, focusing on impact in the media and

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 communications policy and regulatory arena. In response to the Department’s growth, success
 in attracting KEI funding and wide range of research topics with potential for future impact
 (notably regarding research on inequalities, social inclusion, education and digital literacy in the
 global North and South), in 2019 we integrated the MPP's activities and its highly visible blog in
 the new Media@LSE research and impact hub. Our plans for the hub echo LSE's 2030
 Strategy to ensure our research contributes to the 'betterment of society'.

 The Department will ensure its research and KEI funding resources support existing and newly
 emerging research and impact. Media@LSE will host a rolling programme of internal and
 external engagement events, promote social media outreach, facilitate individual and collective
 research and impact funding bids, and organise annual cross-Departmental projects – e.g., in
 2019/20 Media City London focused on gentrification, gender and advertising practices,
 London’s digital landscape and 5G network controversies. In 2020/21 the project theme is
 COVID-19: A Communication Crisis – Ethics, Privacy, Inequalities. These build on the success
 of our Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) supported Truth, Trust and Technology
 Commission (2019) (see Section 4) as well as on earlier cross-Department projects, e.g.,
 Mediation of Migration (2017), media representation across Europe (Chouliaraki, Georgiou
 (2017)) and Journalistic Representations of Jeremy Corbyn in the British Press (Cammaerts
 (2016)). All these projects involve research students and academic staff.

 During the pandemic we experienced a hiring freeze, but fortunately no redundancies. We have
 sought to support those faced with new demands outside the workplace by varying workloads
 and adjusting as far as is feasible. The Department is strongly positioned to adapt as necessary
 in response to the Covid-19 pandemic to assure all our staff's well-being and build upon its
 research and impact achievements in line with our forward strategy.

 Section 2. People

 Staffing

 The Department has 21 REF-eligible faculty. The research community includes six research
 assistants (1 pre-doctoral, 5 post-doctoral fellows), two LSE Fellows with teaching and research
 responsibilities, and a Policy Officer. The Department includes a Distinguished Policy Fellow and
 a Professor in Practice: both have teaching and impact responsibilities and are funded by the
 Department budget consistent with our firm commitment to impact. We have one graduate intern
 and seven (6.6 FTE) professional support staff. Five (3F, 2M) post-doctoral fellowships were
 funded by the ESRC, EC Marie Curie scheme, Royal Society Newton International Fellowships
 and LSE Scholars-at-Risk Programme.

 The Department hosted 156 Visiting Fellows over the census period (scholars, media industry
 experts, Ofcom staff, consultants). Visiting Fellow appointments are made through a competitive
 LSE process and are unpaid. These included six Visiting Professors 4% (John Hartley, Andreas
 Hepp, Jim MacNamara, Andrea Press, Marc Raboy, Philip Schlesinger); 74% Visiting Fellows,
 22% Senior Visiting Fellows. In July 2020, the Department hosted 34 Fellows from 13 countries,
 more than half identifying as female.

 Recruitment

 In accordance with LSE's guidance on equality, diversity and inclusion, we build on current
 Department strengths and recruit to respond to changing priorities and ensure fair treatment of
 all applicants (see REF5a). Faculty and post-doctoral fellow posts are advertised externally to
 ensure openness and attract the best applicants. There is continuity of employment for
 permanent faculty. LSE Fellows with teaching obligations (2-3 annually) are employed for 3


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 years. In 2020/21, permanent faculty delivered 88% of our teaching, a balance similar to
 previous years. Project-based fellow reappointments are subject to external funding and LSE’s
 employment policy. We advertise for administrative staff internally (externally if no internal
 applicants) and provide continuity of employment.

 REF-eligible recruitment grew to 2019, followed by a period of stability. In 2014, the Department
 had 15 full-time faculty and recruited to achieve 21 REF-eligible faculty. Two are early career
 researchers; we have no part-time REF-eligible staff. As of July 2020, the demographic profile
 was six Assistant, five Associate and 10 Full Professors; 17 White and four BAME; and 16
 female and five male, from 14 countries.

 Career Development and Evaluation

 We ensure these processes are robust, consistently applied, practical and welcomed by all
 colleagues and include comprehensive support for all staff throughout their careers. All faculty
 elected to transfer to LSE’s New Academic Career structure in 2013; post-doctoral fellows are
 on the New Research Staff Career path introduced in 2015, which enables career progression.
 Faculty and fellow inductions encourage new staff to engage actively in life at LSE and introduce
 them to LSE Codes of Conduct (see REF5a).

 Probation

 For Assistant Professors this involves an Interim Review after three years and a Major Review
 after eight years which has been brought forward and can be extended by LSE for one year (for
 parenting and now automatically for Covid-19 reasons). It leads to a permanent contract
 following review by LSE’s Promotions Committee. The Department reduces teaching/marking
 loads of pre-Major Review staff by 20% to facilitate their development.

 Career Progression

 All non-full professorial staff are assigned a mentor in line with the Department’s robust
 mentoring system. Mentor meetings are at least termly. They encompass advice (e.g.
 reading/feedback on draft papers and grant proposals, discussion of EDI issues, advice on
 publication strategies and achieving impact). To support their professional and intellectual
 growth, pre-Interim Review Assistant Professors are encouraged to be second PhD supervisors.

 Appraisal and Training

 Assistant and Associate Professors have an annual Career Development Review, conducted by
 the Head of Department (or her delegate), to advise on progress (e.g. publishing strategies,
 funding, teaching buyouts for large bid writing, EDI considerations). This identifies training
 needs, e.g. language or career management and leadership courses, from which many faculty
 have benefited. LSE's Eden Centre for Educational Enhancement offers courses for skill
 development. The Research and Innovation Division supports bids for external funds. Faculty
 who receive LSE’s KEI Fund support attend one or more meetings with the KEI Integrated
 Service to discuss their application to maximise potential impacts of planned engagement
 activities. Full Professors may request or be invited for a Review; from age 62, faculty are
 encouraged to discuss future retirement plans.

 Promotion and Evaluation

 Full Professors meet annually to review other faculty and post-doctoral fellows to consider
 possible promotions. Promotion is based on research and teaching excellence, citizenship and

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 consideration of impact activities, this last to ensure we meet our commitment to achieving
 healthy and lasting impacts. During the census period, there were 10 internal promotions, five to
 Associate (4F, 1M) and five to Full Professor (4F, 1M) resulting in a distribution of 19%
 Assistant, 29% Associate and 52% Full Professor in August 2020, just beyond the census date.
 The Head of Department, informed by former Heads, recommends contribution pay awards.
 LSE's Senior Management Committee evaluates the Department Head's leadership. A subset of
 the Full Professors assesses the Head’s research, teaching and impact.

 Support for Research and Impact

 Full-time faculty are entitled to sabbatical leave, releasing them from teaching and administrative
 duties (one term after every eight, with an additional entitlement of up to three terms for staff with
 certain senior management responsibilities). Entitlements are respected. In the REF period, all
 faculty due sabbatical leave used it (58% of 43 sabbatical leave terms were taken by non-Full
 Professors, the rest by Full Professors). There is provision for research leave and teaching and
 associated duty buyouts, generally up to a maximum equivalent to 40% of the normal load in any
 five years. The timing of sabbaticals and research leave/buyouts is approved by the Head of
 Department with occasional postponements to accommodate teaching needs. No
 postponements were due to the Covid-19 crisis. Secondments to Microsoft Research New
 England provide a pathway for knowledge exchange and impact (Banet-Weiser, Couldry,
 Livingstone, Plantin).

 Researcher Career Development

 Post-doctoral fellows are closely integrated into the Department consistent with LSE’s support
 for research careers and the Research Development Concordat (see REF5a). Training
 opportunities available to faculty are open to all Fellows. Each is assigned a mentor and
 receives an annual Career Development Review (exceeding LSE’s requirements). Training
 needs are agreed, and expectations for promotion are discussed. Fellows are full members of
 the Department's Research Committee, and we seek to integrate early career research
 assistants through their work with Principal Investigators (PIs) and inclusion in all Department
 events.

 Research Students

 Attracting and Educating Outstanding Doctoral Students

 Cutting edge research training is provided through our PhD Programme, overseen by its Director
 (Chouliaraki). The minimum entry requirement is high and the minimum English language
 requirement (IELTS 7.0 overall; minimum 7.0 writing and reading, 6.5 for other elements)
 ensures students are well-positioned to take advantage of the training. The annual intake target
 is six to 10 students. Our recruitment strategy results in strong demand for places; 2019/20
 recorded 115 applications, 15 offers and six acceptances.

 In 2019/20, there were 41 FTE PhD students (38 full-time, 6 part-time), an increase of 11 over
 2012/13, and we host several visiting research students annually. Students come from 27
 countries (27F, 17M; 39% declaring a BAME background). The PhD programme receives LSE
 four-year scholarships with a generous annual stipend of £18,000 plus full fees. From 2020
 entry, the Department is responsible for nominating candidates for an annual allocation of three
 LSE PhD Studentships. One or two ESRC scholarships are attracted each year. Most of the
 remaining students receive other external funding. In the census period, support from LSE, other
 studentships and various stipends totalled £2.7m, including LSE’s Student Support Fund and
 Postgraduate Travel Fund, the latter including £125,495 for conference attendance and

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fieldwork. The Department allocates £4,000 annually for student activities and student-led
 events such as PhD writing retreats.

 Over the past five years, the average four-year submission rate was 72% (compared to 67%
 across LSE). Of 36 graduating students, 26 took up academic posts in the UK (12% above the
 average for Social Sciences graduates in the UK) and overseas including Leverhulme and
 ESRC postdoc positions at King’s College London, Cambridge and Birmingham. Other
 graduating students chose professional paths in journalism, global governance, media
 monitoring or science or communication technology services.

 Supervision and Training

 To ensure students are well prepared to attain research excellence and to respond to the
 demands of future careers as academics or in other professions, all students attend a weekly
 seminar in years 1 and 2 (50 hrs annually). This introduces intellectual debates and discusses
 work-in-progress. They also attend a compulsory qualitative and quantitative methods course.
 Supervisors offer guidance on elective courses delivered by the Department and across LSE.
 Advanced, staff-taught Doctoral Skills Development Workshops focus on publication strategies,
 conference presentation and job interviews. The supervision structure consists of the Thesis
 Committee (Chair, main and second supervisors) which acts, also, as an evaluation and
 monitoring panel. Supervision is at least three times a term in the first year and twice a term
 (once a term for part-time students) thereafter, in line with LSE regulations. Assessments, a PhD
 online log recording student and supervisor comments on supervisory meetings, and an end-of
 year student progress report, considered by an Annual PhD Board attended by all supervisors,
 ensure that monitoring and support mechanisms take EDI considerations into account (see
 below) and are geared to successful completion.

 Integration into Research Culture and Training

 The Department includes a Doctoral Research Studio and provides many opportunities to
 socialise with faculty. The Department is not involved in undergraduate teaching. Students
 acquire teaching experience as Graduate Teaching Assistants for MSc course seminars or teach
 Summer School courses or undergraduates in other departments. Twelve students (half during
 2018/19) have completed training to Associate (8) or Career Track Associate (4) Advanced HE
 Fellowship level offered by the LSE PhD Academy. Supervision is arranged at appropriate times,
 especially for part-time students with other workloads. Students acquire research experience
 through a transparent assistantship appointment process. LSE’s PhD Academy offers one-to-
 one pastoral support and workshops (attended by eight students). Foreign language training is
 available (taken up by nine students), and support is provided for non-native English speakers.
 LSE Careers offers other training and consultation (an average of six events annually for our
 students). The LSE Library, specialist media subject librarian and the Department of
 Methodology’s specialised methods training provide additional support.

 Opportunities for Intellectual Engagement and Debate

 Student-led weekly 'knowledge exchanges’ complement a peer mentoring system and many
 social events, informal research groups, a two-day Masterclass, a student-led PhD Symposium
 and participation in the Department’s seminar series. Integration within networks in the media
 and communications and related fields occurs through the London Doctoral Network,
 BRESTOLON network (Catholic University of Portugal and Bremen, Goldsmiths, LSE and
 Southern Stockholm universities), International Political Sociology Seminar series and
 participation at conferences. Students serve as interns, facilitating contacts with Ofcom, media
 companies, third sector organisations and government departments and creating the potential

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for knowledge exchange and impact opportunities. They also contribute directly to our impact
 agenda, e.g. Glatt’s research on creative online labour experiences featured in an LSE impact
 report to the ESRC.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion within the Department

 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) are fundamental to the Department’s ethos and LSE. We
 implement EDI measures through ensuring that staff and students develop and sustain
 rewarding and impactful research, giving particular attention to gender, ‘race’/ethnicity and
 family/carer responsibilities. We ensure EDI principles are embedded in recruitment and
 progression practices, develop awareness of EDI-related barriers, work hard to make enough
 time available for research, and ensure career development opportunities are promoted and
 facilitated.

 Recruitment panels balance gender, ethnicity and seniority. All staff are invited to review and
 comment on longlists before recruitment shortlists are drawn up. Candidates present to the
 whole Department and staff input is integral to the decision-making process. These measures
 protect EDI by ensuring that a small group of selectors does not dominate recruitment decisions.
 When needed, support for progression (e.g. additional mentoring, reading drafts, advice on
 publication trajectories/funding applications) to overcome EDI barriers, is available. EDI training
 is mandatory for new staff, and existing staff are also encouraged to undertake LSE's training:
 100% of our REF-eligible staff have completed the online Equality and Diversity Awareness
 module, and most have attended Unconscious Bias training in addition.

 Flexible working policies apply to staff returning after parental leave or periods of reduced hours
 for other reasons. Staff taking 18 weeks or more of family leave are entitled to one term of
 research leave; one faculty member has benefited from this. From the time of appointment,
 generous sick leave provisions apply. The burden that EDI barriers can place on staff was
 addressed in a 2015 Departmental Work-Life Balance Consultation. This resulted in a range of
 interventions including minimum mentoring expectations; voluntary and funded one-to-one
 coaching for early career staff; reduced email traffic and response time expectations; ‘Research
 Fridays’ (no meetings scheduled); and formal meeting timings consistent with caring
 responsibilities. These measures protect research and private time of all staff. We have sought
 to respect all our staff and students' requirements during the Covid-19 pandemic. We are
 supporting LSE to produce EDI sensitive policies for the 2020/21 academic year.

 Senior administrative roles (e.g., Deputy Head) rotate to distribute the management burden fairly
 and attract a 20% reduced teaching load to assure equality of research opportunity. Workloads
 are managed to ensure equitable annual teaching contact hour distribution (norm 110 hours
 annually) and enable teaching buyouts to facilitate research and impact activities. Department
 Head succession planning (50% teaching load and 4-year term) is undertaken by the Head in
 consultation with the Department and a recommendation to LSE’s Director.

 The Department fully supports LSE’s EDI and Athena Swan commitments (see REF5a) and
 proactively encourages staff to progress EDI issues across LSE, e.g. in the LSE Gender Equality
 Forum (Mansell, Livingstone), Race Equality Staff Working Group (Banaji, Gangadharan),
 Athena Swan Committee (Mansell, Orgad), LSE Pay Equity Review Working Group (Mansell),
 LSE Adviser to Female Students (Orgad, Meng), and leadership roles in the UCU Branch
 (Banaji) including Equality & Diversity representative. EDI and the commitment to address and
 audit internal progress towards reducing inequalities and barriers figure as a standing item in all
 Department meetings.




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The PhD programme aims to nurture EDI values among its research students. Anti-bullying and
 harassment awareness seminars were introduced to maintain a safe and dialogic doctoral
 environment. Students are granted interruptions and supported by supervisors with return plans
 in cases of illness or parental leave. The Department’s Research Committee and Staff-Student
 Liaison Committee have student representation. Our processes and curricula are updated
 frequently in response to student feedback.

 Departmental REF2021 Process

 The Departmental Statement on REF policies and practice was discussed at and ratified by the
 Research Committee and full Department meetings. Outputs were independently reviewed by
 two of the Department's faculty, including one Full Professor and one member of the Department
 REF panel. Outputs receiving divergent internal grades and a sample of all outputs were also
 graded by experienced external reviewers identified to the Department. The review process was
 confidential throughout, and reviewer gradings were ‘blind’. Qualitative feedback summaries and
 consensus output grades were offered confidentially to individuals by the Department REF
 coordinators and any concerns discussed with the Head of Department. The review of outputs
 and ICSs was seen as an opportunity to provide confidential and constructive feedback and
 support to colleagues; all REF processes operated entirely separately from career review and
 promotion. Final output selection was overseen by a Department REF Panel representing all
 seniority levels, with a view to achieving a fair and equitable representation, informed by LSE’s
 REF 2021 Code of Practice on equality monitoring with respect to seniority, ethnicity and gender
 (see REF5a).

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Investment in Research and Impact

 The Department secured £3.8m HESA-reported income from 31 successful grant applications (a
 good 28% success rate) during the census period. A further £1.2m of non-HESA research
 income was secured from 41 consultancy and expert evidence projects (small to £203K). The
 LSE Research Infrastructure and Investment Fund allocated 40% of net overhead income to the
 Department – £121K in the census period. An internal bid process, overseen by the
 Department’s Research Committee, resulted in £104K committed to a Research Catalyst (seed)
 Fund. Successful bids to the Research Infrastructure Support Fund and LSE’s Research Seed
 Fund resulted in, respectively, £25K and £67K for specific projects. LSE’s Research Incentives
 Policy (see REF5a) supports flexibility, autonomy and creativity of individual research decisions.
 PIs choose how to use their overhead fund share, which creates an incentive to submit bids and
 enhances the potential for impact on external communities.

 LSE Summer School teaching generated £241K to support Department research and impact
 activities. Our impact agenda benefited from in-kind sponsorships through POLIS which
 attracted professional journalists to work in the Department. This contributed to knowledge
 exchange and impact within the media industry. Two full-time professional service staff were
 allocated to support research and impact activities. LSE provided £970/head annually to faculty
 in 2019/20 (£1,420 for Assistant Professors) for conference participation and research-related
 costs.

 LSE’s Knowledge, Exchange and Impact (KEI) Fund contributed £880K to impact support
 (including HEIF) and £20K in KEI discretionary awards during the census period. The ICSs
 benefited from this KEI funding to finance evaluation of impacts (ICS1), increase online
 published research (ICS2), and enhance the Department’s impact work including ICS3 (see



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ICSs and Section 4). LSE REF Support Funds – £60K – supported impact activities and blogs,
 impact evaluation, teaching buyouts to conduct fieldwork and output editing costs.

 Major and Prestigious Competitively Awarded Research Grants

 REF4a-reported funding includes 10 grants valued at £100K to £351K (e.g. Constructing Active
 Citizenship with European Youth – Banaji (EC); Urban Politics and the Digitally Mediated Lives
 of London’s Young People – Georgiou (EC); EU Kids Online III – Livingstone (EC); Global Kids
 Online – Livingstone (UNICEF); Values and Ethics in Innovation for Responsible Technology –
 Powell (EC); Mediating Semi-Authoritarianism – Rantanen (EC). Livingstone, Helsper and
 Georgiou secured £413K (£30K at the end of the census period) as part of a £3.2m EC
 consortium grant for the ySKILLS project and €1.7m for an EC project, Children Online:
 Research and Evidence (£140K to LSE).

 A further 24 REF4a-reported projects received £30K to £99K (e.g. Improving Deliberation,
 Improving Copyright – Edwards (AHRC), Our Data Bodies: Human Rights and Data Justice
 (New America Foundation) and Justice, Equity and Technology – Gangadharan (Open Society
 Foundation); the Price of Connection – Couldry (John Templeton Foundation); Personalised
 Media and Participatory Culture – Banaji (Emirates Foundation). Other funding sources included
 the Australian Research Council, UK Information Commissioner’s Office and the EC to support
 Livingstone’s research on children, risk, privacy and digital literacy. Our diverse HESA funding
 base includes the British Academy, ESRC, EPSRC, Noble Foundation, Overseas Development
 Institute, Research Council of Norway, Nuffield Foundation, Polish National Agency for
 Academic Exchange and corporate funders IF Ltd, Abbey/Grupo Santander, Microsoft and
 Google.

 High-quality Research and Pathways to Impact

 Our research and KEI funding base and operational infrastructure, including support from LSE's
 Research and Innovation Division (see REF5a), allow us to prioritise building relationships with
 external organisations and achieving impacts. This in turn stimulates internal research
 discussions. Our investments in POLIS, the MPP and the Media@LSE hub position us to
 influence government policy, company and third sector practice, and engage with wider publics
 to enable numerous pathways to impact (see Section 4). LSE KEI project and discretionary
 funding was used to support flexible development and delivery of impact activities: 72% of
 £880K (see above) supported MPP activities and administration to 2019; the remainder was
 allocated to faculty at all career stages and used to prepare the ICSs and support other impact
 initiatives. With the launch of Media@LSE in November 2019, REF funds have supported our
 Policy Officer (Goodman) who assists faculty with impact-related activities.

 Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact

 The most significant LSE support is the maintenance of the staff-student ratio at 1:14 to allow
 quality time for research and impact. All our work is guided by LSE’s Research Conduct and
 Ethics codes (see REF5a). Our conduct, internally and externally, is discussed frequently at
 Department and Research Committee meetings, including concerning EDI considerations, with
 confidential support offered, when needed, by the Head of Department, mentors, supervisors or
 LSE’s EDI and counselling infrastructure.

 LSE’s operational infrastructure supports our research and impact (see REF5a for facilities and
 services). The Department’s relocation in 2015 to refurbished premises, including Departmental
 seminar and networking spaces, improved our flexibility to host academic and impact events, co-
 locating faculty and research students (with dedicated space). Visiting Fellows have a reserved,

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 centrally located physical hub in the Department which maximises their involvement in
 Department conversations and activities. The LSE Library holdings fully support the
 Department’s needs, and a dedicated and responsive Librarian provides monthly updates on
 acquisitions and subject-related reports.

 The Department’s Research Committee provides a scholarly infrastructure ensuring regular
 review of research opportunities, emphasising intellectually-demanding questions and problems
 and gaps in the existing research base. The Committee contributes significantly to the co-
 ordination of discussions about research aspirations, initiation of within and cross-Department
 projects, oversight of the Policy Officer’s and our LSE-funded intern’s work, and ensuring the
 availability of administrative support for research and impact activities. Research Committee
 responsibilities include creating incentives to submit research proposals and enhancing impact
 by proactively inviting bids for funds (with a Head of Department discretionary fund) by faculty
 and research students, e.g., supporting reading networks and bid writing workshops. The
 Research Committee Chair hosts discussions about emerging research themes, priorities and
 current research activities, facilitates discussion of Media@LSE cross-Department research, and
 monitors disbursement of funds to ensure equity and access among faculty and research
 students. Early-stage career faculty are especially encouraged to apply for these funds and LSE
 seed funding.

 Formal, informal and collegial engagement in developing the Department’s research agenda is
 ensured through a programme of diverse events. Fortnightly lunchtime ‘research dialogue’
 seminars (some 150 in the census period) provide opportunities to discuss research in an
 informal setting, pairing internal and external speakers to facilitate research exchanges. Annual
 Away Days are very well attended and enable collaborative development of our research
 strategy and impact work. Informal Department Reading Groups enhance opportunities for
 discussion. Visiting Fellows contribute peer-reviewed Media@LSE working papers, lead their
 own network and research seminar series, and participate in Department events including the
 Research Dialogue seminar series, ad hoc seminars and social occasions where research
 students benefit from discussions with visitors who generously share their expertise.

 Interdisciplinary dialogue is fostered by our research infrastructure and strong links to LSE
 institutes (e.g., International Inequalities Institute) and departments where our members serve in
 advisory capacities (Chouliaraki, Couldry, Gangadharan, Helsper), the LSE Commission on
 Gender, Inequality and Power (Couldry, Orgad) and LSE’s Data Science planning committee
 (Couldry, Mansell, Powell). LSE support for formal partnerships and regular exchanges with
 Fudan University, the University of Southern California Annenberg School for Communication
 and Northwestern University (3 years) contributes to a lively research environment.

 Extensive Use of Digital Media

 The reach of our impact has been extended through the use of social media including the
 @MediaLSE Twitter feed (20.4K followers) and MPP’s Twitter followers (9,301 at November
 2019 when the MPP was integrated with @MediaLSE). The Department recorded 1,675
 Instagram followers and 141 YouTube subscribers (started in February 2020) in July 2020. The
 Global Kids Online project YouTube channel posted 45 videos attracting 7,116 views and
 109.6hrs of viewing. POLIS’s Twitter feed had 9.4K followers, 2,967 subscribers to its electronic
 newsletter - an open rate of 25% (industry avg. 18%), 3,147 Facebook followers and 789
 Instagram followers. Individual staff have over 76K Twitter followers with feeds often retweeted
 on @MediaLSE and @LSENews (103K followers).

 The POLIS, Media@LSE and Parenting for a Digital Future blogs are used extensively, and we
 proactively invite posts. The census period saw 1,759 blog posts on the Department’s blogs:

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 MPP plus Media@LSE 48%, POLIS 32%, Parenting for a Digital Future 20%. These blog posts
 generated a total of 2.1m page views by 1.2m unique users. In June 2020, the Media@LSE blog
 was averaging around 11K visits per month. Members of the Department are active contributors
 to our blogs - 20 staff authored a total of 487 blog posts: MPP plus Media@LSE blog 31%;
 POLIS blog 35%, Parenting for a Digital Future 11%, external blogs 14% (e.g. The Ada Lovelace
 Institute, The Conversation, World Economic Forum, Open Democracy and Utopia-China) and
 9% for other LSE blogs (e.g. British Politics and Policy, American Politics and Policy, South Asia,
 India, Latin American and Caribbean, Brexit, LSE Impact), illustrating the diverse audiences we
 aim to address.

 Media interviews, audiovisual streaming technologies, email and online working papers extend
 our influence. REF-eligible staff participated in at least 360 media interviews with many
 additional interviews involving POLIS Director, Beckett and Distinguished Policy Fellow,
 Tambini. We authored 38 opinion pieces for news outlets in 10 countries or regions, and Banet-
 Weiser writes a regular column for the Los Angeles Review of Books. Banaji, Gangadharan and
 Livingstone presented TED Talks, and our work appeared in 82 internally or externally produced
 videos and podcasts. A Mailchimp list (7,517 including Parenting for the Digital Future) includes
 contacts and networks of members of the Department. It is used to issue invitations to events
 and to circulate our monthly Research Newsletter. The Department’s peer-reviewed
 Media@LSE Working Paper Series (editor Cammaerts) published 34 papers in the census
 period.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Contributions to the Research Base

 Our contributions are indicated by awards and prizes, by the multiple academic roles in which
 we support developments in the field of media and communications and by our numerous
 networks and partnerships.

 Recognition and Prizes

 Livingstone received four and Couldry two honorary doctorates. Livingstone was elected Fellow
 of the British Academy. Couldry and Livingstone were elected members of the Academia
 Europaea and Livingstone received the 2019 Academia Europaea Erasmus Medal. Livingstone
 was awarded an OBE for services to children and child internet safety and received the British
 Psychological Society Award for Distinguished Contributions to Social Psychology. Livingstone
 and Mansell were elected Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences.

 We were honoured to receive recognition from professional associations: ICA outstanding book
 awards – Banet-Weiser and Chouliaraki; the German Media and Communications Association
 outstanding book award – Couldry; and awards for papers or projects – Cammaerts, Chouliaraki,
 Dosekun, Edwards, Georgiou, Powell, Orgad. Livingstone received the ICA Senior Scholar
 Award – Children, Adolescents and Media Division, and the Spanish Communication
 Association Homage (Gold Award). Mansell received the IAMCR Distinguished Contribution
 Award and the ICA C. Edwin Baker Award for Advancement of Scholarship on Media, Markets
 and Democracy. Couldry was appointed Coordinating Lead Author for the 2018 International
 Panel on Social Progress Report. Mansell was nominated to give the prestigious 36 th Annual
 Böhm-Bawerk Lecture at Innsbruck University. We were awarded two honorary
 professorships/fellowships – Chouliaraki, Willems, and received 46 visiting and associate
 professor invitations from 15 countries.

 Contributions to the Field of Media and Communications


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We sought to deepen and extend the knowledge base through 20 monographs, 15 (co)edited
 books, handbooks or encyclopaedias, 179 book chapters and 236 peer-reviewed papers, 57%
 (135) often co-authored with overseas and non-LSE UK colleagues. Two books, three edited
 books, 28 book chapters, and 47 peer-reviewed papers were by assistant professors. An
 analysis of some of our published works (2014/20) indicates a citation rate of 14.2 per
 publication, twice the average for the UK media and communications field. We are cited beyond
 our field, e.g., by computing science, education, health science and psychology scholars. Our
 PhD students additionally authored 1 book, 65 peer-reviewed articles and 22 book chapters.

 We delivered 200 invited academic keynotes and public lectures in the UK and overseas. We
 served as overall conference chairs and organisers of 32 large conferences or pre/post
 conference events, and organised 18 workshops at the LSE and internationally. We contributed
 to leading academic professional associations, serving on ICA’s Nominating Committee and the
 Society of Cinema and Media Studies’ Lifetime Achievement Award Committee – Banet-Weiser,
 ICA’s Outstanding Book Award and Journalism Studies Outstanding Article Award committees –
 Chouliaraki, Professional Standards Taskforce – Livingstone, and Secretary of the PR Division –
 Edwards, and on the American Studies Association Executive Committee – Banet-Weiser.
 Livingstone founded and chaired ECREA’s Temporary Working Group, Children, Youth and
 Media (now a Section) and Chouliaraki chaired its Temporary Working Group on Mediated
 Suffering Studies. Cammaerts was Vice-Chair of IAMCR’s Communication Policy & Technology
 Section, Mansell chairs IAMCR’s Clearinghouse for Public Statements and is Secretary of the
 Research Conference on Communications, Information and Internet Policy (TPRC).

 We contributed to peer review in our own and adjacent fields. Livingstone served as a REF2014
 sub-panel member; Mansell is a REF2021 sub-panel member. We have been journal editors or
 co-editors (Banet-Weiser, Edwards, Helsper) or associate editors of 16 journals, including the
 ICA journals Communication Theory, Communication, Culture and Critique, and Journal of
 Communication. We referee for over 100 journals and serve on numerous UK and international
 grant evaluation committees and overseas university scientific evaluation panels.

 Efforts to shape research agendas involve representation on the US National Science
 Foundation’s Council for Big Data, Ethics and Society (Gangadharan), Standing Selection
 Committee of the Canadian Networks of Centres of Excellence (Mansell) and membership of the
 EC Horizon 2020 Expert Advisory Group – Europe in a changing world (Livingstone). We
 provided leadership in developing research methodologies in the social sciences (Orgad, Powell,
 Helsper) and cross-disciplinary research (e.g. Banaji’s research on young people’s citizenship in
 the EU; Couldry, Gangadharan, Mansell, Mulvin, Plantin and Powell variously on data, rights,
 ethics and artificial intelligence).

 Academic Research Collaborations and International Networks and Partnerships

 These include collaborations with colleagues in the UK, Europe and around the world, e.g.
 CREATe network – Edwards; Data Justice Network, Cardiff – Gangadharan; Network of
 Excellence in Internet Science – Powell; and those in Chile, South Africa and the US. We
 participated in 18 UK and international research and policy-oriented networks, e.g. Connected
 Learning Research Network (MacArthur Foundation), Global Commission on Internet
 Governance (Chatham House and Centre for International Governance Innovation–CIGI) and
 Gender and Adolescence: Global Evidence network (ODI/DFID) – Livingstone, as well as
 Powell’s leadership of JUST AI (Joining Up Society and Technology in AI), a network of
 researchers and practitioners through the Ada Lovelace Institute in partnership with AHRC (see
 also ICSs).



                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contributions to the Economy and Society

 Our evidence-based research addresses global and local societal issues and problems, from
 migration to political instability, and the impacts of rising inequality associated with the ‘data
 economy’, bringing a critical social science perspective to various research council priorities and
 UK Government ‘Grand Challenges’. The strength of these contributions is indicated by the great
 importance we assign to ensuring our research contributes to the economy and society based
 on research into how media and communications are implicated in social, political, cultural and
 social problems of concern in the global North and South.

 Engagement with Key Research Users, Beneficiaries and Audiences

 Department staff gave 102 non-academic keynote speeches or invited talks in numerous
 countries: 28% public sector (Cabinet Office, Intellectual Property Office, Ofcom, Council of
 Europe, EC Directorates-General, European Parliament, Mission Société Numérique,
 Municipality of Bologna, National Statistical and Geographical Institute Mexico, ITU, UNESCO,
 UNCSTD, UNICEF); 20% third sector (e.g. Amnesty International, Doctors Without Borders, Hay
 Literary Festival, National Theatre, Oxfam, Migration Matters-UK) and 52% at business events
 (e.g. Bloomberg, JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs, PR at CommsCon18, World Economic Forum,
 journalists’ meetings).

 We reached out to wider publics through 26 speaker events in the high profile LSE Public
 Lecture Series (and accompanying podcasts), also hosting and participating in 44 additional
 Department-sponsored events featuring leading academics (e.g. Julie Cohen, Henry Jenkins,
 Angela McRobbie, Baroness O’Neill, Frank Pasquale, José van Dijck, Robin Wagner-Pacifici),
 government representatives (e.g. Damian Collins MP, Walter Merricks-Chief Financial
 Ombudsman Service) and media and other industry speakers (Lionel Barber, Baroness de
 Rothschild, Evan Davis, Paul Mason, Sir Alan Moses, former IPSO Chair and then Chief
 Executive of Ofcom, Sharon White). We organised or participated in 12 panels for the annual
 LSE Festival (Banet-Weiser, Beckett, Chouliaraki, Gangadharan, Georgiou, Helsper, Powell).
 POLIS hosted five Journalism and Society Conferences (500+ attendees) and 32 smaller events
 with external participants. Tambini organised six Oxford Media Conventions (300+). The MPP
 organised 29 high profile expert workshops in the UK and overseas on topics ranging from press
 regulation to digital intermediaries and media pluralism.

 Responsiveness to Public, Private and Third Sector Concerns

 We authored 123 evidence-based reports or policy briefing papers prepared for externally or
 internally funded research projects, including 13 MPP reports, e.g. Fake news: Public policy
 responses (9,700+ downloads), Families and Screen Time (18,000+ downloads) and The New
 Political Campaigning (5,800+ downloads), and four POLIS reports (e.g. New Powers, New
 Responsibilities: A Global Survey of Journalism and Artificial Intelligence which brought together
 71 news organisations in 32 countries – 3,672 downloads, 12,799 page views; and Fanning the
 Flames: Reporting Terror in a Networked World hosted at Tow Centre for Digital Journalism,
 8,889 page views). These informed UK and overseas government departments, parliamentary
 committees, government agencies/commissions including the EC, third sector organisations,
 specialist institutes and think tanks in the UK and abroad, and the private sector. MPP and
 POLIS showcased Department research at venues such as the Perugia Journalism Festival and
 the World Economic Forum.

 Members of the Department influenced policy agendas through 43 instances of oral testimony or
 written evidence in response to parliamentary inquiries, government consultations and requests
 for comment from the EC or United Nations agencies, e.g. on the future of internet regulation,

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategies for addressing misinformation, rights and protections for children online, electoral
 campaigning transparency and gender and equality issues. For example, Tambini submitted
 evidence on the future of public service broadcasting, the BBC Charter Renewal, media
 ownership, platform regulation, hate crime and press regulation in the Leveson inquiry. Edwards’
 research on copyright policy has developed a more sustainable and inclusive consultation model
 for debate on this issue involving citizens, industry and policymakers.

 Formal expert appointments help to increase our research impacts. Livingstone was appointed
 special advisor to House of Lords Select Committee on Communications Inquiry into Children
 and the Internet and Beckett to the House of Commons Select Committee for Culture, Media
 and Sport on Broadcasting. We served in 35 trustee, expert advisory board, council member or
 formal advisor roles in the public sector (17), industry (4) and third sector organisations (14) in
 the UK and Europe (Anstead, Chouliaraki, Livingstone, Orgad, Tambini).

 We achieved impact through advice and consultancy: 140 consultancies for third sector
 organisations or think tanks (41%), UK government departments or regional or
 intergovernmental organisations (36%), and industry (23%) on topics such as digital platform
 regulation, digital inclusion, human rights and data control and strategic communications, e.g.
 training for Weber Shandwick and Manifest (strategic communication companies) about treating
 branding as a social and cultural function-Edwards. Tambini acted as consultant to Medien
 Anstalt Berlin-Brandenburg (Statutory Media Regulator) devising a new policy framework to
 apply media pluralism to digital platforms.

 Effectiveness of Strategy to Create Pathways to Impact

 Our ICSs exemplify this: ICS1 – increasing global understanding and action to realise children’s
 rights to online opportunities and protection from harm; ICS2 – shaping frameworks to design
 and evaluate digital inclusion policies to address inequalities; and ICS3 – standards and
 legislation to constrain media power while respecting media freedom.

 Other Department research with substantial and emerging impact, supported by internal and
 external funding, addresses current research priorities and demonstrates the reach and
 significance of impacts beyond the ICSs.

 The Digital Makings of the City of Refuge project investigated responses to refugee arrivals, and
 engaged with newcomers and third sector actors with a small London-based NGO, leading to an
 LSE Symposium on Migration and the Digital City to address mobility issues and the autonomy
 of human beings in the digital age and citizenship. This resulted in an opportunity to inform Tate
 Modern’s city of refuge digital archive planning (Georgiou). Research on Mediated Humanitarian
 Knowledge helped to shape NGO humanitarian appeal campaigns (Orgad). Research on young
 people and EU citizenship attracted the attention of policymakers and the wider public
 (Cammaerts, Banaji) and invitations to prepare a report on UK Youth Perspectives and Priorities
 for Brexit Negotiations with a foreword by Labour and Conservative MPs and to speak to the All
 Party Parliamentary Group for a Better Brexit (Banaji).

 Our research on gender, identity and media culture has informed policy and corporate practice.
 Heading Home investigated why women give up successful professional careers to become
 ‘stay at home’ mothers, eliciting invitations to address the Cabinet Office and Bloomberg with
 Baroness Ariane de Rothschild participating in LSE discussion (Orgad). Banet-Weiser’s
 research on advertising, online platforms’ not-for-profit and commercial campaigns, popular
 feminism and misogyny, published in Empowered, led to 45 invitations to address academic and
 non-academic groups in the UK and overseas and to influence media practice. Dosekun’s recent



                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research on African Luxury: Aesthetics and Politics is already influencing visual and material
 consumption cultures in the African continent.

 The LSE HEIF-supported Truth, Trust and Technology Commission produced the Tackling the
 Information Crisis report (2,163 downloads), responding to concerns in the UK about the power
 and absence of accountability of digital platforms (Anstead, Beckett, Couldry, Livingstone-Chair,
 Mansell, Tambini and Murray – Law, with MPs and industry participants). Our recommendations
 about UK platform regulation received substantial coverage in The Guardian, Times, Telegraph,
 the Press Gazette and Wired. Aimed at fighting misinformation and protecting citizens’ (including
 children’s) democratic rights, they were reflected in the Government’s 2019 Online Harms White
 Paper. Research on WhatsApp Vigilantes addressed issues of online harms associated with
 misinformation, attracting substantial media coverage in India, the US, the UK and beyond with
 results that influenced the company's content moderation policies (Banaji, Bhat – PhD student).

 Research on data privacy and ethics, and the roles of artificial intelligence and algorithms, has
 informed the design of options to make real-time artificial intelligence automated decisions in the
 insurance sector (IF Ltd) more transparent (Powell). Digital privacy and data literacy research
 influenced the City of New York’s recognition of internet users' privacy rights in its digital
 inclusion strategy, affecting 22m people and led to data privacy training for over 500 library
 professionals (Gangadharan). Our work on the media, democracy and politics informed a report
 on Televised Debates in Parliamentary Democracies in the run up to the 2015 UK election
 influencing the format of the only television campaign debate (Anstead). Al-Ghazzi (serving as
 lead researcher for UNESCO’s 2018 World Trends in Freedom of Expression and Media
 Development Report) influenced understanding of media freedoms in the Arab region. Research
 on the Future of News Agencies in Europe resulted in Agence France-Presse’s Regional
 Director for Europe and Google’s Director of Strategic Relations for News & Publishers
 participating in an LSE-hosted debate on platforms’ financial obligations to news publishers
 (Rantanen with Kelly, Bhat and Stupart – PhD students).

 Summary

 Our ambition is to produce world-leading research that pioneers intellectual, critical and
 empirical insights that draw on and influence multiple disciplines and perspectives relevant to
 media and communications, while also achieving significant impacts on public debates and
 policy. As well as seeking to enable all faculty, research staff and PhD students to meet
 individual and collective research and impact goals, and often working collaboratively within LSE
 and internationally, the Department continues to prioritise initiatives that strengthen our equity,
 diversity and inclusion commitments. In all of this, we rely on the exceptional support provided
 by our professional support staff and by the excellent resources and effective infrastructure
 supported by the School.




                                                                                             Page 17
