Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of East Anglia

 Unit of Assessment 28: History


 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy.

 History at UEA is organized through a distinct and substantial School within the Faculty of Arts
 and Humanities, with research specialisms from medieval to contemporary. Combining traditional
 skills with innovative ideas, we are challenging and intellectually engaged, stressing the durable
 as well as the diverse within the discipline. Seeing ourselves as global and local in equal measure,
 the School has benefited from accessible resources at the University and in the wider region. As
 a unit we have grown to 39.7 FTEs from 34.8 FTEs in 2014. The percentage of female colleagues
 entered to REF has increased from 15% in 2008, to 40% today. We have pursued growth through
 strategic use of resources secured from REF2014, through improved grant capture, by embedding
 impact in our projects at the earliest possible stage, by creating a new global research agenda
 whilst augmenting existing strengths, and by obtaining support at Faculty and University level to
 appoint and integrate 18 early career researchers (ECRs). In the present census period, UEA
 historians secured £6.4million from external funding bodies, almost doubling our return from
 REF2014, including a 140% increase in HESA turnover of £2.9million, with three Leverhulme EC
 Fellows, one Wellcome Fellow, and 15 Research Assistants. Over the same period, 64 PhD
 students were supervised to completion, a 68% increase on REF2014.

 Context. Of the 34.8 FTEs entered for REF2014, 25 remain in post; three have retired and two
 are entered under alternative UoAs (25 and 32), five have moved elsewhere (Cambridge, St
 Mary’s, Trinity College Dublin, and Birkbeck). This has opened the way for 18 ECR appointments,
 building a present return of one ECR Fellow, 16 Lecturers, 13 Senior Lecturers/Readers/Associate
 Professors, and 15 Professors, here making allowance for fractional contracts, 39.7 FTEs.
 Besides our FTEs, ECR Fellows and RAs, and 73 distinct externally funded research ventures,
 we have hosted a vibrant postgraduate community and 21 research associates, either as visiting
 senior fellows or as scholars given access to UEA’s library and IT resources to collaborate on
 History projects. Research supervision is delivered both by colleagues on research contracts
 (ATR) and by six colleagues on teaching-only (ATS) contracts. three ATSs have transferred to
 ATR in this cycle, set against one choosing to transfer to ATS. Our shared endeavour has been
 to produce enduring and internationally significant scholarship, with members of the School since
 2014 publishing more than 60 monographs, 140 articles, 24 edited or co-edited books, 11 critical
 editions, and 162 chapters in edited collections. We have fostered ongoing research ventures in
 all fields from medieval to modern in most cases externally kite-marked and/or funded.

 Structures. The School of History executive team is supported by Faculty and University
 executives. A School research committee of six colleagues at varying career stages, represented
 at Faculty research executive by History’s Research Director (RD), considers bids, grants and
 strategic planning. An annual ‘Research Activity Planning’ (RAP) form is completed by all
 colleagues before a meeting with RD and Head of School. Overall research policy is the
 responsibility of the PVC for Research and Innovation and is formulated by the University
 Research Executive of Faculty Associate Deans for Research (ADR). The Faculty has a Research
 Staff Coordinator who works closely with the Schools and the ADR to ensure all new research
 staff participate in a comprehensive induction process, are fairly represented at meetings, and
 fully supported within University structures. In 2015, the role of School ‘Impact Champion’ was
 created to promote dialogue and foster best practice. Issues from research committee and Faculty
 research executive are brought to School board meetings midway through the semester and to
 regular meetings at the beginning and end of term. An annual Awayday in June is usually held in
 an informal setting off campus. Workloads are carefully planned, with study leave allocations
 agreed long in advance, following review at School and Faculty level. The institution’s probationary
 system gives staff a reduced teaching and administrative workload, helping protect their work time
 and allowing them to focus on research. Since 2014, all ATR colleagues have had University-
 supported study leave, for at least one semester, in most cases for two or more.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Colleagues are organized into research clusters, themselves driving distinct yet interlinked
 research agendas, with five principal specialisms: medieval, early modern, landscape, modern,
 and global history. Ranging in size between four colleagues (landscape + five RAs) and
 14 (modern), these are sustained by research seminars and regular meetings, formal and
 informal, all animated by a mutual commitment to source-based history. Although the clusters
 have evolved and developed organically, at the same time individuals and their projects are
 encouraged to move between clusters and indeed disciplinary boundaries. History’s future
 strategy will remain constructed around these clusters as well as the study of the Americas, a
 renowned interdisciplinary specialism at UEA since the University’s foundation. Three colleagues
 from the School of History are entered in other units, due to the interdisciplinary nature of their
 work (David Gilks to UoA32, Claire Jowitt and David Milne to UoA25). Likewise, we recognize that
 the work of historians in other Schools at UEA, and Daniel Rycroft (from Art History) contributes
 to the international dimensions of the unit’s work.

 Locally, the Centre for East Anglian Studies (CEAS), first established in 1967 continues to thrive,
 acting as a hub for impact, knowledge transfer, and enterprise. Its programme of events, lectures,
 and workshops includes training in community archaeology. The public-facing annual ‘History for
 All’ event has addressed such topics as ‘Politics and the People’ and ‘Immigration in Norfolk and
 Beyond’. Alert to opportunities to generate impact on national and international fronts, we helped
 stage museum exhibitions and engagement activities. Radical Russia at the Sainsbury Centre for
 Visual Arts (SCVA) on the University campus, Magna Carta at the British Library, and Spellbound
 at the Ashmolean. The activities of colleagues as speakers, consultants, reviewers, and more
 generally at the popular end of historical studies, have been actively encouraged, resulting in a
 wide range of general interest monographs extending outreach and influencing cognate
 disciplines. Particular instances include best-selling biographies (two contributions to the Penguin
 Monarchs series, and two more to Yale English Monarchs), works on witchcraft and medicine, and
 books extending from the history of neighbourliness, football, to the environmental implications of
 refuse collection.

 Research and Impact Strategy. Via the structures outlined above, co-ordinated through
 Research Committee, RD, and Impact Champion, our strategic goals as identified in REF2014
 have been systematically addressed. These were to strengthen and expand existing clusters, to
 increase grant capture, to foster a clearer impact agenda, and to promote research leadership
 amongst the generation of ECRs appointed by the unit between 2008 and 2014, now mid-career.
 Impact strategy has been concerned with durability, community, and communication in the widest
 senses and we identified our record in landscape and environmental history as world-leading, and
 we consequently expanded provision and provided time and resource for research via the
 workload model. At the same time History’s commitment to existing specialisms was reaffirmed
 by making new appointments in all key areas. Commitment to research integrity has been
 supported at University level; Stephen Church and Thomas Otte served as Chair of the Faculty
 Research Ethics Committee in 2016-18 and 2019-20 respectively.

 We have embraced the University’s internationalization strategy, embedding research
 perspectives through vibrant interaction and new collaborations with partners, including the
 Aleksanteri Institute, Helsinki, the National University of Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, the Centre
 d’études supérieures de civilisation médiévale, Poitiers, the Unversity of Hyderabad, and the
 Monumenta Germaniae Historica in Munich. As we have expanded further into international
 history, we have worked closely with the newly established Faculty group on Decolonization. In
 global history, an entirely new cluster (10 colleagues) was constructed, tapping into the dynamism
 of this growing research area, but doing so with an eye for the synergies between new appointees
 and existing strengths, including mastery of language-specific primary sources, whether in
 Japanese anarchist polemics, Soviet prison records, or Indian medical texts.

 Through open competition, we have appointed new colleagues in every academic year since
 REF2014. In addition, Faculty investment facilitated a series of internal transfers, and more than
 one appointment in most clusters. Most of the new appointments have held postdoctoral

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fellowships elsewhere. A number were trained overseas (in Sweden, Germany, the USA, Japan,
 India, Belgium, Italy, and Uzbekistan), strengthening already considerable intellectual diversity
 and international engagement.

 In 2015, we organized a Strategic Review, both of impact and research policies, to which we
 invited external assessors. They recommended we expand provision in global history, which
 chimed with internal views and we considered how this could best be achieved within available
 resources and decided to map expansion onto research strengths elsewhere in the University. We
 made six new permanent appointments in modern European and global history, with one transfer
 from another School (Johan Franzén, from Politics), and Jayne Gifford and Francis King
 transferred from teaching to research. We also appointed two new early modernists and two
 medievalists (in one instance by transfer to an ATR contract). At the same time, existing
 interdisciplinary collaborations with colleagues elsewhere at UEA, in American Studies, Museum
 and Art History, Development Studies (with close synergies with four of our new global
 appointments), Literature, Politics, Plant Biology and Environmental Sciences (central to Tom
 Williamson’s projects on trees and orchards) were strengthen through joint projects. Between
 2016 and 2018, we recruited a further nine colleagues in medieval, early modern, landscape,
 global, and European history. In 2019, the Faculty organized a further review with external readers.
 Their recommendation, that we extend our existing specialisms in the history of science,
 landscape and ecology, coincided with the arrival of two new medical historians (ECRs Chris
 Sandal-Wilson and Shinjini Das). Besides taking soundings within the School, and from experts
 beyond UEA, we have listened carefully to student representatives, with a view to developing and
 sustaining intergenerational dialogue. Devised in Research Committee, and approved at Faculty
 and University level, our research and impact plans spotlight overlapping and interrelated
 priorities, with each area expected to seek external grant capture from diverse sources, to develop
 impact-rich research projects, and to maintain the recruitment of fully funded PGRs.

 International research collaboration has been central to the ways in which universities address the
 world’s enormous health and environmental challenges. We participate in the University’s
 international ‘Dialogue’ programmes, first established in 2015, to widen partnerships in North
 America, India, Japan, China, and Malaysia. These have already generated new spaces for global
 research and brought in new research postgraduates. Joint research ventures with colleagues in
 American history focus on interests in the Caribbean, South America, and on transatlantic cultures
 and trade.

 Looking beyond 2021. Environmental and landscape history are likely to remain a central priority
 for the School of History in research and impact, aligning us with the University’s renowned role
 warning of the risks of global warming, now organised through the new multidisciplinary research
 hub ClimateUEA. Recycling and rubbish disposal, both at global and local levels, will bring
 together researchers, diggers, and local history societies to sift through the layers of the past and
 challenge the idea that a ‘throwaway society’ is historically inevitable. We are also likely to remain
 fundamentally concerned with the human impact of war and crises, particularly in the modern and
 medieval clusters and the role of religion and culture will remain key interests for the early
 modernists. The ‘animal turn’ in humanities research remains of both academic and general
 interest, speaking to wider social concerns for welfare, conservation, and ecology. We already
 have expertise in nuisance dogs (Carole Rawcliffe, Emily Cockayne), horses and deer (Rob
 Liddiard), sheep (Geoffrey Plank), rabbits (Mark Bailey, Williamson), and animal cruelty and blood
 sports (Emma Griffin). Consolidation of existing research on medical history, working closely with
 colleagues in other faculties through the recently established Medical Humanities network and
 seminar is likely to remain crucial as we examine health and wellbeing in historical perspective.

 Section 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Development. Our most important strategy has been to appoint to the
 unit’s research clusters. Career development of new appointments is supported by mentors at
 professorial level; by the University’s wider Centre for Staff and Educational Development (CSED,
 both face-to-face and online training courses); by a Faculty-wide interdisciplinary Early Career

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Researchers Forum facilitating dialogue and mutual support; by regular dialogue with School
 Research Director and Impact Champion, and by annual appraisal with the Head of School. The
 Academic Workload Allocation is calibrated to share teaching and administrative responsibilities
 and allows some flexibility to teach within CORE hours.
 All appointments and promotions are undertaken within the framework of the University’s policies
 on Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion. Female, BAME and LGBT+ staff are now much better
 represented, and we are committed to removing any obstacles to equality and diversity in future
 recruitment. We specifically encourage applications from groups that are currently under-
 represented. As a matter of priority, we respect individual identity preferences across the full range
 of protected characteristics. Achieving an optimum work environment is always a work in
 progress, which has led to careful consideration and discussion of the Royal Historical Society’s
 2015/2018 guidance on ‘Gender Equality and Historians in Higher Education’ as well as their 2020
 report on ‘LGBT+ Histories and Historians Report’. Three colleagues in History have taken Aurora
 Leadership Training. In REF2008, only four of our 26 FTEs (15%) were female, rising to 10 out of
 35 in 2014. Today, of our 39.7 FTEs, 16 are female, including six full professors or readers, and
 four out of 12 SLs. This upward trend in female appointments/promotions is likely persist over the
 next cycle, not least as we pursue Athena SWAN accreditation.

 At School level, the Athena SWAN Committee has already made several recommendations prior
 to the submission in Spring 2021 for accreditation including the creation of a new post of Equality,
 Diversity, and Inclusion Coordinator as well as recommendations on staff wellbeing and CORE
 hours. From 2018, we introduced informal Wednesday coffee mornings, where staff discuss their
 latest work. These continued via MS Teams in 2020 with weekly wellbeing groups run by
 Samantha Knapton and Joel Halcomb on Fridays. The School of History encourage staff to
 become trained Mental Health First Aiders and to join the central Wellbeing Champions network
 and to embed and increase awareness around these issues.
 There have been 14 promotions and confirmation of appointments since 2014. Since 2019, when
 the University introduced a new Academic Progressions framework, colleagues have had the
 opportunity to transfer to or apply for the new title of Associate Professor (formerly Senior
 Lecturer). The integration of ECRs has strengthened and revitalized research clusters and helped
 build new areas of enquiry. Confirming our pledge to mentor career progression for former ECRs,
 internal promotions over this cycle include four from Lecturer A to B, five from B to SL/Associate
 Professor, one from SL to Reader, and three from SL or Reader to full Professor. 23 colleagues
 within the unit have achieved HEA Fellowships and Senior Fellowships for which UEA has paid
 the fee, offering weekend retreats to support the application and specialist support via CSED.

 It is University policy that all short-listing and interview panels be gender balanced, with panel
 members required to complete the online module on ‘Recruitment and Selection’. Collective
 statements on both Diversity and Decolonization, debated and universally agreed, have now been
 endorsed at Faculty and University level. Staff undertake compulsory annual online training in
 ‘Diversity in the Workplace’ and ‘Unconscious Bias’. In line with Faculty recommendations, we
 actively seek flexibility in organizing meetings and seminars to suit those with childcare and other
 caring commitments. Faculty schemes established since 2014 include a Childcare Conference
 Support Fund. The maximum award is £500, and applicants may apply annually. There is also a
 Return-to-Work fund for those returning after a significant period (normally six months); and a
 COVID-19 related fund to support those whose research or other work is disrupted by the
 consequences of the pandemic.

 Staff on standard ATR contracts receive a 40% allowance for research, an increase from the 20%
 allowed before 2017. The leave scheme is central to the completion of monographs and other
 projects. For funds beyond this, colleagues bid either externally or to a series of Faculty and
 University-wide schemes. Colleagues are actively assisted to seek out international research
 partners and to ensure maximum international reach by publishing in languages other than
 English, where necessary with assistance from Faculty or University funds.



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Of our five research clusters, the landscape history group studies all forms of settlement,
 building, and material culture and they have championed interdisciplinary research. Williamson’s
 collaborative venture on Anglo-Saxon Rendlesham, combined evidence from archaeology,
 placenames, numismatics, and materials science. The Orchards East project, led by Williamson
 and one of our submitted Impact Case Studies (ICS), used more than 500 volunteers to survey
 and record old orchards, and were taught pruning and grafting techniques that have been used in
 England since at least the seventeenth century. This has led to plantation of new tree-stock across
 southern and eastern England. RAs Gerry Barnes and Toby Pillatt undertook a major project with
 Williamson on the health of trees over several centuries. Sarah Spooner studies parks and
 gardens and has strong links with local heritage organizations. A further ICS is contributed from
 this cluster led by Liddiard who, with expertise in high status and military conflict landscapes,
 directed ESCR and HLF-funded projects on WWII archaeology, and is currently CI on the AHRC’s
 major ‘Warhorse’ project, exploring medieval stabling and stud-farming (with RA Gary Baker). In
 several of these ventures, colleagues benefited both from the unit’s expertise in GIS mapping
 techniques led by Jon Gregory and from the University’s East Anglian Film Archive (EAFA), run in
 partnership with the Norfolk Record Office (NRO). Derwin Gregory’s impact-rich work brought a
 focus on the Special Operations Executive and conflict archaeology. Within this cluster, Spooner
 (ECR 2014) advanced from Lecturer to SL/Associate Professor.

 Medieval history has been a vital strength of the School since its inception with strong links to
 colleagues in the Schools of Art History, and Literature, and world-leading expertise in Anglo-
 Saxon England, the Norman and Angevin eras (French and English), landscape (Liddiard, as
 above), and the fifteenth century. The arrival of Katy Cubitt and ECR Ben Savill complemented
 existing strengths in Anglo-Saxon and Early Medieval. RA Susan Kelly contributed to the British
 Academy’s Anglo-Saxon Charters project. Rawcliffe’s work on healing, religion, and urban health
 connects to Bailey’s work on the Black Death economy. ECR Oren Margolis, a specialist on early
 Renaissance Italy, was appointed in 2019 and his arrival at the same time as urban historian ECR
 Eliza Hartrich has helped create a strong intellectual bridge between the early modern and
 medieval. David Bates, Tom Licence (promoted to Professor in 2019), Church, and Nicholas
 Vincent all published biographies of medieval kings. The AHRC Magna Carta Project from this
 cluster is submitted as an ICS. Senior RAs on this project Sophie Ambler (2013-15) is now a
 permanent lecturer at Lancaster and winner of a 2020 Philip Leverhulme Prize and Hugh Doherty
 is now a Lecturer in the School. Gregory Lippiatt (Leverhulme EC Fellow 2017-19) is now lecturer
 at Exeter and Savill is lecturer at Trinity College Dublin.

 In early modern history, we have key expertise in culture, literacy, and gender, facilitating
 interdisciplinary collaboration with colleagues in Art History and Literature. Malcolm Gaskill’s major
 Leverhulme and AHRC projects underpinned an exhibition in Oxford, and his and Plank’s work on
 the Americas fostered further co-operation across clusters and disciplines. Silvia Evangelisti’s
 work on female monasticism complements that by Polly Ha and Halcomb on dissenting religious
 practice, and Leverhulme EC Fellow Anastasia Stylianou (2020-) studies the linguistic turn in
 religious debate. RAs Jonathan Moore and Edda Frankot worked with Ha on newly uncovered
 manuscripts on Independence. Cockayne’s work casts light on historic salvaging and markets for
 recycled goods. Within this cluster, Ha and Evangelisti advanced from SL to Reader.

 Building along a new ‘silk road’ from Basra via Kolkata to Hokkaido, our commitment, and staff
 numbers in global history (with a particular focus on Eurasian, Middle Eastern, and Asian history)
 has appreciably increased since 2014. This move has given us a significant voice in the
 University’s dialogue programmes, sites of regular knowledge exchange between staff at UEA and
 overseas partners. The India Dialogue is chaired by Rycroft, whose own research has considered
 the heritage of indigenous peoples in Jharkhand. ECR Das has traced missionary engagement
 with control of leprosy, famines and venereal diseases in colonial Bengal and ECR Gifford
 researches the mental health of British soldiers repatriated from India. Anthony Howe studies
 nineteenth-century free trade and Becky Taylor, appointed as Reader in 2015, has looked at
 responses towards refugees and travellers. The Japanese Studies programmes involves ECRs
 Nadine Willems and Sherzod Muminov collaborating with the Faculty’s Centre for Japanese
 Studies (CJS) and the Sainsbury Institute for the Study of Japanese Arts and Culture (SISJAC).

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Middle East and former Soviet Central Asia have been important subjects of research within
 the cluster. ECR Sandal-Wilson has investigated the role of psychiatric care in British Mandate
 Palestine, ECR King has explored political resistance in Menshevik Georgia while Franzén charts
 the fortunes of Iraq since its creation. Reading the 2018 RHS Report on Race, Ethnicity and
 Equality has prompted us to consider ways in which we can promote transnational histories and
 research seminars organized by this cluster have been particularly vibrant and brought together
 students and staff from across the Faculty.

 The modern history cluster has a strong focus on the causes and consequences of the First
 World War (Thomas Otte, Cathie Carmichael, Mark Thompson, Jan Vermeiren). Peter Waldron
 investigated medical provision for soldiers in Imperial Russia, while Matthew D’Auria researched
 national identity in France, Matthias Neumann (Head of School) studies the Soviet Young
 Communists, and Geoff Hicks undertakes research on Victorian diplomacy. Griffin has brought
 new insight to the domestic lives of 19th-century families and Leverhulme EC Fellow Olesya
 Khromeychuk (2015-18, now Director of the Ukrainian Institute in London) compared the lives of
 female combatants in Ukraine, Poland, and Russia. Jennie Davey has reconfigured the role of
 female politicians in Victorian Britain, and Richard Mills reconstructed the history of Yugoslavia’s
 football clubs. Policy remains an important focus for Ben Jones who works on housing, race, and
 class, and Camilla Schofield’s research on liberal taboos against racism. Wellcome Fellow
 Jonathan Toms looked at the charity MIND in the UK in the 1970s. The appointment of Polish
 specialist ECR Knapton (2020), brought long-term perspectives to refugee crises after 1945.
 Schofield, Mills, and Vermeiren (all ECRs in 2014) were promoted to SL.

 The five research clusters have been able to build flexible supervisory teams, ensuring that ECRs
 rapidly gain experience with doctoral candidates. Research clusters allow us to build upon the
 complementary strengths of junior and senior staff, enabling us to work collaboratively. This is
 particularly significant in building research collaborations in situ, between individuals able to
 discuss projects from inception, via grant capture and impact, through to conferences, networks,
 and publications. Active mentoring to encourage interaction between junior and senior colleagues,
 not least as a means of ensuring a two-way traffic in experience, in research bids as in social
 media or new methodologies, has impacted upon History’s collective research agenda,
 broadening research seminars from local or national events to international showcases. In
 medieval history, more than 100 people regularly attend research seminars and in 2020, the online
 seminar audience expanded across continents.

 The production of high-quality monographs and major scholarly editions remains the surest route
 to high achievement, as also to career progression and contribution to the wider development of
 the discipline. Senior colleagues are active mentors in their respective clusters, reading drafts,
 offering feedback, and advising on trajectories. Annual output peer review covers the work of all
 colleagues. The RD advises colleagues on all stages of grant application, with the support of an
 Impact Champion and UEA’s Research and Innovation Service (RIN). Grant applications are peer-
 reviewed internally by up to four anonymous readers, and extensive feedback supplied. Mentoring
 from colleagues with experience of particular grant schemes is regularly invited and offered. ECRs
 are encouraged to participate in the Faculty ECR Forum, that meets 4-5 times a year, and to
 contribute to the celebratory annual Faculty Research Showcase. We also invite students at all
 stages to our research seminars, themselves a means to integrate ECRs quickly into our
 structures to share the knowledge and expertise appropriate to a high-level collective performance
 and, where appropriate, to assume roles of leadership. In his first year in post at the University,
 for example, Muminov inaugurated a new research seminar, organised by CJS.

 Career development for ECRs and postdoctoral researchers is supported by Research Activity
 Plans introduced in 2014, covering all colleagues, full- and part-time, from RAs through to
 professors. In line with Athena Swan criteria, all staff have access to guidance and support, with
 one-to-one meetings generally with a senior colleague, to reflect on achievements and potential,
 and to offer support for career stage-specific grant bidding, peer review, and academic work-life
 balance. ECRs study for the MA in Higher Education Practice (100% completion since 2014) and
 attend a range of vocational courses organized by CSED. We support colleagues transferring

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 between teaching (ATS) and standard ATR (research) contracts, via a Faculty initiative that
 offered a ‘Development Year’ support programme to those wishing to develop their research and
 impact portfolios, which provided research mentoring, a reduced teaching-load, membership of
 the ECR Forum, and targeted internal funding schemes (£1000 development grant for each
 research project). King, Gifford, and Halcomb transferred to ATR contracts via this route.

 As part of our commitment to the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers and UEA’s Code of Practice for the Management of Research Staff, fixed term, part
 time and short-term contract research staff are additionally supported by a Faculty Research Staff
 Co-ordinator. Consultancy income or Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) support for Impact,
 has enabled us to employ 10 PGRs as impact or consultancy assistants, in addition to the 13 full
 or part-time RAs or research associates employed on externally funded research projects. RAs
 are hosted within the existing research clusters and offered appropriate mentoring by colleagues,
 generally by project leaders assisted by a senior professor. The unit is committed to building the
 research base: several RAs have published jointly with colleagues, all have received advice and
 feedback on their individually authored outputs, and many have published articles/reviews in UEA-
 based journals, most notably History and European History Quarterly. Of the RAs over the present
 cycle, four are ongoing, four are retired, and three have posts elsewhere, with the added value of
 UEA mentoring instrumental to such success.

 Training and Supervision of Postgraduate Students. All PGRs are admitted to the Faculty’s
 Graduate School, led by an Associate Dean and Programme Directors. Amongst other schemes,
 it offers a History Methodologies Seminar focused on interpretation and cross-disciplinary use of
 archives. PGRs also have access to Faculty-wide seminar series, including a formal
 interdisciplinary seminar run by a member of Faculty chosen by competitive internal bidding,
 addressed by speakers of international repute. The Graduate School provides a multi-disciplinary
 environment in which History’s research students can develop their knowledge and skills and is
 now part of a University-wide Doctoral College. Research students are also offered a Faculty-
 specific ‘Learning to Teach’ module, which prepares them for their first teaching experience.
 Student-led conferences are funded through a competitive bidding process and since 2016 annual
 prizes (£200) are offered for the best published article by a Faculty research student, best
 teaching, and for outstanding public or community engagement (from History one winner, six
 runners-up).

 PGR progress and welfare fall within the wider orbit of CHASE II (Consortium for Humanities and
 Arts in the South East), offering a full range of training and seminar opportunities across the nine
 partners. Since 2014, we have obtained 27 CHASE and other postgraduate studentships by
 competitive bid, with an average of 15 in place at any one time: this across a PGR community
 averaging 78 students per year 2014-20, of whom two were funded by overseas governments, 26
 internally by University schemes or by partners in the Eastern Arc Research consortium, the
 remainder self-funded. Over the census period, the unit supervised 64 PhD students to
 completion, a 68% increase on REF2014. The systems in place safeguard equal opportunities
 and assist progression. Probationary panels (with two members of Faculty) meet face-to-face with
 each candidate at the end of the first year to discuss and gauge progress. All postgraduates have
 access to library and computing resources, and a dedicated graduate computer room. At Faculty
 level, travel and training grants are available, and in the present cycle have financed research
 trips, training, and the PGRs’ own seminar series. All PGRs are encouraged to attend and speak
 at conferences outside Norwich and further travel allowances are available for this. Six UEA PGR
 students were involved in a successful £11,700 CHASE bid with Carmichael and D’Auria for a
 2019 workshop at the University of Florence on Nationalism.

 The 2014 REF panel noted the ‘steady decline in language knowledge in the UK’. We have for
 many years championed language training for staff and students, emphasising that historical
 research can be linguistically or technically complicated and that mastery of primary sources is a
 key to success. Training and development for PGRs, including tuition in languages and other
 generic skills are an essential aspect of our provision. At the NRO, Rawcliffe runs postgraduate
 seminars on palaeography and use of archives. Latin is taught both at undergraduate and

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 postgraduate level, and the School supplies classes in GIS. Across the Faculty, students and staff
 have access to courses in Arabic, Russian, French, German, Greek, Hindi, Italian, Japanese,
 Mandarin, Hindi, and Spanish. We have strong links to Norwich’s Serbian twin city Novi Sad;
 three of our PGRs have attended language courses there and four have been tutored at
 Petrozavodsk or St Petersburg in the Russian Federation.

 Reflecting our success in training, History’s PGRs, past and present, have obtained an array of
 academic jobs, accolades, and prizes since 2014. Russianists George Gilbert and Aleksandra
 Brokman took up posts at Southampton and Liverpool John Moores. Serkan Demirbaş works at
 Osmangazi University, Takeshi Sugawara at Ehime University, Yasin Coşkun at Siirt University.
 Amongst the medievalists, Felicity Hill obtained a Cambridge JRF, now teaches at St Andrews;
 Jordan Claridge won an Economic History Society Postan Postdoctoral Fellowship before an
 appointment at LSE, and Johanna Dale moved to UCL as a British Academy Postdoctoral Fellow.
 Andy Willimott won the Alexander Nove Prize for Living the Revolution, the 2016 monograph of
 his thesis. Olena Palko, now a Leverhulme EC Fellow at Birkbeck, won the 2018 British
 Association for Slavonic and East European Studies prize for best research postgraduate article.
 Onyeka Nubia (PhD by publication) was elected FRHS. Gauri Bharat won the 2014 Jeffrey Cook
 Award for the best research student paper at the International Association for the Study of
 Traditional Environments in Kuala Lumpur and the 2017 International Convention for Asian
 Scholars best social sciences dissertation prize. Stephen Haddelsey (PhD by publication) was
 awarded the 2016 Manitoba Day Award for Operation Tabarin: Britain's Secret Wartime Expedition
 to Antarctica, 1944-6. Fiona Williamson, now an established environmental historian in Singapore,
 gave the Distinguished Lecture at the Asia Oceania Geosciences Society in Beijing in 2016. Ben
 Wheatley’s revisionist 2018 article on the Battle of Prokhorovka caused consternation in the
 Russian Federation, was debated in the Duma, and has received more than 80,000 views. Kate
 Ferguson co-founded an NGO, Protection Approaches, specializing in policy reports on identity-
 based violence. Carole Hill contributed to a 2017 Festschrift and launch event at Norwich
 Cathedral for her former supervisor: ‘A Verray Parfit Praktisour’: Essays presented to Carole
 Rawcliffe.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Objectives set out in REF2014, and confirmed in Faculty plans, included significant growth in
 external grant capture and further international partnerships. As testimony to the originality and
 significance of History’s research culture, external research income has increased by 46% from
 £3.7 to £5.4 million, across 73 distinct research ventures active during this cycle. Of this, £4.6
 million was newly captured since 2014. Including consultancies but excluding impact support from
 HEIF (£115,000) and Faculty subventions, the total active external grant capture exceeded £6.4
 million. More specifically, comparing like-with-like, we enjoyed an increase in declarable HESA
 spend from £1.2 to £2.9 million: £1.4 million from UKRI funding bodies, £1 million from charities
 or industry and the rest from a variety of UK, EU, and other governmental sources, representing
 growth of more than 140% on REF2014. Behind these figures, lies a transformation in bidding
 culture, now fully embedded. Where previously bids were undertaken by only a small proportion
 of colleagues, there is now successful bidding, including major grant capture, by colleagues at all
 career stages, from ECRs to professors, across every cluster, proof of strategic mentoring, both
 of research and impact.

 In landscape history, Williamson’s Orchards East (HLF, £477,000) covered six eastern counties,
 surveying and protecting historic orchard sites via community science, replanting, and retraining.
 His Tree Health and the Structure of Rural Tree Populations (DEFRA/AHRC, £230,000) informed
 and anticipated government policy on tree planting and species selection. From Aspalls (founded
 1728), he received £19,000 for a history of local cider making. Having established significant grant
 capture in military conflict-zone archaeology (CEC, £114,000; Medway Council, £51,000 for
 consultancy on Rochester Castle), Liddiard led the Eighth in the East project (HLF, £75,000),
 working with the EAFA and local history groups to record the lives and impact of US pilots
 stationed in East Anglia during WWII. Breaking New Ground (HLF, £47,000), led by Spooner,
 Gregory and Williamson looked at ways of preserving the unique heritage of the Brecklands,

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 including its pine lines, flint cottages, and heath. Working at the other end of the county, Williamson
 received funding from the Broads Authority (£12,000) to investigate the history and legal status of
 public staithes, and John Innes/DEFRA support for research into the historical relationship
 between the barberry carpet moth and stem rust infections on wheat. Williamson was
 coinvestigator for the (Leverhulme and AHRC, £67,000) project, The Anglo-Saxon Palace at
 Rendlesham, and with Gregory and Spooner for interdisciplinary community projects, Community
 Heritage Ideas Bank (AHRC, £65,000), and Pathways to History (AHRC, £45,000) which mapped
 public rights of way. Gregory was CI for Preserving Place: A Cultural Mapping Exercise (AHRC,
 £57,000), Liddiard is CI for Warhorse: The Archaeology of a Military Revolution (AHRC,
 £116,000), investigating the role and significance of medieval royal horses. With colleagues in
 Development Studies, Taylor launched Coastal Transformations and Fisher Wellbeing: a three-
 year project funded by EU-India Platform for Social Sciences and Humanities (£284,000),
 comparing two Indian study sites with coastal settlements in the UK, France, Slovenia, and
 Norway.

 In medieval and early modern history, Church created an international network: New
 Interpretations of the Angevin World (Leverhulme, £86,000). Vincent was awarded a Leverhulme
 Major Research Fellowship (£96,000) to edit the Letters and Charters of Richard I, and Bates a
 Leverhulme Emeritus Award for work on the Norman Empire. Vincent was supported by the British
 Academy as chairman or director of two longstanding Academy projects: Anglo-Saxon Charters
 (£78,000) and Plantagenet Acta (£63,000). He also led the The Magna Carta Project, receiving
 one of the largest awards ever made by the AHRC (£729,000). As a Leverhulme EC Fellow
 (£66,000), Lippiatt worked on The Crusading French Diaspora: French Baronial Government in
 Mediterranean. Kelly was supported (Marc Fitch Fund, £178,000) to work on the Charters of
 Worcester Cathedral, with private commercial funding (Estates and Agency Group, £30,000) for
 the Charters of Barking Abbey. Gaskill led the Inner Lives project (Leverhulme, £250,000) on
 Emotions, Identity and the Supernatural, 1300-1900, the British Academy project Witchcraft,
 Emotion and Social Change in mid-Seventeenth- Century New England. Ha obtained AHRC
 support (£182,000) for investigations of The Origins of Independence in the Early Modern World.
 Stylianou, Leverhulme EC Fellow (£88,000), is currently investigating Transnational Anglo-
 Hellenic networks c.1520-1660. Halcomb received a British Academy grant (£9,000) for his work
 on early-modern non-conformity.

 In modern and global history, Schofield and Vermeiren both received recognition as British
 Academy Rising Stars (collectively £24,000). Thompson acquired funding (Leverhulme Research
 Fellowship, £19,512) for A Strange Season: Italy from War to Peace, 1943 to 1948. Waldron
 obtained support (Leverhulme Research Fellowship, £48,000) for The Russian Revolution and the
 Public Sphere. Otte received a three-year Major Leverhulme Fellowship (£158,000) in British
 diplomatic history. Griffin continued her innovative research on gender and the family with the
 Emotional History of Victorian Britain (British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship, £101,000). As a
 Leverhulme EC Fellow (£67,000), Khromeychuk investigated WWII Female Fighters in Russia,
 Poland and Ukraine. Taylor obtained significant support for work on the Gypsy Traveller
 Experiences of Crime and Justice (ESRC, £356,000), and in partnership with Schofield (AHRC,
 £201,000) for a major project probing the origins of liberal taboos against racism. The Wellcome
 Trust (£50,000) supported Toms to work on mental health, and Das was awarded a Medical
 Humanities Fellowship (£28,000). Neumann received funding from the British Association for
 Slavonic and East European Studies (BASEES) to host the Study Group on the Russian
 Revolution, and Knapton established the first BASEES-funded Polish Studies Group. In March
 2020, Sandal-Wilson was awarded a field research grant for his project on ‘Palestinian Psychiatric
 Patients in Lebanon during the Mandate Period’ from the Palestinian Exploration Fund. Howe
 received a 2020 Leverhulme Emeritus Award. In partnership with colleagues from Exeter,
 Cambridge, and QMUL, Griffin shared in a £9.2 million project (UKRI Strategic Priorities Fund,
 £239,000) Living with Machines, using the first Industrial Revolution as a paradigm to understand
 modern attitudes towards artificial intelligence and robotics: this is one of the largest
 interdisciplinary research initiatives ever launched in the UK.



                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Grant capture remains essential both to research excellence and to impact, with all four of our
 Impact Case Studies emerging from externally funded projects. Comprehensive support is
 supplied by the University’s Research and Innovation Service (RIN) which issues news bulletins
 for funding, training opportunities, consultancy, enterprise, and project management. Through a
 Project Officer specifically assigned to each School, RIN assists in the preparation of funding bids,
 including (with RD steer) the organization of Faculty-wide peer-review. After funding success, RIN
 continues to handle relations with research councils and other funding bodies and, with academic
 support, hosts regular visits from research council representatives.

 Since 2014, the Faculty has funded enhancement of our printed primary source collections, adding
 for example the entire suite of domestic Tudor and Stuart State Papers, Patrologia Latina, and the
 Soviet-era Krasnyi arkhiv. UEA has its own substantial library and archive: 800,000 printed books,
 550,000 ebooks, 97,500 online and print journals; significant archival collections; 50,000 specialist
 books in the SISJAC library; EAFA’s unique resource in historic film, and regular interchange with
 NRO. Every colleague (including RAs) is allocated an unlimited allowance of inter-library loans
 and the unit supports PGR interlibrary loan requests. Ensuring a collegial work environment, all
 historians have offices in the Arts Building. All have access to the University’s state-of-the-art
 Media Suite (sound and TV recording), and to UEA’s Digital Humanities Incubator, and
 ClimateUEA: hubs that support and popularize interdisciplinary research across the sciences and
 humanities.

 Individual research support is available from School funds up to £1000 p.a. as automatic
 entitlement for all colleagues. Additionally, at Faculty level, generously funded research schemes
 have been introduced since 2014. These include a Small Awards Scheme, supporting archive
 visits. We have secured 26 such awards (£12,460). There is also a Publications Fund, established
 in 2017, to provide research assistance, illustrations, copy-editing, or to employ professional
 indexers. 17 of our colleagues secured such grants (total £14,750). A Research Training Fund
 (established 2018) awards £10,000 per annum. The ‘Annual Adventures in Research’ fund, first
 established 2016, allocates £10,000 per annum, specifically to support ECRs develop innovative
 and distinctive research (£2,500 has come to History). With further Faculty support (£5400), we
 made six articles Open Access (Gold), instantly and universally available.

 Improvements in administration, aimed at time-efficient communication and the rapid integration
 of new staff, include a ‘History News’ bulletin (launched in 2014, publicizing achievements and
 research seminars on a Faculty-wide basis). All staff upload their work (with online links/citations)
 to the University’s PURE system. Administrative staff from Faculty and University provide us with
 individual support, developing research projects, media training, engagement and impact. Links
 to relevant websites run by colleagues are provided via the UEA Portal.

 Impact Champions are assisted in reporting and evidence collection by a specialist team within
 RIN. A shift in expectations, now embedded within the School, ensures that we identify potential
 impact even before a research project has bid for funding. Thereafter, case studies compete for
 Faculty and University funds up to £20,000 annually per project, with teaching remission attached.
 In the present cycle, £136,000 (mostly in HEIF, with £18,000 in University International
 Development funding) was targeted at eight potential case studies. Six were fully written up and,
 after Faculty and external peer review, four submitted to REF. Success is celebrated by UEA’s
 Achievement Awards, marking outstanding contributions, and won in four successive years by
 colleagues in History, for both engagement and impact (£2,500 per award, to be spent on future
 research priorities). University and Faculty research bulletins publicise and celebrate these and
 other research achievements.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Speaking at public lectures and events assists us in communicating with the wider world and
 the broadest possible range of publics. In 2019, Ha gave an opening keynote-lecture for the 400th
 Anniversary Celebrations of the Synod of Dordt, and the following year a public lecture for
 Mayflower 400. In 2014, she lectured to the Transformative Periphery series at Trinity College

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dublin. Bailey delivered Oxford’s 2019 Ford Lectures (a blue riband of our profession, previously
 delivered by Bates). Cubitt gave the Allen Brown Memorial Lecture in 2019. Thompson gave the
 2016 Nanovic Center Lecture at Notre Dame, Indiana. In 2018, Muminov lectured at the Japanese
 universities of Waseda and Rikkyo. Vincent delivered the 2015 Coffin Lecture at the University of
 London, the 2015 Marianne Lannon Lopat Lecture at Colorado College, the 2017 Allen Brown
 Lecture in Paris, the 2018 Stenton Lecture at Reading, the 2019 British Academy Raleigh Lecture;
 he was respondent for the 2016 James Lydon Lectures at Trinity College Dublin and the 2019
 Shelby Cullom Davis Seminar at Princeton. Carmichael gave the 2019 Annual Public Lecture for
 the Amsterdam Institute for War, Holocaust, and Genocide Studies, and the 2016 Hugo Valentin
 Centre Annual Lecture in Uppsala. In December 2017, Refugee History: the 1930s Crisis and
 Today, a policy paper co-authored by Taylor and published by Protection Approaches, was
 launched at the House of Lords with politicians, civil society organizations, and journalists in
 attendance.

 Venues in East Anglia have often proved to be a vital launch pad for engagement and public
 history. On the community archaeology project ‘Dig Diss’, Licence led a team of 850 volunteers.
 Their discoveries (reported on BBC News) proved that this Norfolk town was inhabited 400 years
 earlier than previously supposed and Diss town centre now incorporates features rediscovered by
 his dig. Anticipating significant changes to the law on footpaths and public rights of way, Spooner
 and Gregory investigated the use and distribution of local footpaths in a series of marginalized
 rural parishes. The AHRC-funded project trained over 300 volunteers. Through its creation of an
 online dataset of over 500 pathways, it informed the advocacy of the Ramblers Association, the
 Campaign for Rural England, and Norfolk County Council. The SCVA exhibition Radical Russia,
 curated by Waldron, involved the construction of a striking 30ft red sculpture based on a design
 first conceived in 1919 by Bolshevik Vladimir Tatlin. Every visitor to the UEA campus can now
 enjoy a sculpture that Tatlin himself was unable to craft due to metal shortages during the Russian
 Civil War: a poignant reminder that our historical research not only documents but can help rescue
 the past. In 2017, a well-attended (200+) event on the implications of Brexit was organized in
 central Norwich. In 2020, Sandal-Wilson organized ‘Doing LGBT + History in Public’ at Earlham
 Hall. To mark the 100th anniversary of the First World War in 2014, Otte, Thompson, Vermeiren,
 and Waldron were involved in a public colloquium in UEA’s Julian Study Centre. Further afield, in
 2018, Ha gave a public lecture: ‘Trolling: An Elizabethan Invention’ and in a report from July 2020,
 the Regional Council of Halifax in Nova Scotia cited Plank’s research when deciding to strip the
 name of Edward Cornwallis, the city's founder, from a park and a major street and to keep his
 statue in storage.

 Media engagement and collaboration with the creative industries has also been important to
 the School. Halcomb served as advisor to Mark Finbow’s Arts Council-funded play, The Three
 Assassinations of Oliver Cromwell, and Nnenna Samson’s radio play The Dream, telling the story
 of the 1970 trial of the ‘Mangrove Nine’ (2020) was based on Schofield’s archival research.
 Licence appeared in the BBC4 2018 documentary The Secret Life of Landfill. Doherty served as
 chief historical advisor to film and television productions, including Disney’s Malificent (2014) and
 Cinderella (2015), 20th Century Fox’s Assassin’s Creed (2016), The King (2019) and Cursed
 (2020) from Netflix. Mills is a regular commentator on Balkan football in European newspapers,
 with his own column in When Saturday Comes. Otte was an expert witness for a 2019 Foreign
 and Commonwealth Office seminar, ‘Free trade versus Protectionism’. Griffin regularly appears
 on national radio and television discussing gender, motherhood, and nineteenth-century society,
 including Melvyn Bragg’s In Our Time. Church, Doherty, and Vincent were leading consultants
 and speakers, worldwide, for the Magna Carta 800th celebrations in 2015, including lectures on
 four continents, New York Times ‘Quote of the Day’, and BBC In Our Time special.

 UEA historians have made a significant contribution to the discipline, supporting the research base
 often in leadership roles for learned societies and research councils. Griffin is elected
 President of the Royal Historical Society (2019-), only the third woman ever to hold this office.
 After four years on the RHS Council (2013-17), Cubitt now serves as President of the Norfolk
 branch of the Historical Association. Across the census period, Howe, Rawcliffe, Spooner, Taylor,
 and Vincent were all members of the AHRC Peer Review College. Liddiard and Hartrich peer

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reviewed Government of Ireland fellowship or research competitions. Evangelisti is a member of
 the Società delle Storiche Italiane. Carmichael reviews projects for the Slovenian (ARRS) and
 Croatian (HAZU) Research Councils. Bailey is a Council Member of the Winston Churchill
 Memorial Trust. Otte is a Trustee of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office Historical Collection.
 Cubitt and Waldron served on the History panel for the 2014 REF, and Cubitt remains a 2021
 panel member. Vincent is a Fellow of section H8 of the British Academy, serving on the Academy’s
 Council 2014-16 and chairing the H8 Postgraduate fellowships scheme 2014-18. He also chairs
 the Academy’s Anglo-Saxon Charters Committee and is a member of the editorial committees of
 the Academy's English Episcopal Acta and Plantagenet Acta series, the latter chaired by Bates.
 He is an elected member of the Paris-based Commission international de diplomatique. Bates is
 Vice-President of the Dugdale Society, Rawcliffe a Trustee of the Victoria County History Trust,
 founder member of the Committee of the (Wellcome funded) International Network for the History
 of Medicine, Chair of the Norfolk Record Society, and Trustee of the NRO.

 Contribution to international projects and networks is central to research strategy. Neumann is
 current President of the British Association for Slavonic and East European Studies (BASEES)
 and Waldron was President from 2013-16. Others sit on the International Council for Central and
 East European Studies (Waldron), the British Group in Early American History (Plank), the Pipe
 Roll Society (Church, Doherty, Vincent), and the Council of British Military History (Liddiard).
 Carmichael and Thompson are trustees of the British Scholarship Trust which awards grants to
 research postgraduates from the former Yugoslavia. Margolis is a member of the Renaissance
 Society of America. Rycroft leads the ‘Humanities in India’ programme, incorporating UEA, the
 Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, Jadavpur University, and University of Calcutta. More than
 20 members of the School are fellows of the Royal Historical Society, including several ECRs. Six
 are Fellows of the Society of Antiquaries. Rawcliffe is an Honorary Fellow of the Harveian Society
 of London. Bates is current President of the Battle and District Historical Society. The Institute for
 the Study of Ideas of Europe (ISIE) is based within the School, launched in February 2019 by
 D’Auria and Vermeiren with British Academy support (Rising Star Engagement Award), serving
 as institutional home to the long-standing Research Network on the History of the Idea of Europe,
 co-ordinating conferences and workshops amongst 40 European colleagues.

 Scientific research has been a distinctive element of the History’s research contribution, creating
 dialogue with environmental scientists and other policy stakeholders. Williamson advised the
 Woodland Trust on their massive replanting schemes in Essex and Suffolk. Liddiard’s Norfolk Deer
 Parks Project, supported by the Norfolk Biodiversity Project Fund, aimed to get a more accurate
 assessment of the number of deer parks in existence between 1066-1660 and to look at the
 environments in which ‘elite’ animals were reared and managed. Bringing together data from
 traditional archaeological analyses as well as the results of a programme of radiocarbon dating,
 multi-element isotope studies, and genetic analyses, it aimed to act as a guide for habitat
 management with environmental conservation. Das has studied homoeopathic family firms,
 exploring how Samuel Hahnemann’s 1810 book Organon was translated and reconceptualized in
 colonial south Asia. Williamson’s research with scientists at the John Innes Centre investigates
 the common and edible barberry, historically removed from many wheat-growing regions due to
 its possible role in the life cycle of the stem rust pathogen. The barberry is currently being widely
 replanted because it is the only known food source for the endangered moth.

 Our commitment to enhancing the research base through the production of critical and scholarly
 editions of historic texts is longstanding, and it continues to be central to the unit’s strategy. In
 her Kotan Chronicles 1928-1943, Willems employed her knowledge of regional dialect and the
 Ainu language to popularize the experiences of Japanese political activist Genzō Sarashina.
 Thompson revised the translation and wrote the introduction for the Penguin version of Danilo Kiš’
 The Encyclopedia of the Dead, now in its seventh printing. Licence edited and translated the
 (Latin) Miracles of St Edmund, with an original 40,000-word introduction. Rawcliffe published the
 16th-century Norwich Chamberlains Accounts. In 2020, OUP published Vincent’s monumental 6-
 volume edition of The Letters and Charters of Henry II King of England 1154-1189. In 2014, Howe
 completed his 4-volume definitive edition of the letters of the British radical Richard Cobden, and
 in the same year, Otte edited (with extended commentary) The Diaries of Harold Temperley. For

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the 100th anniversary of the end of WWI, Thompson wrote a preface to the 2018 Italian translation
 of Hugh Dalton’s Diary, and contributed an afterword to the 2014 translation of Emilio Lussu’s
 memoir, A Soldier on the Southern Front. In 2017, OUP published The Puritans on Independence,
 edited by Ha, Moore, and Frankot, re-dating the Puritan demands for 'independence' several
 decades earlier than previously supposed.

 In academic publishing, we retain a leading profile, in part thanks to hosting several journals, in
 the process generating further external income (over £390,000). Editorial responsibility for History,
 with appropriately wide international and chronological range has been maintained and as editor-
 in-chief, Taylor is assisted by a board that has included Church, Vermeiren, D’Auria, Davey,
 Licence, and Schofield, generating work for PGRs, both as assistants and book reviewers. In
 2018, History’s contract was renewed for a further five years. Other leading journals which
 colleagues have editorial responsibility for include Anglo-Norman Studies (Bates, Church),
 European History Quarterly (Evangelisti, King), the Historical Journal (Griffin), Diplomacy and
 Statecraft (Otte), Socialist History (King), Norfolk Archaeology (Spooner), Contemporary British
 History (Schofield), and Rural History (Williamson).

 Internationally significant indications of esteem include representation on the advisory boards
 of UK or foreign scholarly journals: Annales du Midi, Artem, Cahiers de Civilisation médiévale, and
 English Historical Review (Vincent), Tabularia (Bates, Vincent), The Fifteenth Century (Rawcliffe),
 Europe-Asia Studies (Carmichael, Neumann, Waldron), Slavonic and East European Review
 (Waldron), Acta Slavica Iaponica (Waldron), Kritika: Explorations in Russian and Eurasian History
 (Neumann), Godišnjak istorijskog arhiva grada Novog sada (Mills), Recherches britanniques
 (Howe), Europea: Rivista Semestrale (Vermeiren), Pedralbes: Revista de Historia Moderna
 (Evangelisti), Situations: Cultural Studies in the Asian Context (Muminov), Journal of Defence
 Studies (Otte), Landscapes, and Landscape History (Williamson), History Workshop Journal
 (Taylor) Eighteenth Century Studies (Plank). Bailey, Bates, D’Auria, Vermeiren, Waldron, and
 Williamson all serve as editors of scholarly monograph series. Colleagues have acted as peer-
 reviewers for numerous journals and as readers or series editors for at least twenty publishing
 houses in the UK, Europe, and America. Colleagues have served as external examiners in the
 UK, Belgium, Norway, Ireland, Denmark, Finland, France, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, and
 the Russian Federation.

 Fellowships are a vital way to disseminate the unit’s work, and to broaden colleagues’ horizons.
 In May 2020, Knapton was awarded a visiting Fellowship by the Pilecki Institute, although her
 residence in Warsaw has been delayed by Covid. Waldron was a 2018 visiting fellow at the Slavic
 Research Center at Hokkaido University. In 2018, Bailey was a visiting fellow at All Souls College
 Oxford, and Church a visiting fellow at the Sorbonne. In turn, we welcomed Professor Yujun Xie
 from Shandong to UEA as well as Dr Sayantan Dasgupta (from Jadavpur via a Vice-Chancellor’s
 Global Challenges Fellowship), Professor Aurèlia Mañé-Estrada from Barcelona. Drs
 Mustafa Çabuk, Ahmet Dönmez and Hasan Demirhan were Tübitak-funded postdoctoral
 researchers from Turkey, and Professor Mark Clark, Catholic University of America was a British
 Academy Visiting Fellow 2018-19.

 Prizes and accolades allow us to collectively celebrate individual achievement. Williamson was
 awarded the 2017 British Academy Landscape Archaeology Medal for ‘significant contribution’ to
 the discipline. Bates received the 2019 Prix Dumanoir from the Société des Sciences, Belles
 Lettres et Arts de Rouen, for the French translation of William the Conqueror, named a book of
 the year by the Financial Times, a commendation also extended to Church’s life of King John.
 Griffin’s Breadwinner was named by the Daily Telegraph as one of the ‘best history books of 2020’.
 Otte’s July Crisis was the Australian National University’s Lowy Institute 2014 Book of the Year
 and won an Association of American Publishers 2015 Prose Award. Mills won the 2019 Lord
 Aberdare Prize for Sport’s History for The Politics of Football in Yugoslavia. In Geneva, Thompson
 was awarded the 2015 Jan Michalski Prize for his monograph on Danilo Kiš. He also received the
 2015 Laura Shannon Prize for Contemporary European Studies. Williamson, Barnes, and Pillatt
 were the 2018 Woodlands Award Winners for their book Trees in England. Liddiard and Sims won
 the 2019 East Anglian Book Award (History and Tradition) for A Very Dangerous Locality. Das

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 won the 2020 Pickstone Prize of the British Society for the History of Science. The judging panel
 agreed that her research ‘exemplifies how much the discipline has to gain from research on the
 global south’. Bates and Xavier Barral I Altet’s La Tapisserie de Bayeux, including a half-size
 embroidered reproduction of the tapestry, was described in Le Figaro as ‘reuniting the history of
 France and England in a box’. It won the prestigious 2020 book prize of the Syndicat National des
 Antiquaires.

 Encouraging outreach and demonstrating our role as an internationally significant research hub,
 translations bring historical subjects closer to a wider audience. Bates’ William the Conqueror
 was translated into French (2018) and Chinese (2020). Neumann’s monograph appeared in
 Spanish in 2019 as La Liga de las Juventudes Comunista and was launched at a public event in
 Santiago de Chile. Mills was translated into Croatian as Nogomet i politika u Jugoslaviji and its
 publication celebrated at a public event in Zagreb in 2019. Thompson‘s award-winning monograph
 appeared in Italian in 2014 as La guerra bianca, and his monograph on Kiš both in German (as
 Geburtsurkunde, 2015) and Serbian (Izvod iz knjige rođenih, 2014). Vincent’s Very Short
 Introduction to Magna Carta was translated into Bulgarian and Chinese. Waldron and King
 published outputs in Russian, Muminov in Japanese, Otte in Slovene, Vincent and Lippiatt in
 French, Carmichael and Evangelisti in Italian, Otte and Vermeiren in German. In a reverse
 direction, D’Auria translated Vittorio Cotesta’s 2015 monograph Kings into Gods from Italian into
 English. King translated Menshevik Fedor Dan’s memoir Two Years of Wandering and Muminov
 translated two chapters from Japanese for his co-edited volume on the Dismantling of Japan's
 Empire in East Asia. Through such work we reinforce our commitment to international dialogue.

 Through timely and scholarly interventions, public lectures, editions and outputs consulted
 internationally, we have done our best to advance historical understanding. Across the world, we
 have worked in archives not only in many languages but deciphering printed and hand-written
 sources in Brahmic, Cyrillic, Carolingian Miniscule, Humanist, Gothic, Kurrentschrift, Hiragana,
 Katakana, Kanji, Runic, and Arabic scripts. We bring the results of this research not only to light
 but to wide audiences. The skills of the landscape historians demonstrably strengthen scientific
 research projects. We believe we can make a vital contribution both to the study of the past and
 to present understanding of such issues as the preservation of public rights of access both to
 information and the countryside, the stewardship of heritage, race relations, disease, poverty,
 gender, social justice, changes in definitions of mental health, dictatorship, religion, disease,
 refugee crises, ecological change, independence, ‘liberty’ and the origins of modern democracy.




                                                                                            Page 14
