Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of Brighton
Unit of Assessment: UoA20 – Social Work and Social Policy
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1. Context and structure
Social Work and Social Policy (SW&SP) research at the University of Brighton (UoB) is
characterised by a strong commitment to social justice and ethical practice and to understanding
and challenging intersecting inequalities and marginalisation. Our applied research, typically co-
produced with non-academic partners, engages with global social problems arising in specific
policy contexts. We focus on understanding and generating mechanisms for collective social
change through interdisciplinary inquiry.

SW&SP research is located almost exclusively within the School of Applied Social Science
(SASS, 43 staff), with 4 staff located in the School of Health Sciences (SHS) and 1 in the VC’s
office. These 48 researchers, 29% of whom are ECRs, are drawn from backgrounds in social
policy, social work, psychology, sociology, politics, criminology, health sciences and
psychotherapy enabling us to form the multi and interdisciplinary teams required to address the
key societal challenges on which we focus. Research is organised into two UoB-approved
Research and Enterprise Groups (REGs) that are broad thematic groupings providing vibrant
and supportive environments with a critical mass of staff, ECRs and PGRs:
    • Care, Health and Emotional Wellbeing (CH&EWB): 30 staff (including 9 ECRs) and
        26 PGRs
    • Cities, Injustice and Resistance (CI&R): 18 staff (including 4 ECRs) and 24 PGRs

Researchers in CH&EWB REG continue our long-standing research addressing challenges in
mental health, working with marginalised groups including children, young people, LGBT and older
people. Our investments in appointing 17 staff in CH&EWB REG since 2014 have focussed on
extending this work and developing related research into the experiences of refugees and
migrants. Researchers in this REG aim to shape service provision, including advocating whole
systems approaches to care, health and wellbeing. Research in sexual and digital health
(particularly HIV), co-produced in partnership with international collaborators, remains central to
our work, with new insights and applications in digital mental health from ECRs.

The expansion of staff in CI&R REG with 11 appointments since 2014 was designed to grow
established areas of strength in criminology research including the collective strategies of
resistance through social movements, and the policing of youth and race. Our investments,
including through appointments of ECRs, has opened up new areas of research into injustices and
inequalities arising through increased global migration, socially-differentiated cities, gendered
mobilities, climate change and housing crises.

This submission evidences continuing growth in SW&SP research in the review period and the
table below shows how this has been sustained over successive REF submissions through
expanding our critical mass of staff, successfully developing ECRs as the next generation of
researchers, growing our PGR cohort and increasing research income especially from UKRI.
This reflects a successful strategy of investment in interdisciplinary research, together with an
inclusive approach to research and clear governance (Section 3).

      Table 1. Growth in SW&SP research over successive REF submissions

                                                                  2008     2014       2021
       Staff headcount                                             24       29         48
       Staff FTEs                                                  24      27.1       45.9
       Income £m                                                    2      1.75        3.1

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       % Research income from UK RCs                                 11       22         39
       % Research income from Charities (Competitive)                 9        8         20
       PGR completions                                                6       12         28.5
       ECRs as % of submitted staff                                  n/a      6.9        29


1.2. Research and impact strategy
Producing and co-producing research with social impact is the backbone of our research strategy.
We have achieved this by developing strong collaborations, enabling interdisciplinarity, supporting
research integrity and promoting data sharing and an open research environment. In partnership
with local organisations and communities, typically brokered by UoB’s award-winning Community-
University Partnership Programme (CUPP REF5a), we identify and address social problems and
then scale up the knowledge generated through these projects to different settings and contexts
nationally and internationally.

Enabling interdisciplinarity: Addressing complex social problems requires interdisciplinary
working. REGs are one means by which we facilitate interdisciplinary working. Our researchers are
also actively encouraged to participate in UoB’s Centres of Research Excellence (COREs), the
University’s strategic vehicles for enabling cross-disciplinary research (See REF5a). Examples
here include researchers working on mental and emotional wellbeing within a resilience framework
have benefitted from collaboration with health science researchers in the ‘Resilience and Social
Justice’ CORE (eg Graber on young people and alcohol use) and those working on sexuality
and/or sexual health, collaborating with researchers in human geography within the ‘Transforming
Sexualities and Gender’ CORE (eg Sherriff on LGBT health).

Supporting research integrity: Working closely with disadvantaged communities requires that we
work with integrity and a firm commitment to ethical practice, with staff required to work within their
professional frameworks as well as within UoB’s commitments under the Concordat on Research
Integrity. The University’s Research Ethics and Integrity Manager provides generic and bespoke
training for staff and PGRs in this UoA, dovetailing with our UoA-specific research ethics and
integrity seminar series that seeks to improve quality in ethical practice through reflective practice.
Examples include: ‘Ethical research collaboration with health and community organisations’ and
'On the ethics of “publicking” and public engagement in writing and researching extreme violence’.
Staff undertake ethics-focused research contributing directly to debates into social work ethics,
including Ward on feminist care ethics and Dore on epistemic injustices faced by marginalised
groups in Ethics and Social Welfare and Journal of Social Work Practice that are feeding directly
into social work training.

Effective sharing and managing of research data and progress towards an open research
environment: With the aim of democratising research and enabling access by non-academic
communities, we are progressing our Open Research agenda. Of all journal articles published by
staff in this UoA, 94% are OA compliant. On data management, PIs are supported by the
Research, Enterprise and Strategic Partnerships (RESP) office to ensure data management plans
are in place for all projects and are provided with tailored guidance on depositing datasets on the
Brighton Open Research repository and with UKRI data centres. Collaborative projects with non-
academic partners are sharing data via dedicated repositories on shared servers (eg UoB and
Blackpool County Council for resilience research). Our ‘best practice in research’ seminars include
developments and practices in Open Research and Flack ECR, UoB lead for the UK
Reproducibility Network, has set up a local ReproducibiliTea journal club to build a local
community of ECRs interested in open and reproducible research.

1.2.1. Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact set out in REF2014
We had 4 strategic aims in 2014. Aims 1 and 2 were ‘to strengthen the leading-edge research in
existing areas of expertise and open up new multidisciplinary areas of enquiry’ and ‘to sustain our
existing critical mass of influential and emerging researchers through recruitment and
                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
strengthening international and UK-based collaborations’. Both aims have been achieved through
the recruitment and retention of dynamic researchers (including 24 ECRs, some now mid-career)
who share a commitment to addressing social inequalities through academic collaboration and
partnerships with non-academic partners (Section 2) and the provision of engaging spaces that
facilitate interdisciplinary enquiry (REGs and COREs- Section 1).

Aim 3 was ‘to develop a next generation of researchers by enhancing the career development
opportunities for ECRs and PGR students and improving leadership and mentoring’. This has been
met through a systematic local implementation of the Researcher Concordat with the
establishment of a career-development focused package of research support, training and
mentoring from PGR to Professorial level (Section 2.2).

Aim 4 was ‘to maximise the impact of our research on beneficiaries through further embedding
impact planning’. This has been achieved through the appointment of a professorial level ‘impact
champion’ (Haynes), working closely with the UoB’s Impact Manager, to compile evidence of
impact and lead workshops assisting staff to apply for UoB and external funds available for
knowledge exchange, public engagement and impact acceleration work. (Section 2.2). We work
closely with CUPP (REF5a) that helps broker and sustain research partnerships and deliver impact
(Sections 3 and 4).

Meeting our strategic aims has produced excellence in both individual and collaborative research
outputs, with no reduction of outputs requested for ECRs. Our 115 outputs comprise19 single or
co-authored books, 3 edited collections, 1 book chapter and 91 journal articles, demonstrating
impressive intellectual achievement across both REGs.

Care, Health and Emotional Wellbeing REG: Established research developing a feminist ethics
of care (Ward) has been strengthened and extended through a co-authored monograph, two
journal articles and two international edited collections, with the latest (2020) collection offering
‘consistently novel and articulate engagements with theory’ (Review Ethics and Social Welfare).
Together, these generate new insights into the significance of care ethics as a transformative way
of achieving justice and wellbeing within policies and practice.

Long-standing research with, and for, LGBT individuals and communities has been strengthened
via collaborative, externally-funded projects that developed an innovative bio-behavioural survey
for HIV/AIDS, offering important new insights into the behaviour of men who have sex with men
(MSM), including undiagnosed infection rates, prevalence of drug use and serostatus knowledge
and disclosure (Sherriff) (ICS_HIVTesting).

Research on digital health and wellbeing has developed significantly through EU funding revealing
how users shaped digital health in HIV care through a UoB–led co-design process (JMIR) and how
their experiences can be captured using a new application of the concept of ambivalence (Social
Science and Medicine) (Darking, Henwood). A Leverhulme- funded collaborative project has
produced 3 journal articles offering novel critiques of policy assumptions about how data,
surveillance and care are enacted in everyday practices of self-tracking (Henwood) and a co-
authored monograph contributes to the newly-emerging field of cyberpsychology by exploring
digital experiences across the life course (Frith, Harley).

Four further monographs have showcased innovative research in CH&EWB offering: a new
community psychology of mental health (Walker, Hart); a unique contribution to an increasingly
important area of work on sex and wellbeing, focused on orgasm (Frith), the ‘great strengths of
which include how it “maps out” the educational formats through which sexual values and norms
are taught’ (Review: Feminism & Psychology); insights into psycho-sexual aspects of sexuality
(Johnson, K.) and the mechanisms of ‘mediated intimacy’ (Harvey), the latter presenting a novel
collaborative and consensual vision for sex advice of the future.

ECR researchers in CH&EWB REG published in high-ranking journals including on: identifying
new forms of risk and trust in patient’s choice of health practitioner (Chauhan ECR, Sociology of
Health and Illness), sexuality and risk in secure mental health facilities (Ravenhill ECR, Culture,
                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Health and Sexuality), refugee and migrant mental health, including the potential for digital
interventions (Tip ECR, Refugee Studies) and routes towards a post-colonial psychological
reintegration in psychotherapy (Turner ECR, Critical Psychology, Counselling and
Psychotherapy).

Cities, Injustice and Resistance REG: Our research excellence in this REG is evidenced by the
production of 10 monographs, recognised as influential by reviewers. Squires’ monograph ‘Gun
Crime in Global Contexts’ (2014) was described in the British Journal of Criminology as: ‘likely to
serve for several years to come as the most useful starting point for anyone seeking an
introduction to the area’. Our strategic aim to open up new areas of criminology is typified by
Thurston’s 2016 monograph taking CI&R research in an interdisciplinary direction, drawing on
research in criminology, cultural memory and ‘dark tourism’ to show how museums can be
understood as sites of criminological significance through which the cultural role of punishment can
be explored.

Exploring injustices and resistance in relation to social movements, McGarry’s 2017 book
Romaphobia: The Last Acceptable Form of Racism offers ‘the first extensive scholarly exploration
of Romaphobia’ that ‘vividly outlines the magnitude of the challenge to overcome stereotypes
deeply embedded in European culture’ (Martin Kovats, former Special Adviser on Roma issues to
the European Commission). Schlembach’s pioneering work on undercover policing amongst
environmental activists was shortlisted for best article prize in Social Movement Studies and his
book Against Old Europe is described as demonstrating ‘a rare willingness to fully engage with
right-wing movements and theory so often neglected in social movement theory' (Antipode: A
Radical Journal of Geography). Dadusc ECR, as guest editor for a special issue of Citizenship
Studies, has made a major interdisciplinary contribution to critical citizenship, critical border studies
and housing studies.

Innovative interdisciplinary research on climate injustice includes Adams’ 2016 and 2020
monographs, setting out a radical psychosocial alternative to mainstream behaviour change
solutions, commended for offering a ‘systemic perspective that does justice to the complexities of
humanity's unfolding destiny in the Anthropocene’ (David Kidner, Nottingham Trent).

CI&R research has contributed directly to the burgeoning field of mobility (in)justices including the
first full-length anthropological study of Afghan refugees (Khan, 2020) that has been described as
‘a monumental achievement – of impressive, wide-ranging scholarship and original thinking’
(Kaveri Qureshi, University of Edinburgh).

Fresh insights into urban violence in global contexts have been offered in: new work by Fatsis on
‘policing race’, published in Sociological Review, with award winning blogs recognised by the
British Society of Criminology; Khan’s 2017 collection on Karachi that ‘will undoubtedly become
“the” reference point for understanding Karachi, as well as a model for exploring other violent
cityscapes around the world’ (Dennis Rodgers, University of Amsterdam); ECR Cavalcanti’s 2020
monograph, examining the social impacts of security programmes in Brazil, commended for its
‘significant contribution to the emerging southern criminology paradigm’ (Review International
Journal for Crime, Justice and Social Democracy).

Researchers have also produced methodologically innovative research designed for impact,
including 2 significant monographs. Haynes’ Social Synthesis: Finding Dynamic Patterns in
Complex Social Systems (2017) develops the theory underpinning the related methods book
Dynamic Pattern Synthesis (not in submission) that was included in the 2020 revision of the Civil
Service internal guidance on policy evaluation. Wenger-Trayner’s 2020 monograph advances
agenda-defining work dating back to 1998 that has received over 200,000 google scholar citations.
The book, described by Michael Fung-Kee-Fung, Medical Director, University of Ottawa, as:
'Another tour de force by the authors’, develops his highly influential work on 'communities of
practice' and ‘social learning’ into a Values Creation Framework that has changed practice across
diverse fields of practice and been developed further in relation to our resilience research
[ICS_CommunitiesOfPractice].

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.2.2. Future strategic aims to 2026
We have revised our strategic aims to 2026 to build on our successes in achieving the research
aims since 2014, align with the University’s strategy from 2020 – 2025 and respond to the
uncertainties of the pandemic.

Invest in our areas of research excellence to address global social challenges:
   • invest QR funding in initiatives for staff to respond to social challenges and inequalities
       arising in the post-COVID-19 recovery period, including research support, mentoring and
       bid writing guidance.
   • sustain research excellence in the CH&EWB and CI&R REGs and invest in burgeoning
       areas of interdisciplinary research excellence that are emerging across UoB Social Science
       and Humanities – for example, via collaboration in the Centre for Applied Philosophy,
       Politics and Ethics supporting research in historical and ethical aspects of social policy.

Strengthen our research leadership development programme to ensure opportunities for
staff at every career stage
    • maximise the potential of the high proportion of ECRs in SW&SP by investing in at least 10
        of our ECRs to submit funding applications as PIs in the next three years.
    • create opportunities for ECRs to shadow key research leaders and for mid-career staff to
        take up leadership roles, across the university.
    • invest in a development scheme to support at least two senior researchers from diverse
        backgrounds in gaining professorships.

Expand our international influence by expanding networks, community engagement and
knowledge exchange:
   • consolidate existing partnerships and engage with new partners in the statutory and
      community sectors in action-oriented research that has national and international impact.
   • strengthen our work locally with community partners by developing at least one new project
      annually for the next five years that addresses social polarisation following the COVID-19
      pandemic that can be scaled up to national and international levels.

Grow the number of talented PGR students who sustain our research base and enrich our
research culture:
   • make a successful application to renew our ESRC SCDTP with Universities of
      Southampton and Portsmouth in 2023 – 2024, aiming to secure a minimum of 5
      studentships pa in social policy.
   • continue to develop our strategic approach to attracting PGR applicants from diverse
      backgrounds by investing in PGR ambassadors to mentor undergraduates and developing
      PGR projects focusing on inequalities and intersectionality.
   • further enhance our vibrant PGR environment by creating opportunities for PGRs to work
      alongside staff and developing new placement opportunities.

2. People

Category A submitted staff at the census date comprises 4.0 FTE Professors plus one 0.2
Professorial Fellow, 15 FTE Readers/Principal Lecturers/Principal Research Fellows, 22.7 FTE
Senior Lecturers/Senior Research Fellows and 3.0 FTE Lecturers. By headcount, 95.7% are on
permanent contracts (83% full-time, 17% part-time); 29% are ECRs; 61.7% are female; 19.1%
BAME (REF equalities impact data -Section 2.4).

2.1. Staffing strategy
Our staffing strategy has been guided by one of our overall strategic aims from 2014:
   • to sustain our existing critical mass of influential and emerging researchers through
       recruitment and strengthening international and UK-based collaborations



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Recruitment of staff with strong collaborative networks: Our researcher base has grown
substantially since 2014, from 27.1 FTEs in REF2014 to 45.90 FTEs in REF2021. This has been
achieved through targeted recruitment of ECRs in particular. We made 24 ECR appointments
overall, some now mid-career, resulting in 14 ECRs (or 29% of total staff) submitted. These
talented staff brought impressive publication track records and significant collaborations with
academic and non-academic partners nationally and internationally, resulting in influential outputs
and potential for impact (see also Section 4). Examples include: Boden-Stuart ECR, with
University of Exeter and charitable organisation SANE co-developing a peer reviewed model for
understanding first person perspectives on suicide with the potential for application in public
participation in suicide prevention; Grist ECR with University of Bath and Oxford NHS Foundation
Trust exploring the acceptability and use of mobile phone app for young people who self-harm and
with Southampton, Oxford and Rotterdam Universities that developed a person-centred approach
to optimise a digital intervention for hypertension. The strategic use of QR funds has enabled these
collaborations and networks to become sustainable (details 2.2 and Section 4).

Sustaining our critical mass of influential and emerging researchers depends on providing time for
research excellence. We use a fully transparent UoB Workload Allocation Model to ensure equity
of teaching and administrative loadings. All submitted staff have 20% of their annual workload
allocated for research and scholarship, with external direct costs and competitive applications for
internal funding (QR) used to extend this ring-fenced time. We reward research excellence and
talented researchers, including for achieving impact, that is recognised in UoB promotion criteria.
We run annual Preparing for Promotion workshops with UoA-level mentoring provided by senior
staff with experience on promotions panels.

Our long-term policy of nurturing and retaining staff has resulted in significant promotions (88% of
submitted staff achieved promotion since REF2014) and research leadership appointments: Frith,
Khan and Walker to Reader, Murray to Associate Professor and Deputy Head of School
(Research) in SASS, Ward to Principal Research Fellow, Johnson, K. and Sherriff to Professor.
Khan and Darking as Directors of cross-university COREs - Spatial, Environmental and Cultural
Politics and Digital Media Cultures, respectively. Mid-career and senior staff have been appointed
to lead research-related committees at all levels - Chauhan ECR, Chair of Tier 1 (School)
Research Integrity and Ethics Committee; Khan, Chair of Tier 2 Social Science Research Integrity
and Ethics Committee, Cocking, Chair of Tier 3 UoB Research Integrity and Ethics Committee
(2020); Henwood, Chair of UoB’s Researcher Concordat Implementation Steering Group (2018)
and Sherriff, Chair of the UoB’s Research Mentoring Group (2018).

2.2. Staff development
Our approach to staff development has been guided by one of our overall strategic aims from
2014:
   • to develop a next generation of researchers by enhancing the career development
      opportunities for ECRs and PGR students and improving leadership and mentoring

Strategies to support the career development for ECRs and PGRs have been significantly
strengthened and embedded across the university, in line with UoB’s Researcher Concordat
Implementation Plan, Athena SWAN and Race Equality Charter Action Plans (REF5a), including
providing researchers with 10 days professional development per year from 2020. Staff are made
aware of their entitlements and responsibilities under the Researcher Concordat, both individually
(via their mentors) and collectively (at School, REG and CORE research events), providing a firm
framework within which this UoA is able to provide high-quality opportunities to develop staff
research careers from ECR to Professorial level.

Induction: Since 2014, all new recruits (including 23 at start of their careers) received School-level
research inductions, were allocated research mentors and encouraged to develop short-to-medium
term research objectives that are reviewed annually as part of the Staff Development Review
process.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Training: Our researchers attend an average of two formal research training events each year,
typically provided as part of the UoB’s Researcher Development Programme, with ‘Introduction to
Research Ethics’, ‘Introduction to Open Access’, ‘Demonstrating and Evidencing Impact’ and
‘Making the Most of the Research Mentoring Relationship’ recommended initially. Staff are
assisted by CUPP (REF5a) to work directly with research beneficiaries, often through co-
produced research, to maximise the potential for impact. CUPP remains a key means by which
staff are linked with local community partners.

Mentoring: All staff in this UoA have been involved in mentoring relationships (as mentors and/or
mentees) and regular audits report high satisfaction rates from mentees. Mentoring is organised by
the school mentoring leads (Henwood/SASS, Sherriff/SHS) who implement the University
Research Mentoring Framework (REF5a) which has provided mentors with high quality external
training in mentoring skills. Numbers of mentoring pairings is a school KPI reported to the
University annually. All staff gaining their first grant as PI have undertaken mandatory PI-specific
training and are mentored at UoA level by experienced PIs in managing research at all stages,
including dissemination and impact.

Targeted QR investment for staff development: SASS receives £167k QR funds annually to
invest in research support and staff development. A proportion of this contributes towards post-
doctoral salaries. Annually, £70k and £80k is invested in four competitively awarded schemes:
    • Research Support Fund
    • ECR Research Support Fund
    • Writing Retreats Fund
    • Networking Fund
SASS also operates a Returning to Research Fund, with awards of up to £20k for staff returning to
research after a period of extended absence due to parental/adoption leave - four staff have
received this funding in the review period. The allocation of funds from these schemes is managed
by the School Research and Enterprise Committee (SREC) to ensure equity and transparency
(see Sections 2.4 and 3).

Funding for ECRs: ECRs benefit from all our staff development activities and specifically from
our ring-fenced ECR Research Support Fund (open to all who were ECRs in the REF period) and
the UoB Rising Stars awards, each worth on average £9k. Rising Stars awards were secured by
12 staff in this UoA (2 men,10 women).

Included as ECRs in 2014 and now senior researchers: Ward, with professorial mentoring,
secured a UoB Rising Stars award for pilot work on older people and self-funding that led to a
successful 3-year Wellcome-funded collaborative research project. Ward has also been supported
in leadership development as leader of CHEWB REG. McGarry was supported with School
research funds to develop a successful Rising Stars bid for pilot work on Roma, later reflected in
his 2017 monograph and, through mentoring, to submit a successful AHRC bid (£183k) on the
Aesthetics of Protest.

Staff who were appointed as ECRs in REF period and are now mid- career (total 10- Boden-
Stuart, Burke, Ewing, Graber, Graham, Harvey, Johnson, H., Lea, Leaney, Schlembach) have
benefitted from ECR development opportunities. For example, Ewing, Graber and Harvey were
all awarded SASS Returning to Research grants after maternity leave, with Ewing and Graber
moving to part-time work on their return, in keeping with the UoB flexible working policies. Ewing
successfully applied for a recent Rising Stars award, Graber worked on a successful EPSRC-
GCRF collaborative funding bid on mental health in Low- and Middle-Income Countries (LMICs)
and Harvey submitted a UKRI bid.

Current ECRs (total14 - Anderson, Bakkali, Cassidy, Chauhan, Dadusc, Flack, Fox, Grist,
Mcgregor, Cavalcanti, Ravenhill, Tip, Turner, Zoli) have accessed bid writing support, including
dedicated funder-specific workshops, mentoring and peer-review. Eight have submitted first bids
(four as PIs and four as Co-Is), to UKRI (3), British Academy (2), ESRC (1), Erasmus (1) and
Alzheimers’ Society (1), one successful, others decision pending. Tip, who works a F/T post
                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
flexibly over 4 days to accommodate childcare, has been supported by a School research
networking grant to maintain networks on refugee well-being and by mentoring to win a UoB Rising
Stars award on refugee mental health app development, leading to a journal article and an ESRC
bid. Cassidy, Dadusc and Flack were also mentored to submit successful Rising Stars awards.
Dadusc collaborated with Open University and Panteion, Greece to explore the occupational
culture of asylum caseworkers in Greece, published in the Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies.

Mid-career and senior staff can apply for a semester of research leave under UoB’s competitive
sabbatical scheme, with awards of up to £10k being made to Adams, Erikson, Frith, Henwood,
Johnson, K., Khan, Murray and Walker. These produced 4 bids (of which 3 were successful), 5
single or co-authored monographs and 9 journal articles (see 1.2.1).

Leadership development: With a high proportion of ECR staff (29% of submitted staff),
leadership development opportunities are a priority in this UoA. Leadership of the CI&R REG is
held jointly by mid-career Leaney and ECR Cavalcanti, mentored by Associate Professor
Murray. Other staff have also benefitted from research leadership development opportunities,
including taking on: School ECR lead and ECR rep UoB Athena SWAN Steering group (Tip);
School Ethics lead (Chauhan); PGT lead with responsibility for developing PGR pipeline
(Pitimson and Ellis-Sloan).

Staff are encouraged, recognised and rewarded for carrying our research with impact, with our
Research Support, ECR Research Support, and Networking funds all providing investment for
different forms of impact development. Staff can also apply to the UoB Impact Development Fund
to accelerate the impact of their research – Cocking accessed this fund to develop activities
leading to ICS_CrowdSafety, and Haynes used the funds to train researchers working in
independent organisations and NGOs to use Dynamic Pattern Synthesis, an innovative
methodology in HM Treasury (2020) Magenta Book: Supplementary Guide: Handling Complexity in
Complex Evaluation.

2.3. Research students
Providing a growing, vibrant, and academically stimulating research environment for PGR students
remains one of our key strategic priorities. PGR recruitment has grown substantially since last
review period, with 28.5 FTE completions reported in this submission, up from 12 in 2014 (Section
1). Below, these 28.5 completions are shown disaggregated into PhDs and research-based
Professional Doctorates:

           Table 2. PGR completions 2013-14 to 2019-20

            Year                     PhD (FTE)            Prof Docs (FTE)
            2013-14                   2.0
            2014-15                   4.0                      2.5
            2015-16                   3.0
            2016-17                   1.33
            2017-18                   4.0                      1.0
            2018-19                   5.5                  Course discontinued
            2019-20                   5.17
            TOTALS                    25.0                     3.5

In collaboration with the Universities of Southampton and Portsmouth, in 2017, SASS and Brighton
Business School bid successfully to establish the ESRC South Coast Doctoral Training
Partnership (SCDTP) that will sustain our PGR cohort into the future. The SCDTP has injected
£1.14 million into SASS to fund 16 studentships and 4 postdoctoral fellowships, marking a step-
change in our PGR recruitment, financing, culture and environment. Our staff have key leadership
roles in the SCDTP: Haynes as Brighton SCDTP Director and member of SCDTP Management
                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Committee, Schlembach and Boden-Stuart as ‘Thematic Cluster Pathway Co-ordinators’ for
‘Citizenship Governance and Security’ and ‘Population Change, Health and Wellbeing’,
respectively.

In addition to the 16 SCDTP-funded students, the University has invested in our future PGR
environment by funding 20 further SASS PGRs studentships and 3 International Scholarships.
The applied and impactful nature of our PGR projects is reflected in our external studentship
funding sources that include 3 funded via research projects (EU-funded DAPHNE project and 2 by
National Lottery Community Fund funded- HeadStart project) and 2 through external bodies (NHS
Institute for Innovation and Improvement; Eleanor Smith School).

We have a dynamic and diverse community of PGR students, attracted by our research themes
and REGs that prioritise challenging inequalities. Five of our PGR students have been funded, as
part of their research training, by the Doctoral College Black Lives Matter Interdisciplinary Project
fund, to collaborate with local activists examining the impact of Black Lives Matter protests in
Sussex. The current PGR cohort are 59% female and 26% BAME (figures were 56% and 16% in
2014) and our proportion of full-time students has increased from 24% to 54% in the review period.
In April 2019 we used QR funds to establish a £10k COVID-19 Doctoral Resources Fund so
students could apply to meet additional needs of working from home and hardship. In the most
recent PRES (2018) PGR satisfaction with supervision was (83.3%), development of research
skills (86.1%) and professional development (80.6%).

Reflecting our commitment to interdisciplinarity, our PGRs are often supervised with staff from
Health Sciences, Human Geography, Media Studies, Business and Medicine, providing students
with vibrant and stimulating research communities, enhanced by their active engagement in cross-
disciplinary COREs. PGRs take an active role in decision-making processes of schools, REGs and
COREs, including being represented on management committees (REF5a). At UoA level, they
take an active role in PGR recruitment, acting as paid ambassadors to encourage undergraduate
students from backgrounds with low levels of postgraduate applications to consider doctoral study,
mentoring interested candidates and leading innovative and creative events at our annual
Research Away Days.

All PGRs have access to UoB’s Training and Development workshops that cover ethics and
integrity, impact, and open research, all mandatory for PGRs progressing from year 1 (Details
REF5a). UoA level training on ‘policy impact’ is provided to SCDTP students in social policy and all
students can access extensive user engagement and impact-relevant methodology training via the
‘Advanced Research Cultures’ module on our Masters in Social Research Methods. The Centre for
Resilience and Social Justice actively encourages PGRs to develop impact through co-production
– for example the SCDTP-funded ‘Climate Change and Mental Health’ project with partners from
the Resilience Revolution (Blackpool).

PGRs benefit from placement opportunities offered under the SCDTP scheme that supported a
visiting scholarship to Portland State University, USA (Williams) and a collaboration at The Keep
data archive, Brighton (Prosser). Alemna, on a UoB studentship, undertook an internship with
policy consultancy in London that led to employment on completion. Further investments in PGRs
ensures they can network and disseminate their research widely and enabled Barras, whose
research focuses on the experiences of transgender people in everyday sport, to chair a panel
session for student parents in 2020, attend a UoB-organised workshop leading to a publication in
The Conversation and present research at five conferences, two of which have led to peer
reviewed publications. Barras recently secured employment with Mermaids, a large LGBTQ+
charity informing the public on gender identity and diversity issues.

PGRs develop employability skills via the UoB Postgraduate Researcher Development Programme
and through UoB’s participation in the nationwide ‘Think Further on Researcher Development’
programme, including training on online profiles, wellbeing and resilience. Recent PGR graduates
have secured academic positions (including at Liverpool and UEL) and taken up roles in the public,
private and third sectors- eg IT developer in NHS, Analyst in the Austrian Embassy in Beirut,

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Director and CEO of CHADET, a child protection NGO in Ethiopia. We have an excellent record of
mentoring PGR graduates to apply successfully for ESRC-funded post-doctoral awards through
the SCDTP, gaining four awards based at UoB and two with our partner universities, Portsmouth
and Southampton since 2017.

2.4. Equality and diversity
UoB is one of just 17 institutions holding a Bronze Race Equality (RE) Charter and is a Stonewall
Top 100 employer in its last submission in 2019. In line with the University’s Equality, Diversity &
Inclusion Strategic Plan and Race Equality Action Plan, we are committed to developing a diverse
community that promotes inclusion. Both schools in this submission successfully applied for
Athena SWAN (AS) Bronze awards in the review period and progress towards the AS and RE
Action Plans are overseen by the Schools’ Equality and Diversity Committees, reporting to School
Management Groups. All competitive internal research investment schemes are monitored by the
gender-balanced School Research and Enterprise Committee (Section 3) through formal Equalities
Impact Assessments to ensure fairness and equity for those in protected categories.

The focus of our research ensures that staff are immersed in debates and practices that seek to
understand and challenge social inequalities and disadvantage as a normal part of their everyday
work and research. As well as participating in events that celebrate diversity (for example, UoB’s
‘Women of Impact’ and AS lecture series), work continues to address enduring inequalities,
particularly in relation to race and ethnicity. Alongside aims to recruit, promote and develop more
BAME staff, including to Professorial level (eg through UoB’s BAME leadership programme),
projects are underway to decolonise research practice, as part of a wider project to recognise the
processes by which knowledge is produced and claims to authority embedded. SASS has
invested QR funds to provide allocated time for leadership of its ‘Decolonising Research’ working
group, fund a dedicated seminar series for 2020-21 on the same theme and create a repository of
equalities expertise within the school that can be shared to strengthen equalities themes within
research and enhance opportunities for a more inclusive research and practice. Two Professors in
this UoA are leading an initiative examining how race equality allies training can enable a new
cross-university BAME research mentoring initiative and staff are being actively encouraged to
develop PGR projects that attract race scholars.

All submitted staff have undertaken equalities training- including ‘equality and diversity essentials’,
‘unconscious bias’ and ‘dignity at work’, covering all protected categories in the 2010 Equalities
Act. Those in management roles complete additional ‘managing diversity’ training and interview
panel members address E&D in ‘interviewing and recruitment’ training. Staff are encouraged to join
UoB’s long-standing ‘equalities networks’ (currently covering disability, race and faith, LGBT+, and
parents and carers) with these networks also serving as important routes through which to
advertise jobs and opportunities for internal career development positions – for example, on
university committees.

Within SASS, where over 90% of staff in this UoA are based, women make up 60% staff on
teaching & research contracts and their promotions to senior roles reflect this balance with women
making up 4 out of 5 promotions to Readership/Associate Professors/ Professor in the review
period. The Deputy Head of School (Research) post has been held by women since 1998. This
gender balance has been delivered through the instigation of a promotion readiness process,
including appropriate mentoring for staff applications to senior grades. Four women benefited from
our Return to Research fund after maternity/adoption leave (Section 2.1 for details). A contingency
QR fund was set aside for 2020/21 for staff whose research was negatively affected by COVID-19
in 2019/20, particularly where it caused additional caring responsibilities caused by schools’
closures.

Equality impact assessments were made on all policies and procedures for identifying staff with
significant responsibility for research, determining research independence (RI) and selecting
outputs.


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our staff submission compares well with the sector average for Social Work and Social Policy as
reported by Advance HE, particularly for BAME staff and staff declaring a disability:

   Table 3. Equalities indicators for UoB eligible and submitted staff compared with sector

                                 SW&SP staff in        Eligible staff (UoB)    Submitted staff
                                 sector % of total          %of total             (UoB)
                                                                                 % of total
    Women                              66.1                    60.2                61.7
    BAME                               11.9                    13.3                19.1
    With declared disability            6.8                    10.8                10.6

On Research Independence, the numbers in this UoA are too small (1) to draw any meaningful
E&D conclusions. On Outputs, 29% of women and 26% of men have more than 2 outputs and
22% of BAME staff and 29% White staff have more than 2 outputs.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1. Research income awards and outputs
In line with our overall strategic aims to strengthen and build sustainability in our research through
collaboration with academic and non-academic partners, we have sought to maintain our good
record with EU grants as shown in REF2014 and enabled mid-career and senior staff to apply for
large grants (particularly from Research Councils and large charities). We continue to enable
ECRs to apply for smaller awards where opportunities arise to work closely with beneficiaries,
maximising immediate impact and developing strong partnerships that can be scaled up for larger
scale projects. As reported in Section 2.2, we achieve these funding application aims through staff
development that includes consistent mentoring, bid writing support and peer review, and strategic
use of QR funding to build national and international networks and accelerate impact. An
increasing proportion of staff are now submitting bids, with women proportionally more active and
successful than men. Over the whole REF period, women were 64.3% of those submitting and
74.4 % of those successful. In 2019/20 (where women were 61.7% of those submitted) women
were 70% of those submitting bids and 80% of those successful.

Our investments in enabling staff to apply for funding has seen grant spend grow from £1.75m in
REF2014 to £3.1m, with major awards made by external bodies on a competitive basis (including
ESRC, AHRC, MRC, NERC, Leverhulme, Horizon2020, Wellcome Trust, NIHR). 39% of income is
from Research Councils (22% in 2014), an increasing proportion from large Charities (20%, up
from 8% in 2014) and 29% from EU (33% in 2014). These grants have been used as shown below
to strengthen our research and impact in both our REGs.

CH&EWB REG: EU funding, often as part larger research consortia, has strengthened research
with, and for, LGBT communities.

Henwood and Darking joined a consortium of 13 partners including key NGO partner, the
European Aids Treatment Group (EATG), on EmERGE, a 5 year, £5.5m (£353k to UoB) EU
Horizon 2020-funded project. Working with EATG, UoB led the core ‘co-design’ workpackage that
established an mHealth platform to support self-management in HIV care across 5 sites in the EU.
This resulted in collaborative outputs including over 10 academic papers plus policy and practice
guidelines for EU mHealth development. Two of the 5 clinical sites are
now embedding the mHealth pathway in routine care and contract negotiations are continuing at
the other sites.

A grant (£112k to UoB, total 2m Euros) from the EC’s Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food
Executive Agency for the ESTICOM project (2016 – 19) enabled Sherriff to continue his research
on building capacity for those supporting MSM around HIV/STIs. The project was led by Robert
Koch Institute, Berlin and Sherriff worked with a large consortium to develop the first internet-
based self-completion questionnaire exploring the knowledge attitudes, and practices of
                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
community health workers (CHWs) providing sexual health support to gay and bisexual men and
other MSM. Outcomes of the research to date include 2 peer-reviewed articles, with results being
used to develop the first European common training programme for CHWs that is available freely
across all EU member states.

EU funding (£62.5k) enabled further research led by Sherriff producing one of the largest scientific
reviews ever conducted on LGBTI health inequalities globally; a comprehensive review across 27
Member States, that developed a rapid-review template, adopted by the European Commission’s
DG SANTE, Health and Food Safety as an example of good practice; and an extensive training
programme aimed at increasing the skills of professionals providing healthcare to LGBTI people,
adaptable to all EU countries.

Our research on mental well-being has been strengthened and internationalised with grants from a
range of funders. Resilience research with disadvantaged young people that contributed to an
impact case study in REF2014, was extended internationally following collaborative research on
the ESRC’s Imagine programme (2013 – 2017, £300k to UoB) and via collaborative NERC-funded
research (£125k to UoB, £180k total) with and for young people affected by drought in South
Africa. Funding from National Lottery Community Fund (3 grants totalling £505k) has enabled a
significant shift in understanding, enhancing and evaluating resilience in individual children and
young people (C/YP) by working in communities of practice across ‘whole systems’ (see
ICS_CommunitiesOfPractice). This resulted in journal articles on resilience for kinship carers
(British Journal of Social Work) and uniting resilience research with an inequalities approach (Sage
Open). (Hart, Eryigit-Madzwamuse, Wenger-Trayner).

ESRC GCRF Big Picture funding (£467k total grant value; £17k UoB) is enabling Graber to
collaborate with University of Leeds (lead) and partner organisations MIND India and NIRMAAN
Rehabilitation Institute using participatory arts-based methods to identify resilience to substance
misuse among young people in Assam. The project won the Kudos Endeavor (Youth Issues)
Award for a co-produced film at the Doctors Without Borders Film Festival.

Further co-produced research on mental wellbeing challenges has been possible with two
collaborative NIHR awards. A £234k award enabled collaborative research with Sussex
Partnership NHS Trust for research on Community Treatment Orders, producing a paper in
Journal of Social Welfare and Family Law, plus evidence on stigmatisation linked to the Orders
submitted to the House of Commons Women and Equality Committee’s Review of Mental Health
for Men and Boys (Stroud, Haynes). The Committee’s recommendation for a men’s mental health
strategy was acknowledged and appreciated in writing in January 2020, by Nadine Dorries MP,
Minister of State for Mental Health, Suicide Prevention and Patient Safety, as a member of the new
Government. A second award (£193k to UoB, £945k total) (2019 –2021) is enabling collaborative
work led by Lancaster University identifying and evaluating early interventions for LGBT mental
health (Johnson, K., Henwood) designed to shape commissioning guidelines. A new networking
grant from the Wellcome Trust (£40k) funds the ‘Room to Rant’ project working with, and for,
young men in the local community exploring rap music and health (Klein). Two ESRC-funded
postdoctoral awards are supporting research exploring repeated detention under Section 136 of
the Mental Health Act, building on research underpinning impact on [ICS_PoliceDetentions]
(Warrington supervised by Walker) and whole systems intervention to improve mental health in
schools (Maitland supervised by Sherriff).

Collaborative research focused on the ethical issues, risks and responsibilities for all those
involved in the process of self-funding for older people’s care has developed with funding from the
Wellcome Trust (£712k total, 2 grants, including a public engagement grant) (Ward) (full details
Section 4). Working directly with care providers to maximise impact, smaller grants have also led
to positive impacts on older people’s care. A Thomas Pocklington Trust award (£35k) (Ward) led to
improved training for those working with visually impaired older people in care homes. An
Alzheimer’s Society award (£24k) (Henwood) contributed to changes in the Society’s approach to
delivering their Carers’ Information Course and ‘Live Well with Dementia’ programme, leading to
journal papers, including in Ethics and Social Welfare.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
CI&R REG: an AHRC (£183k) grant facilitated innovative work on the aesthetics of protest
(McGarry) and a British Academy Newton International Fellowship (£163k) for research on social
movements in Turkey (McGarry). This research demonstrated how Gezi Park protestors used
visual and performative forms of communication to mobilise supporters and shape the social
movement’s identity. The research produced numerous journal outputs and exhibitions showcasing
the visual arts practices identified through the research and exploring collective modes of art
practice in resistance.

Furthering work on mobilities, Murray collaborated on an Advanced ERC grant (£29k to UoB, 1.8m
Euros total) with colleagues in Slovenia and Finland to explore mediated intergenerational spaces,
leading to a collaborative article on transgenerational research methods (Qualitative Research)
and a co-edited book on sensory transformations over time. An ESRC postdoctoral award is
enabling further work on injustices and resistances in relation to migrants, with a project on legal
aid for immigration and asylum (Wilding supervised by Darking).

3.2. Research infrastructure and facilities
Governance of research is via School Research & Enterprise Committees (SRECs) in SASS and
SHS, where membership is inclusive, in line with our Athena SWAN and Race Equalities Action
Plans. SRECs are responsible for monitoring research progress against University-agreed KPIs
and for the local delivery of the UoB’s Concordat Implementation Plan. SREC Chairs are members
of University Research and Enterprise Committee and of relevant School Management Group
(SMG) to ensure research is fully integrated into school strategy and operations.

Significant investments and improvements in infrastructures benefitting research in this UoA since
2014 include:
   • the setting up of the university-wide, interdisciplinary Centres of Research and Enterprise
        Excellence (COREs), (REF5a) that provide resources and intellectual support to help grow
        interdisciplinary research and impact excellence in SW&SP (Section 1).
   • the enhanced offering from UoB’s Research Enterprise and Strategic Partnerships Office
        (RESP) that, in addition to providing an annual Researcher Training and Development
        workshop programme, coordinates an agile Peer Review Panel that has driven an increase
        on the quantity and quality of research bids submitted from this UoA, resulting in the
        significant growth in research awards, noted above.
   • the CUPP that, since 2003, has had a history of co-location, joint working and shared
        appointments with SASS and continues to provide a distinct facility for developing research
        with social impact. In 2010, CUPP worked with Hart to develop BoingBoing, a ‘spin out’
        community interest company (turnover £240k pa) that operates as a unique community-
        university facility integrating our staff and research into projects designed to promote
        resilience and tackle entrenched deprivation. In 2016 BoingBoing set up a ‘satellite’
        research centre in Blackpool to work alongside practitioners, parents and young people on
        National Lottery Community Fund projects (£505k) drawing on our resilience and systems
        theory research to embed Resilient Therapy across one of England’s most deprived town
        (Hart, Eryigit-Madzwamuse) (see ICS_CommunitiesOfPractice).
   • the SASS-based Creative Methods/Psychology Lab, set up in 2014 with £80k QR funding
        for audio visual equipment to facilitate creative, visual and mobile methods and a further
        £46k QR funding in 2015-16 for specialist equipment including eye tracking technology
        being used in criminology research (eg Graham’s research on CCTV observation
        published in Applied Cognitive Psychology).
   • the SASS-based Qualitative Research Laboratory (QLab), set up in 2019 with £45k QR
        investment to offer a dedicated resource, including a transcription facilities and informal
        spaces, that can be shared with our collaborators and community partners. The QLab also
        provides the venue for monthly PGR/staff get-togethers.
   • the UoB’s Centre for Contemporary Arts (opened in 2019 with £400k investment) that
        provides space for researchers using creative methods to engage a range of audiences in
        their research. Johnson, H. used the space for research events connected to the
        Collaborative Poetics project, funded by the Independent Social Research Foundation,

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       including the launch of the project’s co-produced resource pack to a wide range of
       stakeholders.
   •   the completely refurbished offices and shared spaces in SASS (£30k central university
       investment in 2018) that resulted in the re-siting of staff offices alongside improved PGR
       space and shared learning areas creating an interactive space for all our researchers and
       dedicated desk and social space for all full-time PGRs.
   •   the dedicated professional services staff that support our research- 0.5 FTE dedicated
       technicians to help maximise the value of the research labs, the full-time Research
       Administrators in each school who support the REGs and other research activity and the
       0.2 FTE professional services staff that support the COREs.
   •   the local community spaces where we meet with research partners, that are a distinct part
       of how we design, execute and disseminate research. Our long-standing ‘Brains at the
       Bevy’ events are held near UoB in Britain’s only community-owned pub on a public housing
       estate. They engage the local community in our research through talks from staff including:
       ‘Britain and Europe after the Referendum: Britfix or Britbroken?’ (Haynes), ‘Resilience to
       sex negativity’ (Hart) and ‘How Art can Change the World (again) (Johnson, H.). Ward’s
       major Wellcome project launched its findings with an exhibition in Fabrica art gallery in
       central Brighton where the project outcomes were interpreted by artist Lindsay Seers in
       Care(less), an immersive virtual reality experience in 2019 that investigated prevalent
       attitudes to ageing and care relationships, that featured in The Guardian. ‘It leaves you
       shaken’: VR show reveals life through an older person’s eyes | Older people | The
       Guardian

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Research collaborations and impact
Our commitment to challenging inequalities through co-produced research with impact means we
have implemented strategies for ensuring we can develop collaborations required to address this
agenda.

Section 2 illustrated how QR-funded Networking grants, CUPP and UoB’s COREs enable newly
recruited staff to maintain existing academic and non-academic collaborations and incentivise all
staff to build appropriate collaborative networks for impactful interdisciplinary research.

In Section 3, several major collaborative projects were reported, evidencing the link between
research funding and high-quality outputs and/or impact. The infrastructures covered in Section 3
are also a key part of the support in place for research collaboration with academics, research
users, beneficiaries and audiences. Here, we provide some additional detail and evidence of how
staff developed relationships with key users to develop their research and impact across both
REGs.

CH&EWB REG: Sherriff worked with colleagues in the Transforming Sexualities and Gender
CORE to secure funding from the EU (£62k for a collaborative project, ‘Health4LGBTI’, with
partners in six EU countries, leading to improved understandings of, and comprehensive training
in, how to reduce health inequalities experienced by LGBTI people). Ward used internal QR funds
to build on a long track record of interdisciplinary research on feminist ethics of care (with Barnes
in 2014 submission). Working initially with local older people as co-researchers brokered by CUPP
and with an Age Concern Researcher, later a Community Fellow in SASS, Ward developed a new
partnership from a pilot project, leading to a larger Wellcome Trust-funded collaboration extending
the older people as co-researchers model to 3 UK field sites. Two booklets for older people were
co-written with co-researchers, as were a series of research briefings aimed at social care
commissioners, providers and practitioners.

CI&R REG: Advancing interdisciplinary research, staff built on internal awards to develop networks
and/or seek external awards to develop these. With internal QR funds, Zoli ECR developed an
international partnership with Social and Global Studies Centre, RMIT University in Melbourne
(Australia), and Universities of Macerata, Chieti and Pescara (Italy) leading to a presentation
                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
‘Building a community project with Trans women sex workers’ at 7th International Conference of
Community Psychology, Santiago, 2018. Cavalcanti ECR built on internal networking funds to
develop a successful BA Seed Funding bid (£4k) for collaborative networking with universities of
Sao Paulo, Federale Fluminense and Minas Gerais (Brazil) for work on ‘The impact of
criminalisation on women and feminist activist groups in Brazil’ Cavalcanti ECR, Dadusc ECR
and Schlembach received funding from the Spatial, Environmental and Cultural Politics CORE
and the British Society of Criminology for the ‘Criminalising Dissent’ event (2019) that led to the
formation of an international multi-institutional network (The Criminalisation of Dissent Network)
formed by activists, academics, PGRs, lawyers/criminal justice system practitioners, producing an
open access output.

After networking and presentations at international conferences, Murray was invited to join two
international collaborations exploring digital injustices: the SSHRC- funded Ageing and
Communications Technologies partnership (11 countries) led by Concordia Canada, addressing
‘digital ageism’ (2014 – 2021) that produced two novel journal articles on mediating spaces and on
retirement identities, and the ERC-funded SENSOTRA international network (1.8m Euros; £28.5k
to UoB) investigating digitally-mediated intergenerational social and spatial relations across
Finland, Slovenia and the UK (2016-2020).

4.2. Engaging with diverse communities and publics
Engaging with community and third sectors: Community and third sector engagement locally,
nationally and internationally continues to be enabled through CUPP (REF5a and Section 3). At
local level, CUPP’s Ignite Programme (funded by UKRI), an incubator model for finding and
fostering new partnerships, has directly assisted staff to collaborate with community partners on 4
community-led Ignite-funded projects during 2018 – 19. Examples include: ‘Community solutions to
the housing crisis’, a partnership between UoB and Brighton and Hove Community Land Trust
(BHCLT) in which Dadusc ECR and Leaney (and 2 PGRs – Prosser and Smith) contributed
research expertise to foster cross-party support for community housing, securing two new sites for
social housing and plans for a further eight; and ‘Making arts more accessible’, a partnership
between Hangleton and Knoll Project (HKP) and UoB (Johnson, H.) that used the novel
‘collaborative poetics’ method to train local people to co-produce a study on the arts and wellbeing
in an area with high deprivation. The results led to pledges from Brighton Dome Theatre, Brighton
Festival and local council to invest in local arts provision, including the establishment of a local
dedicated arts venue.

At national level, CUPP worked closely with Hart and the Centre for Resilience for Social Justice
and social enterprise ‘spin-out’ BoingBoing in a national partnership delivering resilience practice
for 11,000 disadvantaged young people as part of Blackpool’s £10.4m Big Lottery- funded pilot
‘Resilience Revolution’ project (ICS_CommunitiesOfPractice).

At international level, ECR Dadusc participates in the Erasmus+ BRIDGES consortium, which
brings together Universities and Civil Society organisations to tackle exclusion and discrimination
in Higher Education. The consortium includes the Feminist Autonomous Centre for Research and
Za’atar in Athens; the domestic workers union Sindillar and the Autonomous University of
Barcelona; An.Ge.Kommen and the University of Giessen in Germany; and the Office of Displaced
Designers in the UK.

Engaging with the public sector, government and NGOs: In addition to the numerous
examples embedded in our 4 impact case studies, engagement with non-academic partners
locally, nationally and internationally is central to our wellbeing and justice-focused research and
impact agendas.

Working with CUPP, Darking and Walker formed a 5-year partnership with local community
infrastructure organisation Community Works to reduce the data burden in project evaluation
reporting, the findings from this work being included in the Brighton and Hove Fairness
Commission Report and the 5-yearly audit of the third sector, Taking Account. Darking was also
expert facilitator on co-design and social movements in the NESTA- funded programme ‘Social
                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Movements for Health’ (2018 – 19) supporting a community in Brighton that experiences high
levels of deprivation to form a group to campaign for a fairer city. This work featured in a NESTA
blog series alongside Professor Michael Marmot.

Our researchers have given expert advice to governments and NGOs addressing national and
international priorities that relate to the social problems and challenges we research:
    • Sherriff: Honorary Consultant to Public Health England (2020), and Advisor to the WHO as
        part of the 3rd global Technical Consultation on Point-Of-Care Tests for Sexually
        transmitted Infections (Verona, 2019).
    • Hart: Advisor to the National Lottery Community Fund, helping shape their £75m HeadStart
        programme; Invited Adviser to the What Works Wellbeing Centre on commissioning
        evidence reviews and communicating research to diverse audiences.
    • Fatsis: Member of the Prosecuting Rap Expert Network (scholars from USA and UK) and
        Expert Witness in UK murder trial cases that involve the use of drill lyrics and videos as
        incriminating evidence.
    • Tip ECR: Submitted policy briefs on selection processes and pre-departure information for
        resettled refugees in the UK; Expert Training Consultant for the European Resettlement
        Network on their Resettlement Ambassador Programme (2015); Adviser to Home Office on
        measures of integration for their Indicators of Integration Framework 2019.
    • Haynes: worked with ESRC’s Centre for the Evaluation of Complexity Across the Nexus
        (as Associate Member), to publish policy evaluation guidance for government and NGOs
        including presenting to Department of Business Energy and Industrial Strategy (2017).
    • Chauhan ECR: Member of British Psychological Society’s national expert reference group
        on poverty, providing advice to government.
    • Wilding (postdoc): Evidence to the House of Commons Justice Committee on the future of
        legal aid and was the only expert witness for a successful legal challenge to a change to
        the legal aid payment regulations, which would have meant barristers not getting paid for
        asylum appeals.

4.3. Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline
Staff contribute to the sustainability of social policy and cognate disciplines through editorial roles
in leading journals, peer review work and advice for key funding bodies and have been recognised
and rewarded for their contributions through invited keynotes, prizes, awards and visiting positions.

Journal editorship and editorial board membership: 12 staff have been editors/editorial board
members of 16 journals:

Henwood, Joint Chief Editor and Bendelow, editorial team member of Sociology of Health and
Illness from 2018; Khan, Associate Editor of Public Anthropologist (2019 onwards); Ward, member
of the editorial collective of Critical Social Policy (2015 onwards); Chauhan ECR, Psychology
editor for SAGE Open.

SW&SP staff are editorial board members for Sociology (Adams), European Journal of
Ecopsychology (Adams); Journal of Child and Youth Development (Hart); Anthropology in Action
(Hart); Complexity, Governance and Networks (Haynes); European Journal of Qualitative
Research in Psychotherapy (Boden-Stuart); Health Promotion International journal (Sherriff,
Sociological Research Online (Murray to 2017; Schlembach); Applied Mobilities (Murray); Digital
Health (Henwood,); Emotions and Society (Khan). Boden-Stuart is Book Reviews Editor for
Qualitative Research in Psychology and Khan was Honorary Obituaries Editor, Royal
Anthropological Institute (2015 – 19).

Peer review and advice for national and international funders: Our researchers shape
research agendas through high level peer review and engagement with national funders:

Sherriff was EC invited expert panel member for grant evaluations including: H2020 programme
(2016; €37M).

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Hart served on over 20 expert panels nationally and internationally since 2014, including: Youth
Futures Programme Development Panel for The British Academy (2019); BBC Children in Need
Mental Health Funding Initiative (2017); Community University Partnerships, Social Science and
Humanities Research Council of Canada (2016); ESRC’s Mental Health Leadership Fellow
appointment (2016); ESRC Mental Health Expert Group (2015); Horizon 2020 Societal Challenge
Six Expert Working Group (2015); USA’s Robert Wood Johnson Foundation’s funding scheme on
adolescence resilience (2015-present).

Henwood was Invited Expert advising Health Foundation on priorities for a ‘significant new
research award programme’ that they were planning in the area of healthcare informatics (£1.6
million approved).

Staff continue to review for significant funders: Internationally, Chauhan ECR reviews for Belgian
Science Policy Office; Haynes for the Netherlands and New Zealand Research Councils (2017);
Murray for Research Foundation Flanders, Department for Transport Foresight programme (2017)
and Singapore Ministry of Education. In the UK, Ward reviews for NIHR Health Services and
Research Delivery Programme; Boden-Stuart for NIHR Health Technology Assessment and
School of Social Care Research; Murray and Erickson for AHRC, Cocking for MRC and Murray,
Henwood and Hart (Senior Review College) for ESRC.

Invited keynotes, lectures and conference chair roles: Three of our ECRs have already
delivered one or more invited keynotes at international conferences, including:

Cavalcanti on militarised policing in Brazil at the LSE (2019) and Universidad Técnica Particular
de Loja, Ecuador (2020) and on the rise of neoliberalism in Brazil at European Group for the Study
of Deviance and Social Control, Barcelona (2019)
Dadusc on the multiplication of borders and the political struggles of illegalized migrants and
refugees in Europe at The American Association of Geographers (AAG) annual conference, New
Orleans (2018)
Tip on the health and wellbeing of resettled refugees in the UK at the Community Psychology
Research Group, FernUniversität Hagen, Germany (2016).

Senior staff expertise is recognised by over 40 invited keynotes including internationally:
   • Sherriff, at the HIV/AIDS Media Cluster meeting, European Commission, Athens, 2014,
       where he was also expert panel member
   • Adams, at Anthropocene Psychology, Centro de Investigação e Intervenção Social,
       University Institute of Lisbon, 2017
   • Haynes, at the European Qualitative Comparative Analysis methods conference, Antwerp
       (2019) and the European working group on International Relations and Complexity,
       University of Duisburg
   • Henwood at the TILTing Perspectives Conference, Tilburg (2017) and the Digital
       Behavioural Technology, Vulnerability and Justice Conference at Technical University of
       Munich, (2019) Khan, on the plenary panel, “Karachi-City of Lights and Gangs” at the
       Karachi Literature Festival-London (2017)
   • Hart, on community-university partnerships, at universities and community venues in
       Europe, Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa.

Staff organised over 30 national or international conferences, including the 5th UK Community
Psychology Festival, University of Brighton, 2019 (Walker); the 2017 and 2018 international BSA
MedSoc conferences (Henwood, as MedSoc convenor); the ESRC-funded ‘New Practice for New
Publics’ seminar series resulting in a community-university co-authored book (2017) (Darking).

Prizes, awards and visiting positions: Recognition for our contributions to the research base
include prizes and awards:
    • Khan, nominated for the Boyer Prize for contribution to psychoanalytic anthropology at the
       American Association of Anthropology meeting, 2018.
    • Schlembach, shortlisted for best article in Social Movement Studies (2018).
                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Cocking, finalist for UKRI ‘outstanding impact in public policy award’, June 2018 for
       collaborative ESRC project on mass emergencies 2004 – 2007.
   •   Tip ECR, co-awarded the University of Sussex Impact Award for Language as the key to
       successful resettlement, 2018.
   •   Henwood, awarded a one-month Residency in February 2019 at the Brocher Foundation,
       Geneva.
   •   Khan, awarded 2 month Visiting Fellowship at Harvard Medical School in 2020.
   •   Sherriff won the 2nd and 3rd International Research Fellowship: Programme for the
       Invitation of Foreign Scientists to Japan awards from the Japan Foundation for AIDS
       Prevention (2014 and 2019) and best poster award for the Health4LGBTI project at the
       ‘Conceptualising, Measuring and Influencing Context in Mental Health Care’, ENMESH
       Conference, Groningen, Netherlands, 2017.
   •   PGR De Oliveira was singled out for recognition by an editorial team in the 2019 Emerald
       Literati Awards for his paper ‘On the News Today: Challenging Homelessness Through
       Participatory Action Research’.

The excellence of our ECRs is indicated by three taking up invited visiting positions, including:
Cavalcanti ECR - Visiting Scholar at Nucleo de Estudos da Violencia - Universidade de Sao Paulo
(2018); Dadusc ECR - Visiting Scholar at the University of Amsterdam (2018); Tip - ECR - Visiting
Scholar at the Centre for Refugee Studies at York University, Canada (2018).

Senior staff taking up invited positions include: Hart - Visiting Scholar at Engagement Australia,
(2014); Cocking- Associate Member, Emergency Planning Society, 2019 – present; Haynes -
Visiting Professor at the University of Southampton; Khan - International Fellow, Institut
Convergences Migrations, Aubervilliers, Paris (2020 – 2023); Visiting Scholar, Asia Research
Institute, National University of Singapore (2017 – 2018).

Summary

This submission has demonstrated a strong and sustainable upward trajectory in our socially-
engaged, interdisciplinary research in SW&SP since 2014. This is evidenced by:
   • increased research income from UKRI and large charities
   • a well-funded and fully-embedded researcher development and leadership development
       programme from ECR to Professorial level
   • a more inclusive research environment, particularly in relation to race inequalities
   • outstanding contributions from ECRs in terms of publications, leadership roles, keynote
       addresses and research funding
   • a step-change in our PGR numbers and marked changes in our PGR funding and
       environment through our involvement in SCDTP
   • a strengthening engagement with community and other non-academic research partners,
       based on our excellence in co-production and co-design.

Our intellectual strengths in Care, Health and Emotional Wellbeing and in Cities, Injustice and
Resistance means we are well-placed to continue to address some of the most important social
and policy agendas of our time including ageing society, mental health crises, especially amongst
young people, and the continuing inequalities produced through climate change, migration and the
policing of race and class in urban environments.




                                                                                             Page 18
