Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL)

 Unit of Assessment: 22 (Anthropology and Development Studies)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and structure

 UCL Anthropology is a world-leading, multidisciplinary department that addresses the full breadth,
 in time and space, of the human story. Embodying the image of anthropology as the most scientific
 of the humanities and the most humanistic of the sciences, we conduct research in Biological,
 Material & Visual, Medical and Social Anthropology, bringing the links between these diverse
 anthropological paradigms and perspectives to bear on our collaborative engagements with
 research participants, users and stakeholders across the world. Since REF2014, we have
 maintained our excellent research environment while growing substantially. We have added new
 dimensions to our research infrastructure, establishing research centres in Digital Anthropology
 and the Anthropology of Sustainability, attracting funding for major new research projects,
 diversifying and expanding our doctoral and postdoctoral cohorts, and supporting them with a wide
 selection of funding sources. We have fostered academic and professional relationships,
 enhancing our participation in collaborative and interdisciplinary scholarship, leading to lasting
 societal and intellectual impact. A priority remains the recruitment, support and promotion of world-
 class researchers – staff and students – through equity, inclusivity and mutual support. We aspire
 to be at the forefront of an anthropology-wide effort to confront the discipline’s enduringly colonial
 structures, and forge an actively anti-racist environment, viewing this as essential to providing an
 environment able to produce outstanding anthropological research of, and for, our time.

                                                                 Overview of Unit’s structure: Our
                                                                 broad-based department consists of five
                                                                 administrative sections: Biological
                                                                 Anthropology,        Material      Culture,
                                                                 Social       Anthropology,          Medical
                                                                 Anthropology,            and         Public
                                                                 Anthropology. This structure balances
                                                                 specialist excellence within distinct
                                                                 research           paradigms           with
                                                                 interdisciplinary    collaborations    and
                                                                 challenge-led      research.     This    is
                                                                 conducted in countries across the globe
                                                                 as well as in the UK, impacting on social,
                                                                 cultural, medical and environmental
                                                                 policies and practices, as well as
                                                                 government and industry. This balance
                                                                 and impact are fostered by our four
                                                                 research-active sections (Biological,
                                                                 Material, Medical and Social), each
 Fig. 1 The Unit’s structure: five administrative sections, with
                                                                 comprising        two      distinct     but
 four containing inter-connecting research-clusters
                                                                 complementary research clusters, with
                                                                 Public oriented towards knowledge
                                                                 exchange (Fig 1).


                                                                                                     Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Biological Anthropology comprises the Evolutionary Anthropology cluster, which focuses
     on palaeoanthropology, primatology and human behavioural ecology, and Human Ecology,
     which links with Social Anthropology to develop interdisciplinary approaches to questions of
     environment and development, fostering impact on policy in these fields.
    Material Culture includes our flagship Material and Visual Culture cluster and Digital
     Anthropology that explores the social and cultural dimensions of digital technologies,
     developing impactful initiatives in data governance.
    Medical Anthropology conducts research at the interface of anthropology, psychology and
     medical practice. The Health Subjectivities and Clinical Ethnography cluster brings critical
     insight to intercultural studies of illness and healthcare, whilst Biosocial Medical
     Anthropology address public and global health care challenges in close collaboration with
     Biological Anthropology.
    Social Anthropology includes core, ethnographically-based Social and Cultural
     Anthropology research, alongside the Anthropology of Sustainability cluster that
     investigates the relationship between social and environmental processes, linking with
     Biological Anthropology to foster impact on grassroots environmental practices and on
     conservation policy.

 In addition, a fifth section, Public Anthropology, was instituted in 2019. Focused primarily on
 knowledge exchange and research-led teaching, the section cultivates links between anthropology
 and different professional fields, particularly in film and the creative industries, fostering a culture
 of community-facing innovation and enterprise.

 Research energy: Research is woven into the fabric of our Department through five weekly
 research seminars with mostly invited speakers (Biological, Human Ecology, Material and Visual
 Culture, Medical, Social), and three annual public lectures (Daryll Forde Memorial, Mary Douglas
 Memorial, and Digital Anthropology). For more than a decade we have run an ever-effervescent
 programme of Research and Reading Groups (RRGs) every year, with fifteen to twenty groups
 meeting informally but regularly throughout each year, providing students, postdocs and staff with
 the opportunity to discuss shared research interests – ranging from the anthropology of Hinduism,
 through Lévi-Strauss’s canonical formula of myth, to Big Data, waste, and the Anthropocene. In
 addition to student-led debates, film screenings, and experiments with multi-media ethnography,
 our student and staff common rooms regularly host book launches by members of our research
 community. Each year we curate an extensive programme of academic events, ranging from
 workshops to major international conferences, typically funded by our larger research grants or
 our research centres. Complemented by opportunities for interaction beyond the department with
 scholars in other fields – for example the nearby UCL’s Institute of Advanced Studies - our
 department is celebrated for our vibrant intellectual community

 1.2 Research objectives

 We are committed to sustaining a nurturing research environment that empowers exciting, original
 and excellent research, that is internationally renowned, and that delivers global impact. This
 commitment is realised through two strategic objectives:

    To foster innovative interactions between our five sections, as well as interdisciplinary
     collaborations beyond them, bridging research paradigms of the humanities, natural, and
     social sciences, while maintaining core, established strengths.
    To nurture and consolidate research in specific fields of expertise, including particular regional
     specialisms as well as emerging research themes and theoretical orientations.


                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To this end, since 2014 we have implemented strategic initiatives in three key areas:

 (1) To enhance its research profile and cross-disciplinary reach, in 2015 we instituted Medical
     Anthropology as distinct from Social Anthropology, facilitating its outward facing links with
     clinical practitioners, including UCL Medical School. This move facilitated the development of
     the section’s pioneering programme of research in Biosocial Medical Anthropology, founded
     on cross-disciplinary collaborations internally, with Evolutionary Anthropology and Human
     Ecology, and externally, with the creation of a global network of medical and public health
     scholars and practitioners.

 (2) We have boosted support and resources in two of our most buoyant areas of research.
     Enhancing its upward trajectory and impact since its foundation in 2009, we have grown our
     Digital Anthropology cluster by 2.0 FTE staff (Knox, Walford), adding research into digital
     infrastructures and Big Data as important new dimensions, and focusing on pathways to
     impact in data governance. In addition, our Social Anthropology section’s longstanding
     cross-disciplinary work in human ecology and development was enhanced by instituting in
     2015 the Centre for the Anthropology of Sustainability (CAoS). Focusing on social and
     cultural dimensions of sustainability, CAoS’s research aims at societal and environmental
     impact, including emerging environmental applications of digital technologies, design
     objectives and the whole gamut of environmental interventions.

 (3) Having quadrupled our research income in 2007-14, we have provided substantive support
     to applicants with tactical use of sabbaticals, internal peer-review, mock interviews, and expert
     administrative assistance within the Department and in the Faculty of Social and Historical
     Sciences. Our total research income for the assessment period has been over £17m,
     representing a 61% increase on the previous assessment period. This is balanced between
     large-scale and smaller grants across our four research-active sections, boosting individual
     staff’s research trajectories, while developing core strengths and innovative interdisciplinary
     collaborations. Alongside 62 smaller grants, three of our four research-active sections have
     held at least one large project grant (with a total of eight grants larger than £500K), with the
     fourth section starting one next year. Strategic recruitment of outstanding researchers of
     different career stages in key research areas, detailed below, has catalysed this success.

 We present key research developments in each of our sections during the period of assessment,
 demonstrating distinctive features of our research profile and the vibrancy of our research
 environment:

 Biological Anthropology comprises four Professors (Homewood, Mace, Soligo, Sommer, two
 Associate Professors (Garaway, Gomez-Robles) and five Lecturers (Piel and ECRs Carter, Dyble,
 Salali (proleptic), and Woodhouse). The Human Ecology cluster develops distinctive
 interdisciplinary approaches (running the Human Ecology Research Group (HERG) jointly with
 Social Anthropology’s Centre for Anthropology of Sustainability), extending into the Global North
 our longstanding focus on Global South rural livelihoods, resource use, conservation and
 development, through UKRI-funded interdisciplinary collaborations (three ESPA-funded, one
 NERC, one AHRC). Its PhDs and postgraduate programmes have developed collaborative
 interdisciplinary links within UCL’s ESRC and NERC DTPs. The cluster’s research impact spans
 collaborative work with indigenous human rights advocacy groups, through advisory roles
 (Thames Estuary planning, ESRC, UN Food and Agriculture Organization, USAID, The Nature
 Conservancy), to supporting Global South communities to negotiate with governments and
 entrepreneurs. The Evolutionary Anthropology cluster conducts evolutionary studies of past


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and present human and non-human primate behaviour, ecology and morphology. It is achieving
 significant success in human behavioural and evolutionary ecology research with the support
 of a wide range of funders (two ERC grants, Leverhulme, British Academy, ESRC, AHRC), with
 one member (Migliano, who took up a Chair at UZH in 2018) winning a prestigious Philip
 Leverhulme Prize (2017). Significant topics of research include non-human primate behaviour,
 ecology and conservation, including: long-term field research, through, for example, the co-
 Directorship of Tsaobis Baboon Project, Namibia (Carter, Templeton World Charity Foundation);
 founding Directorship of Greater Mahale Ecosystem Research and Conservation project,
 Tanzania (Piel, multiple funders); and founding Directorship of Gashaka Primate Project, Nigeria
 (Sommer, multiple funders). Research in evolutionary anatomy includes innovative studies of
 brain evolution, primate craniofacial and postcranial variation, and the fossil record, funded
 by NERC, BBSRC, British Academy, and Wenner-Gren among others. Evolutionary
 Anthropology’s research regularly features in top publications including Science, Nature, PNAS,
 and Royal Society journals.

 Social Anthropology is our largest section, with five (4.5 FTE) hires (ECRs Chong, Maqsood,
 Geraghty, Daly; Neveu-Kringelbach appointed jointly with African Studies), joining five Professors
 (Empson, Holbraad, Mandel, Michelutti, C.Stewart) and three Associate Professors (Abramson,
 Lewis, Pillen). Its core Social and Cultural Anthropology cluster has developed world-leading
 research in new fields, including: capitalism, financialization and new economic forms, with
 Chong’s work in China complementing Empson’s ERC grant on Mongolia; politics, violence and
 crime, with Michelutti’s new ERC grant on economies and politics of extortion and previous ERC
 and ESRC-funded research on crime, ‘mafias’ and politics in South Asia, alongside Holbraad’s
 ERC-funded project on the anthropology of revolutions and Geraghty’s emerging work on post-
 conflict societies. The section has further developed longstanding strengths in the study
 of cosmology and religion, with projects examining Islam in South Asia, UK, and Middle East,
 Maqsood’s ERC-funded comparative project on religious diversity in urban settings, and a series
 of publications by C.Stewart and Abramson on historicity and myth. Study of migration and
 transnational movement expanded with Neveu-Kringlebach’s appointment, Pillen’s British
 Academy, Leverhulme and Nuffield funded research on Kurdish diasporas, and Mandel’s
 interdisciplinary initiative ‘Engaging Refugee Narratives’. Michelutti’s case study on credit risk
 analysis in India (the only ERC Proof of Concept Grant ever awarded to an anthropologist)
 showcases our societal impact. The academic impact of this research is reflected in monographs
 and edited volumes published by Cambridge, Oxford, UCL, Harvard, Stanford, California, Duke
 and other prestigious academic presses. The cross-disciplinary research cluster on the
 Anthropology of Sustainability links Social Anthropology with the Human Ecology cluster. The
 Centre for the Anthropology of Sustainability (CAoS), led by Lewis, was inaugurated with an
 international conference in 2015, producing a field-defining Palgrave edited volume (2018). Daly
 contributes multi-species ethnographic approaches to CAoS’ environmental research platform.
 Lewis’ impact case study showcases the cluster’s deeply impact-oriented work.

 Medical Anthropology comprises three Professors (Littlewood (0.2 FTE), Napier, Randall (0.3
 FTE), three Associate Professors (Calabrese, Cook, Gibbon) and one ECR Lecturer (Parkhurst).
 It has consolidated its influence in academic, clinical and policy circles through the establishment
 of two research clusters. Health Subjectivities and Clinical Ethnography sits at the interface of
 anthropology, psychology and medical practice. For example, Calabrese has published new work
 on mental healthcare in Bhutan. Cook’s research on mindfulness-based psychological
 interventions in the UK is cited in political advocacy documents. Napier wrote the Lancet
 Commission Report on the role of culture in health (see Impact Case Study). Biosocial Medical

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Anthropology addresses public and global health care challenges through interdisciplinary
 collaboration. Gibbon’s Wellcome Trust-funded cross-disciplinary research network is expanding
 theoretical and methodological tools for birth cohort studies, whilst Parkhurst’s British Academy
 funded research works with local scholars of global health in Addis Ababa, Harar, and Khartoum.

 With six Professors (Buchli, Geismar, Kuechler, Miller, Pinney, Tilley), two Associate Professors
 (Knox, Coupaye), and two Lecturers (Drazin, ECR Walford), Material Culture continues to define
 innovative and internationally recognized paradigms in the sub-disciplines it has pioneered. Its
 core cluster, Material and Visual Culture, has won four large ERC grants focused on
 smartphones (Miller), e-health (Miller), photography and citizenship (Pinney), and the
 anthropology of the International Space Station (Buchli), creating posts and opportunities for over
 20 Postdoctoral Research Assistants (PDRA) highlighting our global leadership across these
 areas of scholarship. Research strands on materials and society, data, technology and
 infrastructure, and museums, curation, and collections have all generated research
 funding (Leverhulme, AHRC, Mellon Foundation), publications (over 15 volumes), national
 collaborations with cultural and civil society institutions (V&A, Tate), and with research partners in
 Germany, Brazil, and China, amongst other locations. Digital Anthropology has grown, with the
 Centre for Digital Anthropology sustaining regular public events, an annual lecture, student
 exchanges and new research projects. Core work on digital research methods delivers training in
 digital anthropology for research users across government departments, forming, along with
 Knox’s work on data governance, one of our Impact Case Studies.

 Finally, while devoted primarily to developing and delivering teaching and knowledge exchange at
 the interface between anthropology and film, broadcasting and other creative industries, in the
 coming REF period our Public Anthropology section will be developing research in anthropology
 and creative media. With one research-active member submitted to the present REF (M.Stewart,
 the section’s founder), Public Anthropology is already attracting PGR students on practice-based
 projects, and more research-active staff are projected to join in the coming REF period, with two
 having been recruited already.

 Our strategy for the coming five years is founded on the strengths of our five sections, and the
 synergies between them, targeting both internal and external collaborations and funding, and
 harnessing the energy that our RRGs’ grassroot activities engenders. While still fostering research
 in the leading thematic foci of each research cluster, key overall priorities include:

    Embedding and developing an outward-looking, community-facing research agenda with
     long-term societal impact for our contributions to Culture Lab – an interdisciplinary practice-
     led partnership with V&A and other East Bank partners – as part of the ambitious development
     of UCL East, our new campus at Stratford.
    Drawing on our research programmes in both environmental and medical anthropology,
     develop new forms of academic and stakeholder collaboration to foster impactful research
     on climate change and wellbeing in a post-Covid-19 world.
    Through systematic work on EDI, active antiracism (e.g. instituting transparent feedback
     mechanisms, reformed recruitment practices, tailormade training for all staff, boosting our
     BAME staff and student network with targeted funding for antiracism-related workshops and
     other collective actions), and decolonization of our research protocols and priorities, as well
     as our pedagogies, developing active research and pedagogy on questions of inequality,
     exploitation, racism and anthropology’s colonial heritage and perduring structures
     (see 2.1 & 2.3 below).
    While continuing to boost research through major and smaller grant applications across the

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     research clusters, deploying Departmental and Faculty expertise and resources (e.g. funding
     opportunity workshops, staff participation on UKRI consultations and panels) to diversify our
     research income through increased UKRI and charity funding, while continuing to pursue
     ERC funding for large-scale projects.

 These strategic initiatives accentuate an already pressing need for space to facilitate our
 research activities. Securing further accommodation for the Unit’s researchers is also a priority.

 Structures for research oversight: Our Research Committee (RC), chaired by our Head of
 Research, and comprising HoD, Graduate Tutor, junior and senior representatives of our five
 sections, supports our research structure and initiatives. RC coordinates research strategy and
 monitors its implementation, supports targeted impact initiatives, provides peer review and support
 for grant applications and maintains oversight of research students’ and postdocs’ recruitment and
 care. It collaborates closely with Faculty research managers and, in the case of major bids, the
 Office of UCL’s Vice-Provost for Research. All research (including that of students at all levels) is
 subject to departmental and, where appropriate UCL level, Research Ethics Committee approval,
 in which all our staff receive dedicated training, and we take data protection seriously, providing
 all staff with GDPR training.

 Pathways to impact: Since our Department’s inception in 1945, with Daryll Forde taking up its
 Headship and founding Chair alongside the Directorship of the International African Institute,
 active engagement with stakeholders, practitioners and research users has been embedded in
 the structure and ethos of our research. Today, at the interface of Biological and Social
 Anthropology, the Human Ecology and Anthropology of Sustainability research clusters operate
 together to produce novel approaches to natural conservation, resource management and
 development agendas, both in policymaking and in local communities. With a long tradition of
 interaction with clinical and public health practitioners, our Medical Anthropology section has
 multiple pathways to impact on clinical practice and public health policy through collaborative
 research with practitioners and policy makers (e.g. Gibbon and Kilshaw’s Wellcome-funded
 projects involving, respectively, collaborations with geneticists and rare disease specialists in
 Brazil, and miscarriage support groups in Qatar and UK). Inherently interdisciplinary, the Material
 Culture section has from its inception been outward-looking in its engagements with users and
 practitioners in, among others, museums, architecture, fashion, and the fine arts. Impact is
 enshrined explicitly in the mission of its growing Digital Anthropology cluster, orientated to policy,
 the implementation of data governance, health interventions as well as contributing to fast-
 developing practices in the production and use of digital technology, and in Open Access
 publishing.

 Our four Impact Case Studies (ICS) demonstrate the central role of impact across our research.
 It is suggestive that the ICSs selected span our Departmental sections and clusters, from Social
 Anthropology (Michelutti’s ethnographically based credit schemes in India), through Material and
 Digital Anthropology (Geismar and Knox on data governance), to Anthropology of Sustainability
 and Human Ecology (Lewis on environmental justice) and Medical Anthropology (Napier on
 cultural competence in the treatment of diabetes). These ICS have been selected from a much
 larger pool of impact-oriented activities, reflecting the dynamism and sustainability of our
 departmental agenda for impact. They could have included social media’s impact on marginal
 populations and hospices (Miller), rights to land use in sub-Saharan Africa (Homewood,
 Woodhouse), fisheries and conservation (Garaway), and government policies and initiatives on
 mindfulness (Cook). A culture of impactful research is also encouraged among research students
 aligned with the requirements of funded Postdoctoral Fellowships, UKRI- and ERC-funded PhD

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 studentships. Mentors and supervisors are charged with supporting ECRs involved in developing
 impactful initiatives emerging from their research.

 Our strategy for maintaining pathways for our research to translate into wider societal impact is
 threefold:

 a. Ensuring that funded projects’ impact plans are fully implemented with the administrative
    support of our Departmental Manager and Finance Officer, and Faculty Research Support
    experts, at every stage of their development.

 b. Targeted use of UCL’s resources for impact-oriented initiatives; since 2014 we have secured
    approximately £25k in seed-corn funding from schemes including Knowledge Exchange, and
    Global Engagement.

 c. Support for nascent research and impact initiatives (£4k annually) for RRG activities and
    events, often initiating longer trajectories of collaboration that produce impactful research (e.g.
    ‘Data Power’ RRG initiated reading and discussions that informed impact activities in data
    governance; ‘care’ RRG provided background reading for impact activities on public health
    approaches to diabetes).

 In addition, an emerging pathway to impact in the coming five years stems from our Unit’s leading
 role in UCL East, UCL’s ambitious programme of expansion which places community
 engagement, innovation and enterprise at the heart of its work (see 4.2 below)

 Interdisciplinary research: As with impact, interdisciplinarity has been central to our research
 since our inception as a broad-based Department, modelled by Daryll Forde in the 1940s on the
 four-field approach of US anthropology, spanning natural science, social science and humanities
 research paradigms, and combining them in abiding but ever-evolving ways. Of our eight research
 clusters, six are inherently interdisciplinary (only social anthropology and evolutionary
 anthropology are primarily devoted to basic disciplinary research, although their members are
 involved in many interdisciplinary collaborations). Our Department’s leading role, historically, in
 developing Material Culture as an inherently interdisciplinary field at the interface of anthropology,
 archaeology, art history, material science, followed by the world’s first Centre for Digital
 Anthropology, now expanded into data science, are characteristic examples of our research
 environment’s interdisciplinary spirit.

 Interdisciplinary research beyond our Department is supported in two principal ways:

 a. We foster challenge-led research aimed at addressing pressing questions in sustainability,
    conservation, transnational migration and refugees, data governance, digital technology and
    sociality. Meeting these challenges often requires sustained collaboration with other relevant
    disciplines, and across our disciplinary natural and social science approaches. For example,
    Lewis’s Extreme Citizen Science project is a collaboration with UCL Geography; Michelutti’s
    ERC-funded projects on politics, violence and extortion leverage criminologists’ and political
    scientists’ input).

 b. The sheer size and breadth of UCL provides ample opportunity for cross-disciplinary
    collaboration across the social and natural sciences, humanities and arts. Of particular value
    are two prime interdisciplinary structures, namely: UCL Grand Challenges, which in this
    period provided our Unit with a total of over £90k for interdisciplinary projects involving
    collaborations with criminologists, geographers, environmental scientists and medics, among
    others (e.g. Gibbon’s 2017 GC-funded collaboration with a computer scientist on the politics

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     of participation in biosocial research informed the design of her subsequent Wellcome
     Investigator Award ’The Biosocial Lives of Birth Cohorts'); and the Institute of Advanced
     Studies, which runs a vibrant programme of interdisciplinary events in the humanities and
     social sciences, funding and hosting three postdoctoral Junior Research Fellows in
     anthropology during this REF period, as well as international visiting fellows affiliated to our
     Unit, and numerous talks, film-screenings, book-launches, workshops and other events
     linking our researchers with scholars in other fields.

 The scope of our interdisciplinary collaborations is evidenced also by the intensity of our work
 alongside fine artists (see 4.2 below), theatre (e.g. our RRG involving theatre practitioners on
 theatrical methods in anthropology, Holbraad’s work on ethnographic narration in Cuba, the high-
 profile performance of Latour’s Gaia: Global Circus at the opening conference of our Centre for
 the Anthropology of Sustainability), and integration of professional film-making training into
 research development and dissemination, through M.Stewart’s Open City Docs film festival,
 hosted annually by our Department at venues across London (attendance c.4,000), now a fixture
 in the global calendar of non-fiction film festivals.

 Leadership in Open Access: While our staff comply with funder requirements for Open Access
 (OA) publications in journals (99% of our outputs during the reporting period were compliant with
 REF Open Access), UCL Anthropology goes far beyond this in its commitment to OA publishing:

    Our staff play leading roles in developing OA book publishing by UCL Press – the UK’s first
     fully OA University Press, and among the most successful globally with more than 4m
     downloads. Several staff (Empson, Geismar, Holbraad, Tilley), recent PhD students and
     Teaching Fellows have published books with the press since its foundation in 2015 and
     Kuechler sits on the Editorial Board. The most trailblazing contribution has been made by
     Miller, whose project’s books have surpassed one million downloads, a significant
     proportion of the press’ total downloads. Through energetic promotion activities and expert
     use of media exposure, Miller has provided a catalytic boost to UCL Press’s business model.
    As Editor of Berghahn Journals’ Social Analysis, Holbraad has played a leading role in
     brokering Berghahn’s ‘flip’ of 13 anthropology journals into OA as of 2020. Facilitating
     preparatory meetings between Berghahn and international OA cooperative Libraria as well as
     Knowledge Unlatched, Holbraad participated in the biggest meeting of social sciences Open
     Access stakeholders to date (MIT, March 2019), launching Berghahn Open Anthro as a trail-
     blazing initiative demonstrating the value of collaborations between libraries and publishers
     in providing OA alternatives both to existing corporate ‘pay to publish’ models and to blanket
     ‘command and control’ OA policies. The Journal of Material Culture, founded and hosted in
     our Department, has also switched to OA after sustained pressure from our staff.

 Leadership in research integrity: Operating within the framework of UCL’s Statement of
 Research Integrity and Code of Conduct for Research, our staff have led in forming and
 implementing UCL policies on research ethics and data protection, ensuring these are suited to
 ethnographic and other qualitative anthropological methods. Informed by our cumulative
 experience in aligning large research projects with funders’ rigorous ethics and data protection
 protocols, we have been a leading voice in UCL-wide consultation on all areas of research
 integrity, participating also in key committees formulating and implementing policy. For example,
 M.Stewart sits on the Steering Group of UCL’s Ethics Project, developing a more diversified and
 responsive ethics review protocol for research across UCL; Holbraad represents the social
 sciences on UCL’s GDPR Strategic Programme Board; Randall sat on UCL’s central Research
 Ethics Committee until 2020. In 2020, a group of our PGRs won a competitive UCL ChangeMakers

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 award to work with staff building decolonial and actively anti-racist pedagogies and protocols into
 our doctoral training, incorporating them into our ethical review process for individual research
 projects.

 Ensuring research integrity: All student and staff research in the department undergoes rigorous
 ethical review to ensure it conforms with accepted ethical and legal standards regarding data
 protection, research participants’ rights, and consent. These align with UCL’s standards and are
 informed by discipline specific guidelines of the Association of Social Anthropologists. Our
 departmental ethics committee, which reviews all research proposals, comprises members from
 each departmental section. Students are guided and trained in research ethics as they develop
 their research proposals. Students and staff whose research falls outside the low risk category
 and therefore must apply to the central UCL Research Ethics Committee, are supported by the
 departmental ethics committee in preparing their applications. All staff and students conducting
 research undergo GDPR training as part of the registration process for research projects.


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Our staffing strategy centres, on the one hand, on attracting world-leading researchers to
 strengthen our established specialisms, stimulate new research fields, and foster innovative
 collaborations between them, while, on the other, embedding in our recruitment and staff
 development mechanisms a robust strategy for equality, diversity and inclusion that diversifies our
 research community. For example, since 2014 we have strategically grown Digital Anthropology
 adding 2.0 FTE (Knox, Walford) and created a buoyant political and legal anthropology team
 (ECRs Maqsood and Geraghty adding critical mass to a field that has attracted four major ERC
 grants in this period). At the same time, in a drive to ensure equal opportunities in career
 progression for female and BAME staff (see 2.3 below), ECR permanent appointments in these
 areas have also expanded our research environment’s heterogeneity, making common cause with
 students on cross-departmental decolonizing and queer anthropology initiatives. As of 2020,
 through newly constituted EDI and Anti-Racisms committees, with cross-departmental
 representation from academics, students and professional services staff, proactive initiatives have
 included: creating an actionable EDI agenda for the Department; facilitating student-staff LGBTQ+
 and Antiracism social networks; formal peer-to-peer assessment of antiracist pedagogy in our
 internal teaching evaluations; making antiracism central to our internal ethical review processes
 for research; mandating an equity statement alongside research and teaching statements by
 applicants in our hiring process; defining diversity criteria for all our hiring panels; and (with central
 UCL’s EDI support) developing tailormade EDI training for all staff, aimed at making our
 Department an actively antiracist environment. Concurrently, working since 2019, our Athena
 Swan committee is preparing our 2022 application for Bronze.

 Patterns of recruitment and progression: Continuing the trend of the previous REF period, our
 academic staff body (HESA3) has grown by over 25% since 2014 (from 30.7 FTE to 37.9 FTE).
 With 13 Lecturers, nine Associate Professors/Readers, and 19 Professors, our staff is roughly
 evenly distributed across career stages. We have been able to replace retiring, part-retiring or
 relocating staff with HESA3 ECRs (six Biological, two Material Culture, one Medical, four Social).
 Our Promotions Review College (HoD with all ex-HoDs, advised by Heads of Section), approves
 progression for junior researchers from Grade 7 to 8 (normally after two years), and considers
 senior academic promotions. Since 2014, seven Category A staff have been promoted to

                                                                                                    Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Professor (Buchli, Empson, Geismar, Holbraad, Mandel, Michelutti, Soligo) and ten to Associate
 Professor (Calabrese, Cook, Coupaye, Garaway, Gibbon, Knox, Lewis, Migliano, Pillen, Vinicius).
 All staff, including postdocs, are mentored individually by a senior colleague, and appraised by
 the HoD or project PI annually, supported through the promotions process with reference to UCL’s
 Academic Career Framework, and availed of UCL’s varied opportunities for professional training
 and development, including in research skills and management.

 In this REF submission we have included seven postdoctoral research fellows (PDRFs),
 representing an annual average of 2-3 newly funded PDRFs, with more than 15 over the reporting
 period, funded by, among others, Leverhulme, British Academy, ESRC, and including a proleptic
 UKRI Future Leader Fellowship held by Carroll. Adding enormous dynamism and new research
 horizons to our sections, PDRFs constitute 10% of our output submissions and 15% of our
 Category A staff. In addition to our more than 50 fixed-term Visiting and Honorary Scholars from
 across the world, our research community is greatly enhanced by over 30 postdoctoral research
 assistants (PDRAs) since 2014, funded on permanent staff’s large grants, as well as postdocs
 visiting us from abroad funded by their own national sources or by international schemes, including
 Newton Trust and Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions. Of the over 50 postdocs we have hosted since
 2014, most have gone on to take up lectureships in leading universities and research institutes
 across the world, including, indicatively, Amsterdam, Bristol, Cambridge, Chinese Academy of
 Sciences (Beijing), CNRS, Goldsmiths, Haverford, Hong Kong, Imperial, Oxford, Stockholm,
 Zurich, and a number at UCL.

 Research support: Workloads are distributed evenly through our points-based Work Allocation
 Model, ringfencing research and fieldwork time for all Category A staff. HESA3 ECRs entering on
 probation receive systematic induction in all aspects of departmental process upon arrival and are
 eased into a full workload over three years. All staff receive a term’s sabbatical leave on
 completing probation and thereafter apply for a sabbatical term after every three years. Staff who
 secure ‘buy-out’ on large research projects reduce teaching to enable fieldwork and writing up, but
 are expected to teach for a proportion of their time, allowing departmental research and teaching
 to cross-fertilise (e.g. Holbraad’s popular course on anthropologies of revolution, based on his
 ERC-funded project on this theme, produced an OA book with California UP). Staff taking
 maternity leave receive a term’s research sabbatical before returning to work, and we support
 staff’s caring responsibilities by holding core departmental activities within core working hours
 (10am-4pm), enabling staff to work from home where appropriate and move flexibly between full-
 and part-time work. Special support was given to staff with caring responsibilities during the
 Covid19 pandemic (e.g. extra funding for marking and teaching relief). Staff play a leading role in
 Faculty-wide initiatives to ensure supportive working conditions for all (e.g. the ‘Workable Lives’
 working group). Finally, in addition to the internal seed-corn funding sources (see 1.2, ‘Pathways
 to Impact’), all staff receive £1k annually to support conference attendance and other research
 costs.

 Support for impact: As part of our Departmental Impact Strategy, in line with UCL’s Academic
 Careers Framework, research impact is a criterion for appraisal and promotion. Since 2016 ten
 staff have been awarded a total of more than £10k from UCL’s Impact Curation team for targeted
 impact enhancement and evidence-gathering. The workload involved for potential Impact Case
 Study authors is recognised through the Work Allocation Model.

 2.2 Research students

 We have a well-consolidated PGR body of around 120 full- and part-time students at any given


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 time (e.g. 111 FTE in 2012-13, 104 FTE in 2020-21); 129 PhD and 41 MRes/Research-rated
 Masters’ degrees have been awarded since 2014. Over this period, 70 PGRs received full funding:
 47 were UKRI studentships from four different DTPs and research councils (ESRC, AHRC,
 EPSCR; NERC), seven from staff research grants; six received other UK grants (e.g. Wellcome
 Trust); four were funded by departmental and UCL philanthropic awards (including our new Mary
 Douglas Studentships, funded by Sigrid Rausing since 2016 strategically focused on themes
 relating to political anthropology); three by overseas funds; and three by employers. UCL covered
 overseas fees for one additional PGR. Several students received smaller temporary awards (e.g.
 Sasakawa scholarships or for fieldwork). PGRs are encouraged to apply for competitively awarded
 research funds, winning over 100 small awards from UCL Doctoral School, external bodies and
 Departmental research bursaries during the period. Of our 130 completed PhDs in the period, 48
 went on to competitively awarded postdoctoral fellowships (including British Academy,
 Leverhulme, UKRI Future Leaders), 23 took up temporary university lectureships/ teaching
 fellowships (including at Cambridge, UCL, Virginia) and 22 took up permanent academic posts
 (including at Bristol, Goldsmiths, Oxford, SUNY, UCL), while others took up a wide range of posts
 in government and intergovernmental agencies, overseas research institutes, international NGOs
 and industry (including civil service, the Red Cross, ONS, and WHO).

 The high quality of PGR training and supervision is set by:

 (1) UKRI doctoral training standards, applied to all PGRs irrespective of funding source.
 Anthropology was central to UCL’s successful consortia bids for funding from ESRC (UBEL DTP),
 AHRC (LAHP DTP) and NERC (London NERC-DTP) and is a key pathway in these DTPs. Training
 needs analyses for all PGRs in Anthropology mirror those for DTPs and are met within the Unit,
 by the DTPs (who offer training to all pathway department PGRs) and by the UCL Doctoral School.
 Department and DTPs encourage PGRs to take up internships and overseas institutional visits
 during their doctoral studies.

 (2) UCL Doctoral School policy and training: UCL’s personalised e-logbook systematically
 monitors supervision, training and progress, including upgrading, fieldwork risk assessment,
 ethical considerations, and study leave arrangements. This self-assessment is augmented by
 annual section-level review of training needs, supervision and progress. Alongside their specialist
 academic training within the Department, PGRs are encouraged to develop skills through courses
 offered by UCL’s Graduate School, including training in small-group teaching, dissemination of
 research to academic and wider audiences, and conference organization.

 (3) Departmental structures and provision: PGR recruitment criteria are high by national
 standards, usually requiring for entry a first class honours undergraduate degree (UK or
 equivalent) and/or a Distinction at Masters level. PGRs are allocated two supervisors (a primary
 and a secondary, or two co-supervisors). Supervisors hold regular (fortnightly to monthly)
 supervisory sessions with their students and this intensity of supervision extends through
 fieldwork. In the first year of the programme, MPhil/PhD students work towards a formal upgrade
 viva chaired by the co-supervisor or secondary supervisor, with at least one external assessor.
 After upgrade, and before leaving for the field in the second year, students attend a pre-fieldwork
 conference on Gender, Risk and Preparation for Fieldwork. All students are intensively trained in
 research ethics and risk assessment. The Graduate Tutor oversees PGRs’ supervisory
 arrangements, offering confidential meetings to resolve any issues. Each departmental section
 regularly reviews the progress of its PGRs. All PGRs not in the field participate in at least one of
 our five weekly research seminars, also attending and presenting to at least one of over 15 RRGs.
 PGR are encouraged to start up their own specialist interest RRG with staff and students. Where

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 not previously completed at Masters level, first-year PGRs undertake departmental Research
 Methods training. By agreement with supervisors, MPhil/PhDs may also audit core and/or
 specialist options of any of our seven Masters’ programmes. This training is complemented by
 weekly Research Design, Analysis and Presentation seminars for first-years, and a Writing-up
 seminar for third-year post-fieldwork students, preparing them for conference presentations as
 well as academic writing. To reinforce a strong sense of cohort we also run an annual writing
 retreat in Year Three, while final-year cohorts are encouraged to set up their own informal writing-
 up groups. As well as supervising PGRs, most staff teach on our graduate training seminars, as
 well as engaging with PGRs in RRGs. PGRs regularly organise workshops and conferences
 through our annual call for bids for RRG events, supported by £4K, and are encouraged where
 relevant to take advantage of UCL’s Graduate Research Scholarships for Cross-disciplinary
 Training, our Erasmus/Socrates links, and other partnerships, cooperation and internships in other
 universities, especially overseas.

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 We are encouraged that the available indices for protected characteristics in our Department have
 marked improvements since the last REF. Of the 76% (41 of 54) staff declaring ethnicity, 9.7%
 (four of 41) are BAME. Forty one percent (22 of 54) of staff originate outside the UK (up from 38%,
 19 of 50), including a greater than 350% increase (three to 11) in staff from outside the
 EU/EEA. Women comprise half (27 of 54) of category A staff (up from 46%, 23 of 50), 42% (eight
 of 19) of Professors (up from 36%, four of 11), and 56% (13 of 23) of senior promotions in 2014-
 20. We have data on other protected characteristics, but due to either few reports (n=1 disability)
 or else high proportions of non-declarations, e.g. sexual orientation (70%, 38 of 54) and
 religion/belief (67%, 36 of 54), analysis is limited for other protected characteristics. However, low
 BAME (four) and disability (one) representation overall and related lack of BAME Professorial staff
 remain priority challenges in creating an appropriately diverse, representative research
 environment.
 Summer 2020 was a watershed in this regard. Spurred by vocal critiques by both students and
 staff (including students and staff of colour), our newly constituted EDI committee (including an
 Anti-Racisms sub-committee) developed a series of initiatives (see 2.1 above) aimed at radically
 re-shaping the diversity of our staff body over the coming five years, to ensure it reflects as fully
 as possible our location in London. Working with UCL’s Race Equality Steering Group and its
 innovative EDI support team, we are developing bespoke antiracism training for all staff and
 targeted recruitment reforms. This builds on work during the assessment period addressing
 precarity and inequities of status and reward for staff on teaching contracts. Following a UCL-wide
 review, as of 2020, temporary contracts are restricted to maternity cover and ‘buy-out’ of
 permanent staff on funded research leave, and teaching staff previously on temporary contracts
 now have permanent ‘Lectureships (Teaching)’, with dedicated time for research enshrined in our
 Work Allocation Model.
 In addition to arrangements for supporting flexible and remote working for staff with parental and
 other caring responsibilities (see 2.1 above), Bullying and Harassment Training is mandatory for
 all colleagues in line-management roles, and we have an all-staff training event planned for 2021
 (postponed from 2020 due to Covid-19). In conjunction with our preparations for our 2022 Athena
 Swan submission, our EDI committee includes representatives for all protected characteristics and
 is developing a swathe of targeted initiatives, including considering non-binary gender equality,
 ensuring easy staff and students access to general EDI information and support, facilitating
 student-led pedagogical initiatives to include gender-diverse and anti-racist content and voices in

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our curriculum, support, training and mentoring around mental health, disabilities and neuro-
 divergencies, and widening participation workshops to support students from diverse
 backgrounds.
 EDI among graduate students: Our 2019/20 intake had equal numbers of female and male
 students (n=16), of which 37.5% self-identify as non-white (an increase of over 40% from
 2013/14). International (non-UK) students now comprise over a third of our post-graduate students
 (up almost 20%). The percentage of female students awarded degrees remained constant, but
 the percentage of ‘non-white’ (29%, up almost 50% since REF2014) and disabled students (8%,
 up over 250%) have both increased substantially. As of 2018-19 research students can apply
 UCL/ Faculty funded Research Opportunities Scholarships, reserved for Black, Pakistani or
 Bangladeshi UK residents. Within our Department, we have active networks for LGBTQ+ and
 BAME students and staff, and as of 2020 our graduate students have been leading a UCL
 ChangeMakers project on the decolonization of ethnographic method.
 EDI in our preparation for REF: All eligible staff have been included in our selection, including
 all PDRFs. All eligible staff submitted up to five outputs for review, each of which was reviewed by
 at least two members of our REF Support and Review College (Holbraad as REF lead, alongside
 Kuechler, Gibbon, Homewood, Sommer, Soligo, and Garaway – a group that is representative of
 the gender balance of our staff as a whole), all of whom received training in unconscious bias. We
 can report near equality in average submissions per FTE and likelihood of output selections for
 gender (Fig 2a) and across ethnicity groups (Fig 2b), while being acutely aware of BAME under-
 representation amongst our staff as a whole. Taking a supportively collegial approach to output
 selection, the REF lead engaged in iterative individual dialogue with each staff member throughout
 REF preparation, ensuring that decisions were made consultatively, on the principle that REF
 performance should be a reflection, rather than driver, of our research excellence.




    a                                                 b

    Fig 2. Likelihood of REF output selection and average submissions across gender (a) and
                                            ethnicity (b)



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding portfolio: The Unit’s total research income over the assessment period
 exceeded £10m, spread across the department’s sections, and increasing year on year. This
 figure masks a massive, sustained increase in grants competitively awarded (but not yet fully
 spent), totaling £17.2m during the period (excluding standalone doctoral grants). This represents
 a 61% improvement on the total £10.7m awarded in the previous REF period, and far surpasses
 the 52 research grants commencing prior to 2014. The 70 competitively awarded research grants
 commencing during the REF period illustrate the success of our research strategy, with a broad
 base of small individual grants showing vigorous research activity across the whole unit, through

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 medium-size collaborations, to one or more large project awards in each section. Of the £17.2m
 awarded in this REF period, there were 43 grants of under £100k, 21 of £100k-£1m, and six over
 £1m (Buchli, Empson, Holbraad, Mace, Miller, Pinney). The value of our research grants
 commencing each year rose from £2.4m (2013/2014) to over £5.8m (2019/2020).

 Space and facilities: UCL strategic investment in Anthropology between 2014and 2020
 supported on-going improvements of our Department’s building (inaugurated in the previous REF
 period) to accommodate our growing research community, strengthening collaboration across our
 sections. Research groups funded via large grants have, as far as possible, their own dedicated
 spaces to enable linked PGRs and PDRAs to work in close association. In addition, we have a
 postdoctoral research space (capacity of eight). Where possible, other PGRs are allocated
 individual space in two postgraduate workrooms (32 workstations; priority given to third- and
 fourth-years returned from the field, and students with special requirements). The Daryll Forde
 Seminar room seats 50 for research seminars and research methods courses. Two common
 rooms, for staff and students, are booked for informal research group meetings and workshops,
 frequent book launches and other research-related social activities. Our PGRs and PDRFs also
 make full use of central UCL facilities, including the interdisciplinary activities and dedicated
 spaces of the Institute of Advanced Studies. While equipped with a ramp, fully accessible lifts and
 toilets, and an evacuation lift, our building lacks automatic doors. We plan, therefore, to conduct
 a full accessibility audit of our facilities following full return to the premises when the pandemic
 ends.

 Public Anthropology has been housed across three floors of a wing in the University of London
 Student Central building, providing media production and editing spaces for students (including
 PhD students using film) with 110 workstations, a dedicated Virtual Reality suite and a sonic
 exploration lab. Offering research-led, practice-based training to a large number of students and
 members of the media industries, the section’s large inventory of specialist equipment in film and
 VR production allows individual users to borrow equipment for the duration of their training /
 research projects. UCL East’s suite of dedicated cutting-edge media spaces – including a cinema,
 a black-box research space for Immersive Storytelling, grading, dub and podcast suites –will open
 in 2023.

 Research labs and collections: £60k was secured from the Faculty in 2017 to upgrade and
 expand the Palaeoanthropology and Comparative Anatomy lab, including acquisition of six
 new powerful graphics stations, a high-end mobile workstation, self-positioning handheld surface
 scanner (bringing the total number of operational scanners to five), and 3D printer, allowing us to
 continue growing our fossil and comparative anatomy cast collections with in-house prints.
 Together with our osteological collections, this creates a world-class research environment for
 palaeoanthropology and comparative evolutionary anatomy. Supported by a part-time Curator-
 Collections Manager, the UCL Ethnography Collections continue to underpin teaching and
 research in the department, hosting visiting artists, community groups, visits from source
 communities as well as running WP activities. Notable activities during the REF period that
 generated new forms of public engagement with research include: a Heritage Lottery Fund
 supported project with the Congo Great Lakes Community Association that resulted in a new
 community-oriented online resource and a departmental exhibition; several artist collaborations
 leading to UCL and national exhibitions; and an ongoing series of exhibitions curated by students,
 staff, and visiting researchers focused on topics such as fieldwork and women in anthropology.

 Administrative and technical support: The Department has a dedicated Finance and Research
 Administrator and a European Research Grants Officer, providing pre- and post-award support to

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PIs and their project teams, and, since 2018, a dedicated Research Programmes Administrator to
 support all PGR students from enrolment to viva. We also have a dedicated IT technician, as well
 as full-time AV equipment specialists.

 Support and resources for research projects: Our Faculty’s Research Facilitation team support
 individuals and groups with grant applications, providing feedback on drafts, organizing practice
 panel interviews, and facilitating links with stakeholders and contributions to research policy and
 impact. The European Research and Innovation Office supports our EU projects pre- and post-
 award. Other institution-wide structures supporting impact and knowledge exchange include
 UCL’s Public Engagement Unit as well as the Office of the Vice Provost for Innovation and
 Enterprise. We have received a total of more than £150k from UCL’s many internal research-
 related funds, including the Dean’s Strategic Fund, Grand Challenges, Beacon Bursaries, Global
 Engagement, Knowledge Exchange, and Access Funds.

 Libraries and other London-wide facilities: UCL’s Anthropology Library collection leverages
 outstanding online resources, with additional world-class libraries in easy reach (Senate House,
 British Museum anthropology library, British Library). The critical mass of sister institutions nearby
 (Goldsmiths, LSE, Roehampton, SOAS) stimulates a vigorous research culture, exemplified by
 our regular hosting of the annual Anthropology in London conference.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and interdisciplinary dynamics

 During the assessment period staff led and participated in a wide range of collaborations, making
 significant contributions to the discipline, as well as forging interdisciplinary links. Our broad-based
 structure encourages small-scale and responsive projects, networked into bottom-up RRGs as
 well as our research clusters, leading through to collaborative grants and large team projects,
 engaging with researchers across UCL and beyond, and with local, national and international
 users.

 Between 2014 and 2021, research collaborations included ad-hoc, long-term, and institutionally-
 supported partnerships (e.g. ERC, UKRI, Leverhulme and British Academy funded), reflecting the
 diversity of our Unit’s research. Our staff entered into research project and/or network
 collaborations with more than 50 universities and research institutions in the UK and
 internationally, including in Australia, Austria, Bhutan, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Cuba,
 Denmark, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Japan,
 Kenya, Malta, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Qatar, South Africa, Spain,
 Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, and the US. Our researchers have engaged in
 interdisciplinary collaborations with scholars working in archaeology, architecture, astrophysics,
 botany, computer science, conservation, data science, economics, epidemiology, fine art,
 genetics, history, linguistics, medical sciences (e.g. obstetrics and gynaecology), ornithology,
 philosophy, psychology and psychotherapy.

 As is characteristic for anthropology, many of these collaborations and networks stem from
 relationships developed by individual researchers with colleagues and institutions in countries
 where they conduct research. To take just two of many examples: Holbraad has over two decades
 established close links with the Cuban Institute of Anthropology, conducting collaborative research
 with its staff and students. Results include an article co-authored with five Cuban scholars,
 published in Social Anthropology (2020), and a Cuban researcher undertaking a Wenner-Gren
 funded PhD at UCL. Mace has established collaborations with the Chinese Academy of Sciences

                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (CAS), Beijing, and then the School of Life Sciences, Lanzhou University, with Lanzhou or CAS
 PDRAs and/or PhDs working with Mace, and UCL postdocs and PhDs visiting China to collaborate
 on research there. These collaborations have, since 2014, resulted so far in 16 publications in
 high impact refereed journals (e.g. Nature Human Behaviour, Nature Communications and
 Scientific Reports), and enhanced global travel and enrichment of ideas, researchers and
 students, and promote the decolonization of anthropological knowledge and practice.

 In addition to this outward-looking intellectual profile, two factors underpin our emphasis on cross-
 institutional, international and interdisciplinary collaborations. Firstly, UCL’s central London
 location and global projection (see Institutional Environment Statement, Section 1) make our
 Department a hub for a constant flow of visitors participating in our five weekly seminars, plethora
 of RRGs, workshops, and larger events. Secondly, this sense of buzz is strategically resourced,
 with Departmental and Faculty funds generously supporting travel in and out of the Department,
 and targeted use of Visiting and Honorary scholarships.

 Such peer-to-peer collaborations have provided the impetus for many of our more formally
 instituted and funded national and international, interdisciplinary collaborations and networks. For
 example, our 11 ERC projects during the reporting period have had extensive international
 collaborations built into their design, deepening relationships and forging new ones across the
 globe (e.g. institutional collaborations in South Asia with Michelutti, Maqsood and Pinney’s
 projects, and intense traffic with China thanks to Mace and Miller, whose projects have produced
 four books in Mandarin). Beyond our ERC projects, indicative examples of more than a dozen
 formally instituted and/or funded networks, most involving researchers from multiple disciplines,
 include:

    In Human Ecology, Homewood and Woodhouse lead multiple interdisciplinary collaborations
     with national and international research partners (including KCL, Imperial, Edinburgh,
     Copenhagen, Michigan, Dar es Salaam, the Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the
     Environment (India), and Stockholm Resilience Centre, alongside multiple policymaker and
     practitioner agencies) to analyse and evaluate impacts of major conservation initiatives. Just
     one of these NERC ESPA-funded collaborations has produced over 20 peer-reviewed
     publications (including Nature Sustainability, Nature Scientific Data, and World Development).
    Buchli’s ERC-funded ethnographic study of the International Space Station relies on
     interdisciplinary collaborations with space scientists (e.g. in robotics, engineering, astronomy,
     space medicine and psychology), forged through formal links with the International Space
     University Strasbourg and the International Astronautical Federation. The group’s public-
     facing activities are hosted at the Centre for Outer Space Studies at UCL’s Institute of
     Advanced Studies.
    With Wellcome Trust support, Gibbon created and leads the ‘Biosocial Birth Cohort Research
     Network’, comprising over 30 epidemiologists, geneticist and social scientists, from leading
     research institutions in Brazil, Canada, France, Mexico, Portugal, South Africa, Switzerland,
     and the US, among others, exploring Global North and South longitudinal birth cohort studies.
     Collaborative publications include a high-profile OA series in Somatosphere.
    Funded by EPSRC and ERC, Lewis co-founded and co-directs the interdisciplinary Extreme
     Citizen Science (ExCiteS) research group, which brings together anthropologists,
     geographers, computer scientists, designers, electronic engineers, and ecologists to develop
     tools and methodologies that enable diverse communities to initiate Citizen Science projects.
     Lewis’s Impact Case Study illustrates some of the group’s many innovative outputs and
     impacts.


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research on Covid-19: Seeking to contribute to the global effort to control the pandemic, staff
 have been funded to conduct emergency research in a range of areas (e.g. Emmott’s British-
 Academy-funded study of social support networks for mothers, Salali’s comparative project on
 vaccine hesitancy in the UK and Turkey, and Geismar, Gibbon and Parkhurst’s embedded
 ethnography of decision-making in the first months of the pandemic in the Royal Free Hospital).
 The Centre for Digital Anthropology have led a crowd-sourced project on ‘Collecting Covid-19’,
 collating digital ethnographies of people’s everyday experience of Covid-19 around the world,
 while our blog ‘Consciously Quarantined’ provides medical anthropological perspectives on
 diverse facets of the pandemic’s development (see 4.2 below).

 4.2 Engagement with non-academic publics

 Anthropologists at UCL have a long tradition of societal impact and public engagement – e.g. the
 longstanding interactions of our Human Ecology cluster with policymakers and other stakeholders
 in environment and development, the many interfaces between our medical anthropologists and
 health practitioners, and the efforts of some of our most influential researchers, from Mary Douglas
 to Danny Miller, proactively to engage with wide and diverse readerships and audiences. As
 explained in 1.1 above, this outward-looking profile is inherent in the UoA’s structure, each section
 containing an impact and public-oriented cluster, as well as the 2019 institution of Public
 Anthropology as a new section devoted to rendering porous and mutually enriching the relations
 between our research and teaching and society at large, including an array of industries. Our
 seminar programme Anthropology in the Professional World draws upon these outward-looking
 relationships, and deepens them by connecting them to our energetic work on careers for our
 students.

 Community engagement and advocacy: The interests of communities among and with whom
 staff carry out research are central in shaping the research and its impact, through their
 involvement in research design, feedback, and uptake of the results. In addition to the community-
 oriented work presented in ICSs (Lewis, Michelutti and Napier: citizen science and environmental
 justice, community loan credit, and diabetes prevention respectively), examples include: Miller’s
 ERC-funded work with UK hospice residents developing age-appropriate smartphone apps;
 Pinney’s ERC-funded community-led art exhibitions in Mumbai and Dhaka; and PDRF Carroll’s
 British Academy and UKRI-funded collaboration with Orthodox clergy and communities in the UK
 and Greece on the ritual use of textiles. Our commitment to promoting the interests of communities
 and research participants in need of support is also at the heart of our advisory roles in legal
 process (e.g. Michelutti’s ERC- and ESRC-funded research team’s specialist advice to legal
 experts in 120 asylum cases in UK and European courts; M.Stewart’s regular expert evidence in
 Romani immigrants cases).

 Community engagement includes activities within UCL and London. In response to the
 challenges of online working during the Covid-19 pandemic, PDRF O’Connor led a UCL Grand
 Challenges-funded ethnographic study of professional services staff working from home, adopted
 as a showcase of UCL’s HR strategy. Knox’s participation in Oldham Energy Futures, a
 community-based collaborative research on energy planning supported by Google/ICLEI-Local
 Governments for Sustainability, and Mandel’s UCL-funded knowledge exchange project on
 refugee poetry and art, developed with London refugee communities, exemplify our relationships
 with local authorities and communities. Engagements with different East London audiences and
 communities     are     a    major   dimension   of   our    leading     role   in UCL   East,
 with M.Stewart and Geismar brokering collaborations with the boroughs surrounding the Olympic
 Park, local schools and other community institutions, to develop practice-led research and

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 knowledge exchange in the coming REF period. Our new Public Anthropology section, based in
 UCL East as of 2022, has initiated work with local communities and institutions (Bromley by Bow
 Centre, working with Burdett Estate teenage boys; Macmillan; and Redbridge Public Libraries), as
 well as with London-based media industries, through our contribution to AHRC-funded National
 Centre for Immersive Storytelling, developing factual storytelling through VR technology.

 Contributions to policy and industry: Our researchers have delivered expert data, knowledge
 and guidance to local, national and international government, policy organisations,
 charities, NGOs and businesses. Indicative examples of the over 100 institutions and
 stakeholders whom our staff have supported and advised include DfID (now FCDO), Home Office,
 DTI, UK Money and Pensions Services, All Party Design and Innovation Group, Ada Lovelace
 Institute, the Tanzanian, Mongolian and Bolivian governments, various UN agencies, the World
 Bank, Mongol Bank, European Space Agency, Birdlife International, India Habitat Centre, Sodexo,
 Novo Nordisk, and Unilever. While links with creative industries are integral to the work of our
 Public Anthropology section, other enterprise activities include Kuechler and Drazin’s participation
 in an AHRC Creative Industry Partnership Project on Business of Fashion, Textile and Technology,
 supported by Kuechler’s Directorship at the UAL London College of Fashion. Staff consultancy
 work (e.g. Napier’s longstanding work with Novartis) and our many CPD programmes for
 government departments (e.g. with HMRC, DWP, GDS, DVLA, FCO and MoD) also provide
 platforms for further engagement with industry and policymakers.

 Our work with medical and public health professionals and institutions deserves special mention.
 Sometimes drawing also on our own staff’s professional experience in medicine (Pillen),
 psychology and psychotherapy (Calabrese), and psychiatry (Littlewood), policy work includes:
 Gibbon’s Wellcome-funded collaboration with epidemiologists in Brazil, on public policies on rare
 genetic diseases; Cook’s sustained participation in the all-party Parliamentary Group Inquiry on
 the use of Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT) in the public sector, resulting in MBCT
 becoming mandated in Improving Access to Psychological Therapy services across the UK, and
 MBCT teacher training receiving national funding through Health Education England; and Miller’s
 ERC-funded work developing health related initiatives including telepsychiatry services in Uganda.
 Drawing on his Cities Changing Diabetes work (presented in his ICS and connected to Parkhurst’s
 work with thinktank Health 2020 developing policy on the UK’s obesity and diabetes epidemic), in
 2020 Napier, as part of his work with the SONAR Global network and the Institut Pasteur, secured
 £422k from the ERC’s scheme for International Network of Social Sciences Research Centres to
 use Rapid Assessment of Vulnerable Populations in the global public health response to the Covid-
 19 pandemic.

 In addition to Open City Docs, our annual film festival (see 1.2, ‘Interdisciplinary research’),
 galleries and museums further facilitate our engagement with diverse research users and
 audiences. A number of our large team projects have produced high-profile exhibitions in London
 as well as in countries where research was conducted (e.g. in London, collaborations between
 Empson’s research team and Mongolian artists exhibited in Greengrassi Gallery, Holbraad’s show
 in Space Gallery with the Social Morphologies Research Unit (an interdisciplinary research team
 of anthropologists and art practitioners), and Pinney’s exhibitions with South Asian photographers
 in Delhi, Dhaka and Tbilisi). Buchli, Geismar and Sommer have curated and/or participated in art-
 shows in London, New York and elsewhere, while PDRF Schacter produced at the Brunei Gallery
 the first major exhibition of Filipino contemporary art. Geismar held a one-year Mellon Research
 Fellowship at Tate Modern, collaborating with the V&A to research social relationships
 underpinning museum collections. In addition to frequent collaborations with the British Museum


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (e.g. Buchli’s curation of an exhibition on communist currencies), we have close relations with the
 Horniman (Coupaye) and Natural History Museum (Soligo).

 Finally, writing for and appearing in the media is a mainstay of our staff’s efforts to reach and
 engage with wide and diverse audiences, in the countries where staff conduct research, and in
 the UK/internationally. While some media interventions are directed at mass audiences (e.g.
 through BBC, Bloomberg, Forbes, Le Monde, Newsweek, New York Times, The Economist and
 Time Magazine) and have sometimes ‘gone viral’ (e.g. Miller’s blog post on the decline of youth
 participation in Facebook), others are targeted thematically or geographically to specific audiences
 and research users (e.g. New Scientist, Resonance FM, Scientific American, The Conversation,
 The Hindu). ‘Consciously Quarantined’, our blog presenting global Medical Anthropological
 perspectives on the Covid-19 pandemic to over 30,000 visitors, is one of many examples of our
 efforts to render our research relevant and impactful to wider publics. These efforts include also
 frequent contributions to popular online anthropology fora such as Allegra Lab and Somatosphere.

 4.3 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base

 During the reporting period, our Category A staff published 20 single/co-authored monographs
 and more than 20 edited/co-edited volumes and journal special issues, with academic presses
 including California, Cambridge, Chicago, Duke, Harvard, Stanford and UCL, more than 150 book
 chapters, and over 300 peer-reviewed articles in journals including American Ethnologist, Annual
 Review, CSSH, Current Anthropology, Hau, JRAI, Nature, PNAS, PTRS, Public Culture, Science,
 and The Lancet. Staff gave more than 50 keynote and high-profile named and distinguished
 public lectures, including at the Ashmolean Museum, Max Planck Institute, and Royal Academy,
 and plenary lectures at ASA and EASA among many others. They organised over 100
 conferences and workshops and over 30 panels at major international conferences, and held
 Visiting Fellowships and Professorships at more than ten different universities/ research
 institutes internationally, including All Souls, Bard, Delhi, Havana, Max Planck, Stanford, Tate
 Modern, and UCLA. Honours in this period have included two elected British Academy
 Fellowships (Kuechler, Pinney), two elected Academy of Social Sciences Fellowships (Kuechler,
 Miller), a Newton Prize for Brazil (Lewis) and an Honorary Doctorate from Gothenburg University
 (Rowlands). Our active contributions to learned societies and professional bodies includes
 roles as President of EHBEA (Mace) and Secretary of ASA (Knox).

 Our international, interdisciplinary reach and contribution is evident by the number and range of
 staff’s journal editorships, including Animal Behaviour, Anthropology and Photography,
 Evolutionary Human Sciences, Folia Primatologica, Journal of Human Evolution, Journal of the
 Royal Anthropological Institute, Social Analysis, with Anthropology and Medicine, Home Cultures
 and Journal of Material Culture published in-house, all attracting high-calibre submissions also
 from fields beyond anthropology. Staff also edit high-profile book series, with publishers including
 Berghahn, Harvard, Routledge and UCL Press. Nineteen members of staff, from all career stages,
 have been editorial board members of more than 30 journals, including Big Data and Society,
 Hau, History and Anthropology, Human Ecology, Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute,
 Medical     Anthropology,      Nature:    Scientific  Data,     Social    Analysis    and     Social
 Anthropology/Anthropologie Sociale.

 Staff peer-reviewed hundreds of articles (including for all the main journals), reviewed book
 manuscripts for leading publishers including Berghahn, Bloomsbury, California, Cambridge,
 Chicago, Columbia, Duke, Manchester, MIT, Palgrave MacMillan, Routledge and UCL Press and
 refereed research proposals for, among others, British Academy, Carnegie Trust, Leverhulme


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Trust, ERC, ESRC, and Wellcome Trust. Staff acted as panel members or advisors for
 numerous funding agencies, including AHRC, Austrian Academy of Sciences, British Academy,
 ERC, ESRC, Foundation for Science and Technology (Portugal), German Research Foundation,
 GCRF, Leverhulme Trust, Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions, National Science Foundation (USA),
 Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research, Research Council of Norway, Swiss National
 Science Foundation, and Wellcome Trust. They refereed senior academic promotions for
 numerous universities internationally, and served on quality assessment of anthropology
 departments and other learned bodies in the UK and abroad (e.g. Goldsmiths, Gothenburg,
 Universidad Católica Chile); and on REF2021 subpanel 22 (Kuechler). Finally, our staff examined
 almost 200 doctorates across the UK and internationally, including at Cambridge, NYU, Paris
 Nanterre, Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona, UC Berkeley and UC Santa Cruz.

 These are some of the practical ways in which the Unit’s staff have contributed to the vitality and
 sustainability of the discipline of anthropology in Britain and beyond, rendering tangible our
 intellectual contributions at the highest level on an international scale. We see our achievements
 in this REF period as a sound foundation on which to continue our upward trajectory of world-class
 research able to open up new horizons for thinking and acting in the world after the pandemic.




                                                                                            Page 20
