Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: University of Central Lancashire

  Unit of Assessment: UOA9

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

UoA9 research at the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) is carried out within the Jeremiah
Horrocks Institute (JHI) for Mathematics, Physics and Astronomy (www.star.uclan.ac.uk). As one of
the University’s three Research Institutes, the JHI is centrally recognised and strategically supported
as a centre of excellence. The JHI is one of UCLan’s longest-standing research units and it has
made a Physics submission to every research assessment exercise since 1992. During the
REF2021 period, JHI scientists significantly increased research income, built strong international
links and led high-profile projects. Our Institute has a long history of exceptional commitment to
external engagement with the local, national and international community via its strategic outreach
programmes.

Unit structure
JHI category A staff submitted to UoA9 are broadly grouped into two main specialisms: Astrophysics
and Condensed Matter Physics. The former continues building upon long-established research
expertise and it has had roughly constant academic staff numbers since REF2014. Complementary
to this, the latter has introduced new research strands and increased the number of category A
submitted staff since the last REF exercise. The JHI is part of the recently formed School of Natural
Sciences; this follows on from the School of Physical Sciences and Computing. Both Schools
were/are headed by a JHI staff member (Ward-Thompson).
Astrophysics
Stellar Physics, Solar Physics and Galaxies Astrophysics are the main groupings within
Astrophysics. In line with our REF2014 strategic vision to develop areas of strength, the University
committed considerable investment to this area, including contributing to funding the James Clerk
Maxwell Telescope (JCMT). The JCMT is one of eight telescopes that form the Event Horizon
Telescope (EHT) that recently imaged a black hole for the first time. Ward-Thompson’s expertise in
submm polarimetry meant that he was invited to become a member of the EHT Consortium (making
UCLan one of only three UK member Universities). This EHT research carried out during the
REF2021 period, won the 2021 Royal Astronomical Society (RAS) Group Award.
UCLan provided funding for mission critical software for the 2018 second flight of NASA’s sub-orbital
rocket mission High Resolution Coronal Imager (Hi-C2.1). This mission captured EUV images of the
corona at unprecedented spatial and temporal resolution. It has funded a similar software
contribution for the 2021 NASA sub-orbital rocket instrument, the Marshall Grazing X-ray
Spectrometer (MaGIXS). UCLan has also continuously supported membership of the consortium of
the Southern African Large Telescope (SALT) since its foundation in 2001.
Condensed Matter Physics
This area has been supported strongly since the last REF, with the appointment of four new Lecturers
(Syres, Gamza, Freeman and Lepadatu), widening the scope of our condensed matter research and
funding the development of new laboratories. All four staff have been promoted to Senior Lecturers.
New equipment purchases include a Magneto-Optical Kerr Effect thin film magnetometer and a
state-of-the-art controller for an existing Scanning Tunnelling Microscope (STM). The University has
also funded a new Transverse Susceptibility Magnetometer for the measurement of magnetic
nanoparticles. These developments are in line with the REF2014 strategic objective of significantly
growing experimental physics research.

Category A submitted staff by Research Group
Stellar Astrophysics (3.6 FTEs): Professor: Derek Ward-Thompson; Reader: Dimitris Stamatellos,
Senior Lecturers: Jason Kirk, Joanne Pledger.



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Solar Physics (3.8 FTEs): Professors: Silvia Dalla, Robert Walsh; Reader: Daniel Brown. Principal
Lecturer: Danielle Bewsher.
Galaxies Astrophysics (5.9 FTEs): Professors: Victor Debattista, Cristina Popescu, Readers:,
Roger Clowes, Anne Sansom; Lecturers: Megan Argo, Mark Norris
Condensed Matter Physics (6 FTEs): Senior Lecturers: Paul Freeman, Monika Gamza,
Serban Lepadatu, Tim Mercer, Joe Smerdon, Karen Syres.
At census date the total number of UoA9 JHI academic staff members was 25. Therefore, by
headcount, the percentage of Category A submitted staff is 80% (20 academic staff, corresponding
to 19.3 FTE).

Equality and Diversity
Our staff profile demonstrates our strong commitment to ensuring equality of opportunity within our
discipline. Of the above Category A submitted staff, the proportion of females overall is 40% (8/20),
with the following distribution for the various career stages: Professors 40%, Readers/Principal
Lecturers 40%, Senior Lecturers 38%, Lecturers 50%. The percentage of women working in our Unit
is significantly higher than the typical numbers for UK Physics and Astronomy departments (with the
overall percentage of females in Physics and Astronomy departments for the sector being only 19%,
based on 2018/19 data). Our proportion of females within category A submitted staff has increased
from 29% in REF2014 to 40% in REF2021. Approximately 30% of the submitted staff are non-British.

Sustainability
Within Astrophysics, following the retirement of Kurtz in 2020, Holdsworth’s appointment was made
permanent to ensure sustainability in the area of Asteroseismology and Extrasolar planets. Within
the REF2021 period Dalla was promoted to Professor in the Solar Physics area and so were
Debattista and Popescu within Galaxies Astrophysics. Kirk was appointed as Senior Lecturer,
working in the area of star formation, which has grown in size since REF2014. The same group saw
the permanent appointment of Stamatellos at the end of a UCLan-funded Guild Fellowship. Two new
Galaxies Astrophysics staff members were appointed (Norris and Argo).
Within Condensed Matter Physics the four new staff employed during the REF2021 period
successfully developed their own research groups and were promoted to Senior Lecturer. Smerdon,
appointed to a UCLan-funded Guild Fellowship during the REF2014 period, had his position made
permanent and progressed to become Deputy Head of School of Natural Sciences (responsible for
Business Engagement and Partnerships).

Achievement of strategic aims from REF2014
The JHI’s research strategy during the REF2021 period allowed it to increase the level of external
research funding per FTE per year (including REF4a income and UKRI in-kind) by 35% (Section 3,
Figure 2) and increase the number of PhD student completions per FTE per year by 18% (Section
2, Figure 1).
Key achievements since REF2014 include JHI staff’s scientific leadership in the following areas:
   •   Development of world-leading simulations of planet formation that incorporate effects of
       radiative transfer, including radiating feedback of planets into the disk’s environment;
   •   The largest scale high resolution polarisation survey of star forming regions ever undertaken;
   •   Membership of the Event Horizon Telescope consortium that took the first ever picture of a
       black hole;
   •   Pioneering development of models for the Milky Way, including predictions for the large-scale
       distribution of stars, dust, radiation fields and gamma-ray emission;
   •   Characterisation of the fine structure of solar coronal loops through high resolution
       observations with Hi-C;



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   •   Development of new methodologies for simulating solar energetic particle propagation,
       including the effects of drifts and magnetic turbulence;
   •   Construction and measurement of a molecular rectifier at the atomic scale, with a rectification
       ratio orders of magnitude greater than that measured for any comparable system anywhere
       in the world;
   •   Development of novel solid-state materials with unconventional superconducting and
       magnetic behaviour, contributing to our fundamental understanding of mechanisms
       underlying magnetism and the superconductivity of solids.

Future research strategy
JHI’s future strategy is to grow all its main research areas further in targeted ways while continuing
to deliver internationally excellent research. The key research questions that will be addressed within
the next REF period are as follows.

1) How do stars and planets form? Specific activities to address this broad question will include:
   •   Analysing the initial stages of star formation through JCMT observations;
   •   Predicting chemical composition of gas giant exoplanets to be compared with JWST
       observations;
   •   Establishing the initial conditions for star formation and the role of magnetic fields in
       collapsing molecular clouds;
   •   Distinguishing between planet formation mechanisms by deriving the chemical composition
       of planets formed by disk instabilities;
   •   Utilising TESS and PLATO data for exoplanet discoveries and characterisation, plus astero-
       seismological insight into the evolution of stellar interiors.

2) What are the key processes in the formation of galaxies of different types? Activities will
   include:
   •   Studying the mechanisms through which the bulge of the Milky Way was formed, using
       simulations and data from Gaia and LSST Vera Rubin;
   •   Understanding the connection between the bulge and the thick disk and how the latter
       achieved its properties;
   •   Obtaining self-consistency in galaxy modelling by incorporating physical processes such as
       dust physics and cosmic ray propagation in galaxy formation;
   •   Linking local and global processes in galaxies through radiative transfer, by incorporating the
       role of pressure-supported diffuse clouds in modelling star formation in galaxies.

3) How do solar active regions evolve and what is their influence on the Earth’s environment?
   Activities will include:
   •   Analysing high resolution observations of the solar atmosphere combined with MHD
       modelling;
   •   Understanding the role of perpendicular transport in the propagation of Solar Energetic
       Particles;
   •   Developing models that predict solar particle radiation risk for Space Weather applications.

4) How can we make the functional materials of tomorrow? Activities will include:
   •   Developing self-assembled atomically precise nanomaterials for energy and digital
       electronics applications;
   •   Studying the fundamental behaviour of interfaces in materials for energy;

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   •   Investigating novel magnetization structures for advanced information storage and
       processing in spintronics devices;
   •   Using fundamental research into the emergent collective phenomena of quantum magnets
       and strongly correlated electron systems.
To achieve our plans, we will continue to invest in staff, infrastructure, equipment, PhD support, and
international partnerships (see also Section 3). Staff will be actively supported for promotion to more
senior academic roles, through mentorship and other opportunities for development.
Involvement of Stellar Astrophysics staff members in the exoplanet discovery and characterization
missions TESS and PLATO will allow answering question 1), together with the strong commitment
to JCMT (see Section 3).
To answer question 2), the JHI’s Galaxies Astrophysics group will use models and simulations to
develop new hypotheses that will be tested with data from ALMA, HESS, FERMI, CTA, Gaia, LSST
Vera Rubin and EUCLID. The last will be used to test cosmological evolution of galaxies. Advanced
modelling will use the local UCLan HPC facilities and the national DiRAC facilities.
In Solar Physics, answering question 3) will revolve around exploitation of new unique data taken by
ESA’s Solar Orbiter and NASA’s Parker Solar Probe close to the Sun, to answer fundamental
questions on coronal structures and solar eruptions. Walsh is co-investigator on the Solar Orbiter
magnetometer instrument. Continued collaboration with NASA Marshall Space Flight Centre will
include the simultaneous launch of two sub-orbital sounding rockets during a solar flare to image it
with unprecedented resolution.
In the area of Condensed Matter Physics, to enable answering question 4), UCLan will expand its
Atomic-Resolution Microscopy Facilities, building on the recent acquisition of a low-temperature
Scanning Tunnelling Microscope (STM, currently being commissioned). The total investment in the
STM lab is £105k.
JHI staff will use international synchrotron facilities to answer questions about the fundamental
behaviour at the interfaces of photovoltaics, molecular electronics and gas capture materials, and
will look for new host compounds for spin liquid states among frustrated magnets on honeycomb
lattices.

Impact strategy
Within the JHI, a strong commitment to impact has been sustained over many years and is part of
the ethos within the research unit. At present, the two main areas in which impacts are being
developed are Space Weather and public engagement with science. Activities were enabled via
investment in sustained, targeted relationships, as well as strategic use of staff time and resources,
with support from UKRI and charitable funding.
Impact in Space Weather is taking place via links with the UK Met Office who are using a JHI-
developed solar radiation forecasting model, SPARX, within their Met Office Space Weather
Operations Centre (MOSWOC). MOSWOC provides 365/24/7 Space Weather monitoring and
forecasting to Government and a variety of commercial operators, to mitigate risk. UCLan granted a
licence to run the SPARX model to the Met Office. Within JHI, the collaboration is being supported
by funding staff time and travel to interact with Met Office forecasters on improvement and evaluation
of the model. This effort will continue over the next REF period, with the aim of developing a SPARX
impact case for the next REF. New funding for SPARX improvements at UCLan was obtained
recently via a 2.5-year NERC grant through the SWIMMR (Space Weather Instrumentation,
Measurement, Modelling and Risk) initiative, a four-year Strategic Priorities Fund programme to
improve UK capabilities for space weather monitoring and prediction, running through to March 2023.
The Unit is committed to enhancing public engagement (PE) with, and benefit from, our scientific
research. The vast majority of JHI members, from postgraduate students to senior academic staff,
are intensively involved in outreach projects each year. This work is enabled through supporting staff
time, training of PhD students, and making available UCLan facilities, such as Alston Observatory
and the UCLan-Royal Institution Young Scientist Centre. These facilities are continuously being
improved by UCLan through injection of funding, e.g. to purchase or upgrade telescopes.

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The impact case studies for REF2021 have been selected as exemplars within a much larger pool
of ongoing projects. The JHI’s impact approach had three complementary strands:
   a) Broaden regional engagement activities with a focus on low science capital audiences;
   b) Deepen engagement collaborations with local partners;
   c) Explore Astronomy, Astrophysics and the Arts - examining differing artistic approaches to
      promote an enhanced understanding of space science and astrophysics.

The JHI pursues partnerships, external collaborations and funding where possible to deliver on the
above. We made significant progress on each PE impact strand, including securing approximately
£380K funding from a range of external sources (STFC, Arts Council England, RAS and International
Astronomical Union (IAU) and others) as outlined in the following-

a) Regional low science capital engagement: With 18% of Preston’s population living in local
authority areas among the 10% most disadvantaged in the country, the JHI sought to engage
extensively with those low science capital groupings. Through a growing regular JHI lecture series,
observatory evenings, our schools’ outreach programme and significant commitment to UCLan’s
annual Lancashire Science Festival, JHI researchers engaged with tens of thousands of individuals
across over 500 events during the REF2021 period.
Alongside this, Walsh was awarded an STFC Leadership Fellowship in Public Engagement to work
with Blackpool schools over a three-year period with multiple interventions.

b) Further local partnership development: Over the REF2021 period, JHI involvement with the
Preston and District Astronomical Society (PADAS) progressed significantly, through the University-
owned Moor Park Observatory, restored with funding from the Heritage Lottery Fund for use as a
regular venue for PADAS meetings and joint outreach events. In the last four years, PADAS
membership numbers have tripled.
We worked with the Harris Museum and Art Gallery, Preston, to develop the “Museum of the Moon”
exhibition for the 50th anniversary of the Apollo landings. JHI staff worked closely with museum staff,
lent historical documents to create an associated exhibition and gave over twenty public talks,
attended by more than 400 people. The exhibition led to unprecedented interest with over 50,000
visitors over the course of the month-long installation.

c) JHI outreach and the arts: A 2016 STFC-funded pilot programme at the Beacon Museum,
Whitehaven, explored creating a new large-scale science/art installation based on NASA Solar
Dynamics Observatory data. Three externally funded projects followed-
   •   Walsh collaborated with artist Alex Rinsler to create the touring art installation SUN. After
       premiering at Lightpool, Blackpool in October 2019 and LightUpLancaster Festival in
       November 2019, SUN is now one of two STFC national strategic engagement projects.
   •   Pledger and dancer Lucy Starkey developed “Into Our Skies” - an online dance workshop
       targeted at primary school pupils.
   •   Argo collaborated with storyteller Cassandra Wye to deliver “We share the same moon” as
       part of IAU100.

The JHI will build upon these PE efforts over the coming REF period, continually examining ways of
strengthening the effectiveness of its engagement programmes. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a
considerable number of impact activities were adversely affected; school engagement stopped, all
lectures and observatory events cancelled. All planned SUN installations for 2020 were halted
although the dance workshops did move online. These activities will need to be re-energised when
allowed. With existing educational, social and economic inequalities exacerbated due to pandemic-
related loss of learning, engaging with low science capital audiences will be even more vital. In
addition, finding new and innovative ways of reaching audiences such as via artistic approaches to
astronomy engagement will be critical. This is now an area of expertise for JHI researchers who can
see further opportunities to undertake new collaborations in a range of cultural settings.

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Open research
UCLan’s open research policies have been consistently applied within UoA9. All research outputs
are routinely made available via UCLan’s Central Lancashire Online Knowledge (Clok) repository.
In the Astrophysics area, all JHI staff members use the arXiv Astro-ph archive to make their work
publicly available from the time of submission, as is practice within the field. Funding from UCLan
and the Research Councils was used to make the published version of many articles openly
accessible via the gold route. The full set of UoA9 outputs submitted to REF2021 is open access
compliant.
As an example of open research practice in the area of Condensed Matter Physics, a magnetics
computational software package developed by Lepadatu has been made open source and freely
available from 2019 (github.com/SerbanL/Boris2). This software includes a substantial user manual
to help take-up by the wider research community. Since the software is open source, and includes
numerous testing routines and documents, the community is able to verify the validity and accuracy
of physical models implemented. This software has been downloaded by over 400 unique users in
2020, and a support forum has been established, showing increased user
activity: https://groups.google.com/g/boris-computational-spintronics.

Interdisciplinary research
Staff members in the Condensed Matter Group are carrying out interdisciplinary research at the
interfaces with Biology, Chemistry and Engineering, with support from the University. As an example,
Syres was supported to carry out experiments at the BESSY II synchrotron in Berlin (through travel
funding and leave from teaching duties) to work on a project on peptide adsorption on metal oxide
surfaces to investigate the biomaterial/biological interface with synchrotron radiation.
Syres is part of an interdisciplinary collaboration involving the Department of Machine Design at KTH
Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm, the UCLan School of Engineering and JHI. The project
will develop a novel on-line method of identifying and monitoring lubricant degradation, for prevention
of machine failure. It has support from Waters PLC who are providing state-of-the-art mass
spectrometers to detect degradation products. It benefits from collaboration with the European
Space Tribology Laboratory (operated by ESR technology) who are conducting a spiral orbit
tribometer investigation into our ionic liquid lubricants.
Interdisciplinary research involving the UCLan Nano-Biomaterials group (within Chemistry) and JHI
staff working on magnetic materials is ongoing. Magnetic nanoparticles are important for biomedical
applications in drug-loading and delivery, hyperthermia (heating effect under an alternating magnetic
field) and as a contrast agent in MRI scans. Synthesis, surface functionalisation and characterisation
of the nanoparticles take place within Chemistry while JHI staff work on characterising and
investigating the magnetic properties and application to their intended use. A new collaboration
started recently between the JHI magnetics group and the Chemistry-based bio-sensors group.
As an example of policies that enabled interdisciplinary research, Gamza was awarded £85k via the
UCLan Research Equipment Fund to purchase a high-vacuum arc-melter with casting option that
allowed her to produce and cast rods of alloys needed for engineering projects led by Prof Rivera,
LPW / Royal Academy of Engineering Research Chair from Lancaster University, for tailoring phase
stability in commercial Ti alloys.

Research integrity
UCLan is a member of the UK Research Integrity Office and signatory to the UK Concordat to
Support Research Integrity. UCLan is at the forefront of the promotion of the attainment of high
ethical standards as per the Global Code of Conduct for Research in Resource-Poor Settings, with
UCLan being the first university in Europe to sign up to this. Training in research integrity is
mandatory for all researchers and a robust system of governance and oversight of ethics and
integrity is in place through the School and Faculty committees for Ethics and Integrity, supported
by a programme of dissemination of good practice across the UCLan academic body. The JHI, as a
traditional research institute, promotes research integrity via positive scientific interaction among its
members and by maintaining communications and currency with scientific progress, for example
through seminars, participation in conferences and external collaborations.

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  2. People

Staffing strategy and staff development
The JHI strives to provide an inclusive, collegial and stimulating working environment for all its
members. Newly hired staff are provided with a mentor to help them settle into their job and the new
environment. A formal structure for discussion and advice for all academic staff and postdocs is
provided by the appraisal system, consisting of biannual appraisals. Within the Institute appraisals
are carried out by the five professors. All appraisers underwent training for the role, including
unconscious bias training. Interaction among all JHI members including post-graduate students is
promoted via the weekly coffee and doughnuts meetings and seminars, followed by informal
sessions with opportunity to talk with colleagues and the seminar speaker.
In addition to the centrally provided Academic Researcher Induction programme, at University level
a full programme of staff development is available for all career stages, including for example
postgraduate supervision training, training on writing grant proposals and development of research
management skills. ECRs in particular are actively encouraged to make use of these opportunities
to gain independent research funding.
Since the last REF, a significant number of promotions have occurred with three promotions to
Professor (Dalla, Debattista and Popescu), three to Reader (Brown, Sansom and Stamatellos) and
seven to Senior Lecturer (Freeman, Gamza, Kirk, Lepadatu, Pledger, Smerdon and Syres). In
particular, female members of staff have been actively encouraged to apply for promotion, via the
appraisal system. Two female academic staff achieved promotion to professor during the REF2021
period. They are the first since the founding of the research unit. Of the promotions to Reader and
Senior Lecturer combined, 40% were of female staff members.
Stamatellos and Smerdon completed their UCLan Guild Fellowships during the 2015/16 academic
year and their positions have been converted to permanent academic staff posts. They have since
progressed to Reader and Deputy Head of School, respectively.
During the REF2021 period, funding for sabbaticals was provided by UCLan for four JHI staff
members (Debattista, Brown, Bewsher and Mercer), for a duration of 6 months each. In addition to
his sabbatical, Debattista benefitted from 6 months’ research leave that allowed him to carry out
research at the University of Zurich, funded by the latter. Popescu had research leave for a total of
five months to allow her to work at the Max Planck Institute for Astronomy in Heidelberg, funded by
MPIA.
Regarding JHI staff leavers during the REF period, Prof Andrei Zvelindovsky went on to become
founding Head of the School of Mathematics and Physics at the University of Lincoln and Prof Brad
Gibson left to form and lead the new E.A. Milne Centre for Astrophysics at the University of Hull. Prof
Don Kurtz retired in early 2020: he maintains a connection with UCLan as Emeritus Professor and
he is also Extraordinary Professor at North-West University in South Africa. Dr Stewart Eyres
progressed to become Associate Dean of Computing, Engineering & Science at the University of
South Wales.

Postgraduate students
The JHI currently hosts 19 PhD and 14 MSc by Research students. Funding for PhD studentships
is provided via Doctoral Training Studentship grants from STFC in the Astrophysics area,
complemented by University funding and by the Moses Holden Studentship scheme for both
Condensed Matter Physics and Astrophysics. Progression of all postgraduate research (PGR)
students is monitored via an annual review system managed by the University’s Graduate Research
School and also specifically for PhD students through the MPhil/PhD transfer process.
PGR students are supported via a programme of physics/astrophysics-specific PGR Lectures given
by JHI academic staff, consisting of a total of 40 lectures per year. A comprehensive research skills
training programme is provided centrally by the University. The latter includes extensive 2-week
training for PGR students at the start of their study and additional events and online training as they
progress. New PhD supervisors benefit from an induction programme provided at University level.


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Postgraduates are required to attend weekly research seminars, part of the JHI Seminar series,
given by external speakers, and they have the opportunity to interact with speakers during
lunch/dinner and during an informal chat session immediately after the seminar. Each year PGR
students have to give a presentation about their research, attended by JHI members. Further support
and scientific interaction are provided within research groups, via group meetings and journal clubs.
Students actively participate in the Annual UCLan PGR Day and the university’s Three Minute Thesis
Competition, which feeds into the Vitae national competition.
Funding is provided for student attendance to formative events such as Royal Astronomical Society
(RAS) and Institute of Physics (IOP) meetings and international conferences; in many cases targeted
internal JHI funding supports the students well beyond the travel funding provided within their
studentship. PGR students are actively encouraged to apply for opportunities to broaden their
experience. For example, during his PhD Tom Davison won both an Isaac Newton Group
Studentship (letting him spend a year working in La Palma) and an ESO studentship (to spend a
year at ESO in Garching).




Figure 1 - Comparison between PhD completions in REF2014 and REF2021
[Values plotted are PhD completion numbers per submitted staff FTE number per year. Actual
completion numbers are 19 for REF2014 and 29 for REF2021.]

We ensure that PGRs are well integrated within the research Institute and feel part of its fabric. Our
varied social events contribute to a vibrant intellectual atmosphere in the JHI community. At our
weekly coffee and doughnuts meetings everyone, from the Head of School to the newest PGR
student, takes turns to make the coffee and bring the doughnuts. We strongly encourage our PGRs
to participate in outreach activities, such as observing nights at Alston Observatory and the annual
Lancashire Science Festival.
Compared to REF2014, during the REF2021 period there has been an 18% increase in the number
of PhD student completions per submitted staff FTE per year (Figure 1). This increase took place
despite a challenging environment for both Research Council support for studentships and PGR
funding generally.

Equality and Diversity
As detailed in Section 1, the JHI has a 40% representation of female staff among Category A
submitted staff. The same percentage (40% female) is reflected in non-submitted staff members,
demonstrating that there is no over-representation in staff who do not have significant responsibility
for research. The representation of female staff at all career stages is a result of Equality and

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Diversity (E&D) policies within the University and the JHI, including appraisal, sabbaticals, mentoring
and training. There are currently no Black, Asian or ethnic minority staff members among Category
A submitted staff, and the same is true for JHI UoA9 staff members not submitted to REF2021.
However, we have plans to increase BAME representation within JHI academic staff, by supporting
our current BAME PGR students in their career development as well as continuing to pay close
attention to the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion policy when recruiting new staff.
The proportion of female staff within the JHI has been historically high over the last 25 years, as a
result of attention to E&D by the JHI Directors within the staff recruitment process. Of the six new
appointments within the REF2021 period, 50% have been female (Gamza, Syres and Argo).
Recently two females have been promoted to professors (Popescu in 2016 and Dalla in 2017). There
has been a constant focus on supporting career progression for female staff members via the
appraisal system and the provision of training opportunities. For example, Dalla benefitted from a
10-module programme of Research Leadership development taking place over a whole academic
year, funded by the University.
UCLan was awarded the Athena SWAN Bronze award in March 2020. The School of Natural
Sciences (of which the JHI is now a part) is working towards its Athena SWAN application which will
be finalised and submitted within the next 12 months. This follows an overall University restructure
of Schools (the JHI itself was not restructured), which resulted in a different subject composition.
The application will be submitted for the specific subjects that are part of the new School grouping.
Data on staff have been collected and analysed in preparation for the submission. The School has
invested in this effort by dedicating 0.2 FTE of a new senior Principal Lecturer position to focus
specifically on E&D.
During the REF2021 period two JHI academic staff members (Bewsher, Pledger) and one PDRA
(Konyves) took maternity leave. Two maternity cover posts were funded by UCLan to cover the
teaching of the academic staff members while they were on leave. All three staff took advantage of
phased return to work with both academic staff members currently working part-time. Alongside this,
Bewsher was awarded a research sabbatical following her return to work. Of the three staff members
that went on maternity leave, two took advantage of the University-supported UCLan Pre-School
Centre upon returning to work.
We know of current and past JHI academic staff, postdocs and students who are part of the LGBT+
community and other protected characteristics groups, including gender-reassigned individuals.
They are and always have been fully supported within the Institute and the University, as have all
individuals with protected characteristics, for example via networks such as the BAME, LGBT+,
Disability and Women’s network. UCLan have been awarded the Race Equality Charter and are part
of the Stonewall Diversity Champions Programme. The JHI fully implement the University’s Equality,
Diversity and Inclusion Policy.

  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

External grant income and in-kind income
JHI research income, including external income (REF4a) and UKRI in-kind, increased from £3.5M
in REF2014 to £6.1M in REF2021. In units of income per FTE per year this represents a 34%
increase compared to REF2014. This is well above the rate of inflation: after correcting for inflation,
the increase in real terms is between 18 and 21%, depending on the methodology used for the
correction. Given that all Research Councils have been operating on a ‘flat cash’ basis over most of
this REF period, a 34% increase (~20% after correcting for inflation) is a very significant result.
Figure 2 compares REF2014 and REF2021 income, including external REF4a income, UKRI in-kind
and in-kind income from non-UKRI sources, as estimated in Tables 1 and 2 below. Non-UKRI in-
kind income also had a very substantial increase since REF2014.
When non-UKRI in-kind income is included in the total the percentage increase in income per FTE
per year is 56% compared to REF2014 figures (see Total in Figure 2).




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 2 – Comparison between external income in REF2014 and REF2021
[Values plotted are total income per year per category A submitted FTE number. Included are REF4a
income and in-kind income from UKRI sources. For REF2014 these totalled £3,522k (of which £776k
UKRI in-kind) and for REF2021 £6,111k (of which £1,218 UKRI in-kind). Also given in the histogram
under ‘Other in-kind’ is income from non-UKRI sources as per the estimates of Tables 1 and 2.]


The increase in research funding shown in Figure 2 was achieved against an extremely challenging
funding environment, for example ‘flat cash’ in the STFC grants line. In addition to ‘traditional’ funding
from STFC and the EU, during the REF2021 period research in the JHI also benefitted from the
award of two Leverhulme Trust Research Project grants, and other income.
JHI staff were successful in obtaining income-in-kind through competitive peer-reviewed
applications. This was mostly in the area of Astrophysics through winning observing time on
international telescope facilities and in the Condensed Matter Physics area through award of time
on national and international facilities (e.g. ‘beam’ time). Income-in-kind from UKRI facilities included
time on Diamond Light Source, ISIS Neutron facility and the neutron beam at Institut Laue-Langevin,
competitively awarded to Condensed Matter Physics staff (Syres and Freeman), as well as telescope
time (JCMT, ESO, Isaac Newton Telescope, e-Merlin) and time on computational facilities (Dirac),
to Astrophysics staff (Pledger, Stamatellos, Argo, Debattista, Ward-Thompson and Laitinen, a
PDRA).
Tables 1 and 2 detail the income from non-UKRI sources, awarded by panels of international
peers/experts following competitive review. Income is estimated by using published yearly
operational costs of each facility, keeping into account the time awarded via competitive applications.
Tables 1 and 2 only list awarded time for proposals with JHI members as PI, obtained since they
joined UCLan. Further in-kind income was obtained on projects as co-I and as PI within the REF2021
period before joining UCLan, but they are not listed here.
The total value of UKRI and non-UKRI income-in-kind for REF2021 amounts to £1,218k + £2,421k
= £3,639k, a substantial increase compared to REF2014 (£1,500k). In part this is the result of the
expansion of the JHI’s Condensed Matter research group which took place during the REF2021
period, allowing new income from Physics facilities to be added to the JHI’s traditional income from
telescope time, but mostly this was due to all research-active staff submitting competitive bids.




                                                                                                  Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Table 1 – Non-UKRI Income-In-Kind: Time won on international telescope

                  Telescope                       Location                         PI                            Time          Estimated Value (£k)

 JCMT                                           Hawaii         Ward-Thompson (PI of BISTRO project)a       67 nights                     670
 Large Binocular Telescope, MODS                Arizona        Norris                                      26 hrs                        156
 Kepler + TESS                                  Space          Holdsworth (PDRA), with co-I Kurtz          160 + 27 days                 355
 SAAO 1.0m + 1.9 m                              South Africa   Holdsworth (PDRA), with co-I Kurtz          155 + 28 nights               348
 ALMA                                           Chile          Sansom                                      3 hours                       26
 IRAM 30m                                       Spain          Glass (PhD student), with co-I Sansom       94 hours                      64
 Total value of non-UKRI telescope time                                                                                                 1,619
[To estimate the value of income-in-kind for non-UKRI facilities we divided the total yearly operations budget by an estimate of the total number of
observing hours (300 nights/year), then multiplied by the time awarded. Yearly operation budgets for the majority of telescopes are published online
and in a few cases we obtained them by direct contact with telescope staff. All the awards listed above were obtained via international competitive peer-
reviewed application to Telescope Allocation Committees and the UCLan staff member was PI on the proposal. For Kepler and Tess time, particular
targets were approved to be observed within a specific mode, but this was together with targets for a number of other proposals. Therefore, we used a
small fraction (£2k/day) of the daily operational cost in our estimate. Notes: a) funding received via Cardiff University block grant.]

Table 2 – Non-UKRI Income-In-Kind: Time won on Physics facilities
 Facility                                                        Location            PI                     Time               Estimated Value (£k)
 Institut Laue-Langevin, neutron beam (Swiss-funded)b            Switzerland         Freeman                11 days                      410
 Argonne National Laboratory, Optical UHV VT AFM/STM             USA                 Smerdon                56 days                      68
 ASTRID2                                                         Denmark             Syres                  13 days                      234
 MAXIV, HIPPIE beamline                                          Sweden              Syres                  5 days                       90
 Total value of non-UKRI Physics Facilities time                                                                                         802
 Total non-UKRI in-kind-income (Table 1 + Table 2)                                                                                      2,421
[To estimate the value of income in kind for non-UKRI facilities we divided the total yearly operations budget by an estimate of the total running time,
then multiplied by the time awarded. Yearly operation budgets for the majority of facilities are published and, in some cases, we contacted facilities
staff to obtain the information. All the awards listed above were obtained via international competitive peer-reviewed application and the UCLan staff
member was PI on the proposal. Notes: b) Funding (Proposal n. 4-01-1423) was awarded while Freeman worked in Switzerland (hence not included in
the UKRI tables) and experiment was carried out while he worked at UCLan; estimate based on cost per instrument day at ILL information provided by
UKRI.]


                                                                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


UCLan investment in facilities
UCLan supported membership of the consortium of SALT since its foundation in 2001. This will be
consolidated by continuing to invest £25k/year. The University will also continue its current
commitment to the JCMT by contributing £25k/year. JCMT is part of the EHT project, awarded the
2020 Breakthrough Prize in Fundamental Physics.
SALT is now in a phase of development of its next generation instrumentation. This will broaden the
science capabilities of the telescope through the introduction of a near-infrared spectrograph, a new
maximum efficiency spectrograph to enable rapid follow-up of transient events (triggered from e.g.
MeerKAT and LSST Vera Rubin), and the upgrading of the current High Resolution Spectrograph to
allow SALT to break into the field of exoplanet radial velocity follow-up. All of these projects are
possible thanks to funding provided by SALT partners including UCLan and will have direct impacts
on the research of the JHI. At JCMT UCLan investment will aid important development of the next
generation imaging polarimeter, with mapping speeds 1000 times faster than currently. The new
capability will be crucial for future star formation studies led by JHI staff.
Throughout REF2014 and REF2021 the University provided support for its in-house HPC facility,
heavily used by JHI Astrophysics numerical modellers (approximately 80% of overall University
usage). A review of HPC provision is currently taking place at Faculty level and it is planned that
during the next REF period new in-house facilities will be made available, as well as access to
external virtual platforms for large scale simulations. The investment will enable further research
developments in the areas of galaxy simulations, planet formation and solar physics.
During the REF2021 period UCLan invested £250k to buy and install a new 0.7-metre telescope at
the JHI’s Alston Observatory in rural Lancashire, which can be used for anything from deep-sky
imaging to planet hunting. This facility is being used for staff research projects and for teaching and
outreach. The University will invest £50k in a wider field telescope specifically for robotic wide field
planet hunting in the next 12 months.
In the area of Condensed Matter Physics, the University will expand its Atomic-Resolution
Microscopy Facilities, building on the recent acquisition of a low-temperature Scanning Tunnelling
Microscope (STM). This should be commissioned in time for the start of the next REF cycle. The
total investment in the STM lab is £105k.

  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Research Collaborations
In the Astrophysics research area, JHI staff are involved in several international research
collaborations and teams, often in a leadership position.
Debattista is Group co-Lead for the LSST Vera Rubin Observatory Milky Way Bulge roadmap and a
member of the “Milky Way Structure” Science Collaboration of the Vera Rubin Observatory. He is
the UK Point of Contact and PI for Vera Rubin Observatory bulge science.
Ward-Thompson is PI of the BISTRO International Consortium (BISTRO is a JCMT-SCUBA-2
polarimeter survey of star formation). He is a member of the Event Horizon Telescope Consortium
(EHT) that published the first picture of a black hole, the ESA Herschel Space Telescope SPIRE
Consortium, the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope (JCMT) UK Consortium and the Development in
Africa with Radio Astronomy (DARA) Consortium funded by the UKRI/STFC Newton Fund.
Popescu and Sansom are members of the Galaxy and Mass Assembly (GAMA) consortium, carrying
out a wide field spectroscopic survey of galaxies. Kurtz (now retired) has been a member of the
Kepler Asteroseismic Science Consortium Steering Committee (2009-2014). Walsh is Co-I and
institutional lead on the sub-orbital sounding rocket programme under PI Winebarger (NASA MSFC)
and fellow Co-Is Golub (Harvard Smithsonian CfA), Peter (Max Planck Institute for Solar System
Research) and Warren (NRL).
In the Condensed Matter area, national and international research collaborations are being pursued.
These include work with Aarhus University in Denmark on ionic liquids on metal oxide surfaces for

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
photovoltaic applications, and with Lund University in Sweden on CO2 capture by super-basic ionic
liquid thin films (Syres). Smerdon has ongoing collaboration with the Centre for Nanoscale Materials
at Argonne National Laboratory, on molecular electronics. Gamza works with collaborators at the
Max Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids in Germany, on the physics and chemistry of
novel intermetallic phases, and with researchers at the Cavendish Laboratory, University of
Cambridge, on topological systems and materials displaying Fermi surface instabilities.

Conferences
JHI Staff organised an international conference on Understanding the roles of rotation, pulsation and
chemical peculiarities in the upper main sequence in the Lake District in September 2016
(www.star.uclan.ac.uk/stars2016), which was attended by more than 70 participants from all over
the world. Smerdon and Syres organised the first UK Surface Science Day conference, held at
UCLan in 2015 and run yearly since then at other UK locations.

Further contributions to conference activities took place via participation in SOCs and organisation
of a number of conference sessions. For example, Debattista was Chair of the Science Organizing
Committee for the conference “The Role of Gas in Galaxy Dynamics”, Valletta, Malta, (2017), and
for the workshops “Nuclear Clusters in Galaxies, and the Role of the Environment”, Leiden,
Netherlands (2014) and “Thin, Thick and Dark Disks”, Ascona, Switzerland (2017). A number of staff
members organised RAS meetings and NAM Sessions.
A total of 80 invited talks were presented by JHI speakers at international conferences. Some of the
highlights are as follows: Debattista was a Keynote Speaker at the conference on “Deconstructing
Galaxies: Structure and Morphology in the Era of Large Surveys”, held in Santiago, Chile, in
November 2013. Popescu was an Invited Speaker and Discussion Leader at the international
conference ‘Dusting the Universe’ in Tucson, USA in 2019. Dalla was Invited Rapporteur Speaker
for Solar and Heliospheric Physics at the 36th International Cosmic Ray Conference, Madison, USA,
2019. Ward-Thompson was Invited Speaker at the IAU Symposium 315: ‘From interstellar clouds to
star-forming galaxies: universal processes?’ (during IAU General Assembly, Hawaii, 2015).
Stamatellos was invited to give a Review Talk on “The theory of the formation of brown dwarfs and
low-mass stars” at the conference “Star formation from Cores to Clusters” that took place in ESO,
Chile, in March 2017.

Leadership within the Academic Community
JHI staff have taken on positions of responsibility within the scientific community in a number of roles:
Popescu is President of the IAU Commission J1 (The Spectral Energy Distribution of Galaxies) since
2018, having been Vice-President of this Commission during 2015-2018. Since June 2020 Argo,
who is an ECR, has been Vice President of the RAS and she has been RAS Council member since
2017. Kurtz was RAS Vice-President during 2015 – 2017 and served on RAS Council during 2012
– 2014. Popescu is a member of the Steering Committee of the IAU Division J (Galaxies and
Cosmology). Argo is a member of the Organising Committee of the IAU Commission C2
(Communicating Astronomy with the Public) (2015-present).
A JHI academic member of staff (name not disclosed for confidentiality reasons) sits on one of the
European Research Council (ERC) grants panels for 2019-2022. Brown was Deputy Chair of STFC's
Astronomy Grants Panel during 2013-2015 and in 2020, and a member of STFC's Solar Physics
Facilities Review Panel (2017). Ward-Thompson is currently on the STFC Project Peer Review Panel
(PPRP) for two years (2020-2022). Dalla is currently on the Solar Missions Post-Launch Support
Oversight Committee, reporting to the UK Space Agency (2019-present). Debattista served on the
NASA Astrophysics Data Analysis Program grant panel (2015), and the NSF Theoretical and
Computational Astrophysics Networks programme panel (2018). Dalla was a member of an
international panel carrying out a 5-yearly review of the School of Cosmic Physics, Dublin Institute
of Advanced Studies. Gordon Bromage (UCLan Emeritus Professor) was Chair of the 2015 decadal
review of Armagh Observatory's research and outreach.
Sansom is a member of the international ALMA review panel (for telescope time applications) since
2019. In 2019 she was deputy-chair of a sub-panel and in 2020 she chaired it. Argo is on the UK
Time allocation panel for the Isaac Newton Group of telescopes (2018-present) and she sits on the

                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Funding panel of the IAU Office of Astronomy for Development (2015-present). Kurtz was a member
of the External Advisory Board of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences (2017-2020). Ward-
Thompson was a member of the UK ALMA Oversight Committee (2012-2019).
Walsh was a member and rotating chair of STFC’s Innovation Partnership Scheme Assessment
Panel (2014-2017) and currently sits on STFC’s assessment panel for the Leadership Fellowships
in Public Engagement.
Argo is a member of the RAS "A" (Astrophysics) Awards Committee (2018-present) and Ward-
Thompson (2011-2015) and Kurtz (2015-2017) have been members of the same panel – the latter
chaired it for a year. Dalla has been a Member of RAS “G” (Geophysics) Awards Committee (2013-
2015).
Syres is Vice-Chair of the Institute of Physics (IOP) Thin Films and Surfaces Group Committee (since
2017). Mercer sits on the IOP Magnetism Group Committee. Ward-Thompson is an Assessor within
the IOP Accreditation Panels. Since January 2020 Syres has been a member of the Daphne Jackson
Trust assessment panel, which reviews fellowship applications.
As mentioned in Section 1, UCLan/JHI is a Founder Member of SALT and has supported it
continuously since its foundation. Bromage was the UK's only member of SALT's Board of Directors
(2012-2015) and Europe's only member of SALT's Finance Committee. He sat on the SALT
Finance/Audit Committee continuously during 2013-2021.

Public engagement activities
As outlined in Section 1, our extensive work within public engagement focussed primarily on three
strands: (i) engaging low science capital, under-served, non-traditional communities; (ii) further
developing collaborations with local partners; and (iii) exploring the interface between astrophysics,
art and culture. As indication of the quality of the PE work carried out by the JHI during the
assessment period, Walsh was awarded the RAS Annie Maunder Medal for Outreach in January
2021.
Particular highlights include, in addition to those already mentioned in Section 1-
   •   Significant growth in the number of visitors to Observatory open evenings (tripled during this
       period), the JHI Public Lectures (four per year) by high profile external speakers and the
       annual Lancashire Science Festival.
   •   Continuing schools engagement activity, including funded projects from the Ogden Trust, a
       dedicated Isaac Physics Fellow mentoring several local schools as well as regular physics
       masterclasses at Cardinal Newman Sixth Form College.
   •   JHI hosted INTERACT Symposium in September 2019, a unique event in the physical and
       life sciences that was developed and delivered alongside STFC, RAS, IOP, SAC and the
       Ogden Trust.
   •   Ward-Thompson was President of the UK Society for Popular Astronomy (SPA) during 2012-
       2014 and Walsh is IAU UK National Outreach Coordinator since 2019.
   •   For the IAU100 centenary in 2019, Walsh organized a national competition for UK school
       children to name an exoplanet and its host star. The final names (exoplanet ‘Cruinlagh’ and
       its host star ‘Gloas’) were selected from over 1,000 suggestions, submitted by more than
       10,000 young people.
   •   Walsh co-authored the UCLan multi-disciplinary popular science book “Unmasked: The
       Science of Superheroes”, supported by STFC and the Reading Agency to place two copies
       in every library across the UK.

International Public Engagement
Prof Don Kurtz (who retired from JHI in 2020, prior to the census date) has been involved in a number
of outreach activities promoting astronomy in Africa. These included: lecture courses at the
University of Cape Town Astronomy Summer School for the public in 2017 and 2019; popular talk to
300 school children at Hizunan Medehanealem School, Addis Ababa in 2018, with sponsorship from

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the Ethiopian Space Science and Technology Centre; talk to pupils from four schools (80 children)
at the Botswana International University for Science and Technology; several public talks and star
talks in South Africa. Also, Walsh began a partnership with Kibogora Polytechnic in Rwanda to
improve school science teaching using astronomy and he led an outreach activity at the 2017 eclipse
in the US. Argo is heavily involved in IAU commission C2, promoting astronomy in developing
countries and is on the funding panel of the IAU Office of Astronomy for Development.
Kurtz contributed to the training of postgraduate and advanced undergraduate students in Africa by
presenting Introductory Astrophysics, a 10-day all-day lecture course, at the University Eduoardo
Mondlane in Mozambique, under the auspices of DARA (Development in Africa with Radio
Astronomy) in 2019 (a consortium of which the JHI is still part). Ward-Thompson has a DARA-funded
PhD student from Zambia. During DARA consortium meetings in South Africa, Kurtz interacted with
and advised several of the 80 students from eight African countries. In 2018 Kurtz presented an
intensive all-day two-week course in Astrophysics at the Mbarara University of Science and
Technology in Uganda, to postgraduate and undergraduate students.




                                                                                           Page 15
