Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Reading

 Unit of Assessment: UOA30 – Philosophy

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 Philosophy at the University of Reading is a small Unit which provides a supportive and lively
 environment, enabling researchers to work with a range of academic and non-academic partners
 to address fundamental issues, often of immediate and significant import for society. Although
 we are small in terms of staff numbers, we aim to maximise the ambition, scale and reach of our
 work. Our research vision is focused on tackling important questions through developing new
 ways of collaborative working, with research in this REF cycle supported by a greater range of
 interdisciplinary activity and international engagement, plus an increased range and intensity of
 work with non-academic partners. The features presented here demonstrate both that we have
 achieved our aims in relation to this vision and that we have credible structures and plans in
 place to ensure our ambitious level of research activity continues into the future.

 1.1. Unit context and place within University structures
 The Philosophy Department is made up of 11 academic staff (5 professors, 2 associate
 professors and 4 lecturers), two of whom are on teaching-intensive contracts and four are on
 fractional contracts (=7.5 FTE submitted to REF). We have an active research environment,
 supporting on average 25 PhD students at any one time and hosting a range of other
 researchers (postdoctoral students and visiting scholars), addressing a wide spectrum of
 philosophical areas and issues, with significant clusters in moral philosophy, philosophy of
 language, and Wittgenstein.

 Our research is primarily focused around two research centres:
    • Centre for Cognition Research (CCR), inaugurated in 2012 (Director: Borg). CCR
        focuses on the understanding of human intelligence. It brings together researchers from
        disciplines including Philosophy, Psychology, Cybernetics, Engineering, Linguistics, in
        the belief that progress on the fundamental issues involved in understanding the mind
        will be enhanced by the input of scholars from a range of cognate fields.
    • Reading Ethics and Political Philosophy (REAPP), inaugurated in 2013 (Co-Directors:
        Elson and Jubb, Politics). REAPP brings together moral and political philosophers who
        share a commitment to the methods of analytical philosophy. REAPP’s members work
        across a range of issues in moral and political philosophy, in particular fairness; politics
        and violence; intergenerational justice; ethics and uncertainty. REAPP acts as a hub for
        individual scholars to exchange ideas, develop projects, and organise events and also
        offers joint supervision of PhD students.

 As described in the Institutional Environment Statement (IES, section 1), since 2015 the
 University’s research activitiy has been structured around Research Divisions, under four broad
 and interacting Research Themes. Philosophy is one of nine Divisions that sit within the Heritage
 & Creativity Theme (H&C). Each Theme is led by a Research Dean who facilitates interaction
 and best practice and encourages interdisciplinarity, providing seed-funding for pilot studies and
 collaborative activities. Each Division has a Research Division Lead (RDL) supported by an
 academic impact lead from within the Division and the Impact Development Manager for H&C (a
 member of Research and Enterprise Services, RES).

 A broad interdisciplinarity perspective is achieved via interactions across the University made
 operational via ten Interdisciplinary Research Centres, including the Centre for Cognition
 Research (CCR) (see IES section 2.1.1). As well as leading CCR, Philosophy is well-integrated
 in University research networks, including:
     • Links with the Centre for Neuroscience and Neurodynamics (led out of Psychology) have
        been important for a number of CCR projects, especially Hansen’s work on scalar
        adjectives and Borg and Hansen’s work on chronic pain.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Links with the School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences and with
        Biomedical Sciences have been important for Oderberg’s work on mistakes and
        corrections in living systems, Borg and Hansen’s work on pain, and Hansen’s work on
        the experimental basis of philosophical thought experiments.
    •   Links with English Literature and the Samuel Beckett Research Centre have been
        important for De Gaynesford’s work on philosophy and poetry, together with early career
        researcher work on the philosophy of humour and insinuation.
    •   REAPP which is co-led by Philosophy and Politics and International Relations.

 1.2. Research strategy
 The aim of our research strategy in REF2014 was to maintain excellence over a broad range of
 areas in analytic philosophy, while emphasising departmental strengths in ethics, philosophy of
 language and philosophy of mind. Our 2014 submission noted the founding of CCR and REAPP,
 as mechanisms for meeting this latter aim, and they have shaped our strategy around the core
 value of collaboration (with both academic and non-academic partners). For, while we recognise
 and value the contributions of individual scholars, it is clear to us that progress on many of the
 most intractable philosophical and societal problems will depend on combining the expertise and
 understanding of multiple perspectives from a range of backgrounds.

 Our strategy during the period has thus been to support and nurture collaborative working, in
 order to maximise the strength, relevance and reach of our research. The move to more
 collaborative working has allowed us to maintain and enhance our collective research output
 during a time of staff change (including one retirement, one semi-retirement, and voluntary
 moves to part-time work), mitigating the impact of staff reduction through creative use of shared
 expertise and resources.

 The mechanisms we use to support collaborative research are:

    a) The Philosophy Collaborative Research Fund (PCRF): a
       departmental fund of approximately £30k to support
       collaborative research initiatives. This has supported
       conferences, workshops and research meetings hosted at
       Reading (with c.20 external academics visiting under this
       scheme, often over a number of days/events), as well as
       more than 10 visits by Reading researchers to other
       institutions and conferences, in the UK and abroad. Examples
       of events we have hosted include a workshop on ‘Meaning,
       truth and polysemy’ with ten invited UK and European experts in philosophy of language;
       a workshop on ‘The ‘polyeidic’ theory of pain’ with invited UK and Canadian experts, and
       a three-day meeting with two experts (from Universidad del Norte, Barranquilla,
       Colombia, and University of Hertfordshire) discussing a book manuscript on
       Wittgenstein’s philosophy of mathematics. This targeted resource has helped to create
       new and on-going research partnerships (eg. Borg and Hansen’s work with Tim
       Salomons (Queens University, Canada, and Hansen’s link with Julia Zakkou at the Free
       University in Berlin), contributing to a vibrant and distinctive research environment,
       accessible to and enjoyed by philosophers across all career stages.
    b) The Philosophy Research Strategy Group (PRSG): is a committee of all staff introduced
       in 2015, which meets at least once a term. The PRSG agrees research and impact
       priorities, and is an important venue for support and feedback, sharing of best practice,
       and discussing grant applications at an early stage.
    c) The embedding and growth of our two interdisciplinary research centres which have
       supported a range of exciting and innovative research projects.

 Our strategic focus on collaboration is already resulting in significant changes to our profile.
 During the REF2014 period just four outputs were co-authored, while in the current assessment
 period this has risen to a total of 17. There has also been a significant shift toward collaborative
 and/or interdisciplinary research grants:

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Hansen’s 2017-19 Leverhulme Research Project Grant, ‘The Psychology of
        Philosophical Thought Experiments’ (over £100k, held jointly with Beaman, Psychology).
    •   two AHRC Research Network awards, on ‘The Action-based Brain’, (£31k held by
        Stazicker jointly with Glennerster, Psychology), and on ‘Pervasive context’ (£26k, held
        by Borg and Hansen with researchers at Peking University).
    •   joint University of Reading/NHS funding (£46k, Borg and Hansen with staff in
        Psychology and from the Pain Management Unit of the Royal Berkshire Hospital, for
        work on understanding chronic pain; secured 2019, project running 2020-21).
    •   Heritage & Creativity funding secured by Borg to run a two-day multidisciplinary
        conference on Pain and Belief (June 2018).
    •   Borg’s 2020-23 Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (£65k) for work on the
        philosophical implications of findings in social psychology.

 1.3 Impact strategy
 The growth in academic collaborative working has been matched by a growth in non-academic
 collaboration, with external partners contributing to, and making greater use of, our research. As
 part of our strategy planning we identified two key audiences – business and healthcare – for
 whom our research was particularly relevant. We thus adopted the strategic priority to enhance
 the reach and value of our research within these sectors and we have worked hard to grow
 partnerships in these areas. CCR has become a focal point for work with the Royal Berkshire
 Hospital; we have developed a department-level relationship with the world-leading Henley
 Business School; and have built a close working relationship with a social enterprise
 organisation, Ethical Reading.

 To coordinate our work with partner organisations, and grow the value of these relationships, we
 appointed an Impact Lead and put in place mechanisms to support network development (e.g.
 external collaboration is a standing item for PRSG meetings which has facilitated department-
 wide engagement with partners). University-level support mechanisms (including an Impact
 Manager for the H&C theme, the new research communications team, training programmes, and
 Theme-level forums for sharing best practice) have been crucial for shaping our impact strategy.
 The integration of all these support structures has enabled us to meet both our research and
 impact collaborative aims in this period.

 1.4 Forward planning
 Using our two research centres, the networks we have cultivated, and the structures and funding
 put in place to support collaborative working, the Unit will continue to provide a robust platform
 for individual scholars to take forward their own research interests by embedding individual work
 in a collaborative framework. We will draw in expertise and insight from across career levels,
 from academic partner institutions, across disciplines, and from our non-academic partnerships,
 to ensure researchers continue to produce high-quality work that is of relevance, significance
 and use, both for Philosophy as a discipline and for wider society.

 Work in REAPP will be supported through planned publications (e.g. a forthcoming edited
 volume on Hooker’s contribution to moral philosophy and those associated with Borg’s British
 Academy grant ‘Reshaping Relations between the State and the Private Sector post-COVID-
 19’), and by the further growth of collaborative work with Henley Business School. To enhance
 our research-led teaching in this area, we are at the approval stage of launching a new degree
 programme in Philosophy and Business. Greater interaction between Philosophy and Henley will
 open up new research opportunities and enhance our work on business ethics. Connections with
 Henley will also drive wider dissemination, providing opportunities to engage with new
 stakeholder groups. Finally, connections with local firms, established through work with Ethical
 Reading, will be utilised to enhance the value of our moral and political research for the local
 community, particularly on questions related to the social role and responsibilities of business.

 Work in CCR will be supported through the contribution of staff to international networks (e.g.
 Borg and Hansen’s contribution to a new research network exploring communication on social
 media) and publications such as those associated with Borg’s Leverhulme Major Research

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fellowship on philosophy and social psychology. The Royal Berkshire Hospital remains a key
 stakeholder and we will further strengthen this partnership with the aim and mutual benefit of (a)
 informing our research through knowledge exchange with practitioners and patients and (b)
 enhancing the role and reach of philosophical ideas in informing healthcare debates. We will
 strengthen these connections through, for example, further grant applications stemming from
 work on chronic pain, and support for Newey’s research on the use of ‘fairness’ in the NHS
 constitution. We are deepening these links through small, highly focused discussion sessions
 involving Philosophy researchers, clinicians and patients on topics of mutual relevance. We will
 also grow our connections with other healthcare stakeholders, e.g. through Borg’s supervision
 of an AHRC-funded doctoral student on a collaborative project with Powys NHS Teaching Health
 Board and a researcher at Aberystwyth University (2020-23).

 We aim to further enhance our work on increasing the representation of non-Western philosophy
 and non-Western partnerships, in order to extend diversity of thought in our discipline. For
 instance, Sinha is part of a two-year international project (2019-21) on ‘Impersonal Idealism:
 Buddhist-Platonist Philosophical Dialogues’ coordinated by Yale-NUS College and involving
 academics from Europe, Singapore, the UK and USA. We will also consolidate and grow our
 links with researchers in China, including grant applications, hosting visiting fellows, and with
 further publications in this area (e.g. Preston and Craddock’s 2020 paper on roles and
 representations of women in early Chinese philosophy).

 1.5 Open access
 We are fully commited to open research to ensure our work is accessible and replicable. We
 have made good use of funding support for Gold OA, through research grants, institutional
 arrangements with publishers, or University funding for journal article processing charges (e.g.
 Hansen, 2017; 2020).

 1.6 Research integrity
 A School ethics committee reviews all relevant people-centred reserch projects, with any
 requiring higher scrutiny reviewed at University level (and in accordance with the Hospital where
 necessary). Our annual Personal Development Review incorporates a strong professional
 standards aspect which reinforces research integrity and provides an opportunity to review
 training needs. We have strong internal peer review processes, providing critical but supportive
 feedback on each other’s work, which invariably strengthens our research outputs, and grant
 applications.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy
 The aim of our staffing strategy has been to maintain an agile Unit, able to deliver a wide-
 ranging, research-informed undergraduate curriculum, while also undertaking high-level
 philosophical research within an energetic collaborative research environment. We have done
 this by focusing and expanding in areas of existing strength. During the current assessment
 period we have been delighted to welcome a number of new staff to strengthen important
 research themes.

 Philosophy at Reading has traditionally been known for its excellence in moral philosophy and
 we have aimed to maintain this expertise. Luke Elson (an ECR at time of hiring) was appointed
 in 2014 to replace Bart Streumer and maintain our strength in metaethics, with a focus on ethics
 and rationality. Elson has made an outstanding contribution in this area (winning a Marie Curie
 award and publishing in top journals). Charlotte Newey (ECR) was appointed in 2018 to replace
 Stazicker and to develop our expertise on fairness and reinforce our strength in political
 philosophy, to grow the strength of REAPP.

 To maintain our strength in philosophy of mind and language we appointed Jumbly Grindrod
 (ECR) to embed work on philosophy of language in the undergraduate curriculum. Grindrod
 joined us initially on a Teaching Intensive contract and we are fully committed to supporting him

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to develop his research profile. For instance, like all TI staff he is entitled to sabbatical leave, and
 he has received funding from the PCRF to organise a workshop on ‘Truth, Meaning and
 Polysemy’, funding from the H&C Research Theme for research into new methodologies in the
 philosophy of language, and support through collaborative research and publication:
     • Grindrod, J., Andow, J., and Hansen, N. (2019) Third-person Knowledge Ascriptions: A
        crucial experiment for contextualism. Mind and Language, 34 (2).
     • Grindrod, J. and Borg, E. (2019) Questions under Discussion and the
        Semantics/Pragmatics Divide Philosophical Quarterly, 69 (275).

 Finally, Shalini Sinha was a strategic appointment to further our aim of raising the profile of non-
 Western philosophy within our undergraduate teaching and the sharing of ideas and
 understanding across the traditions of Western and non-Western philosophy. Both Grindrod and
 Sinha have been given full support for their research, to enable them to move to research-
 inclusive roles in future (if they wish to). Sinha has received PCRF funding and was supported to
 run the successful Ratio 2017 one-day conference.

 2.2 Equality and diversity
 We are fully committed to equality and diversity in the recruitment and support of staff and
 research students from a wide cross-section of society. The appointment of two female
 philosophers during the period (50% of new appointments), together with the BAME background
 of one, demonstrates this commitment, which is is also evidenced by our receptivity to part-time
 working arrangements to encourage those with caring commitments to remain in the profession.
 We engage actively with University initiatives on E&D and Elson and De Gaynesford have both
 taken a leading role in the School of Humanities planning for Athena SWAN accreditation.

 We are working to create a step-change in visibility for non-Western philosophy by growing our
 links with non-Western philosophers, particularly those working in China, and making significant
 changes to our undergraduate teaching programme. Several activities have promoted diversity
 of thought behond the Anglophone world, including hosting a dedicated Ratio conference and
 journal on ‘Self and Attention: Cross-cultural perspectives’ in 2017 (the first Ratio conference
 and special journal issue dedicated to non-Western philosophy), and a Royal Institute of
 Philosophy public lecture on Learning from Chinese Philosophy (delivered by Professor van
 Norden, Yale-NUS Singapore).

 Other support
 We take full advantage of the support policies set out by the University (IES, section 3),
 supplemented by departmental policies where appropriate. For example:
    • Study leave: All academic staff, including Teaching Intensive, temporary (with a three-
        year contract or longer), and part-time staff are entitled to a sabbatical after seven terms
        of teaching. This is above the University norm of nine terms, which we are able to
        faciliate as a small, flexible and collegial team.
    • Flexible and/or remote working: A number of staff have requested part-time working
        for personal reasons, which we have faciliated through flexible working arrangements.
    • Career development: All staff have access to development funds via the PCRF and
        Research Division Leader’s research fund. Teaching Intensive staff are encouraged to
        work towards Teaching and Research status (where wished) via the annual Performance
        Development Review process. They are also encouraged to apply for Heritage &
        Creativity Theme funds aimed at ECRs to enable them to complete research projects.
    • Accessibilty: We have made anticipatory adjustments for staff and students with
        disabilities. For example, a PhD student with a serious speech impediment is given extra
        time for research presentations and additional supervision. We have been proactive in
        shaping University policy on support for staff with caring responsibilities, in particular a
        recent change to the policy on expenses for ad hoc childcare to attend conferences or
        other research events, which Borg brought to the University’s attention in 2020.
    • COVID-19: During the recent lockdowns, we quickly moved PhD supervision, seminars,
        staff meetings and line management online to enable home-working. Subsequent

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        communications from the Head of Department ensured important information was shared
        quickly, including advice on well-being and creating an effective and safe home-working
        environment. The University allowed essential equipment and furniture to be taken home
        if required.

 2.3 Staff development
 Mechanisms of research support for staff (including ECR and Teaching Intensive staff) include:
     • an active mentoring scheme with regular meetings to advise on journal selection, grant
        applications, University support, etc. and to discuss career progression.
     • annual Performance Development reviews with the Head of Department and Personal
        Research Planning meetings with the Research Division Leader.
     • a weekly Philosophy Research Seminar, with both external visiting speakers and Work in
        Progress presentations from staff.
     • regular REAP Work in Progress seminars.
     • our sabbatical leave system that applies to all academic staff on 0.2 FTE and a three-
        year contract or above.

 We have also refined and enhanced support for staff at all levels to facilitate collaboration, for
 instance:
     • weekly Informal Research Presentations, in addition to our more formal Work in Progress
        sessions, to allow on-going and iterative feedback on research ideas.
     • a new grant support system (in addition to the H&C Grant Development College) where
        staff receive feedback on applications from colleagues prior to submission.
     • a new system where staff can receive peer feedback on draft papers.

 As noted above, the PCRF has been a vital element in our staff development strategy,
 supporting a number of events that have increased the vibrancy of our research environment
 and raised the career profiles of staff and PhD students. We also support staff by providing ‘light
 terms’ (with reduced teaching or administrative duties) for staff working on important
 collaborations, and support staff in taking up roles outside the Unit to increase their experience
 of University administration and aid their career development.

 Staff benefit from a wide range of centrally provided professional development opportunities
 (e.g. research-relevant IT skills, research communications, publishing and open research, and a
 Grant Development College). Staff have also benefitted from University financial support from
 the Reserch Endowment Trust fund and seed-funding for pilot projects from the Dean for
 Heritage & Creativity.

 2.4 Postgraduate research students
 We have benefitted from our participation in the AHRC-funded South, West and Wales DTP
 (Phase 1 for students commencing between 2014 and 2018, and with renewed funding in Phase
 2 for students commencing from October 2019 to October 2023). The DTP has funded 12
 Philosophy PhD students to date and provide additional training, networking and development
 oppportunities. We also work alongside colleagues from Agriculture, Economics, Geography,
 Law, Meteorology and Politics & International Relations to deliver the Leverhulme Climate
 Justice DTP (which has funded 3 students since 2016). Two students have received University
 funding for their PhD studies, and we have funded one other from departmental, teaching-
 related resource.

 In total, 56 students have been registered for PhD supervision during the assessment period
 (this figure includes current and past students, visiting students, and SWW DTP students based
 at institutions other than Reading) – with approximately 25 students studying with us in any one
 year. Among our current students, 14% of our UK and 56% of non-UK PhD students are BAME,
 and 8% have a registered disability.

 A crucial part of our development programme for this large cohort has involved building
 collaborative working within our PhD cohort, to enhance the transfer of the skills and knowledge

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 needed to pursue future careers. This collaborative working ethos is facilitated by regular
 graduate events (each c.2 hours per week):
    • the Graduate Research Seminar allows students to present their work to their peers, and
        to comment on the work of other students, honing their presentational and argumentation
        skills and gaining knowledge across a wide sweep of philosophical areas. It is convened
        by a staff member, with all supervisors in attendance.
    • the Graduate Class is led by a different staff member each term and analyses a staff
        manuscript, an important book, or a collection of themed papers, providing graduate
        students with enhanced skills training and a wider philosophical knowledge base.

 Graduate students also benefit from the departmental Research Seminars and reading groups,
 which enhance their subject-specific knowledge and hone their group interaction skills. Finally
 the Wittgenstein Seminar welcomes three or four external speakers each term to discuss core
 issues in Wittgenstein’s work, and all students and staff are welcome to attend.

 The current period has seen a significant increase in interdisciplinary graduate development,
 primarily through activities undertaken in REAPP and CCR. These provide an opportunity for
 graduate students to learn about work at the interface of philosophy and other cognate subjects,
 extending their methodological skills and allowing them to network beyond the discipline.
 Students participating in CCR are able to learn distinctive methodological practices (e.g. an
 appreciation of experimental design and statistical analysis). Joint University and Royal
 Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust funding is currently supporting Sarah Fisher, a postdoctoral
 researcher working within the Pain Management Unit at the Royal Berkshire Hospital, aiding
 cross-institution learning. Students in REAPP gain an important cross-disciplinary perspective on
 topics such as freedom, justice and the rule of law. Furthermore, the Centres have increased the
 amount of cross-disciplinary supervision for students, with eight students formally having one
 supervisor from Philosophy together with a second from a different discipline, and many others
 benefitting from informal cross-disciplinary arrangements.

 Many students approaching completion have also benefitted from the PCRF, using awards to
 travel to meet with relevant experts or to host external experts (including some from abroad) for
 dedicated one-to-one sessions discussing thesis work. We believe this level of financial support
 for graduate research to be unusual.

 All PhD students are members of the University’s Graduate School, which provides computer
 facilities and study space as well as networking and social opportunities to meet with students
 across disciplines. The Graduate School coordinates University bursaries for PGR students and
 also provides financial support for conference attendance. It coordinates a full graduate training
 programme, covering research skills, communication skills, teaching skills (where relevant) and
 other modules designed to improve study outcomes and employability. Full-time students are
 expected to complete 11 modules over 3 years, and part-time students 9 modules over 4 years.

                                   The success of our PhD development is evidenced by the
                                   number of completions in the period (29, an average of 4 per
                                   staff FTE) and by our full-time submission rate within 48 months
                                   (95% for 2010/11 – 2014/15 cohorts). Over the REF period,
                                   42% achieved their doctorate at first attempt, i.e. passing
                                   without corrections, and 84% passed with either no corrections
                                   or minor corrections. A high number of our PhD and
                                   postdoctoral students have gone on to academic roles,
                                   including postdoctoral positions at Antwerp, Bern, Cambridge,
                                   Lisbon, Reading. Stanford and Stockholm; temporary positions
 at Bristol, Cardiff, LSE, Warwick and York; and permanent positions at Bradford, Leeds,
 Liverpool, the Open University, Reading, the American University of Cairo, Hokkai Gakuen
 University, Japan and the University of Zambia. Finally, one PhD student who completed in this
 period is now Dean at the Central European University.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                 The strength of our PhD programme is also evidenced by the
                                 successful publication record of our students. While at Reading,
                                 our postgraduate and postdoctoral students published 18 papers,
                                 8 of which were written collaboratively with staff, a marked
                                 change from zero such papers in the last assessment period,
                                 indicating the shift towards greater collaboration in our research
                                 culture. Papers cover a broad range of topics, including
                                 ‘Implicatures in judicial opinions’; ‘A corpus study of “know”’; ‘The
                                 repeatability argument and the non-extensional bundle theory’;
                                 ‘Nietzsche on human greatness’; and ‘Virtual morality:
 transitioning from moral judgement to moral action?’, and were published in a broad range of
 well-respected journals, e.g. Australasian Journal of Philosophy, Mind and Language,
 Philosophical Studies, Synthese, Theoria.

 The vitality of our graduate body is also evidenced by awards they have received, including:
    • Winner of the Crítica essay competition on 'empirically informed philosophy' 2020
    • Winner of the Australasian Society of Legal Philosophy Essay Competition 2020
    • Winner of the University of Reading open research award 2019
    • Best Poster award, European Society for Philosophy and Psychology annual conference
        2017
    • Award of an Analysis studentship (1 year)
    • Award of an Aristotelian Society PhD Bursary (1 year)
    • Award of an Applied Philosophy Doctoral Scholarship (1 year)
    • An International Association for the Philosophy of Time Prize Bursary 2017.

 Other awards include stipends to attend summer workshops (multiple awards from the University
 of Oslo, and two from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem). Our AHRC-funded students have
 also made use of the opportunity to undertake work experience secondments (e.g. a prestigious
 3-month European Commission Traineeship in Brussels, and a 3-month placement at City
 University New York), and we hosted a PhD student from Sheffield for a 3-month AHRC-funded
 placement. Finally, we note the role graduate students have played in bringing research income
 and activity through running successful workshops and conferences (e.g. the successful Ratio
 2019 conference on Applied Philosophy of Language, and the 2016 British Postgraduate
 Philosophical Association annual conference), while the REAPP annual conference is organised
 by graduate students every year.

 We would also like to note that our inclusive approach encourages important contributions from
 our undergraduates. A primary mechanism for this is the University’s Undergraduate Research
 Opportunities Programme (UROP), which provides second-year undergraduate students with a
 6-week summer research placement. We have been successful in securing UROP funding for
 nine projects across a wide range of areas, e.g. Implementing Wittgenstein’s mesh analogy with
 a software solution; Climate change and rational choice; and Roles and representations of
 women in Chinese philosophy. Findings from the latter were published in Frontiers Chinese
 Philosophy, in a joint article by Preston and the undergraduate. These collaborative projects,
 crossing traditional divides in academic career stages, have served to reinforce our collaborative
 research aims and helped build a truly inclusive research environment.

 2.5 REF submission
 Equality and Diversity has played a crucial role in constructing this submission, following the
 University’s Code of Practice. Staff were kept informed of deadlines and the process of
 assessing independent researcher status. All submitted staff were asked to provide
 assessments of their most suitable outputs, and periodically to update them. Assessments were
 subject to an internal peer review, with each output graded by two staff, and at an earlier stage
 by two external assessors. These grades, along with self-assessment and appropriate use of
 bibliographic metrics, informed final selection. The internal peer review process was more
 inclusive than previous assessment exercises; all submitted staff participated (not just senior


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff). The University’s interim Equality Impact Assessment (2020) and bias analysis (2021)
 identified no statistically significant differences for protected characteristics in our selection.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income
 The Unit’s recorded research income in the period was £262,029 with the value of grants
 awarded at £317,458. This is a considerable increase since REF 2014.

 Table 1. Income per year
                      REF2014          REF2021       Increase
  Income              £131,343         £262,029      99%
  Per Year            £26,269          £37,433       42%
  Per Year and FTE    £2,345           £5,163        120%




 We note also that Philosophy has benefitted significantly from external funding not recorded in
 this figure:
     • US$100,000 from Stanford University (Hansen, to support one year’s research leave)
     • c.£46k award from a joint University/Berkshire NHS funding board
     • £14k Analysis Studentship (paid directly to a one-year postdoc)
     • c.£11k in conference support from external bodies including the Analysis Trust,
          Aristotelian Society, Guarantors of the Brain and Mind Association.

 Support from internal sources has totalled over £60k, including:
     • £30k departmental-level PCRF funding
     • a University Research Fellowship to carry out underpinning research for a monograph on
        Experimenting on social meaning (Hansen, £10k)
     • a Research Dean’s Award and Interdisciplinary Research Centre award to support
        preliminary work on pain (Borg, £6.5k)
     • Research Endowment Trust Fund awards (Oderberg, £2k; Stratton-Lake, £2k), to
        support work on a policy monograph and two papers respectively
     • £13k from the University’s Building Impact Support Programme (BOISP).
 Our total research income from all sources is thus almost £470k (£262,029 recorded REF spend
 plus £207,500 in other awards). Looking forward, funding beyond 2020 is already beginning to

                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 accrue (including Borg’s Leverhulme Trust Major Research Fellowship and Hansen’s Humboldt
 Research Fellowship for Experienced Researchers, both 2020-23, and Borg’s British Academy
 Special Research Grants: COVID-19 award, 2020-21).

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 We have enhanced our research structures in a number of ways, for instance introducing the
 Philosophy Research Strategy Group and weekly Informal Research Presentations. However, it
 is our two interdisciplinary centres, REAPP and CCR, that provide the core structural support for
 meeting our aim of increasing interdisciplinary collaborative research.

 Reading Ethics and Political Philosophy provides the main forum for interaction between
 Philosophy, Law and Politics. In this assessment period, REAPP has run three two-day
 conferences (on ‘New Directions in Realist Political Theory’ and on ‘New Directions in
 Legitimacy’); a two-day workshop on moral and rational uncertainty (with Liz Harman, Princeton,
 as keynote speaker); three two-day Graduate/Early Career Research Conferences. Philosophy
 Graduate students have also taken the lead in organising regular REAPP Reading Groups on
 key recent publications.

 The Centre for Cognition Research receives ring-fenced funding, administrative and
 communications support as one of the ten University-level Interdisciplinary Research Centres.
 One of its main activities is the CCR Summer Seminar Series which has run continuously for 8
 years (2013-20). This takes the form of high-level seminars (typically 2 hours per week for 8
 weeks), involving external speakers as well as speakers from different departments within the
 University. Past topics have included: experimental philosophy, representation in nature, the role
 of mirror neurons in understanding other minds, and the interdisciplinary understanding of pain.
 Most of these seminar series have been funded externally, including from the AHRC,
 Leverhulme Trust, the Reading Centre for Integrative Neuroscience and Neurodynamics, and
 the Templeton Foundation. In conjunction with Ratio, CCR has also run:
     • an inaugural two-day conference on experimental approaches to meaning (2014), with
         associated publication edited by Borg and Hansen
     • a two-day conference on ‘Experimental Philosophy as Applied Philosophy’ (2016) with
         associated publication
     • with Reading Emotions, a two-day conference on ‘Pain and Belief: From meaning to
         modulation’ (2018).

 In 2019 CCR hosted a special seminar series on the work of Daniel Dennett, in advance of
 Dennett’s week-long visit to Reading (events during his visit included a public lecture, dedicated
 meetings with graduate students, and a two-day symposium, where Borg was also a speaker).
 CCR also hosts overseas researchers for extended visits, including from Australia, Mexico (with
 one Mexican visitor funded by a British Academy Newton Mobility Grant), the USA, and multiple
 visitors from China (often in receipt of Chinese Government funding), again enriching the
 collaborative research environment of the Department.

                                          CCR provides the key infrastructure for leveraging the
                                          University’s partnership with the Royal Berkshire
                                          Hospital. Collaborative work with the Hospital is
                                          supported in a number of ways. University pump-priming
                                          resources supported a series of CCR seminars and a
                                          patient workshop exploring the understanding of pain,
                                          with follow-up funding enabling us to run a two-day
                                          conference. A joint postdoctoral researcher (Sarah
                                          Fisher), based at the University and the Hospital’s Pain
                                          Management Clinic, is currently funded by the Joint
 Academic Board of the two institutions. Contacts between CCR and RBH have been
 instrumental in a number of researchers taking forward research projects on issues in
 healthcare, including two clinicians from the Pain Management Unit (Dr Deepak Ravindran, the
 Director and Harriet Wilkinson, a physiotherapist).

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Infrastructure beyond the Unit has also been important. The University has recently invested
 £42m on a refurbishment of the main library. Support within the Heritage & Creativity Research
 Theme has provided training, communities of practice and financial support through seed
 funding. The impact support programme, BOISP, funds an Impact Manager for H&C who
 provides planning support, advice and small amounts of funding for stakeholder events or
 teaching buy-out. Work with the University Communications Team has underpinned a growth in
 public engagement, taking the benefits of research to a wider audience.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our research has achieved a material effect beyond academia, on society, culture, and public
 policy. Early in the REF period we identified two key audiences for our research –
 healthcare and business – and have worked with these two groups to influence attitudes,
 understanding and awareness, and impact on behaviour and policy change. We have also
 worked to raise public understanding in a range of further areas.

 4.1 Collaborations, networks and partnerships outside academia
 Healthcare
 A significant amount of the research we undertake has direct implications for issues in
 healthcare and we have developed a number of new partnerships to translate the benefit of our
 work to this sector. An example of this is Oderberg’s project on Conscientious Objection in
 Healthcare, which has involved working with advocates, policymakers and legislators to improve
 the understanding of freedom of conscience in medicine and to develop policy proposals (see
 Impact Case Study). To support this, Oderberg also gave evidence to the Nuffield Council on
 Bioethics inquiry into Genome Editing and Human Reproduction (2018).

 Oderberg’s work has involved national and international collaboration, and we have also sought
 to grow our engagement wth local healthcare providers and users to seek mutual benefit from
 our work within our community. A core strand of this work has involved a multidisciplinary team,
 led by Borg, working to develop a novel theory of the concept of pain (the ‘polyeidic’/‘many
 ideas’ approach) and explore its implications for treatment. The team comprises: Borg, Hansen,
 Stazicker (Philosophy); two academics from Psychology; pain patients, including from the RBH
 Pain Management Unit and networks such as the Berkshire Fibromyalgia support group; and
 clinicians from the Royal Berkshire Hospital (primarily Dr Deepak Ravindran, Director of the Pain
 Management Unit, and Dr Atul Kapila, Consultant Anaesthetist).

 Our aim has been to show how a more nuanced understanding of the concept of, and our
 language for, pain could improve outcomes from psychological pain management programmes,
 thereby improving the lives of chronic pain sufferers. The team has advanced understanding
 beyond academia in a number of ways. These have included running a 2-day conference
 attended by over 100 pain practitioners and academics; devising and running a series of ‘citizen
 science’ experiments to clarify the ways in which ordinary people think and talk about pain; and
 hosting a consultation workshop with chronic pain patients. Preliminary findings have been
 delivered to clinical practitioners (e.g. Borg’s delivery of a Sowerby Lecture for medical students
 at King’s College London) and we are now trialling the clinical dimensions of this research (led
 by postdoctoral researcher, Fisher, working across the Hospital and the University). Our aim is
 to contribute to the stratification of patients pre-treatment and to the delivery of psychological
 interventions, helping to improve both the use of limited NHS resources and outcomes for
 patients. The team have also contributed to public understanding by explaining the ideas behind
 the science (e.g. Borg’s talks at the Bath Taps Into Science festival of ideas (2019) and articles
 published in The Conversation and The Independent).

 Other staff have also been active in exploring issues in healthcare. Newey has published on fair
 allocations of healthcare resources for children and how this might inform fair allocations of


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 resources for adults, and this has led her to a more general interest on the use of the word
 'fairness' within the NHS Constitution, work she is undertaking with the help of University
 funding). Elson has worked on the ethical issues raised by privatisation of healthcare provision.
 In all these areas, we have been able to translate sometimes abstract philosophical research
 into tangible benefits for the healthcare sector, by working alongside clinical colleagues and
 patients.

 Business ethics
 A range of systemic scandals have rocked the business world since the financial crisis of 2008
 and these have brought questions about the nature of the relationship between society and the
 private sector to public and political prominence. It was clear to us that a significant amount of
 our research was directly relevant to these questions and we have seen a step-change in our
 work to engage with this sector. A focus of our collaboration with Ethical Reading has been
 ‘doing business better’, using social contract theory to ask what a ‘social purpose’ is, and
 whether companies should specify and fulfil such a purpose to earn their place in society
 (summarised in a well-attended public lecture).

 The benefits this integrated working have brought are outlined in Borg and Hooker’s Impact
 Case Study on Philosophy and Fair Business, which has had a material impact on business
 thinking and practice, helping to raise ethical standards across the Reading Borough area.
 However, collaborations with the business sector have also been important for other researchers
 in the Unit, who have used our partnership with Ethical Reading to reach out to a wider business
 audience. Elson, Hansen, Newey, Oderberg, and Stratton-Lake have all delivered webinars
 for Ethical Reading’s business partners and/or presented at Ethical Reading’s public events.
 Elson has also worked with other non-academic partners to explore the ethical dimensions of
 carbon off-setting, culminating in an appearance (2019) as an invited contributor to a public
 panel discussion on ‘Offsetting: A useful strategy in meeting net zero carbon targets?’, organised
 by the Happold Foundation and Ngenuity, with support from The Built Environment Trust in their
 City Conversations series of thought-leadership discussions. His work has also informed public
 understanding of these issues (e.g. through an article in The Conversation).

 Finally, Borg and Hooker have written the following three briefing
 documents:
    • a briefing for the banking standards board (October 2015)
    • a briefing document for Max von Thum, at the time Chief
         Economic Advisor for the Liberal Democrats (autumn 2018)
    • a briefing document for the Social Liberal Forum, a sub-group
         within the Lib Dems particularly concerned with economic
         policies (autumn 2018).

 Borg is building on this work for her British Academy-funded research on reshaping relations
 between the state and the private sector post-COVID-19, and has already published a
 consultation document on social licences for business and submitted evidence to European
 Commission enquiries and UK Treasury enquiries on taxation and greening the post-COVID
 recovery.

 Other stakeholders
                                   Depending on the focus on their work, staff have also engaged
                                   with a range of other partners, demonstrating the applicability
                                   of philosophical research. For instance, conversations with
                                   Hansen about his research on the context-sensitivity of colour
                                   has been cited as an influence on the way works were
                                   exhibited by a modern jewellery gallery in San Francisco
                                   (Sienna Patti Gallery, A Color-Curated Pop-Up, Fort Mason
                                   Center for Arts and Culture). Discussions with partners at the
                                   New York graphic design firm LABOUR about the nature of

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 context-sensitivity in communication (Hansen) inspired the designers to produce a new context-
 sensitive typeface, Visage, which was used on catalogues for Yale University’s art gallery, and
 on a range of clothing for the company 2k by Gingham (2006-2009, Visage typeface, LABOUR).

 Informing public understanding
 We have engaged in a number of public detates through a variety of formats. De Gaynesford
 was an invited guest on the Radio 3 programme ‘Freethinking’ (2020) to discuss film and
 imagination, and Oderberg appeared on Radio 4’s ‘The Moral Maze’ (2016) to discuss the
 psychology of morality. Both Oderberg and Hooker appeared on Radio 4’s ‘In Our Time’ (2017,
 2015), Hooker participated in a panel discussion on fairness on Radio 3 (2015), and Borg spoke
 on BBC Radio Berkshire (2014) discussing animal cognition. Borg was also interviewed about
 her research for the arts magazine 3AM (2018) and has spoken at a number of public festivals,
 including How the Light Gets In (2015) and Being Human (2014). Preston’s website and
 Facebook feed (Wittgenstein Day-by-Day) has received significant public interest, with some
 posts to the latter seen by more than 3,000 people. His article in The Conversation (2018), has
 been read by 13,900 people and shared 1215 times. Finally, our graduate students are also
 encouraged to get involved in engagement activities and have written for mainstream media
 including The Conversation and The Independent.

 4.2 Research collaborations, partnerships and networks
 Our view is that progress on problems in philosophy is enhanced by critical engagement with
                             ideas from diverse audiences, and we have therefore sought to
                             create knowledge exchange networks with a broad range of
                             collaborators. International collaborations are of particular interest
                             and we have worked to develop and grow our academic networks
                             and partnerships, in particular our research connections with China
                             as part of our aim of growing the representation of non-Western
                             researchers in UK Philosophy. Activity in this area has included:
                             • Two joint conferences (one hosted in Beijing and one in Reading,
                             as part of Borg and Hansen’s AHRC Research Network Award, held
        jointly with Peking University).
     • Preston has been an Academic Visitor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong and
        Director of the Oxford University Summer Institute in Philosophy at Huaqiao University,
        Xiamen, China (2015). He was subsequently a visiting professor at Huaqiao (2015-18).
     • We are members of the UK-China Scholarship scheme, bringing Philosophy PhD
        students from universities in mainland China to study for one year in the Departments of
        Philosophy at King’s College London, Oxford and Reading (coordinator: Preston).
     • Preston and De Gaynesford gave papers at the 2015 International Wittgenstein
        Conference at Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou.
     • Two temporary members of staff were supported to present papers at the
        Reading/Huaqiao/Wuhan conference in Xiamen, 2017.
     • 17 visiting academics from China (PhD students and academic staff) have spent time at
        Reading (with visits ranging from one week to one year), with many in receipt of Chinese
        Government funding for their visit.

 Other international connections have also helped to ensure the reach of our ideas beyond the
 UK. For instance, Borg served as an Associate Investigator (invited), at the Australian Research
 Council Centre of Excellence in Cognition and its Disorders, Macquarie University (2015-19);
 Hansen is an Affiliate Member of a major new project in Sweden, Knowledge Resistance (2019-
 25); Hansen has also been awarded a prestigious Humboldt Research Fellowship for
 Experienced Researchers which will involve three extended periods at the Freie Universität in
 Berlin (2020-23); Schroeder established an Erasmus link with the University of Grenoble
 (funding four week-long visits during the assessment period to give seminars and talks, with
 Professor Clot-Goudard visiting Reading in return).




                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                           Overall we have hosted over 40 faculty and PhD students for extended
                           research visits. This is a significant number of visitors for a small
                           department and contributes to the vibrancy of our international
                           collaborations and the knowledge-transfer networks and critical
                           engagment they support.




 4.3 Contributions to the research base

 Publications




 During the period we have produced 156 publications (including in leading journals such as
 Ethics and Nous), with many having demonstrably wide reach across the research base. While
 acknowledging the limitations of metrics, we note that:
     • Oderberg’s paper ‘Finality Revived: Powers and Intentionality’ (2016) was recorded in
        2016 as the most downloaded article ever published in Synthese. To date it has been
        accessed over 5100 times and is in the top 12% of 264,340 tracked articles of a similar
        age in all journals scored by Altmetric.
     • Oderberg’s paper ‘Further Clarity on Cooperation and Morality’ (2017) was a Feature
        Article with peer commentary in the Journal of Medical Ethics and is ranked in the top 5%
        of all research outputs scored by Altmetric.
     • Borg’s 2018 paper ‘Millikan, Meaning and Minimalism’, in Theoria was one of the top 20
        most downloaded papers from that journal in 2019.
     • A paper on ‘Simulating Moral Actions’ by Kathryn Frances (postdoctoral student
        employed on the Leverhulme project on The Philosophy and Psychology of Philosophical
        Thought Experiments), was recognised by Scientific Reports in their Top 100 most widely
        read papers of 2017, from a field of over 24,000 articles, and has an Altmetric score of
        240 (with an Attention Score in the 99th percentile for articles of a similar age).

 Editorships and peer review
 Philosophy at Reading has made significant contributions to the research base. It is home to the
 international journal Ratio (Editor: Oderberg, with all research-active staff serving on the
 editorial board) and runs the annual Ratio conference. In addition, we have contributed staff to
 serve on the Editorial Boards of 10 international philosophy journals: Ethics, Revista de filosofía,
 International Review of Pragmatics, Linguistics and Philosophy, Metaphysicaor, Mind and
 Language, Philosophical Investigations, Politics, Philosophy, and Economics, Recherches sur la
 philosophie et le langage, Studia Neoaristotelica, Theoria; and the book series ‘Studies in
 Philosophy of Language and Linguistics’, Peter Lang.

 Staff have acted as manuscript reviewers for most major presses and journals, and as reviewers
 for a wide range of grant applications (including for international panels), and Borg currently sits
 on the Leverhulme Trust Advisory Panel. Staff have served as examiners for higher degrees at
 many institutions, at home and abroad (including Barcelona, Bristol, the Central European

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University, Colorado, London. Oxford, Vanderbilt). Borg served on the Mind Association
 Executive Committee (2013-19), and Hooker will be President of the Mind Association (2021-
 22). Hooker played a key role in the successful application to the AHRC for the South, West and
 Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (2014-18, £14m).

 Conferences and keynotes
                      Staff have given over 50 talks at international conferences/workshops
                      (with 13 keynote addresses, including at important interdisciplinary
                      events such as the ‘Ninth International and Interdisciplinary Conference
                      on Modeling and Using Context’, Cyprus, 2015, and ‘The Origins of
                      Thought: Early Cognitive Abilities’ conference, Spain, 2015), helping to
                      maximise the reach of our ideas. We have also run 15 conferences and
                      workshops at Reading, helping to advance understanding and
                      knowledge transfer within the profession.

 _______

 Our contribution to Philosophy’s research base is indicative of the vibrancy of our research
 environment. Alongside our work with academic and non-academic partners, it demonstrates
 how our shift towards more collaborative working, and the partnerships this has given rise to,
 have enabled Philosophy at Reading to make a sustained and valuable contribution to our
 discipline and to public debate. During this period we have created and sustained an active,
 agile and collaborative research environment, which has enabled researchers at all levels to
 tackle important questions through cross-disciplinary and international working. We remain
 focused on continuing to build on this ethos and our areas of strength into the future to ensure
 the on-going value and reach of our research.




                                                                                            Page 15
