Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bangor University (10007857)

 Unit of Assessment: Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1.   Unit context and structure

 Bangor Business School (BBS hereafter) was established in 2006, evolving from the School for
 Business and Regional Development which was created in 1999. This development reflected the
 widening research profile of the staff and the University’s mandate to establish a broader-based
 business school. BBS has developed an excellent international research profile as evidenced by
 prior REF results (ranked 26th research intensity-weighted GPA for REF2014). BBS’ strategy is
 to continue to build on this success, being at the forefront for research and training in the areas
 of accounting, banking, and finance in the UK. BBS is a top 50 institution in the world for
 Banking research (RePEc, 2020).

 BBS sits within the College of Arts, Humanities, and Business, which is committed to the
 sustainability of research and impact across the disciplines as specified in a College-wide
 Research and Impact Strategy document. The aim is to enable individual excellence and
 collaborative innovation with a continued focus on key strengths and emerging areas of
 expertise within the College of Arts, Humanities, and Business. The College provides a central
 support system including a dedicated research support officer, and supports research, impact,
 and postgraduate researchers with three College Directors for these areas who lead a College
 Research and Impact committee that meets regularly and includes representatives from each
 School. BBS has structures that mirror those of the College and a research and impact working
 group that includes the postgraduate research student lead, whose discussions and actions feed
 into the School Executive and the College research and impact committee.

 BBS research interests are organised around three interdisciplinary themes (each described
 more fully below), in which all members of the unit are positioned as follows, with theme leaders
 marked in bold:

 Methodological Advances & Innovations: Alsakka, Ashton, O ap Gwilym, Hanna, Hassan,
 Karami, Mantovan, Shiu, Vasilakis, J Williams, Nikolopoulos.

 Communications – with associated Research Clusters Corporate Communications and
 Consumer Communications: O ap Gwilym, Hanna, Hassan, Hemmings, Hodgkinson, Jaafar,
 Merkl-Davies, Parry, Rogers, Shiu, G Williams, J Williams.

 Regulations & Governance – with associated Research Clusters Credit & Uncertainty and
 Financial Services: Competition, Conduct & Consumer Protection: Altunbaş, Alsakka, Ashton,
 Carbo-Valverde, O ap Gwilym, R ap Gwilym, Hassan, Hemmings, Hodgkinson, Jaafar,
 Mantovan, Orujov, Reghezza, Rogers, Shiu, Vasilakis, G Williams, J Williams.

 The first of these themes is empirical and the other two substantive. Each substantive theme has
 two specialist clusters that showcase discipline-specific research areas within the themes.
 Together, our research themes and clusters represent long-standing areas of interest and
 excellence in BBS, with each cluster maintaining a focused strategy that is reviewed and
 updated annually. Our themes are represented broadly and allow for evolution across time in
 topics of interest to staff and of importance to society. Further, they allow flexibility in responding
 to changes regarding industry practices and policy developments. Our themes and clusters are
 used, at the most basic level, as a means to exchange best practice and discuss research ideas
 for staff and PhD students. They also have strategic importance by providing research
 infrastructure to enable the mentoring of more junior colleagues, and importantly, in ensuring (a)
 a supportive research environment for colleagues and PhD students through association with a
 cluster, and (b) effectively setting and monitoring of research and impact targets.

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The empirical theme Methodological advances and innovations reflects a focus on
 developing methodological tools and advancing analytical models. Many of the analytical
 advancements have been incorporated into company processes. Forecasting research
 (Nikolopoulos) has impacted company processes at Uber, Bosch, Siemens, Amazon, and
 Roberts of Port Dinorwic. This theme encompasses social science and economic research,
 utilising quantitative methods in the following topics: Performance management and
 optimization includes advancing empirical methods of forecasting, and extending efficiency
 model operationalisations, such as development of the Theta method and comparing this
 method to other forecasting methods (Nikolopoulos); and studying the consequences of
 unobserved heterogeneity when employing different econometric methods (Vasilakis).
 Innovative modelling focuses on new methods and linking previously unrelated topics into new
 models; for instance, Ashton developed a new tractable method for estimating hedonic costs.
 Psychometrics and scale development includes developing new scales, developing short-
 forms of existing scales, and cross-cultural evaluations of established scales (Hanna, Hassan,
 Shiu).

 The first of the substantive themes, Communications, is an interdisciplinary topic that draws
 primarily on literature bases in accounting, marketing, psychology, and media studies. It
 incorporates financial communications as well as consumers’ responses to marketing and public
 policy communications. Research on financial and corporate social responsibility
 communications has focused on understanding how companies communicate accounting
 information to external audiences to influence their perceptions and inform the decisions of
 shareholders and stakeholders (Hemmings, Hodgkinson, Jaafar, Merkl-Davies, G Williams), and
 on how financial news influences the stock and derivatives markets (J Williams, O ap Gwilym).
 Other work focuses on consumers and how governments can effectively communicate health
 risks (such as from smoking) to consumers using persuasion and information processing
 approaches (Hassan, Parry, Shiu). Research interests are represented through two research
 clusters as detailed below:

 Consumers and Communications Cluster
 The researchers in the Consumers and Communications cluster led by Hassan are broadly
 focused on understanding consumers in diverse contexts and cultures, investigating the impact
 of business and governmental strategies mainly in the communications area. The research
 examines how consumer perceptions and judgments are formed and influence the decision-
 making process across consumption contexts, principally related to health and sustainability.
 The research focus spans for-profit and non-profit contexts as well as having a special interest in
 examinations across national cultures. The cluster’s research has impacted policy debates
 around the introduction of health warnings on alcohol products in Ireland.

 Corporate Communication Cluster
 Members of the Corporate Communication cluster led by Merkl-Davies explore the different
 means (i.e. social media and financial statements) and aspects of corporate communication.
 Recent research by members of this cluster demonstrates the importance and persuasive
 impact of clear and effective communication in remuneration disclosures. They further evidenced
 that impression management within narrative disclosures, and earnings management in financial
 reporting, are often employed as a means of influencing key stakeholders’ perceptions.

 The second substantive theme, Regulations and Governance, covers a wide spectrum of
 disciplines providing coherence for many researchers in this unit. The vast majority of the
 research in this broad area is concerned with the evaluation of regulations or policies that are
 imposed by regulators or governing bodies and governments (e.g., short-selling, securities laws,
 credit ratings, price quotation mechanisms, inflation-targeting regimes, and taxation).
 Researchers in this group are actively working with governments, regulators, policy makers, and
 watchdogs, including the: European Central Bank (Altunbaş, Carbo-Valverde, Reghezza);
 Directorate General for Competition (European Commission, Carbo-Valverde); Bank for
 International Settlements (Altunbaş); Welsh Government (R ap Gwilym, Rogers); UK

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Competition and Markets Authority (Ashton) and the UK Financial Conduct Authority (Ashton).
 Some research also pertains to the formation of regulations such as the potential introduction of
 health warning labels on alcohol products and is feeding into policy documents by bodies such
 as the International Alliance for Responsible Drinking and the World Health Organisation
 (Hassan, Shiu). Within this theme, relevant interdisciplinary research examines political and
 social issues that link to regulations and governance. Examples of interdisciplinary research
 extend across diverse contexts: such as political and familial patronage and linkage to firm
 structure and risk-taking (J Williams); how innovation policies provoke social change (Vasilakis);
 birthplace diversity effects and economic growth (Vasilakis); and the effects of volunteering on
 the gender wage gap and productivity (Mantovan). Mantovan’s research formed part of the
 systematic review undertaken by the Scottish Government and helped to inform the
 development of the 2019 ‘Volunteering for All: national framework’ for Scotland. The two
 research clusters in this Regulations and Governance theme are:

 Credit and Uncertainty Cluster
 This research cluster, led by O ap Gwilym, focuses on economic modelling of credit and
 uncertainty. The group builds on long-standing excellent research in the School of more than 10
 years. The cluster incorporates staff with research interests in areas such as default probability,
 structural estimation, uncertainties and beliefs, and dynamical methods in macroeconomics.

 Financial Services: Competition, Conduct & Consumer Protection Cluster
 This research cluster led by J Williams builds upon Bangor’s established and respected
 reputation as a world leader in Banking and Finance research to tackle several key issues in
 financial regulation, competition, and corporate governance in banking. Research work has also
 examined pricing in financial markets and assessed firm conduct issues with a focus on
 consumer protection.


 1.2 Research strategy

 BBS’ REF2014 objectives were to focus on financial studies research and deepen our
 research profile in Business and Management areas. In consequence, our research profile in
 the financial studies area remains strong, with similar proportions of staff in the financial studies
 (around 75%) of total staff submitted to REF2014 and REF2021 classified as working in this
 area. Although the number of staff submitted in the business and management area has slightly
 decreased (7 Cat A for REF2014 and 6 Cat A for REF2021), the proportion of outputs in this
 area has increased (25% of the outputs for REF2021 in contrast to 20% of the outputs for
 REF2014), reflecting our success in this area.

 Building on our successful REF2014 approach through internal and external collaboration, we
 have again sought a balanced approach to research collaboration during the current REF period.
 In terms of external collaboration, 44% of our co-authored papers submitted for REF2021
 include at least one international (non-UK) co-author. There is also a strong culture of internal
 collaboration which is encouraged and arises through the internal collegiate ethos of BBS, as
 well as the mentoring arrangements within research clusters.

 BBS’s current research and impact strategy has been in place since 2015. The School’s
 Directors of Research and Impact are tasked with developing and maintaining a focus on the
 implementation of the strategy. BBS’ strategic goals are to build and maintain a strong
 research environment, maintain a world-renowned research profile and generate significant
 impact outside academia. We do so by focusing research efforts around the principles of
 collaboration and the establishment of core research strengths, thereby building on and
 capitalising on our prior successful approach. Research themes and clusters underpin the
 collaboration process and allow research focus and strength to be harnessed, communicated,
 and built upon. This approach has borne fruit during this REF period with a number of strong
 research partnerships (e.g., Alsakka and O ap Gwilym; Hassan and Shiu; Ashton and Jaafar,
 Nikolopoulos and Mitchelmore). Some of these research partnerships plus mentoring

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 arrangements (see Section 2.2) have enabled staff (Karami, Mitchelmore and Parry) who were
 not previously research active in the management and marketing area to become research
 active during this REF period.

 School-level initiatives support the strategic direction of the themes and clusters. For example,
 through (a) conference/workshop grants allowing researchers to host a conference; (b) data
 collection grants which allow staff money to collect data for publications; (c) writing groups, and
 (d) research events which are held each semester. Staff also contribute ideas to enhance the
 research culture through our Research and Impact Committee which meets regularly throughout
 the academic year. As part of the BBS research and impact strategy, beyond a focus on outputs,
 staff are encouraged and expected to focus on their development in at least one aspect across
 the areas of impact, esteem and leadership, and/or funding. Within each research cluster, staff
 have developed specific plans for activities in these areas and collaborate to achieve cluster
 level goals. Key activities and targets have been given for each of these areas. Esteem and
 leadership goals (e.g., PhD supervision, contributions to learned societies, journal editorial roles,
 organisation of international conferences/workshops) are the focus of most staff within clusters,
 with Financial Services: Competition, Conduct & Consumer Protection focusing on impact due to
 established links with regulators and policy-makers. Given the high percentage of senior staff in
 BBS, increasing PhD numbers as part of the Esteem and leadership goals was a key target
 during the early period of the REF-cycle. A large number of BBS funded scholarships were
 provided as part of a drive to increase PhD numbers and create an active PhD support network.
 There was therefore a large increase (almost 70%) in PhD completions for this REF period in
 comparison to REF2014 figures. Grant income increased in comparison to REF2014 figures by
 an average of 15% per capita per annum.

 Focusing on senior staff, during this REF period the strategy was amended to actively
 encourage submissions and potential successes, particularly by senior staff, at the world-leading
 (4*) level. This came about from overall staff’s desire to increase the research reputation of BBS.
 Thus, senior staff were tasked to target at least one acceptance at 4* level as part of their
 research plan across each 5-year period. From internal scoring of the articles submitted to
 REF2021, 66.6% of the (Cat A) professoriate have met this target (at 58% if using the ABS list).

 BBS objectives for the future are to build on our past and current successes, and further
 extend them by following a similar strategy over the next 5 years. In particular, we aim to
 strengthen our research themes, and further increase our interdisciplinary research focus and
 impact as well as grant capture. Since February 2020, a ‘grant buddies’ scheme has been
 initiated to encourage and support researchers’ efforts in targeting research council funding
 grants and fellowships. Our targets are to increase grant capture overall by 25% with a
 specific focus on UKRI funding, and to increase the number of world-leading outputs by 33%
 to increase our national and international research reputation. We will maintain our focus on
 contributing to the academic community through roles in learned societies and editorships as
 well as maintain high standards of PhD student satisfaction and completions.

 We will reaffirm our aim to deepen our research profile in the Business and Management areas
 by increasing the number of research active staff in management and marketing, whist
 maintaining a strong focus in financial studies. An additional research theme is already under
 development to reflect a growing interest in sustainability. Our focus on sustainability emerges
 from research discussions with staff across the University and within BBS. Many staff are
 responding to the call for research which addresses the challenges highlighted in the 17 UN
 Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDG). Our goal is to establish a Research Centre for
 Sustainability, with interdisciplinary links to research strengths across the University, but with
 BBS assuming a central driving force to deliver world leading interdisciplinary research and
 impact across the globe. Our ambition is justified as we have particular strength regarding the
 UN SDG 12 of Responsible Consumption and Production (7th in the World for this goal
 according to the Times Higher Impact rankings 2020), with also strength on UN SDG 5 Gender
 Equality (ranked 59th in the world).


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.3 Engagement and Impact strategy

 Engagement is consistently embedded as part of research activity and all staff are
 encouraged and expected to develop links with end users as part of the research process.
 Examples of these include involvement in an academic panel of the Competition and Markets
 Authority and work with the European Central Bank but there are many examples across BBS
 (see more details in section 4.1 on working with end users and section 3.1 on income). Our
 research and impact strategy generated six strong contending Impact Cases for REF2021
 including work with the Welsh Government and the Bank for International Settlements. Five of
 the contending impact cases were from researchers working in the regulations and governance
 theme with one contending impact case from the methodological advances & innovations theme.
 Other examples of engagement and impact relate to work on devolved tax for Wales and on
 work related to European financial institutions. For instance, several BBS staff (Hodgkinson, R.
 ap Gwilym, G. Williams) were successful in a competitive procurement exercise, and provided
 academic expert input in the form of an independent scrutiny and assurance examination of the
 devolved tax forecast for Wales to the Welsh Government in both fiscal years 2018/19 and
 2019/20. On the European front, the impact of Altunbaş’ research on the formulation of public
 policy in the banking sector has been ongoing since 2014 and was facilitated by Altunbaş’
 interaction with policymakers at the Bank of International Settlement (BIS) and the European
 Central Bank (ECB) from the outset. Over the current REF period, Altunbaş was formally
 engaged as a collaborative researcher at these two regulatory institutions i.e. the ECB (2014-
 Present) and the BIS (2017-Present).

 BBS’ research and impact strategy has emphasised the importance of utilising funding from
 Bangor’s ESRC Impact Acceleration Account. Five staff have secured support (totalling more
 than GBP45,000) for the development of current or future impact as well as engagement with
 end users. These grants cover various topics including national and regional economic planning,
 cultivating and supporting innovation and development in non-profit and local enterprises.

 BBS researchers are strongly encouraged and supported to engage in the widest possible
 dissemination of research findings including developing impact stories. To support this
 process, BBS has established a monthly Research and Impact Blog, with a focus on
 disseminating current research ideas in a concise way. Other means of dissemination to a broad
 audience have also been undertaken; for instance, BBS researchers publish regularly in
 professional trade magazines/publications such as the Chartered Banker (Ashton, O ap Gwilym,
 R ap Gwilym, Reghezza, J Willaims) and Journal of Trading Standards (Hassan) as well as The
 Conversation (Carbo-Valverde, R ap Gwilym, Mantovan), and in other media outlets (Ashton,
 Parry, G Williams) including BBC News, Radio Cymru, and S4C. Additional examples of press
 coverage include reports of BBS research findings in Bloomberg, The Financial Times, the
 Sunday Times, and the New Statesmen, amongst others.

 Moving towards the next REF, BBS will seek to actively foster and develop broader team
 focused engagement to champion and capture impact that has arisen from the work of
 researchers across the academic career spectrum. Our research and impact strategy has been
 enhanced to include a stronger focus on engagement and impact. Each research theme has
 developed and begun implementing an engagement plan which aims to ensure that impact-
 generating activities are by default embedded in the research work across all staff within BBS.


 1.4. Open access, data management, and ethics

 As outlined in REF5A, research in these areas is supported at University level with mechanisms
 to ensure research integrity through the University Ethics committee, as well as Codes of
 Practice and Policies covering Research Ethics, Academic Integrity in Research and Research
 Data Management. Each School has a dedicated Research Ethics Officer who is the main point
 of contact for queries and referral of proposals to the College Ethics Committee. Publication is

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 undertaken in line with the University Open Access Policy. Staff have been active in complying
 with Open Access requirements and BBS has achieved over 90% compliance for all publications
 that are subject to the policy, further no uncompliant outputs are included in the REF2021
 submission. Staff are reminded of the need to comply with Open Access rules at staff meetings,
 with notices at strategic locations around BBS providing a visual reminder of the need to, with
 step-by-step guide on how to, ensure compliance.


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy

 Recruitment of staff was deliberately targeted towards the relatively early part of the REF2021
 period. Hemmings and Orujov were recruited as PhD students and successfully completed their
 PhD during this REF period. This recruitment policy was a strategic decision so as to achieve a
 balance of seniority across staff levels. The success of a number of previous senior
 appointments during the REF2014 period had led to an imbalance with a high number (13) of
 professorial staff at the start of the REF2021 period. Resultantly, appointments at professorial
 level during this REF period have arisen solely from internal promotions.

 Recruitment of new staff during the REF2021 period was also targeted towards building strength
 and capacity across both our two core themes (Communications, and Regulations &
 Governance). Further, promotions were also granted during the REF2021 period highlighting
 the successful development of staff (Reader to Professor: Ashton, Hassan, Merkl-Davies; Senior
 Lecturer to Professor: Alsakka, Jaafar; Lecturer to Senior Lecturer: R ap Gwilym, Mantovan,
 Mitchelmore, Parry, Vasilakis).

 In terms of staff turnover, four professors have retired, moved to positions out with academia,
 or to managerial-focused academic positions, with an additional two professors having moved to
 professorships at other prestigious institutions (Birmingham, Durham). Five lecturers left to
 positions at highly ranked institutions (Birmingham, Bath, Liverpool) including three to promoted
 positions.

 Internal promotions were the main mechanism for rewarding staff. The fact that 10 staff
 members were promoted during the current REF period reflects the beneficial impact and
 success of our research and impact strategy and support mechanisms. As staff are able to
 select ‘wider contribution’ as the main criterion for promotion, those who are making a significant
 contribution regarding engagement and impact can find recognition for their achievements
 through this route in the internal promotions system. An additional incentive was provided in the
 early part of the REF period with a double research allowance for one year given to staff who
 had gained manuscript acceptances that are internally graded as internationally excellent.

 BBS has developed a clear approach to succession planning. The development of our themes
 and clusters supports a distributive leadership model, which mitigates the risk of over-
 dependence on a small number of senior staff. Further, the Director of Research and the
 Director of Impact and Engagement work closely together to actively promote and support the
 research and impact agenda within BBS. This model provides BBS with two senior staff, who
 have clearly defined roles, but work together as a team. The University also has an extensive
 research leadership training programme, which staff can benefit from. This programme feeds
 into our approach to succession planning and staff are identified through the annual academic
 performance development review (PDR) process for this training. Attendees are given workload
 allocation time to support their participation in this training.




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2 Staff Development Strategy

 All BBS research staff receive an allocated research time equivalent to 40% of workload. Early
 career staff are afforded opportunities for developing their research careers by further reductions
 in workload through lower administrative and teaching responsibilities. All new staff attend the
 University’s ‘Researcher Induction’ training which is held twice a year.

 Mentoring is a core element within our research and impact strategy. Research clusters
 implement their mentoring arrangements across three levels. Firstly, at the highest level there
 are partnerships which involve close collaborations on research and impact activities such as co-
 authoring, grant capture, and engagement activities. Secondly, mentoring takes place through
 discussions between senior colleagues and more junior staff, including writing groups where
 challenges involved in current publication endeavours are discussed. Finally, the third level
 entitled ‘learning from each other’ is an encouragement for all staff to be open, to make time to
 discuss research and impact activities with colleagues in informal settings, and to share
 knowledge, skills, best practices, and insights. Examples of such interactions are frequent seen
 in our ‘brown-bag’ seminars held in each semester, as well as through staff paper pitches that
 solicit critical yet supportive peer feedback on project ideas at the early stage of development.
 Clusters also meet formally at least once per semester to share experiences, challenges and
 insights. During COVID-19 restrictions seminars have continued virtually, as have research and
 impact staff meetings and informal gatherings (such as virtual coffee time catch-ups).

 Examples of successful mentoring during this REF2021 period include: Alsakka (mentored by
 O ap Gwilym); Parry (mentored by Hassan and Shiu); Mitchelmore (mentored by Nikolopoulos)
 who were all promoted. In addition to training on a wide range of research and impact related
 issues provided by the University, BBS staff can gain access to specialised training at any
 career stage. Training is provided at BBS by outside organisations on topics relevant to
 numerous staff (e.g., Thomson Reuters on Understanding the Merger & Acquisitions;
 Consultants from Standard & Poor, on Global Trends in the Financial sector). Staff can also
 obtain funding to attend specific methods training that underpins their research (e.g., Hemmings
 attended a Workshop on Textual Analysis Methods in Accounting and Finance; Jaafar attended
 an Advanced Data Analysis Using Stata training).

 The University also has a University-wide mentoring scheme that staff can benefit from in
 addition to School/College support. The BBS strategy on staff development builds on our long-
 standing approach (since RAE2001) discussed in REF2014 “of encouraging staff development
 through collaborative research and co-authorship, especially for early career researchers.”
 During this current REF period we have also sought to develop the research careers of staff who
 were not entered into REF2014, but were in employment at BBS. As further evidence of our
 commitment to the development of ECRs, altogether 5 people completed their PhDs during
 the current REF period with their first academic post at BBS. These ECRs did not have
 publications prior to their appointment but have benefited from BBS’ staff development
 programme and successfully meet the requirement for inclusion in REF2021, at BBS or other UK
 universities.

 Impact-related training includes seminars within BBS to share knowledge and experience of
 how research can lead to successful impact. These are now part and parcel of our research
 seminar series and range from discussing research approaches that might have a greater
 chance of engendering impact, to specific examples from researchers who had a REF2014
 Impact Case or were working on an impact case for REF2021. Examples of these include invited
 external speakers with senior staff who have extensive engagement and impact experience from
 Cornell University, the University of Bristol and the University of Liverpool. Further, staff are
 supported to attend practitioner conferences (recent examples from 2018/19 include Caribbean
 Association of Banks Annual Conference, Federation of Small Businesses Strategy Board, and
 visits to the Bank for International Settlements and the European Central Bank). The research
 and impact blog started in 2019 has been fully supported by BBS staff in disseminating research
 ideas and findings to the widest possible audience. Furthermore, training events were regularly

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 delivered for ECRs with a focus on impact, including discussing basics such as what impact is in
 REF terms and how to develop, sustain and to write an impact case. Regular University training
 events are held on accessing research funding information and outlining the support available to
 researchers for preparing funding applications. More widely, PhD students and staff have
 benefited from in-house and specialist consultant-lead training on knowledge transfer, how to
 engage with end users, working with policy-makers, patent protection and a vast number of
 research and impact related topics for staff across career stages.

 The College has a study leave policy that is open to all staff who have been in continuous
 employment, normally for a minimum period of three years. Several staff in the School who have
 had higher administrative duties have benefited from a one-year study leave during the current
 REF period (Merkl-Davies, Jaafar, Hodgkinson, and two members of staff who retired). Study
 leave can be used to further a wide range of research-related goals including engagement and
 impact.


 2.3 Research Students

 BBS has been part of the ESRC Wales Doctoral Training Centre for Economics since 2011.
 As well as remaining in the Economics pathway, BBS is now also a member of the ESRC
 pathway for Management and Business (since 2017) of the Wales Doctoral Training
 Partnership. The quality of research training and supervision of BBS postgraduate research
 students has been underpinned by the establishment of an MSc and PGCert in Research
 Methodology as part of our ESRC pathway in Management and Business (1+3 or 3). General
 training for all PhD students is also provided by the University Doctoral School and College-level
 PhD workshops. The College Postgraduate Travel Grant scheme supports travel costs for
 conference participation and primary research activities, including field trips. For example, ten
 PhD students benefited from attending a fully-funded cross-institution doctoral conference in
 2019 ran by the ESRC pathway institutions at Cardiff University. BBS does not offer research-
 based professional doctorates.

 In total 17 fully funded BBS studentships have been awarded in this REF period. These
 studentships are given to highly capable individuals with research interests that closely align with
 BBS themes and clusters. Staff outline research projects to be pursued within the advertised
 PhD programmes, and PhD candidates are recruited via a rigorous selection process. PhD
 students are embedded within our themes and clusters and benefit from activities and support
 from staff generally as well as their supervisors, including co-authorship and mentoring on
 teaching-related duties. Many students adopt a paper style for their theses, and this feeds
 directly into publication success: 39 journal articles have resulted from PhD thesis work
 undertaken during this REF period. Of these publications, two articles were published in 4*
 journals, and 30 were published in 3* journals (based on the ABS 2018 AJG list). This is
 exceptional and shows the success of our PhD programme, and the themes and clusters
 strategy, in fostering a successful next generation of academics. Furthermore, students are
 encouraged to apply for secondment opportunities. Reghezza, for instance, was successful in
 gaining a 4-month secondment at the European Central Bank during 2018.

 Within BBS, our PGCert in Research Methodology was introduced in 2018 and builds on our
 already established BBS doctoral training programme (that ran each week across both
 semesters) and our BBS weekly research colloquium. The PGCert in Research Methodology
 is open to all BBS PhD students, not only those funded by the ESRC or those on a BBS
 studentship. The PGCert provides core training on research approaches and methods
 (incorporating quantitative and qualitative approaches), as well as a specialist module on
 advanced financial analysis methods. Students also acquire skills in academic writing and
 communication through the PGCert assessments and presentations, and through the research
 colloquium that runs in BBS for all PhD students. To date five students have successfully
 completed the PGCert, all of them during the first year of their PhD study. More generally,
 postgraduate research students have excellent facilities, including an open plan doctoral student

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 office and networked access to a wide array of financial and business data sources. Each
 student is supported by a BBS personal tutor as well as having full access to University’s
 Student Support Services covering money matters, counselling, health and well-being, and
 disability. All research students have two supervisors and it is ensured that at least one of these
 has previous experience of supervising to completion. Research students also attend the
 postgraduate staff-student liaison committee to voice any relevant concerns. Such support has
 enabled consistently high scores for research degree satisfaction in PRES (2015, 2017, 2018,
 2019, 2020) with an average of over 86% satisfaction.

 Students complete an annual progress review each year that is chaired by a member of staff
 not involved in the supervisory team. The chair receives confidential reports from the student
 and the lead supervisor, and will act on any issues or conflicts that arise. The annual review
 meeting discusses the students’ progress, addresses training needs, and discusses skills and
 career development. Such support mechanisms and the training provided has meant that over
 50% of students within BBS completed their PhD within four years (or part-time equivalent).
 Furthermore, BBS doctoral students are successful in the academic and commercial job market
 with over 80% employed within 6 months of completion. Recent PhD graduates have been
 employed at various universities in the UK including Swansea University, University of
 Strathclyde, University of Liverpool, University of East Anglia, and University of Birmingham.
 Students also take part in a qualitative cross-disciplinary research group (made up of staff and
 PhD students) that meets usually on a monthly basis to discuss issues around research
 philosophy, data collection, and analysis in relation to qualitative methods.


 2.4 Commitment to Equality and Diversity

 The School has an Equal Opportunities officer who ensures that the School’s recruitment
 policy or any of its activities do not discriminate against any protected characteristic covered by
 the Equality Act 2010. The School also has an Equality Champion whose role is to facilitate
 communication between staff and the University’s Equality and Diversity Task Group.

 The School is committed to the principles of the Athena Swan charter, which addresses gender
 equality in higher education, and BBS currently has an Athena Swan Bronze award. The Chair
 of the Athena Swan Self-Assessment Team is responsible for disseminating any information
 which is pertinent to staff and research students’ career support such as the University’s Women
 in Universities Mentoring Scheme. BBS working towards an Athena Swan Silver award in 2024.
 PhD completions were equality split between genders for this REF period.

 In terms of the representation of women in leadership positions, the current Head of School
 and two other members of the School’s Executive Team (Director of Research and Director of
 Teaching & Learning) are women, giving a female majority (3 out of 5) leadership roles in the
 School. Moreover, of the 10 promotions during the current REF period, 6 are women. The
 visibility of senior women and their willingness to discuss equality and diversity ensures an open
 conversation on this across the School. Additionally, one member of the BBS Executive Team is
 from the BAME community. Overall, BBS has an international staff base with only 50% of staff
 entered being classified as British from birth.

 Most research-active staff work full-time, with those working part-time at a late stage in their
 career (3 Professors). The School is committed to equality and diversity in the recruitment and
 support of staff and research students in the following ways:

 The University is committed to the principles of the researcher concordat and have set in place
 the Researcher Development & Concordat group since 2015 to ensure implementation of its
 principles. In line with this, the University offers a wide range of supportive activities including an
 Early Career Research network, training programme and Early Career Researcher travel grants,
 research support awards and research leadership training. Many of our early career staff have
 benefited from these opportunities with our more senior staff actively contributing their time and

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 effort. This has contributed to Bangor’s success in the European Commission “HR Excellence in
 Research” award.

 The University also has a range of supportive policies for all staff including
 maternity/paternity/adoption leave, parental leave, time off for dependants/emergency,
 compassionate leave policy and flexible working policy. On returning from a period of leave, staff
 have the right to request a change to working hours/pattern, staff with children can take
 advantage of the childcare voucher benefit scheme and the University has its own nursery with
 which university employees can access more affordable childcare through salary exchange
 agreement. At School level, it is recognised that staff may need some flexibility with regard to
 childcare, and the system of flexible working accommodates these needs. Support for staff
 returning from a period of ill health is tailored to the individual via a return to work discussion
 whereby support and any adjustments to facilitate an individual’s return to work is explored.
 Other support available to ensure the well-being of staff include a confidential staff counselling
 service, a stress policy, a dignity at work policy and lunchtime mindfulness sessions.

 Other equality and diversity policies at University level include the Welsh Language Policy
 which details how the Welsh language is central to the University’s strategy and operation, and
 covers the University’s bilingual policy. Moreover, equal pay audits are undertaken regularly in
 collaboration with the University’s recognised trades unions. Further, the University has made
 formal Equality and Diversity training (offered monthly) compulsory to all staff.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 Our total research income during the current REF period was around GBP900,000. We achieved
 a 15% increase in the average per capita per annum income for the current period in
 comparison to the previous REF2014 period. More specifically, the income breakdown included
 funding from the RCUK of (GBP26,000), while our total research income from UK and Welsh
 Government have been (GBP219,000). Our competitive EU funding has been (GBP512,000).

 One example of a large-scale funded project (initial 2017/18 funding GBP4,487,000, extended
 with additional GBP3,970,000 for 2017/2021) is the South Asia Self Harm research capability
 building Initiative (GCRF-SASHI), with Nikolopoulos as a co-investigator. SASHI formed in late
 2015 as a collaboration led by the Centre for Mental Health and Society at Bangor University. It
 is a partnership between academics working in Mysore (India) and Karachi (Pakistan) and UK
 academics in Bangor, Manchester and Oxford Universities. The purpose of the project is to find
 effective responses to deliberate self-harm and suicide in South Asia by building research
 infrastructure and expertise in India and Pakistan. Nikolopoulos’ expertise in predictive and
 forecasting analytics has resulted in the development of regression models for the early
 identification of groups and individuals of higher risk for self-harm.

 Given our agenda that research should make a difference to policy and practice, other important
 projects received over GBP79,000 funding support from the Welsh Government. For
 instance, Rogers and R ap Gwilym, provided independent scrutiny and assurance about the
 Welsh Government’s forecasts for devolved taxes – land transaction tax, landfill disposals tax,
 income tax, and non-domestic rates. The research work (Rogers) focused on developing new
 ways of forecasting to develop and refine the methodology used to produce the Welsh
 Government’s tax revenue forecasts which fed into budgets for 2017/18 and 2018/19. This
 method has now been adopted by government officials for use in forecasting future revenues.
 The work to scrutinise the forecast of devolved tax revenues has now been taken over by the
 Office of Budget Responsibility, OBR, (as required by UK legislation) building on these insights
 first generated by Bangor University. Researchers (including R ap Gwilym) have also worked
 with the Welsh Government to provide a technical assessment of the potential for implementing
 a local Land Value Tax to replace Council Tax and Non-domestic Rates.

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Furthermore, collaboration with companies to co-create insights through Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships generated over GBP214,000 of funding during this REF period. For instance,
 Hemmings worked with Stockomendation Ltd, a fintech company providing specialised capital
 market services to investors. The company has developed and manages an investment data
 sharing platform that provides information on stock recommendations, companies, and financial
 analysts. The project aimed to develop advanced quantitative financial models and an analytic
 framework to allow Stockomendation to accelerate the development of a global sophisticated
 platform and improve customer experience, through the transfer of specific knowledge relating to
 the modelling of investors’ sentiment and the evaluation of recommendation and price
 information. The company benefitted from the ongoing development of detailed analyses and
 metrics (e.g. performance rankings) that add value to the service Stockomendation provides to
 their subscribers. In return, BBS had access to a unique recommendations dataset to underpin
 academic research.

 Researchers (Nikolopoulos, Mitchelmore, Parry) have also collaborated with industry through
 the Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS) scheme, attracting GBP80,000 in EU
 funding. Five PhD students were funded through the KESS scheme during this REF period.
 Nikolopoulos worked with Siemens on three separately funded projects attracting a total of
 GBP70,000 to scope an operational management improvement process and improve operations
 efficiencies in the Healthcare Diagnostics Industry. This knowledge transfer contributed to a
 reduced inventory saving of GBP4,000,000 per year for Siemens for which the work of
 Nikolopoulos was integral. Karami, Mitchelmore, Parry also worked on projects with Welsh
 industries associated with GBP193,000 research funding from the European Social Fund.


 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

 Given the focus on financial data, the School currently spends over GBP100,000 annually on
 databases for financial research by staff and research students. These databases include
 Boardex, Refinitiv (previously Thomson/Reuters) and S&P Global providing essential data for
 research in Corporate Governance, Banking, Finance, and Accounting. Within S&P Global
 researchers have access to Credit ratings data, which has underpinned a large number of
 publications and student projects in the credit ratings area. In addition, S&P Global provides
 BBS researchers with access to S&P Capital IQ Platform that combines deep and broad global
 financial intelligence with an array of tools for analysis, as well as Compustat. BBS also
 subscribes to Refinitiv Eikon which includes access to Datastream, a comprehensive database
 of archival financial information, as well as I/B/E/S, which provides information on estimates
 issued by financial analysts. Staff also have access to information on around 21,000,000 public
 and private companies across Europe via the Bureau van Dijk Amadeus database. In addition to
 the use of datasets derived from proprietary information in agreement with the data providers,
 BBS researchers have also developed unique datasets in the fields of pricing (Moneyfacts) and
 areas of regulation.

 Staff have access to all leading journals in their field. BBS also has a generous annual budget
 for research-related books. Staff can request access to high specification computers in order to
 run more complex analysis methods. They further have access to highly advanced computing
 facilities through Supercomputing Wales, if high specification computers are still not optimal.
 Supercomputing Wales is a collaboration across four Welsh universities who have received
 GBP9,000,000 ERDF grant from the Welsh Government. Staff have not only access to the Hawk
 Supercomputer but training and technical advice on the use of these facilities. Researchers such
 as Nikolopoulos have made use of these facilities.




                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.3 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

 Our themes and clusters are important to the research infrastructure of BBS. Staff have worked
 together on grant applications, and support for funding is provided by a dedicated College
 Research Support Officer (CRSO) who advises staff on funding applications and preparation
 of financial budgets for research grants. Staff are regularly notified of the latest funding calls
 through the CRSO and can also access funding information through Research Professional.
 Furthermore, opportunities to engage with end users are also distributed to staff including
 relevant communications arising from our membership of the Universities Policy Engagement
 Network.

 Regarding research grants, a College Finance team supports the budget allocation and
 spending. The CRSO provides a bridge between staff and the dedicated support available from
 the University’s Research, Impact and Innovation Office (RIIO). RIIO has a team of specialist
 staff working on pre-award, post-award as well as legal and intellectual property issues and
 international funding grant bids, enabling more specific assistance for staff beyond that provided
 by the CRSO. The BBS Director of Research personally advises on grant applications, and
 further support is available from the College Directors of Research and Impact and Engagement.
 BBS Directors of Research as well as Impact and Engagement also meet with staff individually
 to discuss support needs that arise out of their annual PDR.

 Within BBS, seed corn funding is available to staff for research projects. Applicants can apply
 for money at any time throughout the academic year and there is no set limit to the amount of
 funding, although the costs must be feasible within the overall research budget available. The
 School Executive allocates money on a case by case basis based on the merit of the
 application. The application process involves outlining the research, the funding required, and
 the anticipated outcomes. Such funding applications have enabled outputs that are included in
 this REF submission such as those by Hassan, and Shiu.

 In terms of equality and diversity there were no issues raised by staff regarding access to
 support or infrastructure across all BBS staff surveys undertaken during the current REF period.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaboration

 BBS fully supports joint research initiatives with academic colleagues in many other institutions
 via generous conference funding support as well as sabbatical and shorter study leave
 arrangements for extended periods of international research collaborations. For example,
 Jaafar’s sabbatical period at the National University of Malaysia led to a successful joint
 publication in Financial Markets, Institutions, and Instruments.

 BBS also has a vibrant visiting programme welcoming international scholars to spend
 significant periods of time developing and undertaking collaborative research projects and co-
 authoring top rated journal publications, such as Alsakka and O ap Gwilym jointly with staff from
 the Universidad Rey Juan Carlos de Madrid (Journal of International Money and Finance, 2018),
 and Ashton (Energy Policy, 2015) publication with staff from the University of Otago. Overall,
 BBS has hosted 14 academic researchers (over 70% of visitors) and PhD students from around
 the globe including 5 from China and 5 from European countries. The strength of international
 focus is also reflected by BBS researchers’ extensive collaborative networks. The distribution of
 international collaborations includes 36 connections in Europe, 10 in Asia, 9 in North America,
 6 in Middle East, 4 in Australasia and 2 in South America. On average, each staff member
 collaborates with researchers from 3 other countries.

 BBS is working with end users and has strong links with regulators, policy-makers, and
 governments. For instance, Ashton (since 2016) has been an Academic Panel Member of the

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Competition and Markets Authority as well as a Reviewer and Advisor on policy documents for
 the Financial Conduct Authority. R ap Gwilym has acted as an expert advisor to the Institute of
 Welsh Affairs and also took part in an expert roundtable on the Welsh tax base & implications for
 public policy (Public Policy Centre for Wales). Rogers was an expert witness to the Welsh
 Assembly Finance Committee on tax revenue forecasts. Reghezza has been appointed as a
 consultant in the Systemic Risk and Financial Institution Division at the European Central Bank
 (ECB). Reghezza has been involved in two projects on bank consolidation and the effect of bank
 capital requirements on bank lending and the interaction with monetary policy. His work led to a
 report being published in the ECB’s Financial Stability Review, as well as publications in the
 ECB Working Paper Series. Furthermore, Carbo-Valverde is currently acting as a consultant for
 the World Bank on a merchant payments acceptance project.

 Researchers have access to funding from BBS to collaborate with end users including to attend
 meetings or present research findings. For example, Rogers work with the Federation of Small
 Businesses and Ashton’s work with the Chartered Bankers Institute. As well as through
 presentations and reports to government including work with the Welsh Finance Minister and the
 Minister for Housing and Local Government. Researchers have also presented keynote
 addresses or invited talks to practitioners, including Altunbaş’ talk at the ECB on stress testing,
 and Hassan as a panellist on “Taking control of our lives” at the Trading Standards Institute
 conference. Moreover, staff have provided written evidence to the UK House of Commons
 Treasury Committee (R ap Gwilym, Rogers) and the European Securities and Markets Authority
 (Alsakka, O ap Gwilym). Such examples highlight the relevance of BBS research beyond
 academia. These collaborations benefit the research environment by stimulating academic
 debate and providing a platform for future publications.


 4.2. Contributions to the academic community

 Table 1 outlines the editorial contributions to leading international journals during the REF2021
 period including editor roles for 3 journals, associate editorial roles for 10 journals, editorial
 board positions for 8 journals as well as guest editing 4 special issues of highly regarded
 international journals.

 Table 1 Contributions to editing leading international journals during the REF2021 period
  Role                   BBS Academics        Journals
  Editor-in-Chief or Co- Ashton, Jaafar,      Journal of Financial Regulation and
  Editor-in-Chief        Carbo-Valverde       Compliance; Journal of Financial
                                              Management, Markets and Institutions;
                                              Journal of Financial Reporting and
                                              Accounting
  Associate Editor       Jaafar,              Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business
                         Hodgkinson,          Research; British Accounting Review;
                         Merkl-Davies,        Accounting and Business Research; IMA
                         Nikolopoulos;        Journal of Management Mathematics;
                         Mantovan;            Supply Chain Forum: An International
                         Hemmings, O ap       Journal; European Economic Review;
                         Gwilym               Journal of Risk Finance; European Journal
                                              of Finance; International Review of Financial
                                              Analysis; Journal of Banking and Finance
  Editorial Board        Nikolopoulos,        Journal of Business Analytics; Journal of
  member                 Jaafar, Ashton,      Accounting in Emerging Economies; The
                         Hanna, Hassan,       Service Industries Journal; Journal of Place
                         Carbo-Valverde,      Management and Development; Journal of
                         Merkl-Davies,        Business Research; International Journal of
                         Shiu                 Consumer Studies; Journal of Financial
                                              Stability; Journal of Financial Regulation and
                                              Compliance; Review of Business;

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                                Accounting, Auditing & Accountability
                                                Journal; International Journal of Public
                                                Health
  Guest editorship of a    Mantovan,            Gender Differences in the Labor Market in
  journal                  Hassan, Shiu.        European Economic Review (2018); New
                                                Advances in Attitude and Behavioural
                                                Decision-making Models in Journal of
                                                Marketing Management (2014);
                                                Communicating Messages About Drinking in
                                                Alcohol and Alcoholism (2018); Cross-
                                                cultural and cross-national consumer
                                                research: Psychology, Behavior, and
                                                Beyond in International Marketing Review
                                                (2015).

 Regarding leadership of learned societies, Carbo-Valverde has acted as President (2017),
 Vice President (2015 and 2016) and board member (2018, 2019) of the International Banking,
 Economics and Finance Association. Carbo-Valverde is also board member of the European
 Association of University Teachers of Banking and Finance (2013-2020). J Williams is the
 current Chair of the Management Board of the European Association of University Teachers in
 Banking and Finance. Hodgkinson was Chair (2016-2018) of the Conference of Professors of
 Accounting and Finance. Hassan was co-chair of the “Consumer Research” Special Interest
 Group of the Academy of Marketing (2013-2015). Ashton is Chair of the Special Interest Group
 "Financial Markets and Institutions” of the British Accounting and Finance Association (2018 to
 date).

 In terms of conference organisation, Hassan (2014-2015) acted as track chair for the
 Academy of Marketing “Consumer Behaviour” track as well as (2018) for the European
 Marketing Academy Conference “Social Responsibility and Ethics” track. Carbo-Valverde (2015
 and 2019) acted as track chair for the Western Economic Association International Conference
 “International Banking, Economics and Finance Association” track, the Allied Social Sciences
 Association meetings “International Banking, Economics and Finance Association” track in 2017,
 and the Western Economic Association International (WEAL) Conference in 2019. Jaafar was
 (2019) “Business Ethics and Internal Control” track co-chair for The Asia-Pacific Management
 Accounting Association conference.

 Ashton has organised a number of national and international conferences and symposia
 including the (2017) British Accounting and Finance Association Northern Area Group
 Conference, the (2018) 11th International Accounting and Finance Doctoral Symposium and
 (2017) ‘The Great Financial Crisis’. Researchers (Hanna, Hassan, Parry, Shiu) in the consumers
 and communications research cluster organised three international workshops (2016/17)
 including one funded by the British Academy.

 Staff have contributed in invited or plenary speaker roles to in an excess of 20 conferences. For
 example, Merkl-Davies contributed as an invited speaker at the 9th Colloquium on Qualitative
 Research Methods in Business and Accounting as well as at the Institute of Chartered
 Accountants in England and Wales Conference in 2017. Carbo-Valverde has contributed
 keynote presentations at various conferences including the International Risk Management
 Conference in 2017, and the JFMMI 2019 conference. Ashton delivered a keynote address at
 the 2017 World Conference of Banking Institutes Bi-Annual Conference, Lagos, and in the 2018
 Caribbean Association of Banks Annual Conference.

 BBS scholars have also won awards or been given high accolades. O ap Gwilym has been
 acknowledged as one of the top 30 most prolific authors in Mathematical Finance journals
 between 1999 and 2016, according to Samitas and Kampouris (2018, International Review of
 Financial Analysis). Hanna was awarded as an outstanding reviewer for Journal of Place
 Management and Development (2017). Alsakka received outstanding reviewer status (2017) for

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 her contributions to the Journal of Banking and Finance. Merkl-Davies (2017) was the joint
 winner of the Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal award for outstanding reviewer.
 Merkl-Davies’ work published in the Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal was
 selected by the journal’s editorial team as a Highly Commended paper in 2015.

 BBS is also the sole UK arm of the three year international OPTBANK Project (2018, 2019,
 2020) funded by the EU Erasmus+ programme, with partner institutions in France, Italy, Greece,
 and six universities in Indonesia as well as associated partners from governmental bodies and
 civil society (Central Bank of Indonesia, Indonesian Deposit Insurance Corporation, Indonesian
 Finance Association). J Williams is a member of OPTBANK’s Steering Committee and the
 Project Scientific Committee. The main objective of the OPTBANK Project is to integrate and
 enhance research capacities and PhD programmes in the field of banking and finance. The
 project’s outputs will strengthen the links between universities and the banking and financial
 sector. This will include a broader dissemination to society as a whole by targeting community
 services on financial inclusion and financial literacy, and thereby contribute to a higher standard
 of living for a large portion of the population. As part of this programme, BBS has held seminars
 on the ‘Exchange of Best Practices – Links between Universities and Industry’ (2019), as well as
 contributed to meetings on the design and development of PhD training.




                                                                                            Page 15
