Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Exeter

 Unit of Assessment: 09 Physics

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 a. Overview
 Physics at Exeter is a vibrant and dynamic unit which harbours 6 IOP award winners and 4
 international prize winners during the REF period, the IOP president (Sir Roy Sambles), and 2
 fellows of the Royal Society. Our department has grown substantially since 2013 in terms of staff
 (41 to 50 FTE for REF) and PGR students (from ~1.5 to ~2.0/FTE), with research income rising
 steeply from £4.9M in 2013/14 to £9.1M in 2019/20. There has also been a commensurate growth
 in research quality: citations for our papers have increased each year since 2013, almost doubling
 in citations/year/FTE during the current REF period.
 In step with the University level strategy (institutional level environment statement (ILES), 2.3),
 Physics has focussed on interdisciplinary research, and we have invested £3.4M in space
 refurbishment for sixteen cutting edge labs and facilities to enable this. We have strengthened
 links between groups to cultivate interdisciplinary research, exemplified by our cross disciplinary
 CDT in metamaterials, spanning physics and engineering, as well as the £52M Living Systems
 building adjoining Physics, an interdisciplinary hub positioned at the interface between the physical
 and the life sciences. We also use research-led teaching to expose our undergraduates to ideas
 at the cutting edge of physics: optional modules are focussed on research strengths within the
 department, and our taught programmes enable students to gain valuable research within our
 research groups. As a result, Physics has been voted the best research community in Exeter’s
 Student Guild awards in 2013, 2015 and 2018, and voted best overall subject in 2019.

 b. Research strategy
 In line with future plans outlined in REF2014 we have strengthened our four core research groups
 and the links between them. A core principle of our strategy has been to establish world leading
 facilities centred on multidisciplinary research, where we can provide leadership, attract dynamic
 staff and secure new funding. We have also improved our staffing, recognition and equality
 procedures (section 2). Exceeding our growth model, our income has doubled during the current
 REF period (section 3) and we have greatly expanded our global partnerships (section 4).

 Research and Management Structure
 Research is consolidated within four research groups: Astrophysics (ASTRO), Biomedical Physics
 (BIO), Electromagnetic and Acoustic Materials (EMAG), and Quantum Systems and
 Nanomaterials (QSN). Each group has an Academic Lead (AL), who provides strategic leadership
 and mentoring for each of the groups. Together with the Head of Discipline and Directors of
 Research and Education, the ALs form the Physics Strategy Group. Research strategy decided
 here feeds into the wider, college level (comprising Maths, Engineering and Computer Science)
 and ultimately University level committees, at which the University Science Strategy and large
 capital investments are decided upon (ILES 4.2).
 The research groups provide critical mass for research themes that can attract scholars and
 funding from disparate sources. Our staff have focused their interests around the group themes,
 and research strategy has developed with thematic advancement in mind. These themes link to
 cross-disciplinary areas identified and strongly supported by the University Science Strategy
 including Exoplanets, Functional Materials, Translational Medicine and Systems Biology, leading
 to collaborations with Engineering, Mathematics, the College of Life and Environmental Sciences
 and the College of Medicine and Health, as well as external partners such as the Met Office. At
 the boundary between physics and the life sciences, the University of Exeter has also invested
 £52M in the innovative Living Systems building, which adjoins Physics. This is the University's
 largest single investment in interdisciplinary science to date, and part of an overall strategic
 science investment of £340M since 2008.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Abbr. Members                                 Research areas
  ASTRO Prof. (6): Bate(AL), Baraffe,           Theoretical, numerical and observational studies
        Chabrier, Dobbs, Harries,               of molecular clouds, star/planet formation, stellar
        Naylor                                  evolution and planetary atmospheres. We develop
        Ass. Prof. (5): Browning,               advanced numerical tools and algorithms applied
        Hinkley, Kraus, Matt, Mayne,            to star formation, interior and atmospheric
        Lecturer + Snr Lecturer (7):            processes in stars and planets, star-disk
        Brunt, Haywood, Hatchell,               interaction, as well as new instrumentation for
        Hebrard, Loren-Aguilar,                 observation. Several computational areas also link
        Williams, Zhukovska                     to wider disciplines such as medical research and
                                                climate studies.
            21 postdocs, 24 PhD students
  BIO       Prof. (4): Soeller(AL), Moger,      Application of physical principles and methods to
            Stone, Vollmer                      solve biological problems, and development of
            Ass. Prof. (1): Palombo             new methods (with focus on Biophotonics) to
            Lecturer + Snr Lecturer (5):        enable the study of biological matter from
            Corbett, Gielen, Kattnig, Petrov,   nanoscale to mesoscale. Topics cover advancing
            Richards                            the fundamental understanding of biological
                                                mechanisms and their association with disease, to
            10 postdocs, 22 PhD students        the development of healthcare technologies.

  EMAG      Prof. (6): Hicken(AL), Barnes,      Experimental and theoretical studies of wave-
            Hendry, Hibbins, Sambles,           matter interactions combining: materials synthesis
            Vukusic                             and nanofabrication; imaging and characterisation
            Ass. Prof. (5): Anders,             using microwave, THz, ultrafast lasers, sound and
            Bertollotti, Kruglyak, Ogrin,       synchrotron sources; numerical and analytical
            Phillips                            quantum theory, spatial transformation methods,
            Lecturer + Snr Lecturer (4):        and micromagnetic theory. Four distinct sub-
            Correa, Horsley, Kyriienko,         themes explore metamaterials, disordered
            Withers                             systems, plasmonic excitations and magnetic
                                                systems.
            16 postdocs, 34 PhD students
  QSN       Prof. (1): Srivastava         Experimental and theoretical studies of matter,
            Ass. Prof. (3): Russo(AL),    encompassing optical, electrical, thermal and
            Portnoi, Usher                mechanical properties of scientifically and
            Lecturer + Snr Lecturer (4):  industrially    important      materials  including
            Hepplestone, Horsell, Mariani,graphene, carbon nanotubes, semiconductor
            Shytov                        quantum dots and superlattices, topological
                                          insulators and dichalcogenides. QSN aims to
          3 postdocs, 13 PhD students     understand these systems at the deepest possible
                                          level, to establish the underlying physics and the
                                          potential for industrial applications.
     Table1: Research groups, staff members (as of census date) and coverage.

 Group directions and funding strategies
 Astrophysics (ASTRO): ASTRO has expanded to 18 staff submissions for REF, an increase of
 3 since 2014. ASTRO has been extremely successful in obtaining ERC funding, with €11.7M in
 ERC awards during the REF period (table 2). The group also has a strong track record of
 successful STFC Consolidated grants (£1.7M in 2012; £700K in 2015; £1.8M in 2018). This
 success in grant funding has enabled two 5-year positions funded by the University, one of which
 (Hebrard) is now permanent. Links with the Met Office (an aim of Ref 2014) have grown, including
 code development and the secondment of MET Office staff to work with us in Physics. Emerging
 new collaborations with local SMEs specialising in digital media have led to an exciting outreach
 programme with huge success in developing immersive VR videos that have enthralled millions
 of viewers on YouTube.


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ASTRO’s future strategy involves capitalising on next generation observational facilities
 and continuing our success with high performance computing (HPC). Our most recent ERC
 awards (Baraffe and Dobbs) focus on HPC, and our continuing involvement as one of the main
 UK users of DiRAC and PRACE facilities is key. Exeter is also well placed to continue its success
 in observation of extrasolar planets: Hinkley is PI of one of the two main JWST programmes in
 this field, whilst the University’s role in the £1M Terra Hunting project, aimed at finding an Earth
 twin, has expanded with the hiring of Haywood in 2020. Further, the University is looking to
 develop a new £82M building, project North Park. This has been delayed due to the pandemic,
 with a financial reassessment due in 2021. If it proceeds as planned, North Park will house
 ASTRO, as well as the Global Systems Institute (GSI) and the Institute of Data Science and
 Artificial Intelligence (IDSAI). Moving ASTRO to North Park is strategic, with new interdisciplinary
 links to GSI and IDSAI furthering cross-disciplinary research on, for example, climate science
 on extrasolar planets and data science projects for large observational instruments.
 The expansion to North Park will include our own instrumentation laboratory (Kraus and Hinkley),
 enabling ASTRO to apply to non-traditional sources of funding such as NERC and EPSRC. Close
 links with the rest of Physics will be maintained, with regular departmental meetings,
 colloquia/seminars and social events, as well as the continuation of our shared
 undergraduate/post-graduate teaching programmes.

 Biomedical Physics (BIO):
 In line with the institutional strategy to grow interdisciplinary research, BIO has been our fastest
 growing group, expanding from 5 to 10 permanent academic staff since REF2014. This expansion
 has been bolstered by a £2.6M University investment to create 11 new BIO laboratories in Physics,
 and by the £52M Living Systems Institute (LSI). The LSI is physically connected to Physics,
 providing BIO with an additional 6 laboratories and accommodating 5 new Physics staff members.
 The growth of BIO has been sustained by success in winning large research awards, including an
 EPSRC Programme Grant (£5.8M), Physics of Life (£2.1M), Healthcare Technologies (£1.2M),
 Strategic Equipment award (£1.1M) as well several fellowship awards. BIO’s expansion has
 focused on building strategic core research capabilities in Biophotonics to enable the study of
 biological matter from the nano- to meso-scale. New capabilities include quantitative fluorescence
 microscopy (Corbett), super-resolution microscopy (Soeller), non-linear optical spectroscopy
 (Moger), Brillouin scattering spectroscopy (Palombo), nano/quantum sensors (Vollmer), and
 clinical vibrational spectroscopy/biosensing (Stone). These new capabilities are driven by
 fundamental research challenges in biology and medicine that cover all scales of biological
 organisation, from the molecular processes (Vollmer) to investigations of the plasma membrane
 (Petrov), neuronal signalling and morphology (Soeller), high-throughput screening for drug
 development (Gielen) and the development of novel diagnostic and therapeutic healthcare
 technologies (Moger, Palombo and Stone). BIO are also building capabilities in computational
 Biophysical modelling for applications such as magnetoreception (Kattnig) and cellular processes
 relating to the immune system (Richards).

 Electromagnetic and Acoustic Materials (EMAG):
 EMAG has consolidated by placing excellent people in strategic areas, as reflected by our large
 number of 5-year fellowship awards (Anders, Barnes, Hendry, Horsley and Phillips – table 2) and
 IOP award winners (Vukusic, 2014, Anders, 2015, Bertolotti, 2016, Sambles 2018, Barnes 2019)
 during the current REF period. Strategic gaps in capability have been filled through appointments,
 with Withers bringing expertise in fabrication of 2D materials, and Phillips in structured light.
 Activity in quantum theory has been expanded (Kyriienko, Correa) and we plan to include
 experimental studies in this endeavour in future. EMAG’s research includes some of our most
 industry facing work, and we seek to grow these areas in response to the government’s Industrial
 Strategy. Our metamaterials research theme, which covers the majority of staff in the group,
 responds to needs within defence and security, and we have received >£5M in investment from
 companies in these areas. Other themes (disordered systems, plasmonics, and magnetic
 systems) also deliver new materials for technological applications, particularly within information,
 imaging and sensing sectors. The CDT in metamaterials, a £5M EPSRC award co-funded by
 £2.5M investment from industry and £4.5M investment from the University, has driven research
 through a large increase in PhD students from 14 in 2014 to 34 in 2019. Through the CDT, EMAG

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has also consolidated partnerships with industry. We lead the recently funded EPSRC
 Metamaterials Industrial Network (PI: Hibbins), and around half of our staff are involved with the
 Team A prosperity partnership, a £2.4M EPSRC investment with ~50% industry match from our
 partner QinetiQ. This increased industry focus has culminated in the recent creation of a Centre
 for Metamaterials and Innovation, a legacy that will provide the critical mass to fully capitalise on
 upcoming investments from EPSRC, Innovate UK and MoD, and we have set up new framework
 agreements with key industry partners for this, as outlined in sections 3 and 4.

 Quantum Systems and Nanomaterials (QSN):
 Our smallest research group, QSN houses the Centre for Graphene Science, and in recent years
 the group has advanced into the broader realm of 2D materials. QSN plays a pivotal role in
 interdisciplinary materials research, and in the past 5 years, group members have co-authored
 more than 40 research papers with colleagues from Engineering and other groups in Physics.
 Entrepreneurial activity around graphene composites has been a key driver of recent research in
 QSN, exemplified by the launch of the spin-out Concrene Ltd (January 2019), and we look to grow
 this area in the future. Concrene Ltd aims to reduce the carbon footprint of the concrete industry,
 has been shortlisted for an Innovation award by the Royal Society of Chemistry, and recently
 received £1M from investors.
 Funding for QSN has historically come from EPSRC and EU sources. In the current REF cycle,
 QSN has diversified income, with new awards from the Leverhulme trust (>£700K in grants
 awarded to Mariani, Russo and Srivastava), Royal Society (>£500K Russo and Mariani; including
 a prestigious Theo Murphy blue sky award) and 4 Marie Curie fellowships (~£500K Russo,
 Portnoi). QSN has also developed applied areas of research funded by Innovate UK (>£200K
 Russo, Horsell) and directly from industry partners including DSTL, QinetiQ and Deregallera.

 Open Access
 Baraffe (ASTRO) sits on the UKRI Open Access Steering Group. Led by Baraffe, Physics at Exeter
 has made a strong push towards open access in recent years. In 2014 the University initiated a
 central fund to facilitate an open access policy. Our department spend from this fund has grown
 every year, and in 2018 amounted to >£60K, which allowed us to publish >50 gold open access
 papers. In 2013, the University set up Open Research Exeter (ORE), a centrally managed
 repository for publications and data authored by University staff. As of Nov 2019, ORE received
 over 560,000 download requests for papers from our staff. It is now mandatory for all staff to
 submit open access compliant versions of their papers to ORE within the 3-month REF guideline.
 We have developed departmental procedures to make sure that members of staff comply with this
 University policy, which includes email reminders to the authors of recently published papers. New
 staff also undergo a training session as part of their induction, in which they are shown how to
 upload all current and future papers to ORE. In 2018, Physics was responsible for almost 300
 manuscript deposits to ORE (approaching 100% coverage), including 90 full datasets.

 Research Integrity
 Exeter University aims to keep the highest standards of rigour and integrity in all aspects of
 research and has signed the Universities UK concordat. To meet its pledge, the University has put
 in place a number of policies to raise ethics standards. These include:
   - Open access policies to facility free availability of data (above).
   - Initiation of an Exeter branch of the PGR led RIOT Science Club (Reproducible, Interpretable,
      Open, and Transparent Science).
   - Introduction of an e-Ethics portal, through which applications for ethical approval are made.
 During the REF period, Physics has appointed an Ethics Officer (Corbett, BIO), who acts as a first
 point of contact for anyone wanting more information, or to raise concerns, about matters of
 research integrity. The ethics officer also oversees research integrity by:
   - Raising awareness of ethical research issues, such as responsibilities when handling
      personal data, working with animals or human tissue, and compliance with ethical codes.
   - Dealing confidentially with allegations of research misconduct should they arise.
   - Liaising with RIOT.
   - Annually reviewing progress and processes to ensure that these remain fit for purpose.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Future goals
 Our department has undergone significant expansion over the last 20 years, more than doubling
 its academic staff and its undergraduate student numbers. Looking to the future, Exeter Physics
 seeks to establish a global reputation in research as one of the world’s top 100 departments. We
 aim to build on our core research groups, capitalising on the different strengths in each group, and
 establish a portfolio of exciting research themes in these areas. Current and future expansion is
 based around industry and impact, interdisciplinarity and internationalisation:
   - Industry and Impact: We have made great strides here, and our aim is to embed impact at a
      cultural level within Physics, and to ensure that we make the most of our industry links and
      intellectual property. We have identified a number of interdisciplinary ideas that are well
      aligned with the new Research and Impact Strategy such as materials and healthcare
      physics, and look to establish local centres in focussed areas, establishing a Director for
      Impact (Corbett, BIO) to oversee and facilitate this activity. The main goal is to enhance
      industry interaction and to develop future partners for large research council and Innovate UK
      bids. The creation of a Centre for Metamaterials and Innovation, showcasing our expertise in
      meta- and functional materials, will be an important facet of our industry-facing research.
   - Interdisciplinarity: collaborative, cross-disciplinary research is central to Exeter’s science
      strategy. In Physics, 9% of our outputs have been highlighted for the REF 2021 panel as “very
      interdisciplinary” (e.g., a biology paper which contains physics content), while >25% of our
      papers have interdisciplinary content. Strengthening existing links, and growing new ones, is
      key to future success in an environment where top-down “grand challenge” calls by
      government are a growing feature of the funding landscape. We have several initiatives which
      will substantially expand scope for interdisciplinary research, such as the new North Park
      building, which will better enable us to address real world problems.
   - Internationalisation: We are a vibrant multinational department, with the majority of our
      academic staff originally from outside the UK, and plan to expand the global reach of our
      research by significantly increasing our international visibility and strategic collaborations. To
      achieve this, we have Introduced a new position, Director for International Relations (Mariani,
      QSN), and a number of new initiatives to actively seek global partnerships with leading
      universities and institutes around the world.

 The strategies implemented to address these aims, and the results, are covered in section 4.

 Section 2. People

 In line with the Researcher Development Concordat, we are committed to helping develop the
 careers of our staff: they are our greatest asset, and we endeavour to create an environment in
 which they feel valued, thrive, and are rewarded for success. We have grown in number by over
 20% during the REF period and this growth has led to a substantial change in the Department’s
 demographics, with an influx of early career researchers (Correa, Gielen, Kyriienko, Haywood,
 Hebrard, Loren-Aguilar, Corbett, Kattnig, Phillips, Richards, Withers and Zhukovska). We are also
 a collegiate department in which mentoring and internal peer review play a significant role in
 developing the careers of our staff, and our latest employee engagement survey indicated 91% of
 our staff have good relationships with colleagues.

 Staffing strategy
 New academic appointments reflect our evolving research objectives. As a first step we discuss
 potential posts at the Physics Strategy Group to consider the fit to our department strategy and
 the balance of staff across our groups. Vacated academic posts are not simply refilled but instead
 a full scientific and business case is made to the College. Once approved, we seek to attract the
 very best from a world-wide pool of talent. To do this, we advertise internationally, explicitly
 seeking out a diverse field of candidates and providing a competitive start-up package (see below).

 The success of our recruitment strategy, and hiring of up-and-coming research stars, is
 demonstrated by the large number of prestigious 5-year fellowships awarded to new staff during
 the REF period (Phillips, Richards, Horsley, Anders, Dobbs, Kraus, Vollmer). This success has

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 been matched by our more established researchers, with ~20% of our staff holding a fellowship at
 the census date, and >25% having held a 5-year fellowship at some point during the REF period
 (with Dobbs and Baraffe obtaining their second consecutive ERCs in 2019). Moreover, many of
 our researchers are respected leaders in their fields, corroborated by a number of awards in recent
 years – table 7.

 Support for early career researchers (ECRs)
 Exeter is aligned to the International Researcher Development Framework and holds the
 European HR Excellence in Research award for putting in place strategies to meet the principles
 of the Researcher Development Concordat. A host of supporting measures have resulted. During
 the REF term, the probation period for new Lecturers has been shortened from 5 to 3 years, and
 all staff are supported to progress from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer in 5 years. A mandatory
 University induction is completed within three weeks of appointment, where information on HR
 policies and benefits including flexible working and shared parental leave are highlighted, while
 training covers topics such as Equality and Diversity, Information Security, Health and Safety, and
 (PhD) Supervision. Physics also gives local inductions for all staff, including building tours and
 staff introductions. We then support ECRs through a variety of means:

  - Teaching and admin duties introduced gradually during the first 3 years of new appointments.
  - Mentoring by a senior academic through the probation period, which enables better
    identification of any problems.
  - Permanent new appointments supported by a PhD studentship and start-up funding.
  - Support for the key ECR/Lecturer transition. An ‘ECR Hub’ draws together information on
    training and development, funding initiatives, competitions and strategic representation. We
    have also established a college wide ECR Network which raises opportunities for
    collaborative interaction and problem solving, and regularly holds focused career
    development workshops to elucidate promotions pathways or provide training for funding
    applications.

 Personal development
 Staff undergo a rigorous personal development review every year with their AL, where any
 problems are discussed, solutions sought, and plans made for the academic year. These also
 cover achievements, future goals and significant contributions. Training for the AL carrying out the
 review is mandatory, and highlights the importance of networking, attending conferences and
 continuous professional development. To bolster this, we have focused on increasing staff
 awareness of career management and enhancing our development opportunities to support them.
 New activities include ‘Taking control of your career’ workshops, CV writing skills sessions,
 shadowing opportunities and one-to-one career coaching. There has been positive feedback and
 high engagement from staff with this enhanced provision. Mentoring and Coaching Conversations
 skills courses have been run at the University since 2010 creating a large pool of informal trained
 mentors. Our new institution-wide mentoring scheme ‘One Step Beyond’, launched in October
 2015, has seen take up at 61% amongst staff at senior lecturer level and below.

 Staff recognition and promotion
 At all career stages, we put a strong emphasis on career progression to retain and reward
 hardworking and high-performing staff, as evidence by 22 promotions within the REF period,
 including 6 advancements to professorial level. We have worked hard to develop a culture that
 attracts and retains outstanding academics in a competitive international environment, while
 offering our staff the highest-quality support in resources and services. Staff retention and contract
 type are monitored and there is a policy to reduce the percentage of fixed term contracts with a
 move to permanency for ECRs. A departmental promotions committee identifies staff that are
 viewed as credible promotion candidates and advises them to apply - a process that mitigates
 against the potential gender bias of a system that relies on self-promotion. Gender balance is also
 monitored and reported back to the Physics Inclusivity Working Group (see below). In 2017/18,
 the University also reviewed its promotion strategy and agreed new processes for the
 consideration of applications. There are now clear criteria for probation for Lecturers in Physics;
 and progression to Senior Lecturer, Associate Professor and Professor. Staff are regularly made

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 aware of the activities and standards that they should focus on, which are discussed at length
 during their personal development reviews, and they are encouraged to attend regular workshops
 aimed at making the whole process as transparent and objective as possible.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion (ED&I)
 Through the Physics Inclusivity Working Group (PIWG), chaired by the Head of Discipline, we
 strive to develop an environment where good practice and a commitment to equality and diversity
 are an integral part of what we do. This is seen as particularly important in our subject area, which
 has suffered from a historical and nationwide imbalance across many diversity aspects.
 In recognition of our efforts to address gender imbalance in particular, our department was
 awarded IOP Juno Champion status in 2018 followed by an Athena SWAN silver award. Our ED&I
 work is benchmarked against the six IOP Juno principles and the PIWG keeps an action plan as
 a focal point for its activities. Important developments since 2014 include:
   - New policies to ensure non-discriminatory appointment procedures. Single gender
      appointment panels are strongly discouraged for post-doc level appointments and prohibited
      for staff level appointments. Applicant selection lists are also closely scrutinised by PIWG,
      and single gender returns are referred back to the appointment panel to reassess the
      candidates to consider unintentional exclusion (taking into account career breaks etc.).
   - Establishment of a Women in Physics group, which organises seminars, workshops on topics
      such as promotion applications, as well as social events.
   - Embedding ED&I awareness in job descriptions for all departmental roles.
   - Formation of a Parent and Carers group which organises social events and raises awareness
      of options for maternity/paternity/shared leave.
   - An annual Pulse Check, which allows staff to make anonymous recommendations to improve
      culture and working environment. Results of the Pulse Check are reviewed by PIWG and used
      to create new actions.
 Improvements to working conditions across the University include:

  - Flexible work schedules for staff returning from maternity/paternity leave, and workshops to
    communicate information on all parental leave options.
  - A new returners policy including a wellbeing and risk assessment.
  - Increased maternity/adoption/shared parental pay from 16 to 26 weeks full-pay and increased
    paternity, maternity/adoption support leave and full-pay provision to 6 weeks.
  - A new framework for managers managing maternity, paternity and carer leave, highlighting
    Exeter’s New and Expectant Mothers standards (launched May 2014).
  - A fertility policy that allows for female members of staff to receive up to 7 days on full pay.

 Our gender positive policies are having a significant and measurable effect. For example, our PhD
 student gender balance has improved significantly: In 2013/14 only 13% of enrolled PhD students
 were female, which has increased over the REF period to 31% in 2018/19. This now compares
 favourably with national figures: 24% of A level physics students in 2020 were female. We have
 also been more proactive in encouraging female members of staff to apply for promotion and
 fellowships and have promoted two women to associate professor level (Palombo, Anders) and
 one to full professor (Dobbs) since 2014, doubling our female staff numbers at these respective
 levels. We have also had four prestigious 5-year fellowships/ERCs awarded to female staff
 members (Baraffe, Dobbs, Anders, Zhukovska), 33% of our fellowship holders. We realise that
 changes will take time to filter through to our staff distribution but are hopeful that, in the next REF
 period, we will see the gender rebalance now observed in our PhD and undergraduate populations
 translate gradually to our staff distribution. Currently 13.7% by FTE of category A staff are female,
 though 15.5% of our REF2021 outputs are attributed to female staff. Selection of REF outputs has
 been carried out by a gender representative panel of senior Physics staff across the four research
 groups, and post selection analysis carried out to ensure absence of gender and other biases
 during selection.
 Minority groups have also been historically under-represented in our subject, and PIWG has
 worked hard to address LGBTQ and racial prejudices. PIWG were active in forming PRISM, a
 network for local LGBTQ professionals and students within the STEM sector, established 2018,

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which organizes regular talks and workshops. PIWG has also taken an active role in encouraging
 ECRs from ethnic backgrounds to apply for fellowships (4 in 2020-2021) supported by an offer of
 proleptic appointment. In response to the Black Lives Matter movement, PIWG pledged support
 with several anti-racism statements, and highlighted routes for reporting racism within our
 department. For Black History Month, PIWG organized an online promotion which highlighted two
 of our alumnae via blog profiles and social media. These examples of positive actions have helped
 foster an inclusive environment in our department, and minority groups are better represented:
 students of Asian/Black/Chinese/Mixed background made up 17.9% of our CDT intake (see
 below), compared to the national figure for 'PhDs in Physical Sciences' of 2.6% [HESA 2015]. This
 inclusive environment is also reflected in our undergraduate population, with 29% female, 77%
 state educated, 16.5% disabled; all above the national average.

 PhD application processes
 We recognise the key contribution made by PGR students to our research and have increased
 PGR numbers by 50% over the REF period: 61 registered in 2013/14 to 91 in 2019/20, filtering
 through to an increase in completions from 17.5 in 2013/14 to 24.1 in 2018/19. PGR applicants
 come to Exeter via diverse routes. Recruitment campaigns are organised by the University, with
 selection being devolved to the College and then to Physics. A first stage, on-line application
 indicates a preferred area of study or pre-advertised project, which is then sent to Physics if
 appropriate. Once the applicant and potential supervisor have reached agreement an offer is
 made subject to financial support (considered separately and according to the source). Decisions
 upon doctoral training partnership and university funded awards are determined at college level
 on applicant quality and strategic importance.

 Support and training for PhD students
 Postgraduates benefit from a supportive working relationship with their supervisor, typically with
 daily contact and pre-arranged weekly meetings, and in turn they are expected to fully participate
 in research group meetings. To help our students, we have introduced a new online monitoring
 system in 2014: a database (MyPGR) provides the mechanism by which the student support
 interaction is articulated and recorded. It includes: supervisor contact expectations; a record of
 supervisory meetings; details of the student’s record such as supervisors, pastoral tutor,
 assessors, programme dates and interruption record; record of supervisory agreement, training
 needs analysis and regular progress monitoring. With better monitoring, the incidence of students
 failing to complete is very small and usually the consequence of overwhelming personal
 circumstances.
 During the current REF cycle, we have hosted the EPSRC CDT in Metamaterials (XM2) and used
 this opportunity to review our PhD training. Talking to industry partners and employers, it was clear
 that conventional "lone-scholar" PhD students often suffer from a lack of transferable skills. To
 address this, we have developed a cohort ethos, and the University has supported this by investing
 £300K to refurbish dedicated, open plan office spaces for our students. Our PhD students value
 the cohort approach: in our recent annual student feedback exercise, 91% agreed that "the cohort-
 based model has benefited my development as a researcher". Industry partners have also been
 closely involved in designing and delivering training modules, with new PhD workshops introduced
 on general topics such as Methods of Experimental Measurement, industry specific topics such
 as Sensing and Security, several core research areas within the department, and intensive two-
 day training courses in Comsol, Python, Matlab, R, Labview, Mathematica and LaTeX. We have
 also introduced bespoke training modules in soft skills such as Project Management, Cognitive
 Behavioural Coaching and Creative Thinking, all run by external experts. Alongside technical and
 transferable skills training, we have introduced a seminar series "Beyond a PhD" about working in
 non-academic environments. By ensuring they develop other skills valued by industrial (and
 increasingly academic) employers, our PhD students are more employable, and 33% (9 out of 28)
 of our recently graduating CDT students have been recruited directly by our industrial partners.
 Beyond 2021, we plan to continue this training endeavour through external funding, and we have
 put in place arrangements with our major partners including DSTL and QinetiQ.
 Our reviewed training programme was recently highlighted by the EPSRC in our midterm CDT
 assessment as having “excellent industry engagement...now considered best practice [by the


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 EPSRC]”. The changes in approach outlined above have been adopted across the board in
 Physics, embracing the cohort approach: PhD students are housed in shared PhD offices
 whenever possible, and we place an emphasis on social interaction, e.g. a week-long induction
 event for each new cohort consists of introductions, scientific talks, and social events. Likewise,
 training opportunities are also open to all PhD students, and have been integrated into existing
 procedures. A flexible approach to training is now adopted with an Individual Study Package
 constructed by supervisors which sets out a personalised training programme including our new
 transferrable skills sessions. PhD students are also encouraged to develop teaching skills by
 engaging with in our undergraduate teaching labs and in the supervision of undergraduate
 research projects. Our students also take outreach very seriously, and have formed chapters with
 both the SPIE and OSA, and have frequently undertaken outreach activities with local schools etc.
 We are now going beyond this and, in conjunction with our College Outreach Officer, we have
 developed a "Metabuddies" scheme, where our students are partnered with local schools for long-
 term outreach activities.
 Together with highly innovative approaches to training adopted from our CDT, we believe our PhD
 students receive a well-rounded experience.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Exeter Physics has aggressive growth targets, as the
 University looks to expand core STEM subjects (see ILES
 1.4). During the current REF cycle, growth has been
 achieved in part through expansion (the Department has
 recruited 14 academic staff in the period while 5 left), but
 more substantially through increase an in income/FTE.
 Between 2013/14 and 2019/20, research income per
 academic increased by 87%, while PhD student completions
 have also increased by 40%. We have also looked to
 diversify our research funding and achieved a 5-fold increase
 in funding from UK industry.
                                                                     Figure 1: Income per FTE excl. tax credits
 Support for applications
 We provide multi-layered support for grant applications. The Director of Research oversees all
 applications and provides support where required to maximise chances of success. Academic
 Leads are also a major source of support for the development of research grants, and where
 necessary, facilitate links with the wider academic community. We pay close attention to
 unsuccessful applications, working closely with individuals to ensure that any feedback from
 panels is used to develop successful future bids. Training on grant writing and development is
 provided to all who need it and we regularly hold ‘Research Focus Weeks’ which provide focussed
 training/workshops on various aspects of grant development for staff at all levels. Intensive support
 is provided to early career researchers, returners from parental leave and those with less
 experience. Since 2014, we a have introduced a number of schemes to increase support staff:

  - Flexible work schedules for staff returning from maternity/paternity leave, and workshops to
    communicate information on all parental leave options.
  - A workload model to help balance teaching and research requirements. This ensures
    research hours awarded on grants translate fairly into reduced teaching load. A minimum
    research allowance for all staff (~22% of all allocated time) also guarantees time allocated to
    write grant proposals and research papers.
  - Appointment of discipline-specific Research Development Managers and Advisers to assist
    with proposal ideas, writing and planning, as well as financial costing of proposals.
  - Robust sifting processes for the most competitive schemes such as fellowships and ERC
    grants, which ensures only candidates with a relatively high chance of success move to full
    application, thereby managing demands on time for both academics and support staff.
  - A thorough internal peer-review process for all research council and ERC applications, with
    feedback provided by at least two senior academics. They provide constructive feedback prior
    to submission, and also support the PI in responding to external peer-reviews.


                                                                                                      Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  - New bespoke communications training and mock panel interviews when required.
  - A revised study leave programme, open to all staff. We strongly encourage staff who are
    working towards large and demanding applications to apply, thereby freeing up time normally
    allocated for teaching and admin.

 Large grant awards
 Our increase in income has primarily been achieved by formulating strategies to apply for and win
 large grants. Currently ~20% of our permanent academic staff are funded by prestigious 5-year
 fellowships (see table 2), a 2-fold increase during the REF period. As outlined in the previous
 section, we actively encourage staff to apply for these prestigious fellowships and have a robust
 internal review process to ensure quality. For 5-year fellowships, a PhD studentship is typically
 funded by the College (2 in the case of ERC advanced). This is particularly important for
 new/young staff who are awarded fellowships, helping combine supervision experience with
 increased research hours.
 Fellowship          Group (Staff member)               Scheme                                 Funder Contribution
 Source
 Research            ASTRO (Zhukovska)                  STFC (Ernest Rutherford)                        £0.6M
 Council             BIO (Vollmer)                      EPSRC (Established)                             £1.6M
 +UKRI               BIO (Richards)                     MRC (Career dev.)                               £0.8M
 Fellowships         EMAG (Hendry)*                     EPSRC (Early career)                            £1.0M
                     EMAG (Anders)                      EPSRC (Established)                             £1.0M
                     ASTRO (Mayne)                      Future Leaders                                  £1.4M
 Royal Society       EMAG (Horsley)                     TATA Fellowship                                 £0.4M
 RAEng               EMAG (Phillips)                    Research Fellowship                             £0.6M
 ERC                 ASTRO (Browning)*                  Starting                                        €1.6M
                     ASTRO (Kraus)                      Starting                                        €1.7M
                     ASTRO (Dobbs)                      Consolidator                                    €2.0M
                     ASTRO (Matt)                       Consolidator                                    €2.2M
                     ASTRO (Bate)*                      Consolidator                                    €1.7M
                     ASTRO (Baraffe)                    Advanced                                        €2.5M
                     EMAG (Phillips)                    Starting                                        €1.9M
                     EMAG (Barnes)                      Advanced                                        €2.4M
                                                                                                    Total = £21.0M
     Table 2: 5-year research fellowships and ERCs awarded during current REF period. Post staff census date, we have
     also had new RAEng and Royal Society fellowships awarded to new staff members (not listed). *Completed at time of
     submission.

 Also in the current REF period, £18.6M in EPSRC income has been awarded in large (>£1M)
 grants for research led by our department (see table 3), again an approximate 2-fold increase
 compared to the previous REF. University investment has contributed to success of strategic
 applications such as the metamaterials CDT (with £4.5M in matched studentships), RaNT
 programme grant (with the refurbishment of an entire suite of hi-spec optics labs totalling 74 m2)
 and our Physics of Life project (enabled by another substantial investment in lab refurbishment).
 These strategic investments have underpinned much of our collaborative work in the department
 and determined new research directions such as metamaterials and healthcare technologies.

 Industry income
 With future government investment likely linked to the needs of the UK economy, we have worked
 hard to increase our interaction with industry. Most of the ongoing large projects in table 3 have
 industry links, some with substantial monetary contributions from industry partners. This is
 particularly true for our metamaterials research: since 2014, our metamaterials CDT has attracted
 >£2M of investment from partners, with new links forged with >20 partners. Existing links,
 meanwhile, have been bolstered, with >£1M investment from QinetiQ for the Team A project. Our
 healthcare research theme has also received investment, with >£200K from partners Nanomerics,
 BBI and CCG for RaNT, while Syngenta have secured two-years of access to our EPSRC

                                                                                                                    Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CONTRAST facility (£120K) to provide new insight into the development of next generation
 agrochemicals.
 Simultaneously, we have hugely increased our direct research funding from industry. Contract
 research has accounted for £1.9M of income during the REF period, a ~5-fold increase compared
 to the previous period, much of this coming from partners introduced through our CDT programme.
 In recent years, our college has also introduced a “50-50” funding scheme to allow industry
 collaborators to fund PhD studentships, where industry funding can be matched by internal funding
 of up to 50% cost. In total, since 2014, we have funded 17 studentships through this scheme, and
 won an additional 4 EPSRC iCASE awards, with an industry only investment in studentships
 totalling >£1.3M.
  Grant Type          Group         Description                                                              EPSRC
    >£1M              (Staff                                                                               Contribution
                      members)
  EPSRC               BIO           Raman NanoTheranostics (RaNT) aims to deliver                               £5.8M
  programme           (Stone,       applications of Raman spectroscopy both in the                             (Exeter:
  grant               Moger,        detection and nanoparticle-based treatment of                               £3.8M)
                      Palombo)
                                    disease.
  EPSRC               EMAG          Terahertz robotics for surgery and medicine                                 £8.0M
  programme           (Hendry)      (Terabotics) aims to develop THz imaging for                               (Exeter:
  grant               BIO           increased precision and selectivity during surgical                         £1.9M)
                      (Stone)       removal of cancers.
  EPSRC        BIO                  Project to develop an in vivo Raman mammographic                            £1.2M
  Healthcare   (Stone)              screening tool for early analysis of breast cancers,
  Technologies                      linked to the £18M CRUK Grand Challenge
                                    PRECISION.
  EPSRC               BIO           Project to develop extremely sensitive trapping and                         £2.1M
  Physics of          (Vollmer)     sensing approaches for use in healthcare diagnostic
  Life                EMAG          tests of human pathogens.
                      (Anders)
  EPSRC               EMAG          The XM2 CDT in Metamaterials has funded ~100                                £5.0M
  Centre for          (Hibbins,     PhDs since 2014, with industry and Governmental
  Doctoral            Barnes,       sponsorship exceeding £2M, providing a pipeline of
                      Sambles)
  Training                          talented scientists for tomorrow’s leaders.
  EPSRC               BIO           CONTRAST: Laser laboratory aimed at developing                              £1.1M
  Strategic           (Moger,       and translating cutting-edge nonlinear optical
  equipment           Stone)        spectroscopy      for    healthcare   and   sensing
                                    technologies.
                      EMAG          EXTREMAG: Laser laboratory designed to explore                              £1.1M
                      (Hicken,      ultrafast magnetic processes on timescales down to
                      Hendry,       10s of femtoseconds, combining capability for low
                      Kruglyak)
                                    temperatures, high magnetic fields, and on length
                                    scales down to 100s of nanometres.
  EPSRC               EMAG          The Team A partnership builds upon the successful                           £2.4M
  Prosperity          (Bertollotti, relationship between Exeter and QinetiQ, to develop
  Partnership         Hendry,       advanced metamaterials that can be used to control
                      Hibbins,
                      Sambles)      and manipulate the propagation of electromagnetic
                      QSN           and acoustic energy.
                      (Horsell)
                                                                                                               Total =
                                                                                                               £18.6M
 Table 3: >£1M EPSRC awards obtained during the current REF period involving an Exeter Physics PI (bold). We include the Team
 A Prosperity Partnership as the majority of investigators are from our department. Terabotics is led by Warwick University.

 Investment in onsite lab facilities
 As part of the Exeter’s wider strategic investment aimed at rebalancing towards STEM (ILES, 1.4),
 we have increased capability in photonics and biophotonics with a radical overhaul of our
 laboratory space. Since 2014, approximately 260 m2 of labs space has been refurbished to create

                                                                                                                     Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 14 new cutting-edge optics laboratories and 2 new sample prep labs, almost entirely through
 University match funding (for the fellowship and large grant proposals listed above) from the
 Strategic Equipment Fund (SEF). This is exemplified by two new flagship facilities, CONTRAST
 and EXTREMAG, which were both part-funded by the EPSRC and SEF and are both open to
 external users:
  - CONTRAST is a suite of ultrafast laser laboratories for the development and translation of
    cutting-edge nonlinear optical spectroscopy into healthcare technologies, funded in part by a
    £380K investment from SEF. Fully supported by an experimental officer, this is the only user
    facility of its type in the UK. It supports high profile healthcare technologies research at Exeter,
    such as the RaNT programme. Moreover, since opening at the end of 2019, the facility has a
    wide range of external users from Oxford, Nottingham, Imperial, MRC Harwell Institute, UCL,
    and Manchester, as well as industry supporters Syngenta.
  - EXTREMAG, with £360k investment from SEF, is a newly refurbished laboratory designed to
    explore ultrafast magnetic processes on timescales down to 10s of femtoseconds. Samples
    are probed at low temperatures, in high magnetic fields, and on length scales down to 100s
    of nanometers, making Exeter’s expertise in ultrafast magneto-optical and THz
    measurements available to the UK and international magnetism community. Since opening
    in late 2019, EXTREMAG has scheduled time for academic collaborators from 16 UK
    universities, colleagues from national facilities such as the Diamond Light Source and NPL,
    as well as international collaborators from IMEC Belgium.
 In total, since 2014, the University has invested £3.4M to create state-of-the-art lab space for both
 new and existing research groups in Physics, contributed £1.1M towards research equipment and
 £442K to redevelop communal and office space. The new £52M LSI building has allowed
 completely new directions for BIO such as healthcare tech, offering new facilities such as bio wet-
 labs and increased interaction with colleagues from medical and biological disciplines, as well as
 state-of-the-art lab facilities for five Category A staff from Physics housed there. We strongly
 believe the investment in infrastructure and the resulting increase in collaborative activity is directly
 tied to our increase in research quality, with 34% of our outputs are now published in the top 10%
 cited journals. As we look to the future, in the next REF period we would like to rejuvenate the
 remaining lab facilities, which at the moment account for ~30% of lab space in our department.
 This will be achieved using the same approach: by focussing on and winning large project awards
 in strategic areas. Also in the next REF cycle, we think that the £82M University investment in the
 North Park building will boost ASTRO in a similar manner as the LSI has for BIO, facilitating new
 cross-disciplinary directions with colleagues in computing and data sciences.

 Investment in computation facilities
 Exeter University runs an in-house tier 3 HPC (High Performance Computing) facility which was
 established by a £3M investment by the University and has been supplemented by subsequent
 grant income. The facility is designed to serve the research computing requirements of a diverse
 range of disciplines and is an important tool for researchers in Physics, primarily in ASTRO and
 QSN. The facility combines a traditional HPC cluster with a virtualised cluster environment and
 was the first of its kind in a UK university, and is supported by a dedicated team based in Research
 IT. Governance of the facility, and other research computing matters, is overseen by a board
 comprising representatives from all academic colleges and Exeter IT. Our tier 3 campus-based
 system also supplies the environment for code development and scaling tests that underpin
 ASTRO’s applications to national (Dirac) and international (PRACE) HPC facilities, where the
 group is also represented at the Dirac project Board (Bate). The University is also engaged with
 the national e-Infrastructure as a full partner in the GW4 Centre for Advanced Architectures. The
 GW4 consortium, in partnership with the Met Office, runs the "Isambard" HPC service, and is part
 of the national tier-2 e-Infrastructure. Isambard, funded by EPSRC, was one of the first production
 supercomputers in the world to be based on the ARM processor architecture.

 Clean room and other facilities

 Research infrastructure is supported by 4 FTE mechanical workshop technicians and 6.5 FTE
 experimental officers/lab technicians. Our department also has class-6 clean room facilities

                                                                                                  Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 covering a total of 150m2 which house nanofabrication (dual beam SEM and electron-beam
 lithography/focussed ion beam milling, nano-sphere lithography, inert gas and reactive ion mills),
 evaporation and sputter deposition systems, holographic grating fabrication, bio-sample electron
 microscopy preparation, access to a rapid prototyping (3D printer) facility for sample fabrication
 and a helium liquefier to supply cryogenic equipment. These facilities are shared all research
 groups, funded by directly allocated costs on research grants. During the REF period, the
 University has also invested in our department facilities, with £100k to upgrade our helium liquefier,
 £250K to upgrade existing e-beam facilities and the appointment of new clean room technician to
 oversee operation.
                                                            Contribution in Kind (K£)
  Facility                                  2013- 2014- 2015- 2016- 2017- Aug
  Type          Facility     Users          2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018+ Total
  Synchrotron ESRF           EMAG            77       232        -      77     155        -     542
                                      (Ogrin)
                                      BIO
                                      (Petrov)
                     Diamond          EMAG                664        470        325        106        217          75       1,857
                                      (Hicken,
                                      Ogrin)
                                      BIO
                                      (Petrov,
                                      Stone,
                                      Palombo)
                     Soleil*          EMAG                   -       119         59        178        119          59        534
                     (€4700/8hr)      (Ogrin)
                     ALS*             EMAG                128        115        230        102         76         104        775
                     ($5200/8hr)      (Hicken)
                     BESSY*           EMAG                   -          -        46         46          -          56        148
                     /DESY*           (Hicken)
                     (€4160/8hr)      BIO
                                      (Petrov)
 Laser               LaserLab         BIO                    -          -        14          -          -          28         42
                     Europe*          (Palombo,
                     (€780/8hr)       Stone)
 Telescope           Hubble           ASTRO                33           -        74        1104       190           -       1,401

                     ESO              ASTRO                  -       210        273        636        1504       2106       4,727
                                      (Hinkley,
                                      Kraus, Naylor)
                     Other      ASTRO                      97         52         53         24         11          46        283
                     telescopes (Naylor,
                                      Kraus)
 Computation DiRAC                    ASTRO               159        157        209        283        407       1,098       2,313
                                      (Baraffe, Bate)
                     ARCHER* QSN                             -          -         3         21         36          43        103
                     (£0.56/kAu)      (Hepplestone)
                     PRACE*           ASTRO                  -          -      1,502      1,002         -           -       2,504
                     (£3.61/          (Browning)
                     node-day)
 Table 4: Awards in kind recorded by UKRI and for facilities not recorded in UKRI data* (in-kind estimated rate in brackets), where
 Exeter academic is PI. Data from Aug 2018 onwards is incomplete, and hence is presented in a combined column. Other telescopes:
 Isaac Newton Group, Liverpool Telescope and ALMA.


 Usage of major national and international facilities
 National and international facilities are widely used. Time-equivalent value, awarded since Aug
 14, is tabulated in Table 4. The value of time recorded by UKRI amounts to £11.1M, while non-
 UKRI international facility use accounts for £4.1M. The trends in usage per year reflect the
 changing research within our groups, with a decline in synchrotron usage in recent years. This is
 partly as a result of state of the art, local measurement facilities such as CONTRAST, EXTREMAG


                                                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and the RaNT suite, focusing research effort more in optics. The strong growth in telescope and
 supercomputer time reflects the growth in our ASTRO group and the wider department.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Industry and Impact
 We work closely with the University’s Industry, Impact and Business (IIB) division, who report to
 our new Director of Impact and work with individual academics to develop
 regional/national/international innovation. IIB offers small and medium sized grants to develop
 impactful activities, as well as guidance and admin support, which helps embed an impact culture
 within our department. We highlight below examples of our contributions to the economy and
 society which have resulted:
   - Local and UK Economies: In 2015/16, the University of Exeter generated £1.17 billion in
      economic output across the UK, concentrated in the south west, where it supports >11,000
      jobs. During the REF period, Physics has developed several new and important links to local
      SMEs. For example, our ASTRO group works closely with local digital media companies (We
      The Curious and Engine House VFX) to develop hugely successful VR videos depicting
      exoplanet research which have allowed both companies to significantly expand. IIB also
      provides support for patent applications and spinouts from physics research, providing
      finance and advice during the early years of commercialisation. Our most recent and
      successful spin-out is Concrene Ltd (January 2019) which aims to reduce the carbon footprint
      of the concrete industry using 2D material technology developed within QSN. Concrene Ltd
      has recently been shortlisted for an Innovation award by the Royal Society of Chemistry and
      received £1M from investors. We also work more with companies from across the UK:
      research investment from industry has more than doubled during the REF period, and we
      have tailored part of our PhD training towards the needs of our UK industry partners.
   - Connections to regional centres: In line with goals set in REF 2014, we have developed links
      with Exeter’s Met Office, working together in meteorology (winning the Harry Otten Prize for
      Innovation in Meteorology with Brunt in 2019), in generating weather data files used for
      thermal modelling, and in less obvious areas such as through our climate modelling of
      exoplanets. Led by Stone, BIO has also developed new links with the Royal Devon and Exeter
      Hospital and Gloucestershire Hospital. Working with NHS consultants, researchers in new
      hospital-based physics labs are investigating novel directions in healthcare tech.
   - In the media: Media recognition is key to reaching a broader, global audience with our
      research. Our innovative VR Exoplanet videos are receiving millions of views on YouTube,
      and have also achieved global recognition, awarded the Bronze ‘People’s Choice Award’ at
      the Lovie Awards – the most prestigious pan-European creative industry content awards – in
      2018. Discoveries by Physics academics have also regularly featured in news media. For
      example, the Guardian labelled QSN’s Concrene 'a game-changer' for making building
      construction greener, while our graphene research was also the focus of entire BBC news
      articles: “The battle to curb our appetite for concrete”, “Exeter scientists make 'electric cloth'
      GraphExeter”.
   - Societal Impact: During the pandemic, our staff responded quickly to the shortages of medical
      equipment and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) experienced during the initial stages of
      the Covid pandemic. Led by Physics (Phillips), an action group leveraged existing networks
      within local communities, companies and NHS trusts to organise help. Stockpiles of existing
      masks, gloves and goggles from labs in Physics were donated to the Royal Devon and Exeter
      (RD&E) Hospital. In collaboration with a local medical consultancy TangerineBee, a new, 3-
      D printable face-shield design was developed and fabricated using existing facilities in
      Physics, with >2000 face-shields delivered within weeks to the RD&E. Our quick response
      led to thousands of PPE items produced for local key workers at a time when shortages were
      costing lives.
      Some of our research has had immediate impacts on government policies, e.g., thermal
      modelling of buildings using Exeter generated data files now forms part of UK building
      regulations. We have also impacted policies on the world stage: Images acquired using novel
      microscopy techniques developed by the BIO group provided unequivocal evidence of the
      accumulation of microplastics in marine organisms. The visual impact of these images played

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       a key role in influencing government policy changes to completely ban the use of
       microplastics in cosmetics, first in the UK, and across Europe, North America and the UN.
 Interdisciplinarity
 In step with the University strategy (ILES, 1.7), collaborative, cross-disciplinary research is central
 to our own research strategy. During the current REF cycle, >25% of our papers have a co-author
 from a discipline other than Physics. Since 2014, we have focussed on interdisciplinary research
 in three important areas:
   - Physics-Life interface: BIO, our fastest growing group, lies naturally at the interface with
       biological and medical sciences, focussed on our interdisciplinary hub in the LSI building.
       During the REF cycle, we have been awarded a series of large grants in the area of
       biophotonics (table 3) have enabled broader collaboration between our department and
       colleagues in medical and biological research fields, e.g., in applying vibrational spectroscopy
       for cancer diagnosis (Stone, Palombo) and developing novel nonlinear imaging techniques
       for plant biology (Moger). Some of our state-of-the-art laser facilities, meanwhile, have been
       designed with industrial collaboration in mind: The CONTRAST facility is a platform for
       translating our fundamental research in nonlinear optical spectroscopy into novel solution for
       commercial R&D. In the next REF cycle, we plan to expand this area further, specifically
       focussing on Health Tech (see outlook section).
   - Centre for Metamaterials and Innovation: Industry’s recognition of the quality of Exeter’s
       metamaterial research, lying at the interface between Physics and Engineering, has helped
       us expand existing relationships and establish many new mutually beneficial industrial
       collaborations. To continue to showcase and expand our expertise in meta- and functional
       materials, and industry-facing research, we have recently formed a centre, which is part of a
       broader Materials Innovation Hub encompassing researchers across physics, engineering,
       mathematics, computer science and biosciences. The Hub provides an interface for industry-
       relevant, cross-disciplinary research in functional materials, and will allow us to continue and
       expand industrial links as well as capitalising on industrial strategy funding allocated by the
       government.
   - ASTRO/Data Science: Exeter has a strong research concentration in modelling weather and
       climate (MET office and UoE Mathematics), as well as data science and machine learning
       (UoE Social Sciences/Computer Science). Many cross-disciplinary collaborations have
       emerged over the last years, with ASTRO research on exoplanet atmospheres at the
       forefront. If Project North Park proceeds, we plan to co-locate the ASTRO group with Exeter’s
       Global Systems Institute, and the Institute of Data Science and Artificial Intelligence to forge
       and facilitate further interdisciplinary collaborations and innovation that can address 21st
       century global challenges.

 Internationalisation
 We are an outward-facing department and view interactions with other establishments as
 fundamental to maintaining and improving the quality of our research and growing our international
 reputation. We collaborate with over a hundred UK national labs, academic institutions and
 charities and have several hundred more established collaborations with overseas institutions in
 over 50 countries. Below, we highlight some of the approaches we have taken to
 internationalisation.
   - International partnerships: We have actively sought partnerships with several leading
      universities and institutes around the world who have similar research strengths to ours. This
      has been planned at University level (e.g., University of Queensland, Chinese University of
      Hong Kong – see ILES, 1.9) but has also been driven at Physics departmental level, where
      we have established agreements with the TU Munich and Brown University which includes
      research student exchange. We plan to expand this model during the next REF cycle.
   - International Networks: all four research groups are involved in national/EU/international
      funded research networks. We also lead from the front in heading several notable
      international networks, e.g., EMAG led the “Thermodynamics in the quantum regime”, chaired
      by Anders (2013 – 2017), which brought together more than 300 researchers working in
      statistical physics, mesoscopic physics and quantum information theory in more than 32
      countries. EMAG also leads the recently funded EPSRC Metamaterials Network (PI: Hibbins)

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     which brings together a host of leading groups from both academia and industry. ASTRO are
     deeply involved in national and international observational programmes, with Naylor chairing
     the Board for LSST-UK; Hatchell sitting on the JCMT Board and coordinating the JCMT Gould
     Belt and Transients surveys; while Kraus is President of the European Interferometry
     Initiative. ASTRO also leads the HST PanCET programme, the first comprehensive survey of
     gas-giant exoplanet atmospheres and one of the largest time allocations in Hubble’s history,
     and is leading the development of the MIRC-X-6 telescope, the world’s highest resolution
     infrared imager designed to study planet-forming discs.
   - Visiting scholars: We regularly attract leading scientists from around the world to Exeter
     through seminar series within the groups and a departmental colloquium. Our recently
     opened laser facilities, EXTREMAG and CONTRAST, have also brought international
     researchers to Exeter to work with our EMAG and BIO groups. We have meanwhile hosted
     several visiting professors, enhancing collaborative spirit in Physics, and our own staff have
     held many prestigious visiting scholarships at other institutions:

  Staff member                  Visiting scholarship                                         Year(s)
  Richard Townsend*             Leverhulme Visiting Professor                                2015-16
  Tao Yang*                     Chinese VRS Programme                                        2016
  Adam Burgasser*               Fullbright Scholar                                           2017-18
  Takashi Manago*               Fukuoka University Sabbatical Programme                      2017-18
  Sophie Brasselet*             Leverhulme Visiting Professor                                2018-19
  Sambles(EMAG)                 Distinguished Visiting Scientist, NPL                        2018-20
  Baraffe(ASTRO)                Biermann lecturer, Max-Planck Garching                       2015
  Hicken(EMAG)                  GP-Spin Visiting Lecturer, Tohoku University                 2019
  Barnes(EMAG)                  Visiting Professor, University Twente                        2014-20
  Anders(EMAG)                  Visiting Professor, University Potsdam                       2019-20
  Portnoi(QSN)                  Research Professorship, ITMO, St Petersburg                  2018-20
                                Distinguished Visitor, IIP-UFRN, Natal                       2014,2016,2019
                                Visiting Professor, Westlake University, Hangzhou            2019
 Table 5: Visiting scholarships. *Funded positions hosted in Exeter.


  Lead organiser(s)                                    Conference title                                    Year
  Hicken(EMAG)                                         Optical Polarization Conversion in the Near Field   2015
  Barnes(EMAG)                                         Plasmonics and light scattering                     2015
  Stone(BIO)                                           Clinical Spectroscopy – CLIRSPEC                    2015
  Stone(BIO)                                           13th Martin and Willis IRDG                         2015
  Hendry(EMAG)                                         Graphene Optics                                     2016
  Harries, Brunt(ASTRO)                                Star Formation 2016                                 2016
  Baraffe(ASTRO)                                       3rd Exoplanet Community Meeting                     2016
  Hicken, Kruglyak(EMAG)                               6th IEEE Conference on Microwave Magnetics          2018
  Russo(QSN)                                           Induced Strain in Atomically Thin Materials         2018
  Hicken(EMAG)                                         Emergent Applications of Spin Transfer Torque       2018
  Bertolotti(EMAG) Phillips(BIO)                       Light in Complex Materials                          2019
  Baraffe(ASTRO)                                       Stellar Hydro Days V                                2019
  Anders, Correa(EMAG)                                 Emergence and physics out of equilibrium            2019
  Kraus(ASTRO)                                         High angular resolution astronomy                   2020
  Hinkley(ASTRO)                                       Observations with JWST*                             2020
  Hicken(EMAG)                                         International workshop on exchange dynamics*        2020
  Hicken(EMAG) + IOP Magnetism                         CRIM 2020*                                          2020
 Table 6: Conferences hosted by Exeter. *Denotes online.


   - Conferences: Staff are encouraged to present their work at international conferences and our
     department makes travel-funds available when necessary. Over the REF period, members
     have given 65 keynote/plenary/review lectures at international conferences, contributed >300
     invited talks, and served on organising committees of 46 international conferences. Our staff
     have also set up new annual conference series: Anders set up the Quantum Thermodynamics

                                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    series, which has been running yearly since 2014, while Bertollotti has set up a biennial
    "Complex Photonics Science Camp" (2015, 2017, and 2019). Hibbins and Sambles have also
    organised and chaired two prestigious Rank Prize conferences. To increase our international
    recognition, by bringing international physicists to Exeter, conference hosting has been a
    focus. Supported by our Director for International Relations and University events team, this
    resulted in a strong programme of home-hosted international conferences and workshops –
    Table 6.
  - Our Director for International Relations has introduced International Research Summer
    Schools (6-10 weeks) combining English with physics sessions, targeting international
    students. We also support international PGRs with a programme to act as Exeter
    ambassadors abroad, where they are encouraged to give talks while visiting home
    countries/schools/universities.

 Other Esteem Factors
  - During the REF cycle, Stone has been appointed Honorary Consultant Scientist for both
     Gloucestershire and Exeter NHS Foundation Trusts (2014-20). Hibbins was appointed to the
     EPSRC SAT for physical sciences (2019,20), and >50% of our staff have sat on funding
     prioritisation panels, seven times as panel chair. Sambles has been particularly prolific in
     participating in and chairing important review panels for the MoD (5 times since 2015) and
     reviews, 7 times since 2016, for physics programmes across many highly ranked institutions
     including Cambridge (2016) and the University of Hong Kong (2018).
  - Many of our researchers are respected leaders in their fields, corroborated by an exceptional
     series of international awards since 2014:

                      Staff member                 Award                       Year
                      Vukusic(EMAG)                IOP Bragg Medal             2014
                      Chabrier(ASTRO)              Ampere Prize                2014
                      Anders(EMAG)                 IOP Bates Prize             2015
                      Bertolotti(EMAG)             IOP Moseley Medal           2016
                      Sambles(EMAG)                IOP Honorary Fellowship     2018
                      Barnes(EMAG)                 IOP Young Medal             2019
                      Chabrier(ASTRO)              IOP Hoyle Medal             2019
                      Brunt(ASTRO)                 Harry Otten Prize           2019
                      Baraffe(ASTRO)               Viktor Ambartsumian Prize   2020
                      Stone (BIO)                  IPEM Academic Gold Medal    2020
                     Table 7: Prizes and awards.

  - Several staff members filled editorial roles at international journals: Russo (Scientific Reports
    and Nanomaterials MDPI), Palombo (Biomedical Optics Express), Srivastava
    (Nanomaterials), Hibbins (Scientific Reports), Portnoi (SPIE Journal of Nanophotonics),
    Baraffe (Computational Astrophysics), Stone (Translational Biophotonics, Clinical
    Spectroscopy and RSC - Analyst), Barnes (Journal of Modern Optics), Anders (New Journal
    of Physics).
  - For many years, Prof Roy Sambles has been a pivotal member of our staff, recognised
    throughout the world for his pioneering work in photonics. During the REF period, Sambles
    was appointed the IOP president (2015-17), and his celebrated career rewarded with a
    Knighthood in 2020 for services to scientific research and outreach.

 Future Outlook
 Beyond 2021, further income growth/FTE of 5 to 10% per annum is built into our business model.
 To meet this, we look to enhance industry interaction in core areas, and to develop future
 interdisciplinary partners for large grant bids. We plan to:
   - Supported by IIB, further develop impact of QSN research via their entrepreneurial activities
      in graphene composites.
   - Expand our recently formed Centre for Metamaterials and Innovation. Building on our
      strengths in fundamental materials, this will provide a focus for the exploitation and extension

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    of industrial links as well as allowing us to fully capitalize on government industrial strategy
    funding.
  - Depending on the outcome of the financial reassessment for project North Park (due 2021),
    relocate ASTRO to a new building. The colocation of Astrophysics with the Global Systems
    Institute and the Institute of Data Science and Artificial Intelligence will enhance cross-
    disciplinary collaboration, and promises exciting new developments in climate physics,
    exoplanet atmospheres, and data science and machine learning.
  - Strengthen existing links with the LSI, Medical School and hospitals. Following the
    metamaterials model, we will form a Centre for Advanced Healthcare Technologies. Working
    across disciplines, this will enhance external recognition and help maintain critical mass,
    allowing us to more easily respond to research council and Innovate UK calls. This will ensure
    that our fundamental research in BIO translates from benchside to bedside.




                                                                                            Page 18
