Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Newcastle University
 Unit of Assessment: UOA 13: Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 1.1 Overview, Structure and Context
 Research in this UoA explores how urban and rural environments are imagined, planned,
 designed, governed, modelled, constructed, cultivated, inhabited, and conserved. We examine
 the allocation, consumption and generation of cultural, social, economic and natural resources
 within these diverse environmental contexts. And we investigate how they produce communities,
 cultures, ideologies, and inequalities. Our UoA is renowned for its globally-significant
 interdisciplinary research which overcomes habitual disconnections between fields, and their
 differing vocabularies and values. The work combines sophisticated, critical and rigorous
 scholarship that bridges: engaged architectural methods and practices; interventions in planning
 and governance; applied social science research for public policy; and practice-led work in the
 arts and creative practice. We have a strong focus on social justice and equality. Diversity and
 inclusion are not only the subject of research but integral to all our research processes. Our work
 illustrates Newcastle University’s status as, simultaneously, a globally recognised research-
 intensive organisation and an anchor institution in the North East of England (ILES1.1).


 All colleagues in the UoA work within or across three groups whose researchers have collaborated
 for more than two decades, and were previously returned together in REF2014 and RAE2008,
 namely: Architecture Research Collaborative (ARC); Global Urban Research Unit (GURU), both
 based in the School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape (SAPL), Faculty of Humanities and
 Social Sciences (HaSS); and Centre for Rural Economy (CRE), in the School of Natural and
 Environmental Sciences (SNES), Faculty of Science, Agriculture and Engineering (SAgE) (CRE
 researchers at the interface of rural economy, social science and planning are returned to this
 UoA, with other CRE staff returned to UoA6). There is vibrant cross-participation, joint publication
 and PhD supervision between these groups with researchers often holding dual affiliations and
 several staff, over time, moving between.


 CRE was formed in 1992 specialising in interdisciplinary social science and applied policy
 research, foregrounding knowledge about the rural economy in national and international debates
 concerning policy and practice. CRE includes one of the most significant groupings of rural social
 scientists in Europe, recognised in 2013 by the award of the Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher
 and Further Education. The origins of GURU date back to 1993, since when it has contributed
 theoretical advancements in planning, governance and urban studies, engaging with societal
 challenges, public policy, community development and professional practices. With its core focus
 in urban planning, GURU’s work reaches into diverse disciplinary fields and has a strong tradition


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of working in Europe and the Global South. ARC was formed in 2012 by combining separate
 architectural research groupings with the strategic aim of cutting across traditional thematics and
 connecting researchers with diverse expertise to stimulate innovation and bear collectively on the
 complexity demanded by architectural, cultural and societal questions. Researchers from the UoA
 lead the development of Newcastle University Centres of Research Excellence (NUCoREs), the
 flagship programme of the University’s Research Strategy, in Heritage (2019) and Cities (2020)
 with others in development (ILES2.2.1).


 Each of the research groups has received significant and sustained strategic investment in
 people and infrastructure, at university, faculty and school levels (s2.1, s3.5), producing
 substantial growth in researcher numbers and facilities available in this REF-period. We have
 directed this growth mindful of our UoA research strategy which focuses on ‘three “i”s’,
 interdisciplinarity, internationalisation and impact (s1.2), emphasising the vitality and
 sustainability of our supportive research culture (s2). This growth resulted in major initiatives
 developed from the UoA, and unit staff leading strategic University programmes. These frequently
 emerged from iterative investments, making a major contribution to long-term success and
 succession-planning, by researchers who have built their careers in Newcastle (s2.1). Key
 examples include:
    •   Investment in experimental architecture and biodesign research (ARC), developing into
        the UKRI £8m Hub for Biotechnology in the Built Environment (HBBE, 2019), the largest
        grant ever awarded to the discipline of Architecture in the UK (s1.3).
    •   Sustained investment in pioneering research into the rural economy and society (CRE)
        which led to the award of the UKRI £6.2m National Innovation Centre for Rural Enterprise
        (NICRE, 2020-2023) (s4.1).
    •   Success and investment in ageing research (GURU), linking with the National Innovation
        Centre Ageing (NICA, 2014-) leading, for example, to the £20m Future Homes project
        (s4.1; ICS13-3_Tewdwr-Jones).
    •   Investment in cities research (GURU), leading to: the UKRI Newcastle City Futures (NCF)
        urban living partnership, (ICS13-3_Tewdwr-Jones); a leading role in the University’s
        Spatial Analytics and Modelling initiative (SAM), and; working with computing science and
        others, funded programmes in digital civics (s1.3).
    •   GURU researchers play leading roles in two Global Challenge Research Fund (GCRF)
        Research Hubs awarded to Newcastle (2019): Living Deltas (NERC, £15.3m), and; Water
        Security and Sustainable Development (ESRC, £17.8m) (s3.2).
    •   A programme of co-produced community projects drawing from creative practice
        methods (ARC, CRE, GURU) (s4.1), including the Testing Ground programme (ICS13-
        4_Farmer), and catalytical participatory visual and performing arts work (ICS13-
        5_Gkartzios+Cowie).

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Investment in research infrastructure (ARC, CRE, GURU), including the creation of the
        £4.8m Farrell Centre for Architecture and Cities, an exciting new gallery and public
        engagement space (s4.1).


 Our UoA has grown more than 50% from 2014, notably in the submission from ARC, up from
 14 to 33 colleagues. This represents a high degree of continuity and career progression, linked to
 significant growth across the spectrum of academic career stages (s2). Early Career Researchers
 (ECRs) are integral to our research environment and our aim is to create opportunities for ECRs
 to build their careers at Newcastle (s2), related to the UoA’s strong commitment to equality,
 diversity and inclusion. The University holds an Athena SWAN (AS) Silver award (2016), and both
 SAPL (2019) and SNES (2018) hold AS Bronze. SAPL have appointed a Director of EDI (Button),
 part of the School Management Team who leads the EDI Committee, with a budget and
 representatives from all job families, PGRs, and taught students (s2.4.3). Alongside our focus on
 equality, we are committed to ethical practice. All UoA research, regardless of funding source or
 whether PGR or staff-initiated, must follow University ethical approval procedures (ILES2.3.2) as
 part of our commitment to research integrity. Our Schools have an Ethics Convenor (SAPL,
 Kamara; SNES, Gkartzios) and more complex ethical approvals are completed at Faculty-level
 following iterative discussions with a nominated Convenor from Faculty Ethics Committee.
 Safeguarding training is introduced where appropriate. The UoA is committed to open research
 and our researchers use the resources available via the University e-print repository, agreements
 and funding sources for open access publishing (ILES2.3.3). New data sets are deposited in
 searchable archives and made available for re-use by other researchers on the principle of ‘open
 as possible, closed as necessary’.


 During this REF-cycle the UoA has achieved:
    •   A publication portfolio of over 1000 outputs including: 37 (co-)authored books; nearly 450
        refereed journal articles; 38 edited books; 250 book chapters; over 40 built works and
        exhibitions; over 100 reports; and a similar number of contributions to refereed conference
        proceedings. Over 200 of these publications were produced with international co-authors.
        UoA researchers have published in 7 languages other than English and outputs are
        translated into 13 languages.
    •   Research and innovation funding to a total of £6.9m, on an upward trajectory through
        the REF-period, with a series of large awards in the latter part of the period ensuring the
        UoA’s continuing sustainability.
    •   A cohort of high calibre PhD students, strongly international in nature. A characteristic
        of this REF-period has been the alignment of PGR intake with strategic research priorities
        through participation in UKRI-funded DTCs/DTPs.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Research strategy: Internationalisation, interdisciplinarity and impact
 The University’s Vision and Strategy provides the overall context for research in the UoA,
 academic schools play an operational planning role, and each of the groups regularly updates its
 thematically-organised research strategy. Our UoA-level strategy supports and extends over-
 arching themes identified in our RAE2008 and REF2014 submissions concerning:


 Interdisciplinarity, establishing new collaborations across the University and leading new
 interdisciplinary fields of research, e.g.: 2014 plans to develop work on biodesign (leading to
 HBBE) and creative practice; the GCRF hubs; interdisciplinary initiatives such as SAM with
 engineering, computing, and geography; plus participation in digital civics with Computing.


 Internationalisation, developing 2014 plans, we have taken a leading role in the two Newcastle-
 based GCRF hubs, continued extensive involvement in European-level projects, and invested in
 east Asian research with the appointment of a leading scholar on Chinese architecture to a Chair
 (Zhu). At REF-census, UoA researchers were working on funded projects with researchers in 36
 countries across the globe.


 To these two themes, we added a third in 2014, developing from user-focused research to an
 explicit orientation towards challenge-led research with impact, co-ordinated by an Impact
 Champion (Gilroy). The UoA’s strategy for impact is based on the following guiding principles:
    •   Co-producing our research through many of our impact activities, underpinned by our
        commitment to sustainable and ethical engagement (s4.1).
    •   Engaging methodologies, drawn from the arts, humanities and creative practice e.g.
        theatre performance (ICS13-5_Gkartzios+Cowie), and live community co-build projects
        (ICS13-4_Farmer), enabling effective community collaboration with material outcomes.
    •   Influencing policy, extending a long tradition of urban and rural policy work (e.g. ICS13-
        1_Townshend, ICS13-2_Phillipson+Cowie).
    •   Influencing beyond policy, to place renewed emphasis on working at community level
        and in partnerships (e.g. s4.1.1, ICS13-3_Tewdwr-Jones).
    •   Alignment with the University’s place-based agenda as a civic institution, where much of
        our research impact started locally in the north-east of England is developed at national
        and international scales.


 Irrespective of contract type, colleagues are all actively encouraged and supported to undertake
 impact and engagement activities (s2). This has been supported by 13 ESRC Impact Accelerator
 Awards and internal funding streams (s3.3). KTPs have been undertaken with national housing
 group Anchor Hanover (Gilroy) (s4.1), and Bussey & Armstrong towards public art in the Westpark
 development, Darlington (Thompson).

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Investing in research
 The UoA has been extremely successful in securing University investment in people and research
 infrastructure (s2.1/2.2; s3.5), including £658K through the University’s Research Excellence
 Academy for postdoctoral research fellowships (s2.2). In turn, this led to sustained success in
 attracting external funding, achieving the highest quality outputs and delivering impactful work.


 HBBE provides an exemplary case, where initial investments by SAPL, and prioritisation of
 experimental architecture in strategic case-making with the University, facilitated the scaling-up of
 activity leading to major grants. In 2012 SAPL identified a strategic opportunity for ARC to lead in
 the development of a new type of building science and funded support for Dade-Robertson's
 development through 2 PhD studentships (Ramirez-Figueroa, Hernan). University funding was
 gained for appointing a leading scholar in the field to a Chair (Armstrong, 2014), and in parallel
 Dade-Robertson was funded through fees and sabbatical leave to undertake the University’s MSc
 in Synthetic Biology (2016). Further investment was achieved through the University’s competitive
 Research Investment Fund (RIF) (2015-2020, £363K). This enabled the construction of
 laboratory facilities and postdoctoral research appointments (Ferracina, Hughes). These
 investments provided the platform for winning the EU LIAR project (EUR3.2m, Armstrong) and
 the EPSRC award Computational Colloids (£240K) and follow-on Thinking Soils (£800K, both
 Dade-Robertson). In turn, these provided the platform for HBBE (£8m, Dade-Robertson,
 Armstrong, Bridgens, Morrow), awarded through Research England’s Expanding Excellence in
 England programme, intended to grow new disciplines and upscale demonstrable excellence.
 Linking architecture at Newcastle and biotechnology at Northumbria University, HBBE has
 recruited over 30 new members of staff, and is projected to grow to a group of more than 80
 researchers by the end of 2022/23. HBBE is leading to further projects (e.g. Principles for a
 Microbial 3D Printer, EPSRC, £243K, Dade-Robertson, 2021-23; Fibre Highways: Translocation
 of the Microbiome for Pollutant Bioremediation, BBSRC/EPSRC/NIBB, £97K, Scott, 2020-21),
 and has continued the UoA’s original vision of developing a new type of building science.


 GURU’s foci on cities, ageing and emerging digital practices have similarly been supported
 through a series of interlocking investments and subsequent successes, underpinning the Cities
 NUCoRE:
    •   A strategic case for institutional investment in cities research with the Centre for Urban
        and Regional Development Studies (CURDS) led to the appointment of a new Chair in
        Cities (Burrows, 2016) plus a postdoctoral fellow (Smith) and PhD student (Day), to work
        alongside Graham.
    •   RIF (£2m) supported the development of Spatial Analytics and Modelling (SAM), led by
        CURDS with GURU. SAM’s vision is to forge a connected and trans-disciplinary spatial
        science to enable the management of complex social, economic, engineering and

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        technical phenomena in time and space. Crampton was appointed as Professor of Urban
        Data Analysis in GURU (2018), with three further interdisciplinary chairs across the
        University, and is now Co-I for the EPSRC-funded Geospatial Systems Doctoral Training
        Centre (£6.7m, 2019-2027, 50 PhD students).
    •   Support was obtained from RIF (£354K) to develop existing strengths in ageing and the
        city, specifically the work of Gilroy, linking with NICA, the NHS Campus for Ageing and
        Vitality, and NCF. A SL appointment was made (Lewis), plus postdoctoral researcher
        (Aitken). This investment underpinned the development of the £20m Future Homes project
        (s4.1; ICS13-3_Tewdwr-Jones).
    •   The University resourced the secondment of Tewdwr-Jones to NCF (ICS13-3_Tewdwr-
        Jones), which leveraged external support (e.g. Urban Living Partnership, EPSRC, £400K,
        2016-18).
    •   Notable successes around digital civics have included: the creation of a lectureship
        (Weise); GURU researchers undertaking leading roles in: the EPSRC Digital Economy
        Research Centre (£10.4m, 25 postdoctoral researchers, 2 in GURU, Shakeri,
        Heitlinger/Wilson, 2014-2022); the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Digital Civics
        (£4.7m, 60 PhDs , 2014-2022) (both Vigar, Tewdwr-Jones) to support research into digital
        planning and digital community engagement (with the first SAPL graduate obtaining an
        ESRC postdoctoral fellowship, Wilson), and; the EPSRC Research Centre for Digital
        Citizens (£9m, Burrows, 2020-2025).


 1.4 Future Plans
 We seek to further our commitments to disciplinary-based research, and internationalisation,
 interdisciplinarity and impact. We will enable all researchers to fulfil their potential and make a
 strong contribution to University research environment and culture. Our work will be diverse,
 celebrating colleagues’ intellectual freedom, while we attend to the following areas:
    •   Sustaining excellent research into rural economy and society, emphasising the untapped
        potential of rural economies across the UK, through NICRE.
    •   Developing our novel interdisciplinary work on biodesign, recognising HBBE’s capacity to
        significantly extend this area, through external competitively funded ‘centre’ status and
        internally through prospective NUCoRE status and the progression of NUAcT Fellows
        (s2.2).
    •   Continuing to lead interdisciplinary work concerning: cities and heritage through the
        respective NUCoREs (Davoudi, Pendlebury); digital civics through UKRI Digital
        Economy and Digital Citizen awards; living well in place developing work around ageing
        in place, and housing and home, exemplified by Future Homes, and wider planning and
        design interventions in the built environment for health and wellbeing, responding to



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        challenges of (post-)pandemic living (linked to NUCoREs in Ageing & Inequalities and
        Healthy Living).
    •   Furthering our commitment to support the achievement of UN Sustainable Development
        Goals (specifically 6 and 13) through research on water security, reflected by our core
        contribution to the GCRF Water Security Hub and leadership in establishing an
        interdisciplinary Water NUCoRE (Button).
    •   Extending design-led research and creative activism through visual arts and
        performance-based research practices (ARC, CRE, GURU), with the Farrell Centre as an
        important locus of these activities.
    •   Developing critical landscape studies, following investments in a new lecturer and
        postdoctoral fellow, and an interdisciplinary Landscape NUCoRE (Roe), building out of
        landscape work integral to GCRF Living Deltas.


 2. People


 2.1 Introduction
 We seek to offer a supportive and inclusive research culture and to support the career
 development of colleagues. As Table 1 shows, our submission has grown more than 50%
 (notwithstanding that 92% of category A staff were returned in 2014):
    •   We have high rates of retention: Of 42 staff from ARC/CRE/GURU returned in 2014, 35
        are returned again, 4 have retired, 1 left academia and only 2 have taken more senior
        positions at other academic institutions.
    •   26 of the 52 colleagues (not already at or appointed at professorial level) returned here
        have received promotion in this REF period, including 19 of 26 staff returned in 2014, 8 of
        whom were promoted to Chair (3F, 5M).
    •   18% (12/68) of the staff in this return are classified as ECRs, 90% are on open-ended
        contracts and 10% on fixed term.
    •   In addition to the independent researchers returned, our research community, at census,
        consisted of 16 further research staff (15.7 FTE, 10F, 6M).
    •   The UoA’s research is further underpinned by the wider academic community, including
        Teaching & Scholarship (s2.4.1), Professional Services and Technician colleagues (s3.4).




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                  Table 1: Staff data 2020 and 2014
                                                   REF2020            REF2014
                  Overall staff                    68(63.65-FTE) 44(41.8-FTE)
                  return
                  Staff categories    Professor    24(9F, 15M)        10(1F, 8M)
                                      Reader       5(2F, 3M)          4(2F, 2M)
                                      SL           17(6F, 11M)        15(6F, 9M)
                                      L            11(3F, 8M)         11(4F, 11M)
                                      R&I          11(9F, 2M)         4(3F, 1M)
                  Gender overall                   41%F, 59%M         36%F, 64%M


 We remain committed to fostering aspirational attitudes to promotions and enabling existing
 colleagues to develop their careers. While success rates are similar, men are more likely to put
 themselves forward for promotion, and part-time staff particularly unlikely to do so. We will do
 more to actively support women and part-time colleagues to apply for promotion and further
 emphasise the value of diverse contributions to promotion criteria (e.g. including academic
 ‘citizenship’ or impact work). We have sought to use academic appointments to achieve a better
 gender balance in this REF-period. 20 T&R appointments were made (9F, 11M), 8 at professorial
 level (5F, 3M). All appointment panel members are trained in unconscious bias. We have long
 sought gender-balance, with a commitment now to at least two women and a range of career
 stages represented on panels, and accessible and inclusive job advertisements (AS-action).


 2.2 Staffing Strategy
 Decisions on staff appointments are made through annual planning processes conducted between
 schools and faculties. This has been supplemented by strategic investments introduced in Section
 1. A significantly expanded community of researchers has resulted, strengthening established
 areas of research activity whilst developing our strategies regarding interdisciplinarity,
 internationalisation and impact. Succession planning occurs through all these processes: standard
 recruitment cycles, enabling colleagues to flourish and progress; and through strategic investment.


 Specific initiatives have enabled appointments in experimental architecture (Armstrong, 2014),
 biological architecture (Morrow, 2020), cities (Burrows, 2016), urban data analysis (Crampton,
 2018), digital civics (Weise, 2018), and ageing (Lewis, 2019). Annual cycles have been used
 strategically to enhance research fields in design practice and pedagogy (Chiles, 2014, RParnell,
 2019), east Asian architecture (Zhu, 2019), and architectural technology (Bridgens, 2018,
 Burford, 2017). Appointments have reinforced existing areas of strength in rural economy
 (Shortall, 2016), planning and urban studies (Abdulai, 2018, Garcia-Mejuto, 2017, Varna, 2017,



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Raynor, 2019) and architectural history and theory (Garcia-Fuentes, 12/2013, Kakalis, 2016,
 Odgers, 2017, SParnell, 2015).


 Substantial investment was achieved though the University’s Research Excellence Academy
 (£658K, 2016-2023) investing in a new generation of researchers, awarding 6 three-year
 Research Fellowships across ARC, GURU and CRE (Gould, Heslop, Machen, Raynor,
 Tiwasing, Veal). CRE received further internal funding for a five-year Fellowship (Cowie). More
 recently, the NUAcT Fellowship scheme is a major University programme funding five-year
 Fellowships each with an associated PhD studentship, cash support, and a Fellowship
 development programme, leading to an open-ended position (ILES3.2.4). 2 NUAcTs in the UoA
 thus far (McLeod, Scott) advance our interdisciplinary research and creative practice agendas
 respectively, associated with HBBE. The UoA also hosted a NU Humanities Research Institute
 Fellowship (Cheatle), Leverhulme Fellowship (Brigden) and ESRC Future Cities Catapult
 Fellowship (Cowie), and now 2 ESRC postdoctoral fellows (Merrell, Wilson).


 2.3 Research students
 The UoA has a substantial, thriving and diverse research student community, thoroughly
 integrated with our research environment and culture. We had 79FTE registered students at
 census, recruited based on EDI good practice. Our doctoral researchers are highly
 interdisciplinary: students are commonly co-supervised across the three groups; 22 of our
 students are co-supervised with colleagues from other UoAs (e.g. sociology, computer science,
 fine art, geography, archaeology, engineering) with our researchers contributing to other
 disciplines in turn; and 5 have external supervisors. Over the census period, the cohort has been
 generally gender-balanced (AS-data) and highly international (from 29 countries at census). The
 UoA supports international visiting students with 23 received from 10 countries in this REF-period.


 PGR numbers rose through the REF-period, with significant steps-up in funded studentships
 associated with HBBE (7 at census, a number that will grow) and the EPSRC Digital Civics CDT.
 The UoA also has students from the ESRC (NINE) and AHRC (Northern Bridge) DTP/DTCs, and
 2 doctoral candidates associated with the EU-ITN project Heriland. The unit has 1 student from
 the first intake of the EPSRC Geospatial CDT. 9 students have graduated from NINE in the REF-
 period (Merrell, after a period as a researcher, has been awarded an ESRC postdoctoral
 fellowship in CRE), with 8 more continuing at census. 1 student has graduated from Northern
 Bridge and 2 are continuing (1 from an Industrial Strategy Partnership). Support for students has
 come through externally funded bursaries, including the Mary and David Forshaw bequest
 specifically for female doctoral candidates (starting 2019, 3 awards to date). SAPL has funded 14
 new PhD scholarships in strategic areas (e.g. biodesign, and ageing) and support has come from
 RIF and NUAcT Fellowships and research groups. Many students are sponsored by their home


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 country, e.g. China Scholarship Council. A successful aim in the REF-period has been to achieve
 greater diversity and better distribution of research students across the UoA, with more based in
 ARC aided by the development of the Creative Practice PhD route (11 current students, 10
 graduations) becoming one of the largest such cohorts nationally. Senior appointments underpin
 this sphere of activity (Chiles, RParnell).


 PGR researchers are closely integrated with, consolidating and extending, key initiatives in the
 UoA and the three groups. For example:
    •   6 current digital civics students and 1 graduating student are based in GURU (with
        colleagues co-supervising three more). 4 trained as planners in SAPL, providing an
        important inter-disciplinary connection between digital technology, planning and urban
        governance. The first graduating student (Wilson, 2019) obtained an ESRC postdoctoral
        fellowship.
    •   SAPL’s Design Office has since 2011 developed a unique model where practice-based fee
        income is used to support PhD scholarships, with students working on live projects,
        integrating these with their PhDs by Creative Practice, and co-publishing design research
        with staff. This approach supports the sustainability and diversity of the discipline and gives
        CV-enriching real-life project experience (s4.3).


 Doctoral students drive forward our research culture, e.g.: four students were involved in forming
 the GURU Food Group drawing together staff and students with food-related research interests
 (2014-2017); five students obtained GURU funding to run an urban film series aimed at staff-
 student engagement (2018-2020); ARC and GURU students work with ECR colleagues to run the
 weekly SAPL Research Seminar series, chairing discussions with internal and external speakers;
 CRE students organise a student-led symposium involving researchers from Newcastle and
 Northumbria Universities to develop cultures of academic writing and publication, including peer
 review and critique of research papers; ARC and GURU students host research biography
 discussions where researchers (of all career stages) are invited to discuss their interests and
 career development.


 We actively support the academic development and visibility of our students, providing financial
 support (£800 per student as baseline with further support by groups) for training events,
 conference attendance, exhibitions, and image rights for publication. 82% of our students have
 presented at national and international conferences (AS data) with over 70 attendances funded
 by the UoA. Academic and industrial placements are supported as part of doctoral study e.g.:
 Canadian Centre for Architecture; Engagement Lab, Emerson College, Boston, USA; RMIT,
 Australia; Food Standards Agency; DCMS; Shadow Minister for Industrial Strategy’s Office; Open
 Plan, and; Cultura Trust.

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 All students have a minimum of two supervisors, and supervisors undertake regular training
 sessions. All students participate in research training programmes, organised at faculty level (UoA
 staff make significant contributions: Garcia-Mejuto, Lewis, Powe, Shucksmith, Speak, Veal)
 and across faculties following the formation of a new Doctoral College. Students must provide a
 project proposal within 3 months of registering and undergo an annual progress review with a
 panel of two academic staff. This includes a formal presentation in stage 1 and an interview in
 stage 3. In addition to a faculty-wide first year conference, students are strongly encouraged to
 present their work in SAPL and CRE seminar series.


 The physical environment for ARC and GURU research students has been renewed through the
 refurbishment of the Henry Daysh Building (s3.5). Students were represented in consultation
 processes and their preferred model adopted of small, shared rooms with dedicated meeting and
 exhibition spaces, and a Creative Practice studio. HBBE’s new lab and workshop facilities were
 also co-created with PGR students (s3.5). Staff participate in wider PGR research environment
 initiatives, including improvements to training, regulations, and paid work (Donaldson, SAPL PG
 Director) and a faculty wide EDI Audit, improving representation and communication (Roe, HASS
 PGR Dean).


 Research students have been supported through COVID-19 by the University’s PGR Resilience
 Framework which, working closely with student representatives, allows e.g. for free extensions of
 study, COVID impact statements for progression and examination, COVID scholarships, IT
 equipment provision, access to wellbeing services, and supervisory contingency planning.


 2.4 Inclusive and Vibrant Research Culture
 The UoA is committed to providing a supportive, open, accessible and kind workplace culture that
 nurtures inclusivity, through basic measures such as restricting meetings to core ‘family-friendly’
 hours, and broader plans to address structural challenges such as gender inequality and wellbeing
 (ILES3.3.1). We facilitate flexible working of various kinds, based on personal need, to support
 colleagues with caring responsibilities and work-life balance. This includes e.g.: contract variations
 such as tapering towards retirement (6 in the REF-period); increasing and decreasing FTE (9);
 fractional contracts around school holidays (1); semester-on-semester-off (1); alongside
 promoting applications to the University’s Returners Programme (1 application so far) and the
 (voluntary) programme of ‘keep in touch’ days for colleagues on parental leave. A Mental Health
 and Wellbeing Group in SAPL organises sessions open to all colleagues and PGR students, and
 recommendations for change are routinely implemented.




                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As part of a rich, inclusive and vibrant research culture the UoA welcomes visiting scholars from
 across the globe, providing dedicated space and facilities. Visitors have included academics and
 practitioners across career stages, from a few days to 12 months, with 66 visitors from 21 countries
 across 6 continents. 17 have been visiting professorships, including academics (e.g. Julieanna
 Preston), practitioners including architects and developers (e.g. Sir Terry Farrell, Neil Murphy) and
 independent researchers and writers (e.g. Anna Minton). The recently launched Alison and Peter
 Smithson Visiting Professorship will be taken-up, first by Rafael Moneo, and second by Kazuyo
 Sejima, with visits to take place when travel rules allow.


 2.4.1 Staff development and achieving equity
 The workload of Teaching & Research staff, and Teaching & Scholarship staff with no contractual
 requirement for research, is considered through an annual Workload Model. At a minimum, c.40%
 is allocated for research (T&R), or c.20%+ for scholarship (T&S), with higher allocations in certain
 circumstances e.g. sabbatical leave, significant research project management responsibilities,
 stepping down from a major administrative responsibility, or seeking to move from T&S to T&R.
 There is a broad expectation of one semester sabbatical leave following six semesters of service
 and T&S staff have equal access to sabbatical leave. 57 periods of sabbatical leave have been
 taken in this REF-period. Sabbatical plans are developed to suit colleagues’ career stage and
 goals, without standardised expectations (e.g. in terms of funding bids or outputs) and a mutually
 agreeable mentor is identified to provide support. T&S colleagues participate actively in the
 research environment (e.g. through research events) and numerous T&S colleagues are active in
 impact and engagement activities, and professional practice.


 Research support is considered proactively as part of two annual review processes. First, it forms
 part of the holistic annual Personal Development Review (PDR) for T&R, T&S and R&I colleagues.
 Second, specific research support occurs through annual Personal Research Plan (PRP)
 meetings (feeding into PDR) conducted by senior researchers, reviewing each staff member’s
 ideas, plans, goals, and needs. The University’s MyImpact system compiles data about research
 publications, income generation and PhD student supervision for all staff, providing tools for self-
 management and unit level data for overall mentoring and monitoring. PRP is not obligatory for
 T&S staff but is available to any colleague who seeks a research career. PhDs are supported for
 T&S and T&R staff (4 in progress, 1 awarded in the REF-period) including fee bursaries.


 An extensive range of development opportunities are available to all staff. In addition to support
 for the transition to research independence for NUAcTs, and the transition to leadership for new
 chairs (ILES3.2.5), colleagues have benefited from leadership training tailored to career stage (10
 staff), PI development (6 staff), grant getting (2 staff), social media in research (4 staff), and
 bespoke coaching for individuals (12 staff). Training supporting EDI, academic culture and


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 processes have also been undertaken e.g. unconscious bias (22 staff) and active bystander
 (senior managers) training and ‘Getting the most from your PDR’ (18 staff). We encourage new
 appointees to take up the offer of a mentor and make mentoring available to all staff.


 2.4.2 The Academic Precariat
 All T&R colleagues in the UoA are on open-ended contracts. However, the growth of our research
 community has entailed the employment numerous colleagues on fixed-term research contracts,
 either on funded projects or fellowships. The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support
 the Career Development of Researchers. At UoA level, we are acutely conscious of our
 responsibilities and the problems of precarious employment in the sector. We seek to support
 colleagues’ career development through access to appropriate skills training and other
 opportunities aligned to development, teaching experience, and (at least) equal access to all
 research support resources (e.g. school/group financial support). All those working on projects
 have time allocated to pursue their own research agendas. 21 fixed-term research staff have left
 the unit during the research period. Of these 11 went directly into lectureships/senior lectureships
 (2 in Newcastle), 7 into further research roles (3 in Newcastle), and 3 into senior practice roles.
 Nevertheless, we recognise the need to do more and SAPL appointed an ECR champion
 (Shakeri) (AS-actions).


 2.4.3 EDI
 We pursue equal opportunity for every colleague and student – whatever their gender, sexuality,
 ethnicity, class, faith or socioeconomic background, and with regard to disability – and seek to
 identify and overcome conscious or unconscious bias stemming from difference.


 We have sought to make this an inclusive REF-submission and the principal staff involved in its
 preparation have had specific EDI training. 54 of 68 colleagues have two or more outputs
 submitted and ECRs have returned an average of 2.25 outputs. Of researchers returned,
 26.35FTE are female and 37.3FTE male (41/ 59%). The 146 outputs from current staff that form
 part of this submission have 169 ‘authorships’ from the UoA (counting co-authors). 43% of these
 were authored by women and 57% by men (72/ 97 authorships). We have sought an inclusive
 process in writing this Environment Statement, with representation across the UoA including the
 ECR community. Colleagues were encouraged to declare circumstances to the REF for output
 reduction, in appropriate circumstances, through an arms-length anonymous process. The
 University’s EDI team reviewed the NU REF2021 Code of Practice and is involved in its
 implementation (ILES3.4.1).


 Actions from Athena SWAN Bronze awards in SAPL (2019) and SNES (2018) are ongoing. The
 SAPL EDI Director and Committee is systemising, focusing and extending previous actions. In


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 addition to issues of gender, SAPL’s AS focused on mental health, LGBT+ issues and moving
 contingent teaching staff to open-ended contracts. The EDI Committee has sectoral champions
 for women, disability, BAME, LGBT+, mental health, and beliefs and spirituality. SAPL and SNES
 are focusing on balanced public lecture and seminar programmes (gender, ethnicity), new
 processes for appointing School directorships (with greater transparency) to increase diversity in
 senior management and connecting with University commitments to the Race Equality charter and
 Stonewall. School-EDI fits into a University and Faculty structure of EDI governance (ILES3.4.2)
 and UoA staff have been leading participants in University networks e.g. NU Women,
 Rainbow@Ncl.


 2.4.4 Researching in 2020
 Despite major challenges presented by COVID-19, we have actively sought to sustain research
 culture and support for researchers at all levels, in the face of unprecedented workload and
 personal pressures which are known to impact differentially (ILESCOVID-annex). Initially we
 focused on mentoring and personal support, alongside collective mechanisms (e.g. ‘Quiet
 Fridays’). This was followed by supplementary online research events taking the form of informal
 conversations, sometimes led from within the UoA, sometimes by invitees from across the globe.
 In 2020-2021, the emphasis has been partly on ‘business as usual’ (e.g. research sabbaticals are
 proceeding, Faculty and School funds remain for research support), while using the move online
 to enhance key activities (e.g. additional seminars, public lectures and podcasts with international
 and national inputs) and additional mechanisms of support, including online research socials
 specifically targeted at ECRs, and a virtual ‘writer’s room’.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 The UoA seeks external research funding to enable world-leading research and to convene teams
 to tackle intractable real-world problems. Equally, we believe that excellent research is not
 necessarily contingent on external funding, and that world-leading scholarship can occur
 independently of this, especially but not exclusively in the humanities.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.1. External funding profile in the REF-period


                                 Figure 1: Research income allocation and award data


                                   Research Income Allocation vs Awards Value by Year

                       7


                       6


                       5
    Value (£million)




                       4


                       3


                       2


                       1


                       0
                           2013–2014   2014–2015   2015–2016   2016–2017    2017–2018   2018–2019   2019–2020


                                              Academic Financial Year (within REF period)

                                                     Income Allocation     Awards



 The UoA has sustained high-level performance with research and innovation funding of £6.9m
 (award-value £13m). Research income is on an upward trajectory, with a series of large awards
 secured recently, evident in the spike of income allocation in 2019/20 coming fully on onstream
 after the REF-census date. Awards in the REF-period have been led by 36 PIs. 17 awards were
 active at the beginning of the REF-period and up to the census date 109 new awards were made,
 across the career spectrum. Funding sources are notably diverse:




                                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                             Table 2: Sources of Research Funding
 UKRI               Research England, AHRC, EPSRC, ESRC, NERC
 European-level     EU, European Commission, INTEREG, ERDF, ESPON, Research Council
                    Norway, Academy of Finland
 Government         Government Office for Science, Department for Business, Innovation and
 department and     Skills, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, British Council,
 related            Public Health England, Energy Systems Catapult, Innovate UK, Scottish
                    Government, Heritage Lottery Fund, various local authorities
 Charitable         Wellcome, Paul Mellon, Carnegie, Leverhulme, The Street Foundation
 Learned societies Regional Studies Association, Institute of Local Government, RTPI
 Industry           Multiple including: Churchill Retirement Living, Bussey and Armstrong,
                    Hanover Housing, Morris Leslie Ltd.


 3.2 Funding supporting fields of inquiry
 This section illustrates significant clusters of funded-project activity that are not discussed
 elsewhere which reflect our strategic research groupings and our output profile, evidencing how
 UoA staff have built international and national consortia to develop and sustain research.


 A series of projects have been undertaken concerning disciplinary knowledges. In architecture
 (ARC), these include projects led by Lloyd-Thomas: The Architect as Shopper (Leverhulme
 Trust/Paul Mellon, £41k, 2019) examining the ‘proprietary turn’ underpinning the development and
 marketing of building products in the 1930s, formalising the architect’s role in their distribution;
 and, developing from Industries of Architecture (s4.2), the recently-awarded project Translating
 Ferro/Transforming Knowledges of Architecture: Design and Labour for the New Field of
 Production Studies (AHRC/FAESP, £913K, 2020-2024), which brings together Newcastle and São
 Paulo academics to develop the new inter-disciplinary, cross-cultural field of Production Studies,
 extending works of the Brazilian architectural historian and theorist Sergio Ferro.


 Significant projects in rural economy include: The Centre for the Evaluation of Complexity Across
 the Nexus (ESRC, £3m, Phillipson, 2019-22), transforming the practice of policy evaluation
 across food, energy, water and environmental domains for a complex world, achieved through
 pioneering, testing and promoting innovative policy evaluation approaches with UK Government
 departments; INNOGROW linking to Regional policies for innovation-driven competitiveness and
 growth of rural small businesses (EU Interreg, EUR1.5m, Phillipson, 2016-20), with partners in 8
 countries; RuralGrowth supporting SME development and innovation in the rural economy (EU
 Interreg, EUR1.7m Garrod, 2016-20) with partners in 7 countries; FIELD exploring farm-level
 interdisciplinary approaches to endemic livestock disease (Wellcome Trust, £1.5m, Proctor,


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2018-22) bringing together historians, social scientists, economists and epidemiological modellers
 to consider how understandings, practices and responses to endemic livestock disease change,
 and implications for post-Brexit animal health and welfare policy, and practice interventions;
 Curlew Contracts (DEFRA, £230K, Garrod, 2019-21) working collaboratively with practitioners in
 Northumberland National Park and local land managers on a Test and Trial project for DEFRA’s
 new Environmental Land Management Scheme, and; Strength2Food (EU, EUR6.9m, Phillipson,
 2016-21), identifying food quality for sustainability and health, with a 30-partner consortium
 representing 11 EU and 4 non-EU countries, combining leading academic, communication, SME
 and stakeholder organisations to ensure a multi-actor approach.


 In planning (GURU): Working in the Public Interest (ESRC, £543k, Vigar, Gunn, 2017-20),
 investigates the increasing involvement of private companies in professional spatial planning work
 for local government; Resituating the Local in Cohesion and Territorial Development (EU,
 EUR4.9m, Madanipour, Shucksmith, 2016-2020) developed policy around greater sensitivity
 towards territorial specificities, more supportive of community-based development and the
 facilitation of greater civic participation, with partners in 12 European countries; Territories and
 Low Carbon Economies (EU, EUR687K, Davoudi, Gazzola, 2016-17) examined the role of
 regional governance in the transition to low carbon economies across Europe, with partners in 9
 countries, and; the Making Provisions project (ESRC, £224k, Donaldson, Midgley, 2015-17)
 developed governance and management of risk futures in food supply infrastructures.


 Researchers in the UoA have played leading roles in interdisciplinary expertise concerning water
 in the University. Projects including Towards Hydrocitizenship (AHRC, £1.2m, Roe 2014-17) and
 a GCRF preliminary project (EPSRC, £180K, Roe, Button, Law) comprised part of the platform
 for large consortia awards in 2019: the UKRI-GCRF Living Deltas Hub (£15.3m, Roe, Button,
 Law, 2019-24), led by Geography, to address disadvantaged communities that live in or near
 deltas, benefiting governments, community organisations, women and youth groups, SME
 businesses, and NGOs in India, Bangladesh and Vietnam; and the UKRI-GCRF Water Security
 and Sustainable Development Hub (£17.8m, Button, Roe, 2019-24), led by Engineering, to
 improve water security for a resilient future, and provide an inclusive space for stakeholders to
 meet on an equal basis to share ideas, formulate activities, and apply interventions according to
 development needs in Colombia, Ethiopia, India, and Malaysia.


 The UoA has made major contributions to institutional research goals concerning demographic
 change, through a series of projects on health, ageing, and issues of social justice for all at
 each life stage, addressing the relationship between older people, their environments and
 wellbeing, working with external partners to drive change. Two large UKRI projects formed a
 substantial platform for this work: Co-design of the Built Environment for Mobility in Later Life


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (EPSRC, £1.25m, Gilroy, 2013-2017), proposing options and tools to meet contrasting needs,
 support mobility and wellbeing, and; MyPLACE: Mobility & Place for the Age-friendly City (EPSRC
 £1.3m, Gilroy, Townshend, 2014-17), developing and testing a digital platform and toolkit
 enabling the public to engage with local councils in the research, planning and design of the urban
 environment in conjunction with Computing Science and Medical Schools. These have been
 accompanied by numerous impact-orientated smaller projects, including a PhD studentship
 (Clark) funded by Churchill Retirement Living (Gilroy, Sharr, £45K, 2013-16); the Reuniting
 Planning and Health: Tackling the Implementation Gaps in Evidence, Governance and Knowledge
 research network (ESRC, £30k, Townshend, 2014-17); as well as projects funded by Big Lottery
 Fund, Centre for Ageing Better, North Tyneside Council (Gilroy), North East Public Health
 Observatory, Public Health England, and NIHR (Townshend). Exploratory work by Hamza in
 conjunction with the Medical School (Wellcome Trust) considers behavioural impacts of internal
 environments on frail older people, including those with cognitive decline. A major culmination of
 this activity is the Future Homes project (s4.1).


 A series of projects focused on heritage, the past and its role in making the future, considering
 issues of reuse, and planning and governance, in Europe and China (Pendlebury+): PUMAH (EU,
 EUR450K, 2012-16); Joint Programming Initiative (JPI) projects SHUC (AHRC, EUR150K, 2013-
 2015), leading into the JPI PICH project (Norwegian Research Council, EUR800K, +Vigar 2015-
 18); a Newton Fund project looking at Sustainable Green Markets in Egypt (AHRC £40k, +Hamza,
 Speak 2016-18), and; OpenHeritage (EU, EUR5m, +Veldpaus, 2018-22), researching, identifying
 and testing best practices of adaptive heritage re-use with partners in 11 countries. Other projects
 have focused on issues of culture, heritage and identity, including: Reconstructing Han Identities:
 The Hanfu Movement in Contemporary China (Leverhulme, £10K, Law, 2014-16); ‘You Can’t
 Move History: You Can Secure the Future’: Engaging Youth in Cultural Heritage, focusing on
 contested proposals to alter the South Bank Centre in London (AHRC, £80K, Webb, 2014-16)
 and; Imaginaries of the Future: Historicising the Present Research Network (Leverhulme, £110K,
 Coleman, 2014-17), developing engaged strategies to conceptualise the future, with partners in
 5 countries.


 3.3 Financial resources to support research
 The UoA ensures resources won for research are used to support research and allocated
 acknowledging EDI priorities, with support tailored to specific needs (e.g. disability, caring
 responsibilities) available. Funds to support research activities exist at faculty, school and group
 level and all academic staff have an individual Research Support Fund. Staff have an initial £500
 allocation and a proportion of income generated from externally funded projects flows into this.
 Colleagues can carry money forward between University financial years. A major part of non-
 directly incurred costs from research projects flows into research groups to support collective


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 activities and to provide funds for researchers without their own resources. Each of the groups
 has tailor-made approaches to suit its specific context. Researchers can additionally apply for
 funds (e.g. for conference attendance or to kick-start research activities) from school research
 committees.


 Numerous staff and research students have benefited from faculty and university internal funds to
 support research, including: Faculty Research Fund (up to £4K), and Pioneer Awards, both
 directed towards ECRs; ESRC Impact Accelerator Account funding; Faculty Impact Fund (up to
 £5K per project); Faculty Bid Preparation Fund (up to £10K); Direct Impact Fund, and; awards
 from the Institute of Social Science (formerly Newcastle Institute for Social Renewal), Humanities
 Research Institute, and Institute for Creative Arts Practice. 64 awards were made in the REF-
 period, ranging in scale from £400 to £10,124, leading to external awards or significant outcomes
 in their own right (s4.1).


 3.4 Research support structures and personnel
 A comprehensive research support framework is provided at group, school, faculty and university
 level:
     •    ARC and GURU are directly supported by a Research and Consultancy Manager
          (McCartney), a Finance and Operations Administrator (Parker), an Events and
          Engagement Manager (Pattison), a Marketing and Communications Manager (Delap),
          specific support for PGR (Kyte), technical support (Chippington, Hudson, Mallen,
          Robinson). CRE access an extensive team in SNES, with dedicated support (Phillips)
          plus further support in NICRE for Operations (Crimmens), Communications (Curry) and
          Business Development (Thompson-Glen). HBBE activities are supported by a dedicated
          project manager (Heron).
     •    University and Faculty support includes: Research Funding Development Managers;
          Impact Officers; Business Development Managers and enterprise support; Research
          Projects and Support Officers; Engagement Support; Research Data Managers and Open
          Access Managers; Library Research Service and Collections Staff; IT Staff (especially
          since COVID-19); Marketing and PR Staff.


 3.5 Research infrastructure and facilities
 Major investment in infrastructure and facilities has enabled innovative research projects and
 invigorated research culture, providing resources facilitating both new research and interaction
 intended to catalyse collaborative working.


 New facilities have transformed interdisciplinary working in this REF period:



                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   NICRE received new collaborative workspace in the £44.4m Catalyst building
        constructed at Newcastle Helix, a city-centre site co-sponsored by Newcastle University
        and City Council bringing together academic and private sector research. NICRE’s team
        are co-located with National Innovation Centres for Data and Ageing, embedding rural
        enterprise in the national innovation centre ecosystem (s4.1; ILES2.2.4).
    •   A £3.6m new workshop and studio building for SAPL, designed by SAPL’s Design
        Office, was completed in 2017 with the latest digital fabrication equipment (enhanced 3D
        printing, laser cutting, and digital routing) plus metalwork facilities, enabling researchers to
        fabricate building components (ICS13-4_Farmer), exhibition installations, and design
        outputs.
    •   Incremental stages of investment in microbiology labs have, uniquely in the UK, provided
        facilities for architectural researchers to collaborate ‘hands-on’ with microbiologists,
        material scientists, and engineers. An initial £16K wet fab lab was constructed as part of
        the SAPL workshop. This was supplemented by a share in an existing biotech lab (2018,
        £100K) co-located with the Centre for Bacterial Cell Biology in the SAgE Faculty to catalyse
        future collaborations. With the award of HBBE, the biotech lab was quadrupled in size
        (£342K), with an additional £800K HBBE lab adjacent to SAPL workshops specifically for
        prototyping the scaling-up of microbiological technologies to architectural size, including a
        state-of-the-art, Instron Universal Materials Testing System (£81K), Shima Seiki SSR12
        Knit Design System (£50K), Memmert HPP410 Constant Climate Chamber (£29K), and
        DMRS Cordless device (£13K).
    •   Facilities for GURU have been entirely renewed with a £19m investment as part of the
        £48m Henry Daysh Building refurbishment, locating the Planning discipline within the
        University’s refreshed social sciences hub. This includes new staff offices, PGR Suite
        (GURU and ARC), and interactive spaces to catalyse research, plus consideration for staff
        and student wellbeing through provision of an expressing room and calm room (s2.3).


 A significant investment in facilities is underway to make an unparalleled contribution to
 interdisciplinary knowledge and the internationalisation of research led from the UoA and
 cities research across Newcastle University, facilitated by a major £1m donation from SAPL
 Visiting Professor and alumnus Sir Terry Farrell, accompanied by the donation of his archive to
 the University. Two infrastructure projects have resulted:
    •   The new £4.8m Farrell Centre, revitalising a disused Grade 2-listed building (s4.1).
    •   Working with Library/archive staff, a £600K extension to the University’s archive store for
        architectural materials. Farrell’s collection is initially being supplemented by the archive of
        Avery Associates (theatre architects, whose work connects with theatrical archives in
        English); and of eccentric post-modern architect John Outram.



                                                                                                Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 4.1 Developing platforms for collaboration, engagement and impact
 Most research in the UoA involves collaboration, with other HEIs nationally and internationally
 (s3.2) and/or with a myriad of social actors. Since 2014 we have developed new platforms to
 undertake engagement and to ensure impactful research, shaped partly by our experience of
 running the ESRC/BBSRC/NERC £25m Rural Economy Land Use programme (2004-13). NCF
 is a paradigmatic example interacting with 190 organisations and 145,000 members of the public
 on 70 demonstrator projects (ICS_13-3Tewdwr-Jones).


 NCF and Newcastle Age Friendly City inspired The Future Homes Alliance (NU, Elders’ Council,
 Sustainable Communities Initiative, Karbon Homes) which fuses concerns with ageing, cities,
 health, energy, and digital technologies (Gilroy). The £20m Future Homes project will construct
 66 homes in central Newcastle, including 5 research ‘demonstrators’, working in a ‘quadruple helix’
 approach involving the university, industry, third sector partners, and the municipality. Co-located
 with NICA, the homes are prototypes for sustainable technologies, designed to accommodate their
 residents’ progress through the life-course (facilitated by an Innovate UK KTP with Anchor
 Hanover/Gilroy, £78K 2018-20). This aligns with NICA’s values and, fusing innovation in product
 design with innovation in processes, establishes new models of working. In September 2020,
 Legal and General invested £2m in Future Homes to enhance the innovation of the project in
 pioneering post-COVID approaches to multigenerational housing.


 NICRE is a Research England-funded platform led by CRE (UKRI, £3.8m/ £6.2m total, Phillipson,
 2020-23 with Warwick, Gloucestershire and Royal Agricultural Universities) which acknowledges
 that the UK rural economy equates to the combined economies of its ten largest cities outside
 London. It draws methodologically from NCF and is working with Future Homes to develop rural
 exemplars. NICRE supports enterprise, resilience and innovation among rural firms to unlock
 untapped potential in rural economies. It undertakes research projects (in conjunction with BiS,
 LEPs, and the devolved administrations), offers ‘living labs’ to pilot solutions for complex placed-
 based issues, and undertakes policy and evidence work. It builds from long-standing collaborative
 research projects with rural communities e.g. Landbridge (Proctor), a knowledge exchange
 network for researchers and rural professionals advising farming and land businesses. As an
 example of NICRE’s potential, Shortall’s work on gender equality in agriculture has led to the
 Scottish Government committing £300K p.a. to introduce measures decreasing inequality in the
 industry, and work for the European Court of Auditors enhancing EU gender mainstreaming.


 A key platform emerging from HBBE is the world’s first experimental biological house, ‘The OME’
 (£1.1m), due to complete in July 2021 (delayed by COVID). The OME is adjacent to, and will


                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 operate as part of, the Great North Museum. Alongside an apartment for testing new
 biotechnologies at domestic scale and a demonstration lab, the OME provides both public
 interaction space with biotechnologies in the built environment and a site for industrial
 collaborations. It has been designed so new biomaterials and processes can be applied and
 tested, externally and internally, by HBBE researchers with industry and academic partners. The
 OME offers unparalleled opportunities for exciting public and professional research dissemination
 and impact.


               Figure 2: Visualisation of The OME interior (credit: Assia Stefanova)




 The new £4.8m new public gallery and Urban Room, the Farrell Centre, will exhibit the latest
 research in architecture and cities, located as a major cultural venue on campus and in the city of
 Newcastle, hosting exhibition programmes aimed at international, national and local audiences,
 both public and professional. The Farrell will provide an opportunity to creatively curate the UoA’s
 and University’s latest research in architecture and cities for audiences, linked-in to a global
 network of urban rooms and architecture centres. Due to open in 2022 (COVID-delayed), Hopkins
 has been appointed as Farrell Centre Director (2019), joining with a substantial track record of
 research-informed curation, public engagement and educational work from Sir John Soane’s
 Museum in London.




                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           Figure 3: Visualisation of Farrell Centre interior (credit: Space Architects)




 4.1.1 Creative community co-production platforms
 Co-produced creative processes are at the heart of Pocket Parks (Mallo, Tardiveau), part-funded
 by MHCLG Pocket Park initiative 2016, and an ESRC-IAA award, using participatory design
 methods and activism to make spatial interventions triggering change through co-production of
 the public realm, creating small community parks in the west end of Newcastle. The first project
 opened in 2016 as an oasis of gardens, seats and raised beds for community events and much-
 needed green space. The park has been cited by UKRI and Government as a best practice
 example for redesigning streets in the wake of COVID-19. Protohome (Heslop) worked with the
 national homeless charity Crisis and a local architecture practice to build a participatory self-build
 dwelling used as a meeting space for awareness-raising about homelessness. Testing Ground
 (ICS13-4_Farmer) and Revitalising Rural (ICS13-5_Gkartzios+Cowie) draw similarly on creative
 practice methods, the latter including CRE’s artist-in-residence programme, working with
 researchers, leading to a regular exhibition in Berwick Art Gallery.


 Other projects with artists include Meanwhile Spaces (Wainwright), a collaboration between the
 University and NewBridge Project (funded by ESRC-IAA) to explore long term models for creative



                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 practitioners in the city, including options for new creative spaces. As a result, Newcastle City
 Council is exploring the establishment of a Creative Enterprise Zone in the city. ‘Our Sunderland’
 (Raynor), explores Northern Imaginaries in times of uncertainty (ESRC-IAA funded), working with
 artists across the North East of England and engaging with over 2000 participants in an alternative
 public consultation exploring how place-based spatial imaginaries are lived and felt, and how they
 shape everyday politics of possibility in the region. The project led to exhibitions at three
 community spaces and a curated online exhibition. Following this, Raynor has developed the
 University-funded Faculty Performance Network, to commission interventions.


 Projects focused on young people include: the AHRC-funded ‘You Can’t Move History’ (Webb),
 examining young people’s use of London’s South Bank Centre undercroft, which received the best
 film award at the 2016 AHRC Research in Film awards; working with children on their experiences
 of space and their contributions to the design process, including co-producing the Oxford Online
 Bibliography of Children, Young People and Architecture (RParnell), and; YES Planning
 (Strachan) a research and engagement project linking planning students with local schools.


 4.2 Advancing disciplinary agendas through research and publication
 Our researchers have significant influence through publication, reflected in the portfolio of over
 1000 outputs from which this submission draws. The 37 books authored and 38 collections
 developed by UoA colleagues represent an important contribution to the research base. Major
 monographs influencing planning and urban studies scholarship include: Vertical: The City from
 Satellites to Bunkers (Graham, Verso, 2016), making the case for a radical volumetric
 reconceptualisation of the politics of cities and geography (book of the week in The Guardian and
 Financial Times, book of the year in The Observer, featured on BBC Radio 4’s Thinking Allowed),
 and; The Predictive Postcode: The Geodemographic Classification of British Society (co-author
 Burrows, Sage, 2018) (featured too on Thinking Allowed), innovatively examines the application
 of neighbourhood classification methods from the classic work of Booth through to new big data
 spatial analytics using mobile phone data. A significant contribution to literature on urban design
 and public space is made by Cities in Time: Temporary Urbanism and the Future of the City
 (Madanipour, Bloomsbury, 2017) which offers the first critical evaluation of temporary urbanism
 and its implications for the present and future of cities.


 Significant contributions to architecture scholarship include works defining a new field of
 experimental architecture in relation to biodesign, establishing agendas for HBBE. These include
 Living Construction (Dade-Robertson, Routledge, 2020) bridging design speculation, scientific
 practices, contemporary design thinking, and the traditional engineering approaches that currently
 dominate biotechnologies, and works by Armstrong including Soft Living Architecture: An
 Alternative View of Bioinformed Practice (Bloomsbury, 2020), uniquely intersecting two fast-


                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developing disciplines: biomimicry and biodesign in architecture and bioinformatics and natural
 computing in the natural sciences; plus Vibrant Architecture: Matter as a CoDesigner of Living
 Structures (DeGruyter, 2015), exploring how lively materials may be incorporated into our
 buildings to confer on them properties of living things like movement, growth, sensitivity and self-
 repair, and; Experimental Architecture: Designing the Unknown (Routledge, 2019) the first
 substantial overview of the theory and practice of experimental architecture. Armstrong’s work
 has featured in National Geographic, Wired, The Conversation, Four Thought and The Museum
 of Curiosity (BBC Radio 4), Another Giant Leap (BBC Radio 3), and was the subject of an invited
 presentation to NASA.


 In architectural theory and culture: Building Modern Turkey: State, Space, and Ideology in the
 Early Republic (Kezer, University of Pittsburgh Press, 2015) shows how the built environment
 mediated Turkey’s transition from a pluralistic empire into a modern, homogenized nation-state
 following the collapse of the Ottoman Empire; Materials and Meaning in Architecture: Essays on
 the Bodily Experience of Buildings (Coleman, Bloomsbury, 2020), and Architecture and Silence
 (Kakalis, Routledge, 2019) offer rich sensory explorations in an age when architectural thinking
 seems preoccupied with image and visual representation. From the Shadows: The Architecture
 and Afterlife of Nicholas Hawksmoor (Hopkins, Reaktion, 2015), offers fresh interpretations of
 historic works.


 Agenda setting edited collections have developed out of collaborative endeavours in ARC and
 GURU, including Industries of Architecture (Lloyd-Thomas, Routledge, 2016), the culmination of
 a five-year ARC project involving conferences and journal special issues, engendering a new
 discourse around the intersection of architecture, techniques and technologies, economies and
 the labour of production, also introducing into English the work of Sergio Ferro (now the subject
 of a major project, s3.2). Similarly, Mountains and Megastructures: Neo-geologic Landscapes of
 Human Endeavour (Beattie, Kakalis, Ozga-Lawn, Palgrave Macmillan, 2020) consolidated a
 sustained series of symposia, events and exhibitions over six years by ARC/GURU members
 (including Armstrong, Ballantyne, Burford, Chiles, Blom, Farmer, Garcia-Fuentes, Graham,
 Kezer, Lloyd-Thomas, Sharr, Thompson), exploring the shared qualities of mountains as
 naturally-formed landscapes, and of megastructures as manmade landscapes, unravelling how
 each can be understood as complex network relationships. GURU researchers, staff and PGR
 students produced Justice and Fairness in the City (Davoudi, Policy Press, 2016), examining the
 theory and practice of justice in and of the city (including Brooks, Coulson, Gilroy, Midgley,
 Peacock, Speak, Strachan, Vigar, Webb). In Hope under Neo-Liberal Austerity (Davoudi,
 Shucksmith, Policy Press, 2021), authors have co-written chapters with practitioners and
 research collaborators from third and public sectors in North East England to theorise and explore



                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 actions of hope and inspiration for communities (GURU/ARC contributions: Aitken, Brooks,
 Gilroy, Healey, Mallo, Midgley, Pendlebury, Tardiveau, Webb).


 Unit authors have been responsible for a series of companions and reference works establishing
 the contours of their fields, including Routledge Handbooks and Companions for: Planning Theory
 (Madanipour, 2018); Rural Studies (Shucksmith, 2016); Rural Planning (Gkartzios, 2019);
 Environmental Planning (Davoudi, 2019); Landscape Studies (Thompson, 2nd edition, 2019),
 and, forthcoming; Chinese Architecture (Zhu, 2021). Madanipour edited a monumental four
 volume reading compendium on Planning Theory (2015). Further distillations of scholarship,
 consolidating and rethinking their fields come through Oxford’s best-selling Very Short
 Introductions series: Modern Architecture (Sharr, 2018) and Landscape Architecture (Thompson,
 2014), plus Lefebvre for Architects in the Thinkers for Architects series (Coleman, Routledge,
 2015). Field-defining books produced by the UoA include Urban and Regional Planning 6 th edition
 (Tewdwr-Jones, Routledge, 2020); Town and Country Planning in the UK 15 th edition (Davoudi,
 Pendlebury, Vigar, Webb, Townshend, Routledge, 2014), and Landscape Impact Assessment
 in Planning Processes (Gazzola, DeGruyter, 2018).


 4.3. Developing creative practice
 Members of the UoA bring their expertise to bear on economic and societal issues through
 research-led design practice. This includes (alongside Testing Ground, ICS13-4_Farmer), the
 work of CE+CA Architects (Chiles) on creative re-use (RIBA Awards in 2014, 2015, 2017, 2018,
 2019); Harper Perry (Harper) also on creative re-use, and housing; and Burford on zero-energy
 self-sufficiency, as at the Botanics project, Dundee. For the first time we have returned 4 creative
 practice outputs. Creative practice methods are making important contributions to other forms of
 research, specifically co-produced community engagement (s4.1.1.), generating impact (ICS13-
 4_Farmer; ICS13-5_Gkartzios+Cowie; 4.1).


 Design Office (led by Sharr, Connolly) has, since 2011, been significant in creative practice
 research in the unit and has produced 11 research-led architectural projects with a combined
 contract value of £29m, including: a £25m refurbishment of Newcastle University’s Armstrong
 Building (2011-2018) engaging conservation research and the critical appraisal of contemporary
 architectural values, (shortlisted 2018 RIBA Awards); and a £140K conversion of a derelict store
 in Gateshead into studios for arts organization Newbridge Project, 2018, contributing to the
 regional economy and exploring creative re-use. The success of this model and the quality of work
 produced was recognised by the Architects’ Journal’s 40 under 40 listing (2020) ‘celebrating the
 UK's most exciting emerging architectural talent’ (s2.3).




                                                                                             Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.4 International academic collaboration
 Our research is highly international with further internationalisation remaining one of the UoA’s
 over-arching priorities. Staff across the unit actively pursue international collaborations, setting
 new agendas for global audiences and creating new pathways for joint research initiatives. These
 collaborations are global, with researchers across 5 continents (with partners on funded projects
 in 36 countries at census, over 200 publications co-authored with international collaborators in the
 period).
                                   Table 3: Research collaborations
 Memoranda of Understanding             Cornell, and Pittsburgh (USA), Sydney, and Monash
                                        (Australia), Xiamen University (China), National
                                        University of Singapore, SPA Delhi (India), Tokyo
                                        University (Japan), KTH Royal Institute of Technology
                                        (Sweden), Politecnico di Torino (Italy), Grenoble
                                        (France), Aachen (Germany), Groningen
                                        (Netherlands), SPBGASU Saint Petersburg (Russia).
 Visiting professorships include        Zhu, Southeast University, and China Academy of
                                        Arts, (China); Garcia-Fuentes, Politecnico di Milano
                                        (Italy); Davoudi, RMIT (Australia), Tampere
                                        (Finland), Tewdwr-Jones, University of Hong Kong,
                                        TUWien (Austria), Hughes, Estonian Academy of
                                        Arts, Shucksmith NTNU (Norway), Morrow, Iceland
                                        University of the Arts.
 Funded fellowships include             Kezer, Dumbarton Oaks and MIT (USA), Lloyd-
                                        Thomas, Canadian Centre for Architecture,
                                        Pendlebury Norway, HUMEVAL-funding.


 Fruits of such collaborations include funded projects such as an ESRC AHRC UK-Japan social
 sciences, arts and humanities connectors grant (Gkartzios) for research on Contemporary Arts in
 Rural Development based at Tokyo University, resulting in a second, year-long, visit and three
 Tokyo PGR students visiting Newcastle. Newcastle and Cornell are founder members of the
 Trans-Atlantic Rural Research Network and the UoA has hosted key researchers as visiting
 professors (e.g. Brown, Cornell; de Roo, Groningen). SPA Delhi is a partner in the GCRF Water
 Hub and Button has served as Visiting Faculty (2016). Law is Coordinator of the University’s
 Xiamen Academic Advisory Group. A small sample of multiple other collaborations includes:
 Network co-ordination (e.g. Newton Fund Research Networks with Brazil, Machen, and Chile,
 Gkartzios); showcasing Newcastle work (e.g. NCF by Tewdwr-Jones and Cowie at specially-
 convened sessions, with the University of New South Wales, and the New South Wales



                                                                                               Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Government, Commission for Greater Sydney, the University of Hong Kong and the Hong Kong
 Government SAR Future Cities, City Futures: Hong Kong and the World event); serving on
 advisory boards (e.g. Interdisciplinary Centre for Urban Culture and Public Space at the Technical
 University Vienna, and the Centre for the Future of Places at KTH Royal University of Technology,
 Sweden, Madanipour).


 4.5 Contribution to the research base
 Researchers in the UoA are active in the broader research community making substantial
 contributions to the international, national and regional research base. Colleagues are encouraged
 to take on such activities and, in turn, to contribute emerging ideas back into the University, with
 major roles facilitated through workload allocations.


 26 staff have advised research councils and international equivalents:


                            Table 4: Research Council contributions
 Research council roles Burrows, Davoudi: UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship panels
                         ESRC roles include: the Strategic Advisory Network,
                         representative on the JPI Climate Working Group on Societal
                         Transformation (2013-16), Europe-China commissioning panel
                         (2014), and assessment panel for the UKRI Responses to COVID-
                         19 call (all Davoudi); Data Infrastructure Strategic Advisory
                         Committee (Burrows 2014-17).
                         Further roles include: Panel member for BBSRC et.al. Resilience
                         of the UK Food System Programme (2016-17),
                         ESRC/BBSRC/NERC Tree Health Initiative (all Phillipson); Chair
                         of the Connected Places Catapult Research Panel (Tewdwr-
                         Jones, 2018-20); AHRC-consultee on the JPI Cultural Heritage
                         Strategic R&I agenda (Pendlebury, 2020).
 Research council        AHRC, BBSRC, EPSRC, ESRC, GCRF, MRC, NERC
 grant proposals
 reviews
 Agenda-setting,         National: Belgium/Flanders, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark,
 chairing, reviewing for Finland, Hong Kong, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Netherlands, Norway,
 equivalent              Poland, Romania, South Africa, Sweden, Switzerland, USA.
 organisations           International organisations/co-operations: ESRC/AHRC/CASS,
 internationally         HERA, Nordforsk, NWO/IST, NWO/NSFC, UNESCO, a range of
                         national/international research foundations.


                                                                                             Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Two of the leading architecture journals (arq: Architectural Research Quarterly and, Journal of
 Architecture) and a leading planning journal (Journal of Environment and Planning Management)
 are based in the UoA. In the REF-period, 26 researchers held editorial board memberships on 45
 journals:


                                  Table 5: Journal editorships
 arq: Architectural Research Quarterly         Sharr, Austin, Beattie, Burford, Farmer,
                                               Lloyd-Thomas, Odgers
 Journal of Architecture                       SParnell
 Journal of Environment and Planning           Powe
 Management
 Journal of International Real Estate and      Abdulai, until 2018
 Construction Studies
 Dialogues in Human Geography                  Crampton
 Landscape Research                            Roe
 Habitat International                         Gkartzios
 Platform                                      Kezer


 Recognising our contribution to the research base, colleagues achieved significant roles in
 leading scholarly networks and learned societies, including:
    •   President of the European Society for Rural Sociology (2015-19), the first Deputy Vice-
        President of the International Rural Sociology Association (2016), and currently
        President-Elect (Shortall);
    •   Chair and Trustee of the Regional Studies Association (2017-20) (Tewdwr-Jones).
    •   Further Board memberships include: Society of Architectural Historians (Kezer, 2013-
        25); Architectural Humanities Research Association (Odgers); RGS Digital Geographies
        Research Group (Crampton); RGS Participatory Geographies (Raynor); Landscape
        Research Group (Roe); International Planning History Society (Pendlebury).


 UoA staff have contributed research advice and evidence to government and policy audiences
 in the UK. This includes:
    •   Membership of the Government’s Economic Recovery Taskforce on ‘levelling up’ (2020,
        Phillipson).
    •   Foresight exercises for the Government Office of Science (Shucksmith) and the
        Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (Tewdwr-Jones, Vigar).



                                                                                           Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Specialist advisor to the House of Lords Select Committee on Rural Economy 2018-19 and
        to the Lords’ Select Committee on the Natural Environment and Rural Communities Act
        2017-18 (Shucksmith); DEFRA Rural Academic Panel from 2018 and oral and written
        evidence to the House of Lords Select Committee in July 2018 on rural business needs
        and implications for Industrial Strategy, policies for rural growth and Local Enterprise
        Partnerships (Phillipson, Shortall); evidence on new sources of housing supply to the All
        Party Parliamentary Group for Housing and Planning, National Housing Taskforce
        (Heslop); expert witness to the International Longevity Centre Inquiry on the Built
        Environment and Later Life at the House of Lords in 2018 (Gilroy); evidence to and
        appearance at House of Lords Built Environment Select Committee National Planning
        Policy hearings in 2015 (Tewdwr-Jones).
    •   DEFRA Social Science Expert Group (2016-19) and the DEFRA-DECC Social Science
        Expert Panel (to 2016, Davoudi), Social Science Expert Panel and Rural Academic Panel
        (Phillipson).
    •   Roles in UK devolved administrations include membership of Scottish Government Rural
        Economy Action Group (Phillipson), the Scottish Women in Agriculture Task Force
        advising the Scottish Government on policy and a member of the Northern Ireland Rural
        Stakeholder Brexit Advisory Group; (Shortall); external reviewer for the Scottish
        Government Strategic Rural Research Programme 2016-2021 (Cowie).
    •   Roles for government agencies include service on Natural England’s Science Advisory
        Committee and Landscape Advisory Group (Roe).
    •   Fellowship in the European Parliament MEP-Scientist Pairing Scheme (Calderon working
        with MEP Merja Kyllönen on Energy Policy, 2015).


 In this REF period, colleagues have disseminated research and expertise to diverse public
 audiences through hundreds of media interactions:




                                                                                         Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                               Table 6: Dissemination activities
 Newspapers/ digital media, including          New York Times, Wall Street Journal,
                                               Washington Post, South China Morning Post,
                                               Sydney Morning Herald, The Financial Times,
                                               The Guardian, Observer, The Times, Daily
                                               Telegraph, Daily Mail, London Evening
                                               Standard, Yorkshire Post, Newcastle
                                               Chronicle, Ara (Catalan), La Voz de Galacia,
                                               Reddit
 Periodicals, including                        National Geographic, New Scientist, The
                                               Conversation, El Temps, North East Times,
                                               British Theatre Guide
 BBC channels/ programmes including:           BBCTV News, Newsnight, Countryfile, This
                                               Farming Life, Look North, Radios 3 and 4 (A
                                               Giant Leap, Museum of Curiosity, Thinking
                                               Allowed, Farming Today, World at One),
                                               Scotland, London, Yorkshire, BBC Persia
 Other television, including                   ITV News, Reuters, Channel 4 (Ugly House
                                               to Lovely House), ARTE (Europe), ARD
                                               (Germany), CNA (Singapore), NZZ
                                               (Switzerland).


 4.6 Responding to COVID-19 and future research
 The UoA has responded actively to the national and international challenges of COVID-19 for the
 built environment, economy and society. This work includes UKRI projects: At Home with Children:
 Liveable Space for the COVID-19 challenge (£434K, RParnell, 2020-2022), and Routes of
 Infection, Routes to Safety: Creative Mapping of Human-Viral Behaviours on the Bus to
 Understand Infection Prevention Practices, (£208K, Veal, 2020-21). CRE is undertaking work on
 Local Perspectives on COVID (DEFRA, £360K, Cowie, 2020-21) with Cowie contributing to
 BBC’s Farming Today (August and October 2020) and working with Countryfile on rural economy
 implications. NICRE is leading the academic contribution into DEFRA’s roundtable informing
 pandemic policy development and support for rural businesses. Shortall led research on the
 impact of COVID-19 on women’s mental health on farms, to be published in the Handbook of
 Gender and Agriculture, and is UK-PI on The UK and Ireland Rural Futures Network: Preparing
 for Social and Economic Transitions post-Brexit and COVID-19 (ESRC/IRC, £20K, 2021-22). On
 the Margins is a project informing evidence-based policy on rural poverty in post-COVID Britain




                                                                                           Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (QR-SPF, £16K, Shucksmith, 2020-21). Academic commentaries include pieces by Davoudi and
 Varna & Oswell in a special issue of Town Planning Review.


 The significant growth of our UoA in this REF period – in the number, seniority and diversity of
 researchers, in new facilities and resources, in creative interdisciplinarity, in international and
 national profile, in public and academic impact, in reach and influence, indeed also in self-
 confidence – positions us well for the future through and beyond the COVID emergency. We are
 excited about the significant contributions we can make to urban and rural environments, and the
 culture and society, of the post-COVID world.




                                                                                            Page 32
