Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Edge Hill University

 Unit of Assessment: C17 Business and Management Studies

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Overview
 We are proud to present our first REF submission to UOA17. To achieve this, our key objective
 has been to effect a step-change within the Business School (EHUBS) to transform it from a
 school well-respected for its teaching, to one with a reputation also for excellent research.
 EHUBS now has a clear strategy for future development centred on ‘business and society’; the
 transformative potential of business to improve society. This has been reached by reshaping the
 Unit through the recruitment of research leaders and research-active staff at all levels, in order to
 create a critical mass capable of delivering our vision.
 We have built a research-supportive environment via quality mentoring and support for early and
 mid-career researchers, targeted assistance for those making the transition to research
 independence, and established research leaders in key areas. We have also sought out partners
 for collaborative research and knowledge exchange regionally, nationally and internationally to
 ensure that our research generates sustainable economic and social benefits, especially for the
 north west of England, which has experienced generations of economic decline.
 To achieve our goal of moving EHUBS to a school underpinned by research, since 2014 we
 have focused on four inter-related priorities designed to build our research environment and
 culture:
    1. To create a vibrant research environment that supports research focused on broad
       conceptualisations of business and society.
    2. To substantially increase research capacity by:
          a. Investing in research-active staff
          b. Enhancing the quality and quantity of outputs
          c. Improving external grant capture
        thereby building a solid research base within the Unit for future development.
    3. To upskill research-active staff through targeted training and mentoring, and to build a
       research environment capable of sustained success and continuous improvement
    4. To develop collaborative partnerships that fit with our key theme and that will facilitate
       research and impact, leading to long-term impact in the area of business and society.
 We have achieved these goals as evidenced by:
 Priority 1: Creating a vibrant environment: EHUBS has made significant progress by submitting
 over 50% of eligible staff in REF2021.
 Our central theme of business and society, is distilled into four clusters:
    •   management and society
    •   marketing and consumer research
    •   international business and economics
    •   sustainability, entrepreneurship and innovation.
 These clusters facilitate collegial working, the cross-fertilisation of ideas, support for early- and
 mid-career researchers, and PGRs, and support for research which is transformative, policy-
 relevant and involves end-user participation.
 EHUBS researchers are also actively involved in cross-disciplinary research and knowledge
 exchange through EHU’s Institute for Social Responsibility (ISR), led by Crotty, and the Health
 Research Institute (HRI). This involvement facilitates both interdisciplinary and cross-University
 working, at the intersections of business and society and between disciplines. ISR also provides
 research support and training opportunities, open to all EHUBS staff.



                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The outcomes from these initiatives and investments in research environment can be seen in the
 increase in the number of PhD students (from one registration in 2014 to 13 in 2020); increases
 in external grant-income; and a growth in research outputs (from 40 peer reviewed articles
 between 2008-2013 to 135 for this REF cycle), and the hosting of the 10th International Critical
 Management Studies (CMS) Conference July 2017, chaired by Wankhade and Woodruffe-
 Burton.
 Priority 2: Investment in staff is evident in at all career stages: We have recruited senior
 research leaders to EHUBS to drive strategy and lead the creation of a sustainable research
 culture. Specifically, we have appointed four professors Woodruffe-Burton (marketing and
 gender); Cassidy (transforming the high street); Wankhade (public-sector performance) and
 Crotty (corporate social responsibility) and two associate deans (from our parent faculty) are
 affiliated to the school, Bolton (SMEs and enterprise); Konstantopoulou (social media and
 branding). An additional professor is returned to UOA28.
 Three mid-career researchers were also recruited, again with an emphasis on our overarching
 research theme, and adding sustainable critical mass to our research base: Gazdula (social
 enterprise); Kelly (supply chain management); Phelan (entrepreneurship in the global south).
 Finally, we have appointed four ECRs who combine high-quality publications with excellent
 future potential: Ahmad (information literacy); Robin (marketing and privacy); Unlu (social
 networks); and Zheng (corporate governance).
 Pinar (welfare economics) and Dent (sustainability and international business) were also
 promoted to personal chairs during the period, indicating that the research culture within the
 school is able to nurture individuals to success.
 Priority 3: We have introduced processes and activities to upskill staff and enhance research
 performance. We have reviewed induction and development processes and enhanced the
 performance and development review (PDR) process to ensure that research is explicitly
 discussed for all staff. This allocates time for research based on delivery of agreed objectives
 and is managed formally throughout the academic year. Further, we have also supported
 existing staff to PhD completion; one of whom (Naughton) is included in this submission and a
 further six are being supported on their journey to research independence.
 Priority 4: The unit has developed its focus on international collaboration, helped by staff new to the
 Unit bringing such international collaborations with them. Consequently, more than 20 of the papers
 submitted in REF 2 are co-authored with international scholars. This increase in international
 collaboration not only contributes to the knowledge production (e.g., research papers), but has
 facilitated a growing international reputation for the Unit’s work.
 We have also extended our existing networks of strong external relationships and established
 interdisciplinary connections across the University to supplement and strengthen our research
 culture and outputs. EHUBS researchers are benefitting from the writing and project evaluation
 support given by ISR, facilitating purposeful collaboration with four other departments (Social
 Sciences; Law & Criminology; Health & Social Care; and Paramedic Practice) and prompting
 collaborative research bids, joint doctoral supervision, and impact-related activities. This open
 and collaborative spirit has also facilitated the establishment of SustainNET, to bring together
 academics from Business, Biology, Geography, Health/Medicine, Education, Psychology, Social
 Sciences and the Centre for Teaching and Learning, alongside community groups in our region,
 to improve sustainability outcomes.
 The Unit’s commitment to external collaboration and relationship building has also led to
 significant impact, as demonstrated via the impact case studies. Both Wankhade’s research on
 the improvement of emergency services’ performance, and Cassidy’s work on High Street
 regeneration, have influenced policy and benefitted both business and the public sector directly
 from their collaborative working and subsequent interventions.
 1.2 Business and society research theme
 The transformative role of business in society can be understood in various disciplinary and
 situational contexts, as indicated through our four cluster areas. While these clusters have
 emerged organically from the research interests of colleagues joining the School, they now

                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 influence decisions around academic recruitment, selection and appointment of PGRs.
 Furthermore, the research undertaken within these clusters aligns closely with the overall aims
 of the University’s ISR, facilitating opportunities for collaboration and cross-fertilisation of
 research ideas. Business School staff are active in the ISR, giving seminars and running cross-
 disciplinary research training workshops, and contributing to the blog. The clusters also help to
 develop and sustain collaboration and partnerships which, in turn, enrich them. The four clusters
 are:
 Management and society
 This cluster aims to produce transformative research through the critical study of organisations
 and organisational culture in a range of business and society contexts. Although small, it has a
 strong international and multi-disciplinary focus, specifically on public-sector performance
 enhancement (Wankhade), corporate social responsibility (CSR) and civil society development
 in the former Soviet republics (Crotty), social enterprise and entrepreneurship (Gazdula) and
 sustainable tourism (Phelan).
 Marketing, consumer and services research
 With a strong focus on applied and impactful research, this grouping links business and society
 with marketing and the consumer. Cassidy’s work recognises the critical role of town centres,
 pre-COVID 19, in the economic health and vitality of society, identifying and evaluating best
 practice in high street regeneration across Europe. Robin’s research is located within the field of
 digital marketing and business, and it tackles the sensitive topic of privacy and information
 disclosure on consumers and organisations. Woodruffe-Burton works on emancipatory
 consumer-research with a focus on gender and sexual orientation.
 International business economics and sustainability
 This cluster undertakes research on sustainability, international trade, well-being and research
 policy, with a deliberate interdisciplinary focus. This is informed strongly by Dent’s work on
 renewable energy, trade and climate action. Welfare and environmental economics (Pinar,
 Unlu) and international corporate governance (Zheng) also inform the activity of this cluster.
 Entrepreneurship and innovation
 This cluster addresses topical business issues and challenges, with a particular focus on SMEs:
 e.g., Konstantopoulou’s work shows how SMEs can use social media to establish
 communication pathways to young adults in a non-western context. Relatedly, Ahmad’s work
 shows how language diversity influences knowledge sharing in organisations. Bolton’s research
 compares India’s design sector with those in advanced economies and provides insights into the
 strategic drivers and critical success factors for innovation. This research area also has a strong
 focus on supply-chain management and practitioner impact. Kelly’s work highlights the risk of
 prevalent adversarial attitudes hindering potential supply chain innovations, and how cooperative
 trading relationship can generate wealth for all. Emmanuel-Ebikake’s work establishes supplier
 sustainability models for practitioners with emphasis on the wider implications for supply
 decisions on the whole of society, alongside increased organisational expectations of corporate
 social responsibility and ethics.
 Integrity: Research ethics and integrity practices are central at EHBUS to ensuring research is
 conducted according to the highest standards of practice and respect for all involved in the
 research process. This is informed both by the Concordat for Research Integrity and guidance
 supplied by the British Academy of Management/Chartered Association of Business Schools.
 Within EHUBS, all staff research proposals are scrutinised by the School’s Research Ethics
 Committee (chaired by Wankhade and Pinar during the period and made up for a mixture of
 experienced staff and ECRs) to make recommendations to the relevant subject research ethics
 committee which is responsible for approving projects. Before ethical approval applications are
 made any potential risks to researchers/participants involved in the research are reviewed and
 mitigated.
 We believe that a commitment to open research is an important way of achieving reach and
 communicating with diverse audiences. The University has a growing number of agreements

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with publishers to allow gold OA, making the version of record (not AAM) OA, and without
 embargo, so research can reach its non-subscription holding users more quickly. We believe
 that making our work OA will make it more accessible and beneficial to other researchers and
 research users; particularly colleagues and research users without access to subscriptions in
 ODA countries, which, given our research interests, is vital. In addition, Ahmad was a board
 member of the Open Access Funding De Gruyter (2016-2018) to support open access
 publishing in different countries.
 In the next REF cycle, along with promoting OA for journal articles, we will explore with Library
 and Learning Services options for OA books and chapters, for example by working with Open
 Book Publishers, university presses and other providers. This will build on the steps we have
 already taken with several open access chapters (alongside journal articles and conference
 proceedings) available via our repository, Pure. We will also continue to promote both the
 awareness and importance of OA to all staff when making their publishing decisions.
 Our commitment to integrity is also reflected in our use of responsible metrics. Following the
 University’s statement on metrics, we do not use basic metrics to inform any of our decisions
 regarding promotions or access to resources. We work with our colleagues to ensure that they
 are aware of the limitations of simple metrics when describing their own work.
 1.3 Future strategic aims and goals
 EHUBS will continue to extend and enhance its capacity to develop theoretically-driven research
 and knowledge exchange that encompasses the broadest conceptualisation of business and
 society. We recognise that we are still a young Unit in research terms and so our work over the
 coming period must seek to consolidate the progress made since 2014, alongside more
 ambitious goals to sustain continuous improvement. To that end our focus remains on research
 capacity building, both for those transitioning to research independence and for early and mid-
 career staff to ensure sustainability and continuity.
 We will also continue to improve the quality and quantity of outputs, and attract both self-funded
 and externally-funded doctoral students. We will continue to recruit staff with the highest
 possible research profile in areas that enhance our overarching theme (eight such appointments
 since census date), whilst nurturing our existing staff within the collegial environment of the
 groups as described above, to produce high-quality outputs. This will be done by extending
 support for writing retreats, introducing one-to-one mentoring and using our new centre and
 groups to facilitate co-authoring. Strategically, we will encourage staff with larger projects to
 apply for teaching relief to the University’s Research Investment Fund (RIF). We aim to increase
 the number of high-quality outputs per member of staff with SRR to a minimum of three in the
 coming period. We will also enhance the further development of staff through supporting their
 attendance at the most promising international conferences in their field. This will both raise the
 profile of EHUBS, but also facilitate network-building with international scholars and journal
 editors.
 We will also use our reshaped research groups to double the number of PhDs through targeted
 recruitment of graduate teaching assistants (the GTA package includes a fully funded PhD), the
 emergency services professional-doctorate candidates, self-funding PGRs, and funding secured
 from external sources.
 A particular area for development is to increase our external research income. To facilitate this,
 we will also formalise our current research clusters into groups and eventually a research centre,
 and leverage our interdisciplinary connections made via the research institutes to form teams for
 external grant capture, leading to internationally excellent research outputs and impact. By
 enhancing the research clusters into stronger communities of academic exchange, they will be
 better able to drive forward our strategy and will help to optimise the relationships and
 collaborations we have both internally and externally (see section 3). We will pursue funding
 from a range of sources, both for research and commissioned projects and consultancy to
 substantially increase income from external sources.




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 2. People
 During this REF period, our primary goal has been to generate sufficient critical mass in the area
 of business and society research. We believe that investment in people is the key element to
 sustaining research, which is then complemented by excellent resources and income
 generation. This strategy's success can be evidenced by the fact that over 50% of the School’s
 staff now have significant responsibility for research, whilst others are being supported to make
 the transition to research independence. All staff with SRR have either been recruited, promoted
 or have otherwise progressed their careers during the current REF period. Our success has
 been achieved through the alignment of our policies process and development initiatives with the
 Concordat to Support the Development of Researchers as demonstrated throughout this section.
 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Upskilling and capacity building: To facilitate the transformation needed to make our first REF
 submission, we introduced an Annual Research Development Week. This focuses specifically
 on research skills and is open to all research-active staff and those looking to make the
 transition to research independence. Over the REF period, the itinerary for this week has
 included inviting editors of ABS listed journals, feedback sessions on papers and targeted
 assistance with paper revisions, one-to-one coaching and the writing of research plans.
 Alongside this, we also introduced a co-authoring initiative, pairing senior colleagues with less
 experienced staff, and developed a research training series in collaboration with the ISR. This
 training, open to all staff, focuses on grant capture, paper development, managing research
 time, and research methods. Staff were also given time to attend other research-development
 initiatives across the University including writing retreats and writing days, and other research
 training provided centrally. The embedding of our research culture has been supported by the
 research seminar series which rotates internal and external speakers and is key to creating a
 weekly forum for exchange at all career stages.
 Mentoring support to researchers including ECR/postdocs: We have a mixed economy of staff
 across career stages, with some entering academia from professional backgrounds. Staff
 development is therefore fundamental to ensuring vitality and sustainability, and has allowed us
 to make that transition to being more research focused. This approach also underpins
 succession planning.
 All ECRs and staff transitioning to independent researcher status via PhD completion have a
 named mentor. This facilitates joint conference presentation, PGR supervision, critical
 friend/peer review, advising on potential funding streams and target journals. More experienced
 staff are also encouraged to co-author with their mentees and other ECRs: examples in this
 submission include Pinar with Unlu and Woodruffe-Burton with Catahan.
 ECRs/post-docs receive a tailored induction/probation programme to support the alignment of
 their skills/development needs with the Unit’s objectives. This includes a detailed five-year
 research plan and training needs analysis, alongside the ring-fencing of time for staff to meet
 their agreed objectives: the research plan that is monitored through the PDR process and
 monthly mentoring meetings. During this REF period eight ECRs were supported, producing 26
 peer reviewed outputs.
 Working practices to support research and career progression: Staff with significant
 responsibility for research and those who are undertaking doctoral studies or training to be
 independent researchers are allocated at least one research day a week. Support for career
 progression is also a vital part of the EHUBS research environment. Through the deployment of a
 range of activities, we have seen staff succeed in promotion through research track during this REF
 period. Through interventions outlined above, two mid-career academics were promoted to
 professor in the REF period: Pinar, who was an ECR in the last REF period (Economics) and Dent
 (International Business). Six staff submitted were also promoted from lecturer to senior lecturer and
 reader grades. These promotions represent 35% of the UOA’s staff. The recruitment of high-calibre
 ECRs from well-regarded PhD programmes (Lancaster, Leicester, Liverpool, Leeds and Dublin)
 has also strengthened our research capacity. Our aim is that through the additional support created
 by the formalising of our research clusters into research groups, these processes will be
 strengthened and will facilitate further career progression during the next period. This will include

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 exploring the possibility of teaching relief organised both within the School and further engagement
 with central research support funds.
 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI): We are a diverse Unit both in terms of gender and ethnic
 representation. On the census date we had 12 female staff, three of whom were professors, and 19
 male staff, four of whom were professors. Since the census date Konstantopoulou has been
 promoted to professor and another female professorial appointment has been made (Dedman), so
 we now have gender-balance (5/5) at professorial level. We also have 10 BAME staff members,
 including one professor. In addition, the school’s Director, Woodruffe-Burton is a founder member
 of the Chartered Association of Business School’s (CABS) EDI Committee and she helped develop
 the CABS policy on EDI. She also co-authored a CABS proposal for a mentorship scheme for
 BAME academics, which will be piloted at EHUBS in the next REF period. Furthermore, she has
 been an invited speaker and panellist at numerous national conferences and workshops on
 diversity and has been a UCU LGBT+ representative in two local branches. It is thus natural that,
 under her leadership, EHUBS proudly stands for equality, diversity and inclusivity across all its
 activities for staff and students.
 The School has also supported two female academics to take part in Advance HE’s Aurora
 programme. The School also operates successful family-friendly working practices: an example of
 innovative practice also includes the conversion a small meeting-room into a private space for
 nursing mothers. In addition, anyone returning from parental leave is treated the same as someone
 returning from long-term absence, with a phased return, teaching relief and additional mentoring
 support on an individual basis. Within the unit, EHUBS staff have also been panellists for Athena
 Swan since the charter expanded into arts and social sciences. EHUBS is currently working on an
 application for departmental Athena Swan status. This will be central to the Unit’s EDI strategy in
 the next REF period which will include greater monitoring of the uptake of research support
 resources with respect to EDI considerations.
 Supporting PGR students: EHUBS has a growing number of research students which includes self-
 funded candidates, professional-doctorate students and University-funded GTAs – a highly
 competitive scheme. In this REF period, 14 PGRs were recruited (4 PhD, 4 GTA, 5 Prof. Doc, 1
 MRes), and 4 PhDs awarded. Our approach to supporting, mentoring, training and supervising
 PGR students is guided by our core philosophy of driving forward research in the School which also
 fits with the business and society research theme.
 Currently, 11 staff are members of Edge Hill supervisory teams. All staff undertaking supervision
 attend annual training sessions provided by the Graduate School. Staff new to supervision have a
 more in-depth training programme and join teams with experienced co-supervisors. Staff are also
 encouraged to participate in sector bodies such as the UKCGE.
 We aim to give all our PGR students an enriching and supportive experience. PGRs are co-located
 in the School building in a designated PGR room to facilitate discussion and peer-support. This is
 equipped with desk space, computers and printers. PGRs also have access to the state-of-the-art
 library (opened in 2019), with dedicated learning pods for solo study and attractive researcher-only
 space on the top floor. This provides networking opportunities with PGRs from across the
 institution. As full and active member of EHUBS, all PGRs are encouraged and supported to
 participate in research seminars and workshops, to boost and build their confidence, develop their
 skills, and build their own networks. We also support all PGRs who wish to attend doctoral
 symposia or conferences in their field. A full doctoral training programme is also delivered centrally
 by the Graduate School, and this is complemented by EHUBS’s own research seminar series and
 symposia, as well as the tailored development programme identified in the learning needs analysis.
 This provision maximises opportunities to present papers or posters in addition to engaging with
 inputs from external speakers.
 Our GTA students also gain teaching experience as part of their training and can opt to take the
 PGCert in Teaching in Higher Education (also open to non-GTAs) – this has helped to make them
 highly employable – alongside training on the use of social media and writing blogs, to support the
 dissemination of their research. PGRs can also access all training available to staff, including the
 research training programme co-created by EHUBS and ISR (see above). By folding these
 transferable-skills opportunities into their experience, we hope to equip all PGRs to secure the

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 professional route of their choosing once their studies are complete: recent graduates include
 GTAs who are now lecturers at Salford Business School and Liverpool JMU; of other PhD
 graduates, one is a diversity and management consultant and another is advisor to the National
 Centre for Diversity.
 We also have staff who are making the transition to research independence through their
 doctoral studies. We strongly encourage staff to be supervised by academics at other
 institutions, to seek out specific supervisory skills, and to expand their networks. The Unit
 allocates time to attend events at other institutions and staff are also encouraged to engage with
 EHU research training opportunities outlined above.
 We are particularly pleased to have launched the University’s first professional doctorate. In
 identifying a research gap and a theory-practice divide within the emergency services setting, we
 launched the unique professional doctorate programme in emergency services management in
 2017. Working in close partnership with the ambulance, police, and fire services, this
 programme realises the potential of research to have a positive impact on professional practice.
 An external professional/practitioner is included in supervisory teams, providing candidates
 essential industry expertise to support their projects. It also fits within our strategy of helping
 business to be a force and agent for improving society. To date we have five students on this
 programme (all yet to graduate), and will seek to grow this in the next REF period.
  Academic year of enrolment                     Count of professional doctorate student
                                                 enrolments
  2017/18                                        2
  2018/19                                        1
  2019/20                                        2


 Industry links and visiting scholars: The Unit has direct links to local and regional businesses
 through the University’s Productivity and Innovation Centre (PIC) led by Bolton. In this role,
 Bolton supports regional business growth as a board member of the SEED Health Alliance, part
 of the Academic Health Sciences Network in the North West. He is also a member of Liverpool
 City Region Professional and Business Services (PBS) Board. Over the last two years Bolton
 has contributed directly to the development of PBS regional strategy, has developed the Growth
 Journey Model and is undertaking economic-growth hotspot mapping for the region. This is likely
 to produce considerable impact over the next REF period.
 We have also hosted visiting professors (VP) during the REF period including Prof. David Weir
 who ran a research workshop for ECRs during his tenure. He also helped with the initial
 discussions around REF environment strategy and collaborated with Wankhade to co-edit a
 book on police services. VP Andy Newton was Chair of the College of Paramedics and played
 an important role in garnering support for the professional doctorate with the College and wider
 ambulance community. Early in the REF cycle (October 2015-March 2016) Prof Denis
 Fischbacher-Smith (University of Glasgow) provided assistance with an initial conceptualisation
 of our REF impact case studies and facilitated an exchange visit to the Adam Smith Business
 School to help build research capacity and culture within EHUBS.
 REF Management: In alignment with University’s REF Code of Practice we constituted a
 departmental REF group to implement peer review process; comprising Wankhade (DoR),
 Woodruffe-Burton (HoD), Pinar (REF UOA co-coordinator), along with a rotation of ECRs to
 support their personal development. All staff with significant responsibility for research selected
 and self-reviewed outputs they wished to be considered for submission; for former staff this was
 facilitated by UOA co-ordinators. All outputs identified for consideration were peer reviewed
 internally by at least two members of staff (senior staff and those with subject expertise). Our
 REF group would then discuss the internal reviews to identify outputs for external review to
 support calibration and agreement on scores and rankings. External reviewers were identified
 after input from individual staff members on their outputs and using our network connections (for
 example Wankhade’s CABS Research Committee membership). All self-review scores and peer

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 review scores were made available on a shared drive to enhance transparency and to support
 personal development. The REF group then identified a long-list of outputs for consideration by
 REF Decisions Panel, based on ranking, fit with unit’s research narrative and to support
 representation of our submitted staff. Out of 43 outputs, selected by REF Decisions Panel, 35%
 are attributed to female staff (higher than their representation in submission (29%)), 24% to
 BAME staff (slightly lower than their representation in submission (29%)). The process has
 been underpinned by support from the Research Office and collaboration with other UOA co-
 ordinators from panel C units.
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income: During the period the Unit generated modest research income from national and
 international funding bodies. This should be viewed in the context of transformation from a
 teaching-led to a research-informed Business School, and the organic nature of development
 during the period. Our strategy has focused on building capacity through use of internal
 research-investment funds, with staff then supported to use their expanding track records to
 target external funds, including through collaboration. Our research has been supported by
 funding from a range of bodies, reflecting both a strategic focus on the Unit’s ‘business and
 society’ theme, and hiring decisions made during the period. Beyond research funding, our
 research has been informed by our wider approach to external engagement.


 Given our focus on capacity building, the University’s Research Office has provided extensive
 support to staff. Since 2014, staff received £70k (to cover directly incurred costs) from EHU’s
 research support funds for activities to enhance the research base and environment. A further
 £22k has been used to attend and present at international conferences (Cassidy, Dent,
 Emmanuel-Ebikake, Kelly, Pinar, Robin, Wankhade, Woodruffe-Burton). Papers arising
 from these conferences support both impact case studies and research outputs. Wankhade
 received £5k from IKEF to deliver the Ambulance Amber Review Report, which forms part of his
 impact case for this submission.


 Through both internal (GCRF QR) and external (Newton Fund, GCRF) we developed a portfolio
 of development-orientated research on which to build. Pinar’s British Academy project (£59,266)
 with Marmara University, Turkey, investigated the role of foreign direct investment in Turkey’s
 economic development. EHUBS has also developed several projects funded by EHU’s allocation
 of GCRF QR funds: Pinar was also awarded £24,000 to investigate regional inequality in Turkey
 and Crotty was awarded £5000 to build a UK-Ukraine-USA network of academics to research
 women’s groups and gender equality in Ukraine. The latter is a partnership between Edge Hill,
 the Harvard University Ukraine Research Institute and The Ukraine Academy of Sciences in
 L’viv and Kyiv. This has been followed up with a British Academy (GCRF) Workshop grant
 application (£16,486, awarded March 2021).


 In addition, the Unit has also engaged in contract research, including Wankhade’s research on
 managing challenging work in NHS ambulance trusts (£58,500 from Health Education England)
 and Pinar’s project to investigate the quality outcome framework for commissioners of health
 interventions (£24,320 from St Helen’s Clinical Commissioning Group).


 Research activity has also been informed and supported through the broader work of the school,
 including knowledge exchange work with non-academic partners and through pedagogic
 innovation. This includes EU funding, which has led to the publication of research results as
 outputs, via Kelly’s ERAMUS+ funded project (€53,270) in collaboration with University of
 Twente, the Technische University of Dortmund, Lappeenranta University of Technology and
 University of Economics in Bratislava, and which has successfully upskilled local businesses and
 students. Emmanuel-Ebikake’s research has been informed by engagement in European
 Structural and Investment Funds, via Lancashire LEP.


                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Although this is a good start, we recognise that when compared to other business schools in the
 sector, this amount of external funding is low. Building on the platform now established, our
 ‘business and society’ theme will be driven through an increased emphasis on grant capture,
 with a number of opportunity areas prioritised. These include international development
 (including ODA) research, a range of contract-research activity reflecting the policy and practice
 interests of staff and non-academic stakeholders and the broad area of regional, urban and rural
 development in the UK (leveraging our engagement with LEPs and other bodies). Staff will be
 supported to map their research interests on to key funder and stakeholder priorities, including
 those in the UKRI R&D Roadmap and forthcoming ‘Place Strategy’, regional economic
 development priorities, the research needs of key non-academic stakeholders and the UN
 Sustainable Development Goals.
 To prioritise sustainability, we have set a target of bidding for £1m over the next REF period.
 This will be a combination of UKRI, charities and contract research commissions. We recognise
 that this is a stretching target, but we will use the PDR process to support bidding, allied to
 research development support.
 Support and expectations for research income will be informed by academic career stage.
 Senior researchers will be expected to drive bidding throughout the next REF cycle. For senior
 researchers there will also be a focus on larger projects, sustaining significant postdoctoral
 research assistant roles and generating contributions to overheads, the former reflecting
 increased ambition in terms of contribution to knowledge and the latter reflecting the need for
 external funding to support the long-term sustainability of the School. In addition, building on the
 work of Wankhade and Pinar identified above, there will be greater focus on contract research
 working with collaborators and partners, some of which may give rise to impact in future years.
 For researchers without a track record but a good research profile, we will encourage them to
 target smaller internal and external funding pots to establish themselves.
 For many researchers, the focus will continue to be on accessing internal research support
 funds for profile development and pump-priming for external bids, including the collection of
 preliminary data, generation of publications and proving feasibility for future phases of research.
 In this regard we will be working closely with ECRs and other colleagues less experienced in bid
 development to seek University funding and this will be actively encouraged through the
 research groups.
 Our research groups will help to re-orientate our activity with respect to grant capture to build
 teams in advance of targeted calls that are directed at the UKRI strategic priorities, particularly
 marrying our business and society theme with the current government’s ‘levelling-up’ agenda.
 We will also use the enhanced profile arising from the formalised groups to collaborate with
 academics and groups at other HEIs with successful track records in bidding for external funds.
 Our established international links (see section 4) will also facilitate the development of teams to
 target funds such as Horizon Europe (through international collaborations and via a targeted
 approach to the Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions). We will also leverage our links with the
 University’s PIC to seek out opportunities for commissioned research and consultancy, whilst
 exploring other opportunities to work with charities and other funders on projects that might be
 lower in value, but higher in impact.
 Supported by the Institute for Social Responsibility, and incorporating SustainNET (formed
 during this REF period), we will formalise a research group on Business and Society. This will
 bring together current research streams on corporate social responsibility and ethics (Crotty &
 Emmanuel-Ebikake), marketing and gender (Woodruffe-Burton), public sector management
 and performance (Wankhade), social enterprise and entrepreneurship (Gazdula & Phelan),
 sustainability (Dent) and corporate governance (Zheng). This will raise the profile of business
 and society research at Edge Hill, attracting high-calibre academics and PhD students, in time
 becoming seen as a centre of excellence. The group will also facilitate team-building for grant
 capture specific to the UKRI priority areas of sustainability and global governance, and host
 visiting scholars in this area.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Allied to the Centre, we will formalise a group on Local Economy and Well-being including our
 work on high street regeneration (Cassidy), welfare economics (Pinar) and SMEs (Bolton &
 Naughton). This group will work collaboratively across the University, aligning with academics
 working on areas such as community wealth-building and community engagement (supported by
 ISR). Furthermore, by embedding staff in the University’s PIC and promoting practitioner
 engagement, it will work directly with business on co-created research projects.
 Finally, we will take the opportunity presented by the emerging engineering department and the
 STEM Research Institute (to be formalised in 2021/22) at EHU to explore further collaboration
 aligned to the UKRI digital economy priority theme. Bringing together work on social networks
 (Unlu), supply chains (Kelly) and social media (Konstantopoulou), we will thus formalise a
 digital economy group to cross-fertilise ideas across disciplines, facilitating grant capture.
 Infrastructure: The School considers infrastructure and facilities to be key in strengthening
 research capacity and fostering a vibrant research environment. EHUBS has the infrastructure
 and capacity to host workshops, conferences, internal and external research seminars, and the
 provision of accommodation to visiting research scholars. We have also invested in a new PGR
 room (£3k) to help create a space for exchange and peer support. We have a new IT lab room,
 which offers some of the latest ICT available with key software packages: for example it provides
 an environment for staff training and research and for knowledge exchange among staff and
 PGRs, and Leximancer (£4k) and MATLAB (£2k) software packages have facilitated a range of
 research outputs. To assist in the successful delivery of future conferences at the School, we
 invested in 12 Microsoft Surface Pros.


 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Business schools by their very nature seek to engage collaboratively through the co-production and
 exchange of knowledge with enterprises, non-profits and through national, international and inter-
 university collaborations; EHUBS is no different in this regard. Improving our reputation and
 contribution to the knowledge base, economy and society drives our approach to collaboration and
 engagement. To realise this during this REF period, we have drawn both on the arrangements
 available within EHU – specifically the research institutes, and the PIC – in combination with the
 specific relationships brought into the Unit via the recruitment of research leaders in key areas. We
 have also used internal support funds to facilitate some of our networking activity.
 With respect to the research institutes, we have drawn specifically on resources, skills and wider
 University networks to establish SustainNET, an interdisciplinary network that reaches across all
 faculties and community groups in our region. This was led by Dent and initially facilitated by a
 Knowledge Exchange seed-corn grant from ISR. Dent had record of developing international
 collaborations before arriving at EHUBS, having worked as a special advisor to the REN21
 organisation, which has produced the annual Global Status Reports on Renewable Energy and is
 sponsored by the UN Environment Programme. He was also founder and core partner of Asia
 Europe Energy Policy Research Network project. The combination of Dent’s prior experience, and
 support from ISR facilitated a ‘sustainability fair’ in Ormskirk town centre that brought together
 interest groups and academics to kick start collaborations for improved sustainability outcomes
 across our region. SustainNET has now established a seminar series, supported and promoted by
 ISR, and is working on developing collaborative projects across the University and with community
 groups to improve sustainability outcomes in our region. This network includes staff at all levels and
 thus also provides a collaborative and nurturing environment for ECRs and those seeking to make
 the transition to research independence. This work has potential to expand and grow the impact of
 the unit’s research in the next REF period.
 EHUBS has also utilised connections made through the PIC (led by Bolton) to foster collaboration
 and co-create outputs. The PIC has worked with more than 160 SMEs in the Lancashire region
 since its inception in 2018; with a specific focus on innovation and business process re-engineering.
 These connections are now being utilised through EHUBS staff linking up with the PIC to work
 directly with SMEs. The benefit of this approach is illustrated by Emmanuel-Ebikake having
 worked with local SMEs on business model development through the Innovation Spring
 programme; she collected case studies that formed the basis of an article currently under review

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with the Business Process Management journal. With plans to formalise the secondment of staff
 at all levels to the PIC in the next REF period, and the expansion of the PIC into the Liverpool
 City Region in 2021, this will become a fruitful mechanism for co-creation of research that will
 directly benefit the local and regional economy.
 Other collaborations have arisen from connections brought into EHUBS through recruitment
 during the period. Seeking out staff with such connections was also part of our strategy to move
 the School to one that was under-pinned by research. An example is Cassidy’s work on High
 Street regeneration. An expert in retail and marketing, she brought with her links with councils in
 Warrington, Wolverhampton, Stockton, Nottingham, Mansfield, West Lancashire where she has
 worked as an advisor on strategic retail and high street management. This experience led to her
 appointment as co-author of Grimsey Review 2 (GR2), a strategic review of the UK High Street.
 Through receiving support in this role (through research time and school resources), Cassidy co-
 authored the Covid-19 Grimsey supplement on how to ‘build back better’. The findings from GR2
 and the COVID-19 supplement have influenced national Town Centre High Street policy and
 regeneration in the form of the Future High Streets fund. Linked to this work, Cassidy is also chair
 of ESRC Consumer Data Research Centre RAG panel and explored health and well-being on the
 High street in collaboration with Edge Hill’s Health Research Institute. Cassidy’s contribution to the
 regeneration of the UK economy and society now forms one of our impact cases for this REF.
 Prior to joining EHUBS, Wankhade had established a HEIF-supported Centre for Emergency
 Services Management and Training and was the founder and editor-in-chief of the International
 Journal on Emergency Services. As such, he brought his emergency service network to EHUBS.
 Since his appointment, he has become an Adviser and Lead Reviewer to the AMBER Ambulance
 Review, Welsh Government (2018), supported with a grant from the University’s Impact and
 Knowledge Exchange Fund; a Trustee of Fire Service Research & Training Trust; and a strategic
 advisor to the Larrey Society, a think tank on emergency services. He has also been appointed
 Fellow of the Institute of Civil Protection and Emergency Management (ICPEM) and Chair of a new
 Special Interest Group on ‘Blue Light Services’ with a remit to work with both practitioners and
 scholars. With support from the University’s RIF, these networks have been effectively utilised to
 establish the first emergency services professional doctorate in the UK. This will contribute directly
 to the improvement of public services, and thus make a direct contribution to our economy and
 society. Wankhade has also published in several professional publications and outlets including
 Ambulance Today and FIRE. Combined, his work forms an impact case study for this REF
 submission.
 Collaboration with professional bodies and international networks:
 To maintain a thriving and purposeful research environment, it is essential that we maintain links
 with the business community through professional bodies and organisations. This is a mark of
 esteem and it also assists in reputation building. This is supported by the School, and time and
 resources are available to support these interactions. These links allow staff to build and maintain
 networks both to inform and influence policy and practice, and for professional practice to inform
 our research. Some specific examples of this type of activity include: Kelly is the Vice President of
 the International Purchasing and Supply Education and Research Association (IPSERA) and
 established its Educator's Conference and Education Special Interest Group; Gazdula is an
 external executive consultant at Reed Global; Pinar is a senior fellow of the Rimini Centre for
 Economic Analysis where he has been contributing to the organisation of international conferences
 and international events.
 EHUBs staff are also visiting professors at other HEIs including. Konstantopoulou: Visiting
 Professor in Strategy, Innovation and Educational Development at the University of Vitez
 (Bosnia and Herzegovina); Pinar: Visiting Professor, Department of Economics, University
 Orleans; Cassidy: Visiting Professor Nottingham Business School (NTU) and Bolton: Visiting
 Professor of Creative Consumer Insight, Faculty of Engineering, Design Department, ICESI
 University, Calì, Colombia.
 EHUBS also has a growing international network of collaborators resulting in more than 20 co-
 authored outputs in the submission. These international collaborations also extend to overseas


                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research projects on our core theme of business and society. Examples of international
 collaboration include:
    •   Abo Akademi University, Finland, on the digital workplace information literacy, funded by the
        Academy of Finland (Ahmad)
    •   The Centre for Advanced Retail Studies (CARS) at Massey University (New Zealand),
        advising the Takapuna Beach Business Association (TBBA) in Auckland and Retail NZ and
        the First Retail Group in Wellington (Cassidy)
    •   The regeneration plan for the City of Roeselare, Belgium as a model of best practice to
        feature in the second Grimsey Review of the High Street, 2018 (Cassidy)
    •   A trial of a women’s entrepreneurial toolkit in Malawi with the involvement of Malawi Institute
        of Management and Malawian Businesswomen’s Association (Gazdula).
 Pinar’s international collaboration with colleagues in Turkey has generated an external research
 grant from the Newton Advanced Fellowship (2014-2016) of the British Academy (with Marmara
 University, Turkey) and been supported by the University’s allocation of the Global Challenges
 Research Fund (Marmara University and Piri Reis University, Turkey). Crotty has developed a
 network with the Harvard University Ukraine Research Institute, and the National Academy of
 Sciences in L’viv and Kyiv, to research women’s groups and gender equality in Ukraine. She plans
 to build this network in a substantive base for further impact and knowledge exchange between
 academics in the UK, USA and Ukraine and women’s groups therein. This project also links directly
 to her leadership of ISR, which will facilitate dissemination. In the next period, we hope to leverage
 these examples further to target international funding calls, including Horizon Europe.
 These international connections reinforce our overall theme of business and society and, as a
 young school in research terms, allow EHUBS to raise its international profile and reputation. These
 networks also facilitate development opportunities, for all staff, but particularly for ECRs, and so we
 will seek to extend these networks, and facilitate arising grant bids, in the coming REF period.
 Contribution to the research base:
 Our staff are increasingly involved with journal editorial boards. This is a measure of esteem for a
 School in our current position, and it affords us in-house expertise that can be deployed to enhance
 the quality of outputs generally. Selected examples of editorial positions include:
 Cassidy: editorial board member of the Journal of Services Marketing
 Crotty: editorial board member of Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management
 Dent: editorial board member of Asia-Europe Journal; East Asia: An International Quarterly
 Konstantopoulou: editorial board member of Journal of Global Responsibility; International
 Journal of Sales, Retail and Marketing
 Pinar: editorial board member of Journal of Research in Economics and Energy Research Letters;
 Sustainability
 Wankhade: editor-in-chief of International Journal of Emergency Services (2012-current),, and on
 the editorial board of the Irish Journal of Paramedicine
 Woodruffe-Burton: Member of the editorial board, guest editor, Journal of Marketing Management,
 ‘Reflections on a memorable AM 2016’
 Some of the work carried out by our team has been acknowledged by journals and associations,
 again building esteem and reputation for a school in transition. Ahmad was awarded the European
 Student Award by Association for Information Science and Technology (2015). Two of Crotty’s
 articles were awarded Best Paper Awards: 1) the Public Management & Governance track, British
 Academy of Management meeting, 2015, and 2) Academy of Management, Social Issues in
 Management Track, 2014. Konstantopoulou obtained Team Award from the Minister of Science
 and Higher Education in Poland for excellent achievements in the field of science. Wankhade
 obtained Outstanding Reviewer Award from the International Journal of Public Sector Management,
 Emerald Literati Network in 2015.



                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our team in EHBS has been also active peer reviewing for learned funding bodies: ESRC
 (Cassidy, Crotty, Dent), British Academy of Management (Crotty, Wankhade), British Academy
 (Crotty, Dent), National Research Foundation of Korea (Dent), Israel Science Foundation (Dent),
 National Centre of Science and Technology Evaluation of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Pinar),
 European Academy of Management (Wankhade), AHRC (Bolton).
 Our team has delivered 100+ international conference presentations including: Academy of
 Marketing, British Academy of Management, Academy of Management, International Renewable
 Energy Conference, British Educational Research Association, Regional Studies Association,
 American Marketing Association. Furthermore, the research team also delivered 30 keynote/invited
 talks, including: Dent: House of Commons International Trade Committee at Westminster on the
 UK's free trade agreement options in the Asia-Pacific; Phelan: Sustainable Tourism Research
 Series, University of Guerrero (Mexico) (2017); Wankhade: Emergency Services Management
 Leadership Summit (2019) and Westminster Social Policy Forum (2018).
 In addition to the keynote and invited talks, our team has taken a major role in organising 10+
 international conferences: Cassidy: Chair and conference organiser for the 2nd, 3rd and 4th
 symposiums (2018-2020) of the NRRKEC; Co-chair for the annual Academy of Marketing
 Conference (2020); Gazdula: British Education Studies Association 2018 International Conference
 Chair; Kelly: Scientific Committee for the International Purchasing & Supply Education & Research
 Association conferences (2018-2020); Phelan: Organising Committee 14th Rural Entrepreneurship
 Conference (2016); Pinar: Co-organise workshops of “Understanding the Capital Flows” (2016)
 and “On the Road to EU: Determinants of Regional Well-being and Inequalities in Turkey” (2019);
 Wankhade: Chair of the 10th International Critical Management Studies Conference; Track Chairs
 on Strategic Leadership in Emergency Services at European Academy of Management
 Conferences; Woodruffe-Burton: Co-Chair of the 10th International Critical Management Studies
 Conference.
 Finally, we have contributed to the external doctoral examining at: Brighton University; Monash
 University, Australia; Anglia Ruskin University, Birmingham University, Nottingham Trent
 University, Lincoln University, Durham University, Lancaster University, University of Limerick,
 Napier University, Anglia Ruskin University.




                                                                                           Page 13
