Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Winchester

 Unit of Assessment: 28 (History)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1. The Unit
 The period since REF 2014 for the History UoA at Winchester has been one of both building on
 our strengths and expanding our horizons through the achievement of several strategic aims,
 with expansion in personnel and a greater diversification of the chronological, methodological
 and geographical expertise contained within the UoA. The UoA achieved an enhanced
 structuring of research through the creation of a third research centre; together our centres have
 coordinated and supported the expanding community of researchers. Two further
 complementary trends are also hallmarks of the unit: the strengthening of links with, and deeper
 embedding of the unit within, the historical and heritage communities of Winchester, Hampshire
 and the South Coast; and the greater global reach of the research of the unit, as seen in, for
 example, the creation of a number of research networks spanning multiple continents. All these
 trends, evidence of the vitality of the unit, are demonstrated in the variety of the outputs
 submitted to this assessment, impact, discussed here and in the Impact Case Studies (ICS), and
 the vibrant and sustainable research environment evidenced below.

 1.1.    Unit context
 There has been a significant increase in the staff submitted to this REF, part of a strategic aim
 set out in the 2015 UoA research strategy established after a review of the 2014 submission. In
 2014 there were 11 staff submitted (up from 8 in 2008); the 2015 strategy set out an increase to
 16 FTE by 2020. This target has been exceeded, with 18 Category A staff (17.75 FTE)
 submitted, an increase of 61%.

 The History UoA sits within the department of History, which also includes a separate
 programme for Classical Studies, comprising three staff (2.75 FTE), who are fully integrated into
 the department in both teaching and research. Research is primarily grouped around three
 research centres which, though two are explicitly interdisciplinary and include staff from other
 UoAs, are primarily convened by historians and funded through History UoA allocations. They
 are the Centre for Medieval and Renaissance Research (CMRR), the Modern History Research
 Centre (MHRC), and the Wessex Centre for History and Archaeology. These reflect the UoA’s
 strengths in medieval British and European history, modern European and global history, and its
 long-standing interest in local history, heritage and community groups. A fourth centre, that of
 Gender Studies, sits outside the department but four of the five co-convenors since 2014 have
 been historians and it also reflects an interdisciplinary research strength of UoA 28. All four
 centres are currently convened by one or more historians, and all historians are involved in one
 or more centres.

 As explained within the Institutional Environment statement (REF 5a, 4.1), in 2018-19 and 2019-
 20 the UoA had a devolved budget. Internal bids are scrutinised by a UoA working group chaired
 by the UoA lead to ensure vitality and sustainability in the context of an extended staff base.
 Bids need approval by the whole working group to ensure fairness and equality, and then are
 subject to the approval of the university-level Research and Knowledge Exchange (RKE) grants
 committee. Prior to 2018-19, bids were made by individuals within the UoA, scrutinised by the
 UoA Lead, and then sent to RKE grants committee for approval. No History bid has been
 rejected by that committee in this cycle under either system, and the quality control has ensured
 success in the strategic aims of the UoA over the cycle.

 1.2     Past and Present strategies: Overview
 The History submission for REF 2014 committed to a number of ongoing strategies, as well as
 three new strategic aims for the period 2014 to 2020. Following a review of that REF
 submission, the Unit drew up a revised research strategy in 2015, agreed by all members of the
 Unit, and adding the key target relating to the renewal and expansion of the Unit in terms of
 staffing as part of a strategy to expand, diversify and internationalize new areas of research and

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research-led teaching (see Section 2.1.1). The strategy was to be reviewed annually, and indeed
 was significantly refreshed in 2017, reflecting the developing research foci of the Unit and the
 concerns of the sector: supporting interdisciplinary research and furthering the Open Access
 agenda became specific targets at this time (see 1.4 and 1.5 below).

 The new strategic aims in the 2014 submission were funding three research leaves per year; to
 build on the expansion of early modern history; support new dimensions to research; and to
 integrate impact more closely into research (for the latter see section 1.3). These have been
 achieved during this cycle.

 The University largely devolved its approach to research leaves to Unit level over this REF cycle,
 and UoA 28 has prioritised research leave to support high quality outputs. Despite changes in
 how the UoA has been funded during the cycle, three staff have had one semester’s research
 leave annually (up from two a year during the previous REF cycle). In addition, more ad hoc
 buyout from teaching or other responsibilities to support particular activities has allowed greater
 flexibility for supporting research within the broader context of the University’s strategy.

 New dimensions and structures for research, both collaborative and independent, have
 underpinned the success of the UoA during this REF cycle. These include the foundation of the
 CMRR in 2017 linking historians, archaeologists, and colleagues in English Language and
 Theology. This supported and encouraged the growing number of medieval and early modern
 historians, both established staff and PhD/ECRs, by providing a forum and community in which
 they were a natural fit beyond those who already worked closely with the Wessex centre.
 Appointments that built on early modern history are discussed below in 2.1.1.
 Other ongoing priorities that were noted in the last REF submission formed part of the written
 strategy of the UoA in this REF cycle and have been achieved. These include:

       •   increasing PhD student numbers – approximately doubling from 12 completions in
           REF 2014 to 25 total (22.42 in terms of History supervision) in this REF cycle, with
           another five scheduled to complete within a year of July 2020;
       •   defraying research expenses and supplying conference funding for all UoA staff (since
           2015 this has been done by pooling funds, allocating every member of the department
           £1100 p.a., see below 2.3);
       •   funding conferences organised by colleagues and PGRs at Winchester (section 4.1);
       •   applying for major external funding (see 3.1).

 1.3      Present Strategy: Impact
 Impact has been a major focus of the UoA throughout this cycle. Engagement with impact for all
 UoA staff has ensured it is at the forefront of the unit’s research. Training for staff, ECRs and
 PhD students by impact practitioners has occurred throughout the cycle under the banners of
 Research Centres and at the PhD training day (see 2.2), as well as engagement with the
 university level training. Whilst Impact and public engagement are audited at university level
 through individual annual returns, impact plans are part of the UoA level RKE forms (see below
 2.1.2). We identified potential ICS early in the cycle and provided support for these and other
 impact activities, particularly through the employment of impact officers (see 3.2). We intend to
 continue in the next REF, with possible ICS earmarked early on and regular reviews of impact
 activities undertaken by the UoA working group.

 Impact has been both national and international impact, due to Lavelle’s work on the successful
 BBC and Netflix series The Last Kingdom, Houghton’s on the best-selling Crusader Kings
 series of computer games, Iglesias Rogers’ Hispanic-Anglosphere project and Ross’ digital
 humanities project on the early Tudor Chamber Books (see 3.1 and throughout section 4 below).
 It has also taken the form of impact focussing on local communities and groups in the
 Winchester and Hampshire area, our local and regional stakeholders and partners (see 4.1.1).

 Five potential ICS were developed during this REF cycle. The two submitted evidence national
 and international impact but also more local impact on culture and heritage in Winchester. The

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 selection was made collectively by the UoA, shaped and informed by advice from external
 consultants and cognisant of the REF Code of Practice in relation to transparency and equity.
 Both ICS demonstrate the collaborative nature of the UoA’s research, as more than one member
 of staff contributed significantly to both, as well as the integrated nature of impact. The range of
 the types of impact generated within the full REF submission is also testament to the breadth of
 the UoA’s work, with cultural heritage and stimuli to tourism alongside impact on understanding,
 learning and participation in schools, and on commercial strategy and design.

 1.4     Present Strategy: Interdisciplinary research
 A considerable and increasing proportion of the Unit’s research is interdisciplinary, reflected in
 the inclusion of supporting interdisciplinary work as a UoA target in the revised strategy in 2017;
 such support has been provided in a number of ways. Within the Unit, work on common themes
 across both History and Classical Studies is an important part of research culture: a planned
 internal conference with external keynotes, on the theme of Resilience across history, was
 disrupted by Covid-19 but has been rescheduled provisionally for the summer of 2021. Fleiner’s
 work spans the Classical, Medieval and Modern periods, while Moloney has published on the
 reception of classical works in the Irish Revolt of 1916. The interdisciplinary research centres
 have provided a forum for the exchange of knowledge, ideas and techniques.
 The UoA working group and RKE grants committee provided considerable support for
 interdisciplinary work throughout the cycle (4.3 below). Interdisciplinary outputs have been
 cross-referred within the submission to other UoAs, notably archaeology, classical studies and
 communication, cultural and media studies, and were considered on an equal basis with outputs
 unlikely to be cross-referred by the REF sub-panel; external reviewers from other UoAs as well
 as historians were employed to assess such interdisciplinary outputs throughout the REF
 preparation.

 1.5. Present Strategy: Open Access
 The UoA has made great strides in making its research open access. Moreover, engagement
 with, and furthering of, open access has been part of the UoA’s written strategy. The History
 UoA is at the heart of the development of an open access research culture within the university
 as described in the Institutional Environment statement. Members of the UoA edit two
 interdisciplinary open access journals, the Royal Studies Journal (Woodacre), established in
 2014 and the Journal of Perpetrator Research (Perra), established in 2017. Both are published
 by Winchester University Press (WUP). The Royal Studies Journal was the first open access
 journal published by WUP, and Woodacre played a leading role in helping set up the other three
 open access journals published by WUP. QR funds totalling EUR 9,000 were also devoted to
 ensuring a major study was made gold open access upon publication, a volume co-edited by
 Lavelle, The Land of the English Kin (Brepols: Brill, 2020), containing articles by, amongst
 others, two Winchester historians (Lavelle, Weikert), in honour of Emerita Professor Barbara
 Yorke. Overall, 100% of outputs submitted to this REF are OA compliant.

 1.6 Future strategies
 The UoA Working Group agreed in 2020 the strategic aims for the next REF cycle. The strategic
 principles outlined below will be periodically reviewed on an ongoing basis through the REF
 cycle, and a full review will take place once the impact of Covid-19 on internal and external
 research funding, and on the sector as a whole will become clearer:
 1)      To encourage high-quality research outputs by all UoA members through the dedication
 of a significant percentage of available internal funds to research leave and relief from other
 duties.
 2)      To continue to support capture of external funding grants of all forms through more bids,
 supported through internal funding, enhanced peer feedback via regular UoA-level funding
 workshops, collaborative and interdisciplinary working through research centres, and research
 mentoring.
 3)      To continue to increase doctoral student numbers and successful completions, through
 funded studentship applications and an enhanced, integrated unit-level training programme for
 PGR and ECRs, which will also equip them as far as possible for working in academia and
 beyond.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4)      To continue to focus on the creation and delivery of impactful research, through support
 from internal funding and the designation of an impact lead within the UoA to shape impact
 strategies and potential ICS early in the cycle, advise colleagues on evidence collection, and
 manage a dedicated evidence repository.
 5)      To support and expand the role of the UoA’s research centres as drivers of collaborative,
 interdisciplinary and open access research, external funding bids, and as training hubs and
 supportive environments for PhD students and ECRs.
 6)      To continue and increase engagement with local, national and international stakeholders,
 audiences and beneficiaries of research, existing and new, through the research centres,
 partnered funding bids, open access research, and the enhancement of the research
 environment.

 1.7 Research Integrity
 Throughout this REF cycle, and as part of all iterations of its strategy, the UoA has fully engaged
 with all the University’s policies on ethical and professional standards in all its work and UUK’s
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity (2012, rev. 2019). Unit members who are Fellows of
 the Royal Historical Society collegially ensure the Society’s ethos on ethics and integrity
 enshrined in the RHS statement (https://royalhistsoc.org/rhs-statement-ethics/) informs all
 relevant aspects of research in the Unit. Supervisors ensure that History PGR students also
 obtain ethics approval for their project at the start of research. Perra has institutional oversight
 on ethics within the Faculty. Two examples are indicative of wider good practice. To ensure
 compliance with Institutional guidelines and GDPR requirements, Houghton worked closely with
 the University Ethics Committee in the preparation and distribution of research surveys of
 undergraduate history students between 2015 and 2019 and in the secure and anonymous
 storage of data relating to the project. These surveys formed the basis of Houghton's 2016
 article ‘Where did you learn that? The self-perceived educational impact of historical computer
 games on undergraduates’ published in Gamevironments and ongoing research into the
 influence of games as public history. Weikert ensured the appropriate Section 42 licences for
 surveys on scheduled monuments were in place from Historic England before archaeological
 work took place at Faccombe Netherton.


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 2.1.1 Strategy
 During this REF cycle, the Unit has deliberately looked to expand the geographical,
 chronological and methodological coverage of its research and research-led teaching as a result
 of the planned expansion of staff. Staff were appointed with expertise in the modern European
 and global Hispanic World (Iglesias Rogers) and in colonial and post-colonial north Africa and
 south Asia (Guégan), complementing existing areas of strength on Soviet-era Russia
 (Chernyshova) and twentieth-century Japan (Aldous), emphasising the aim to internationalise
 research in modern history. The appointments of Bassino and Moloney brought new expertise
 on the history, culture and literature of the Ancient Greek world. There was also a strategic drive
 to diversify the historical approaches embodied in the research of the Unit, with the new
 appointment of staff specialising in environmental history (Gray), demography (Oakes), youth
 culture (Edwards) and, as one strand of his research, the interaction of History and computer
 games (Houghton). Medievalists (Houghton, Oakes, Weikert), modernists (Edwards,
 Guégan, Iglesias Rogers) and those who cross the traditional early-modern boundaries (Gray,
 McKelvie) build on existing expertise across the chronological range of the department. This
 has led to the fruitful exchange of ideas fuelled by different approaches and enhanced the
 research culture of the department.

 The UoA has expanded significantly over the period, as well as replacing retired staff, though
 there was also significant continuity with seven of the eleven staff submitted in 2014 also
 entered into this REF. All staff employed on the census date were on permanent contracts, and
 only one is part-time. This permanency and the equality of staff has encouraged the

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development of a strong team, as has the collegiality of the department in teaching and
 research.


 2.1.2 Staff development
 The University and the department have offered ECRs considerable opportunities over this REF
 period and the UoA has expanded and diversified through such appointments; it has also
 supported established staff to progress and develop. Two senior staff retired after 2014 (and one
 later in the cycle), so alongside the internal promotion of Lavelle to Reader in 2014, two external
 senior appointments at Reader level were made in 2014 alongside a number at Lecturer level.
 When both these Readers moved on to posts elsewhere in 2016, rather than replace at senior
 level, staff already in the department successfully applied for promotion: Aldous and Lavelle
 moved to Professor and Ross to Reader from 2017 onwards. Meanwhile, colleagues at the
 earlier stages of their career were also successful. Of the fifteen Senior Lecturers (Bassino,
 Chernyshova, Edwards, Fleiner, Gray, Guégan, Houghton, Iglesias Rogers, McKelvie,
 Moloney, Oakes, Perra, Sandall, Weikert, Woodacre) in the UoA, all but three of these staff
 moved from Lecturer during this REF cycle. This reflects the weighting towards academics at the
 earlier stages of their career, but it also emphasises the way the UoA engages fully with the
 University’s career development pathway from lecturer to professor, the vitality of the
 department and the sustainability for the future.

 Two structures at unit/departmental level facilitate reflection on research and recognition of
 achievement. The staff development review with their line manager includes research and
 knowledge exchange. This development review process is also mandatory for researchers
 employed on fixed term contracts. UoA members submit an annual planning form for research
 and knowledge exchange that is scrutinised by the UoA lead to ensure appropriate use of
 pooled UoA funding but also for developmental aims, longer term output, impact and career
 strategies, often leading to fruitful dialogue between the UoA lead and member of staff.

 Feedback on all types of research to staff at all stages of their careers comes via several
 avenues. The UoA lead operates as first reviewer for most internal and external funding bids
 from the UoA (in addition to a peer review college at Faculty level for external funding) and
 comments are passed to the applicant, as are comments on internal bids from the UoA Working
 Group since it was set up in 2018. A minimum of two external assessors reviewed anonymously
 each output considered for this REF submission and their feedback was passed onto the staff
 member to shape and inform future publications and publication strategy.

 All new appointments in the History department in Winchester are assigned a mentor, and this is
 recognised in the workload with 15 hours allocated per mentee. The mentoring role relates to
 both teaching and research. The opportunities offered to ECRs as project researchers and as
 impact officers, as well as in teaching, has helped a number go onto posts within academia. To
 take just two examples, McKelvie, employed at various points as a researcher, impact officer
 and teaching cover for Ross’s Leverhulme project, gained a permanent post in the UoA in 2019,
 while Holford, part-time lecturer and a researcher on an AHRC project at Winchester between
 2012 and 2014 is now a permanent curator at the Bodleian Library. ECRs have played key roles
 within the unit during the cycle, including convening of Research Centres (Edwards, Houghton,
 McKelvie, Weikert) which have helped them gain essential experience. Weikert and Houghton
 were awarded the university’s Early Career Research Fellowship awards in 2017-8 and 2018-9
 respectively, each fellowship providing £10,000 towards teaching remission and research
 expenses to develop major outputs: this is a further recognition of the quality of the Unit as well
 as the individuals.

 The success of support offered to those submitted members of the Unit who were appointed
 while early career researchers is evident in their publication success, with all bar one producing
 well-received monographs during this period: Bassino, Certamen Homeri et Hesiodi: A
 Commentary (2019) ; Edwards, Youth Movements, Citizenship and the English Countryside:
 Creating Good Citizens, 1930-1960 (2018); McKelvie, Bastard Feudalism, English Society and

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Law (2020); and Weikert, Authority, Gender and Space in the Anglo-Norman World, 900-
 1200 (2020). The exception is Houghton who has produced six journal articles and three book
 chapters in this REF cycle, of which five have been submitted to this REF.

 2.2 Research Students
 Despite the challenging environment for funding for research students, the UoA has expanded
 its cohort of research students over this REF cycle, and enhanced support, training and career
 opportunities for its students, building on successes in this area noted in the feedback from REF
 2014. With 25 completions and currently 30 PhD students within the department (unit members
 also contribute to supervisory teams in several other departments), numbers have risen
 substantially from 12 reported in REF 2014. The UoA has also successfully bid for three
 competitive fully funded studentships awarded by the University, while in 2020 Woodacre was
 successful in securing a funded studentship in partnership with an institution in the REACH
 Consortium Collaborative Doctoral Partnership.

 The Unit follows university procedures in allocating a minimum of two supervisors, one of whom
 must have experience of a successful doctoral completion, and mentors any inexperienced
 member of the supervisory team; a third supervisor may be included to ensure the completion
 criteria is met and/or where the student would benefit from further advice, such as an
 interdisciplinary project. Regular supervisory meetings are mandatory and monitored, in addition
 to other forms of communication. Annual, independent, progress forms by student and
 supervisory team scrutinised at university level ensure there is robust monitoring. All History
 supervisors engage with, and on occasions lead, ongoing university training for supervisors (see
 REF 5a, 3.3).

 Support for PhD students and ECRs comes in part through university level initiatives, particularly
 the Research Training Programme, the PGR symposia, and skills training outlined in the
 institutional environment statement, and History PhD students are keen participants in all these,
 as well as external courses, such as those at the Institute of Historical Research. History-specific
 training has always been a priority, such as tailored training courses in Latin and both medieval
 and early modern palaeography for MA and PhD students. To ensure the development of
 archival skills, trips to archives such as the Hampshire Record Office in Winchester and the
 National Archives in London (both of which members of the Unit have close collaborations with)
 continue on an annual basis. In the last three years there has been an increasing emphasis on
 additional training and skills development through MHRC and CMRR programmes, with
 workshops offered on diverse topics such as digital humanities, impact, and careers in archives
 and heritage organisations. In spring 2020, this was planned to be formalised as the first annual
 day training event for History PhD and ECRs, with talks by external and internal speakers on
 funding bids, impact, output strategies, job applications, and on publishing by a commissioning
 editor of a leading publisher. While it was postponed as a result of Covid-19, this event will be
 instituted as a more formal annual History PG and ECR day and supported out of devolved QR
 funds.

 Integration of research students into the research culture of the Unit is another traditional
 strength of the UoA. All students are expected to speak at least once at one of the three regular
 seminar programmes of the research centres, while History PGR students both present at and
 organise Centre events. The Royal Studies Journal – a key driver in our open access agenda -
 has employed eight Winchester PhD students over the last few years in editorial roles, providing
 valuable experience and skills in the editorial and publication process of a peer-reviewed journal.
 One of two BBC History weekends has been held in Winchester since 2016. As part of the
 event, Winchester PhD students and ECRs have exclusively provided speakers for the History
 Fringe programme, a series of free 15-minute talks for the general public, showcasing their
 research to a wide audience – for example five History PhD/ECRs gave talks in 2019.
 Financial support for PG students includes £500 per FT student for research expenses, such as
 external training courses, visiting archives and speaking at external conferences, notably at the
 Institute for Historical Research and at the International Medieval Congress at Leeds where half
 a dozen PhD students regularly present. ECRs, including Associate Lecturers, and project

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers without permanent posts have successfully bid for development funding at Faculty
 level for the same purposes. UoA funds have also been used to support PGR students. For
 example, £1,700 was awarded for PhD and ECR bursaries for Winchester PGR students and
 those from other universities for the Kings and Queens conference hosted by Winchester in
 2018. External sources for funding have been tapped as well; one PhD student was funded by
 the Society for French History for archival research in France in 2019 and 2020 for example.

 History at Winchester has a strong tradition of bringing through its own PhD students and ECRs
 into academia. Eight Winchester History PhD students have gone on to permanent jobs in this
 cycle, within the UK – at Chester, Swansea, UEA and Winchester – and internationally in
 Canada and Norway. This speaks to the successful training, mentoring and preparation for
 academic careers within the department.

 2.3. Equality and diversity
 Of the eighteen staff submitted to this REF, there is nearly an equal gender balance with eight
 female and ten male, a significant change from 2014 when only three of eleven submitted staff
 were female. In part, this is a result of a complete gender balance in new appointments since
 2014, the result of open competition. Nine of 18 staff submitted were not born UK citizens,
 compared to four of eleven in 2014. This exemplifies how well the UoA puts into practice
 University equality and diversity policies within its recruitment of staff.

 The UoA working group played the key role in the selection of outputs for REF 2021, submitting
 recommendations based on external assessors’ scores and comments. The working group was
 partly co-opted, partly voluntary, and represents both senior (two professors, one reader) and
 junior (two ECRs) and different expertise, including medieval, early modern and modern
 specialists. It is also balanced to ensure equality and diversity: the ten-strong working group is
 half male and half female, for example. All members of the group attended unconscious bias
 training to help in the fair selection of outputs for the REF.

 As of 2019-20, six UoA members have applied for and been granted flexible working
 agreements (as per University policies) to allow for personal circumstances, such as caring
 responsibilities, demonstrating a strong commitment to equality and diversity in the UoA. All UoA
 staff, including ECRs, have been eligible to apply for study leave (and other funded support)
 from QR funds over the REF cycle, scrutinised by the UoA working group and RKE grants
 committee, and the applications are judged solely on the quality of the research proposal. It is an
 indication of the application of the equality policies that all staff who applied for it have had study
 leave within this REF cycle (15 of 18 submitted staff, the three remaining being more recent
 appointments who have not yet applied). The two members of staff who had parental leave
 within the cycle both also had study leave.

 The University in 2015 decided that those entered into REF 2014 should have an individual
 annual allocation of £3,000 while those not entered or joining subsequently could apply for
 research expenses; UoAs were also able to pool the £3000 allocations. As the composition of
 the UoA by 2015 was already significantly different from REF 2014, the UoA voted in 2015 to
 pool the individual allocations. Therefore between 2015 and 2020 all full-time staff received
 £1,100 annually, pro-rata for part-time staff, to cover research expenses and other research-
 related activities, in addition to all being able to access Fast Track and additional money through
 grants committee, evidencing the UoA’s commitment to equality and supporting career
 development.

 Members of the History UoA, notably Perra, Weikert and Guégan, have also been active in
 promoting equality and diversity within the university. Perra led a workshop on decolonising the
 curriculum in June 2020 while Weikert has been appointed Programme Leader for Decolonising
 the Curricula to continue the process of developing decolonised and diverse research and
 teaching practices within the UoA as well as furthering the programming at the University level.
 Guégan has had an active role on the University’s Equality and Diversity committee since 2014.


                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Research income
 A strategic aim of this cycle was to increase external funding. The UoA has been particularly
 successful in this, with a total of £735,802 generated, treble that reported for REF 2014
 (£261,656). These included major projects such as Mapping the Medieval Countryside (AHRC,
 £528,000 granted 2012, with £292,679 received in this cycle), Kingship, Court and Society
 (Leverhulme Trust, £212,784, 2016), and the Hispanic-Anglosphere (AHRC Network grant,
 £29,612, 2017). All have or will lead to high quality online digital editions, databases and impact
 (see respectively http://www.inquisitionspostmortem.ac.uk/;
 https://www.tudorchamberbooks.org/; https://hispanic-anglosphere.com/).

 Significant research outputs from all three include: The Later Medieval Inquisitions Post Mortem:
 Mapping the Medieval Countryside and Rural Society, ed. M.A. Hicks (Woodbridge, 2016); S.
 Cunningham and J. Ross, Kingship and Political Society in England, 1485-1529: The projection
 and reception of royal authority under Henry VII and Henry VIII, forthcoming, Oxford University
 Press, 2021; The Hispanic-Anglosphere from the Eighteenth to the Twentieth Century: An
 Introduction, ed. G. Iglesias Rogers, forthcoming Routledge, 2021.

 The UoA has also been successful in securing external funding from a wide range of funders
 across the whole REF cycle for a diverse portfolio of projects. Successes include three grants
 from the Wellcome Trust, including £41,330 awarded in 2015 for a project on ‘Effaced from
 History? The Disfigured and their Stories from Antiquity to the Present Day?’, a research
 fellowship worth £21,234 the same year, and a Research Grant on ‘Medicine and warfare: the
 role of the Cinchona bark in the Napoleonic Wars’ (£5090) in 2016-7, awarded to Iglesias
 Rogers. Chernyshova successfully applied for a prestigious British Academy mid-Career
 fellowship, awarded April 2020, worth £99,668 over the next two years, for a project on Petr
 Masherau: From Partisan to Party Leader in Soviet Belarus. The Mapping the Medieval
 Countryside project led to a follow-on funding to calendar the Inquisitions Post Mortem from the
 reign of Richard III, from the Richard III Society of £17,316 in 2014-5, supplemented by a grant
 of £9,974 from the British Academy in 2016-7: the resulting Calendar, edited by McKelvie and
 Emeritus Professor Michael Hicks, will be published in April 2021 by Boydell and Brewer.

 Research consultancy has provided an alternative source of funding. Lavelle’s work as
 historical consultant for the BBC/Netflix production of The Last Kingdom has brought in £45,200
 in consultancy fees over this REF cycle as well as producing significant impact, partially
 underpinning one of the UoA’s ICS. Lavelle has also provided consultancy for the computer
 game, Assassin’s Creed Valhalla (Ubisoft), in 2018 and 2020.

 3.2 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
 The UoA has consistently supported external funding bids, through applications for teaching
 buyout and relief from other duties to allow drafting, through internal peer reviewing and in
 sharing good practice. For example, Ross successfully applied for an internal grant of £2,427 for
 teaching buyout to support his Leverhulme Project application. Ross, as UoA lead, organised an
 online funding workshop in June 2020 for staff and ECRs to present ideas for future funding
 bids, give scrutiny and receive feedback, with four breakout sessions arranged by type of bid. A
 follow up workshop took place, helping further several current bids and lay the foundations for
 future ones. This will become a bi-annual event for the unit as it seeks to achieve its targets for
 external funding income as well as support individual and collective research.
 In conjunction with a university-wide policy, History split the role of UoA lead from that of Head of
 Department in 2017, and the hours allocated to the role of UoA lead were doubled in 2018 to
 allow a greater emphasis on research leadership and coordination within the Unit more
 generally, as well as a dedicated focus on the REF submission. This research leadership role
 will continue in the next REF cycle.

 Provision of research leave has been essential in underpinning and supporting high quality
 outputs throughout the cycle. Although different funding structures have been in place over

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2014-20, the underlying principle has been via competitive application throughout, rather than
 staff formally having any entitlement to leave. Applications from staff have been scrutinised at
 UoA level, at Faculty level, and by RKE grants committee to ensure plans are robust. Early in
 the REF cycle consideration was given to research leave applications to deliver a series of
 articles or a major funding bid in addition to monographs, but university policy has moved
 towards linking research leave to production of monographs and the History UoA has followed
 this policy; in recent years evidence has been required of a contract with a publisher before
 research leave has been granted. As noted above no application for research leave by a
 member of the History UoA has been rejected during this cycle under any of the funding
 arrangements. There has thus been a clear link between research leave and the publication of
 high quality, double weighted monographs; Lavelle’s research leave in autumn 2019 and the
 publication of his Places of Contested Power in July 2020 is one example from among several.
 Significant History QR funds across the REF cycle have been invested in the employment of
 impact officers to assist in impactful activities, the collection of evidence and the shaping and
 support of ICS. Internal funds devoted to impact include £4,738 in 2016-7, £9,648 in 2017-8,
 £7,680 in 2018-9 and £1,750 in 2019-20.

 The creation and development of the inter-disciplinary research centres in Modern History,
 Medieval and Renaissance Research, and the Wessex Centre, supported through UoA funds,
 have also facilitated high quality research through the exchange of ideas and approaches via
 symposia, workshops, seminars and other activities. One Wessex Centre conference on the
 Danes in Wessex led to the publication of Danes in Wessex: The Scandinavian Impact on
 Southern England, eds. Lavelle and S. Roffey (Archaeology) in 2015, while a second entitled
 led to the publication of Lands of the English Kin (2020). A 2014 Centre for Gender Studies
 conference led to a 2016 special edition of Historical Reflections/Reflexions Historique, edited by
 Weikert and Woodacre, on gender and status in the medieval world.

 At UoA and Faculty level, in addition to funding workshops helping to develop external funding
 bids, peer reviewing of external bids is standard as is training and development on impact (see
 for examples the talks by impact professionals under the banner of the various centres and the
 unified PGR & ECR training day, section 2.3). In addition, university level training and support for
 ICS and UoA leads underpin Unit level initiatives.

 The Winchester Research Apprenticeship Programme provides a paid opportunity for
 undergraduate students to work on ‘live’ research projects, normally spending a week on the
 project gaining research experience and skills through one-on-one mentorship from academic
 staff. In return, academic staff are supported in the undertaking of the time-consuming initial
 tasks of a research project, such as compiling an annotated bibliography, while also often
 developing their own skills in relation to training and managing researchers. Members of the
 History UoA have been vigorous supporters of the programme and have led a variety of such
 projects, with between three and eight running each year, including work supporting Guégan’s
 sourcebook on France and the Maghreb, and Fleiner’s on early medieval Frankish poetry and
 identity. Over this cycle, £26,840 from Faculty funds has been paid to undergraduates
 supporting research projects for History staff (including five jointly with other UoAs).


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations
 The UoA has supported networks, collaborations and joint research through, for example,
 supporting major collaborative conferences and research, such as the 2019 symposium on
 Historical Graffiti, led by Wood, and jointly organised with English Heritage, and with delegates
 from the Church of England, the National Trust and Historic Royal Palaces. It has also hosted
 series of conferences, including three international conference series on Kings and Queens
 (2013, 2014 and 2018), organised by Woodacre, and three by the Centre for Gender Studies in
 2014 and 2016 (Woodacre) and 2019 (Edwards). This support reaches across the remit of its
 research, including for example, the allocation of £4,996 to underpin a conference on ‘Sophistic

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 views of the epic past from the Classical to the Imperial age’ in 2018, led by Bassino, the
 proceedings of which are scheduled to be published by Bloomsbury in 2021.

 4.1.1. Local and regional collaborations
 The UoA has strong links with its local communities and other regional stakeholders, through
 impact and engagement activities, and close collaboration with a number of heritage and cultural
 institutions will ensure the continuation of one of the UoA’s main foci in the future. The Wessex
 Centre provides a focus for the dissemination and collaboration in research, and a considerable
 number of conferences have run under its banner, often in collaboration with external
 organisations such as the Hampshire Cultural Trust. Members of the UoA play an active role in
 several local history publications, notably running the journal of Southern History and on the
 editorial board of Hampshire Studies, Hampshire Papers, Southampton Record Series and the
 Portsmouth Record Series, which involve collaboration with a wide range of heritage and local
 government bodies, including both Winchester and Southampton City councils, Hampshire
 Archives Trust and the Mary Rose Museum. UoA members, past and present, play a major role
 in the Winchester HA, the Victoria County History (VCH) for Wiltshire while the UoA is the hub
 for the Hampshire VCH. Through the involvement of staff, through publications and the
 organisation of conferences and workshops, the UoA has developed and consolidated its status
 as a centre which has definitively transformed the practice of local history in Hampshire and
 enhanced our outward facing profile as an intellectual force within the county.

 The UoA’s leadership role within the local heritage and historical communities and indeed within
 wider Winchester society throughout this REF cycle can clearly be seen in its engagement with
 two interdisciplinary projects. In 2014, Romsey Local History Society approached Lavelle with
 regard to supporting them in a project on the Lower Test Valley in the Anglo-Saxon period. This
 was undertaken as a result of the longstanding links between the Archaeology and History
 departments and members of the society, enhanced through the activities of the Wessex Centre.
 Lavelle was instrumental in establishing the University’s supporting role for the project, providing
 guidance on aspects of the project regarding local landholding, and drawing on research by
 Lavelle, Weikert and Yorke. The collaboration resulted in a joint day conference on river valley
 settlement (April 2016), support in producing displays on charters and a scale model for a pop-
 up exhibition at Romsey Town Hall (November 2016), and a workshop on place-names held at
 the University in collaboration with the Society (2017). The links nurtured between the Society
 and the Wessex Centre have continued to manifest themselves through further archaeological
 work, and the intended publication of Lavelle’s 2017 lecture to the Society.

 The second project relates to the West Hill Cemetery in Winchester. Between c.1850 and 1914
 most Wintonians were buried in the Cemetery, and since 2016, Allen and other members of the
 History and Theology Departments have been researching both the physical memorials and the
 archival records of the cemetery. The details of 115 people memorialised with Commonwealth
 War Graves Commission headstones were researched and put together in an exhibition.
 Members of the armed forces and representatives of their associations – both international
 (ANZACs) and local (Royal Hampshire Regiment) – and other groups came together with
 representatives of Winchester City Council and the University’s senior management for a
 memorial service on 10 November 2018. An exhibition on display at the University that day
 moved to the Winchester Discovery Centre for the whole month of November 2019.
 The Unit’s key role in regional historical initiatives can also be seen in the Southampton
 Overland Trade project, which resulted in a webGIS portal for public use, based on substantial
 data and a published interpretative volume, English Inland Trade 1430–1540: Southampton and
 its Region, ed. Michael Hicks (Oxford, 2015). The project presents browsable and searchable
 data from the Southampton brokage books, the best source for internal trade in fifteenth and
 sixteenth century England, in a fully interactive database, linked to a mapping system, and was a
 collaboration between the University of Winchester and the University of Southampton’s
 GeoData institute.

 4.1.2 Global collaborations


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The global reach of the History UoA at Winchester is demonstrated by the development of four
 international research networks, three newly created in this REF cycle, bringing together
 academics across the world to collaborate and share ideas online and at events and
 conferences, demonstrating the vitality of the UoA in promoting research.
            • The Royal Studies Network, established in 2012 by Woodacre, has 539
                 members across five continents working on scholarly endeavours on royal
                 themes, and continues to grow. It has developed numerous outlets for sharing
                 and presenting research, both online and in the immensely successful Kings and
                 Queens series of conferences, now in its ninth year.
            • The Perpetrator Studies Network, which grew out of the ‘Encountering
                 Perpetrators of Mass Killings, Political Violence, and Genocide’ 2015 conference
                 organised by Perra at Winchester, which received a donation of £3,500, not
                 included in the HESA returns, from the British Association of Holocaust Studies.
                 This has more than 170 members across four continents. Perra was a founding
                 member and the Journal and Network are a collaborative venture with Utrecht
                 University.
            • The AHRC-funded ‘Hispanic-Anglosphere: transnational networks, global
                 communities (late 18th-20th centuries)’ international research network comprises
                 35 active members in the UK, Europe, the Americas and Russia, studying
                 individuals, networks and communities that made the British Isles a crucial hub
                 for the global Hispanic world and a bridge between four continents.
            • The Object, Memory, History network, established in 2019, is composed of 12
                 core members and 26 in total in the UK, Europe and the US. It has been
                 supported by the UoA and the University both in terms of financial support for the
                 organisation and costs for a workshop. The network workshop is highly
                 interdisciplinary with archaeology, art history, history, languages and literature
                 represented in the group.

 4.2 Sustainability of the discipline
 The UoA contributes widely to the sustainability and furtherance of the discipline and beyond.
 Staff contribute, in various capacities, to the editorial boards of eight journals beyond the three
 (Southern History, Royal Studies and Perpetrator Research) run from the UoA. Members of the
 UoA reported peer reviewing for 16 publishers and 56 journals based in Britain, Europe and the
 US. Almost every member of staff has given keynote talks or invited lectures to a range of public
 and academic workshops, seminars and conferences, in person, and via podcasts, recordings
 and other electronic media. During this cycle, colleagues have assessed/refereed for Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowships at the European Commission (Moloney), the Carnegie
 Trust (Guégan), the National University of Ireland's Post-Doctoral Fellowships in the Humanities
 and The Council for the Humanities of the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research
 (Iglesias Rogers) and the AHRC Networks scheme (McKelvie). Members of the UoA are
 trustees of the Castle Studies Trust and the Richard III and Yorkist History Trust.

 4.3 Impact and Interdisciplinarity
 The impact generated beyond the ICS has been discussed throughout this statement (notably in
 4.1.1 above), but to add a further example generated through one of the UoA’s externally funded
 projects, the Hispanic-Anglosphere project has had significant impact nationally and
 internationally. Two international academic meetings intertwined with two public events at the
 National Trust-Tyntesfield, near Bristol in 2017 and 2018, bringing together scholars from the
 UK, Europe, and North and South America with National Trust volunteers and the general public,
 in addition to an online exhibition. This new research encouraged a root-and-branch
 reinterpretation of the Tyntesfield estate and its vast collection (the largest of the National Trust)
 and was reflected in changes to the Trust’s literature and handbook (distributed to 5.6m
 members), and in a permanent new exhibition at the site. Further impact activities, such as
 Iglesias Rogers appearing in a big debate feature in BBC World Histories in 2018, and a
 number of online articles and podcasts via the project website have ensured reach, notably in
 over 16,000 hits on the website by autumn 2020, and in significance as it was referenced in the


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Trust’s 2020 report on the Connections between Colonialism and Properties Now in the Care of
 the National Trust.

 Houghton has been closely involved in interdisciplinary work relating to medieval computer
 games in the modern world, incorporating game design, game studies, and pedagogy. His
 published research has focused on the impact of games and other media on student perceptions
 of history, the creation of games as teaching and research tools and the analysis of
 representations of history within games. Houghton’s research into medieval relationship
 networks has been used to support the creation of the games Crusader Kings II and Crusader
 Kings III. His work on relationship models, in collaboration with other academics, game
 designers and players, contributed to the broad design of relationship networks within the game
 and to the creation of 4,000 characters within the game, notably France, Germany and Italy
 c.750-c.1050 for which Houghton was responsible, and was thanked by the makers, Paradox
 Interactive, for making it a more historically accurate and entertaining experience. Crusader
 Kings II is one of the bestselling historical strategy computer games of all time (over 3m sales)
 and both Crusader Kings II and Crusader Kings III have been praised extensively for their
 historical depth within the games’ industry.

 Houghton’s research into the representations of the Middle Ages in computer games has
 emerged in the context of this work on Crusader Kings II and extends and complements its
 impact, forming the basis of a number of articles and a new column, which Houghton edits, on
 The Public Medievalist (www.publicmedievalist.com). The articles and column have extended
 the reach of this research allowing engagement with a typical audience of over 5,000 readers
 per article. Beyond this, Houghton organized a Twitter conference titled ‘The Middle Ages in
 Modern Games’ which reached an audience of over 22,000 people. The proceedings of this
 conference were published online, and Open Access, in September 2020.

 There is engagement in a number of areas within the Unit with archaeological work. As part of
 the close working relationship with the Romsey Test Valley project (see above 4.1.1),
 archaeological support was provided, including both GIS and survey work, which has helped to
 develop the Society’s work on charter boundaries. Weikert received internal grants of £406 for a
 geophysical survey at Faccombe Netherton and £2,105 for archaeological site visits in
 Normandy in 2018, key work underpinning her 2020 monograph.




                                                                                          Page 12
