Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leeds (UoL)

 Unit of Assessment: UOA24 Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
     1.1 Context and structure
 Our UOA24 submission includes 25.3 full time equivalent staff. Academics are mainly in the
 School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Biological Sciences (FBS) but come together with the
 School of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health (FMH) to address key health-related issues
 in the science of exercise, movement and physical activity. The close association between basic
 and clinical sciences is key to the vitality and sustainability of the Sport and Exercise Sciences
 (SES) UOA, evidenced by cross faculty publications, collaborative grants and common strategic
 goals. The interdisciplinary nature of our work ensures extensive collaboration with academics
 returned in other UOAs and university wide centres (Figure 1) and regional NHS Trusts (including
 Leeds clinical research facilities) to produce research excellence of broad relevance to human
 health and well-being, across the spectrum of exercise intolerance to enhanced performance.
 Building on the REF2014 strategy to provide sustainable delivery of high-quality translational
 research outcomes on a foundation of basic science, our strategy is to understand the
 relationships among physical activity, functional optimisation, health and predisposition to chronic
 non-communicable conditions such as obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular disease.

 Our current research strategy has reinforced our position amongst the leading SES research
 groups and educational organisations, increased research income and maintained buoyant
 recruitment of leading research-active staff through 3 research groups (Figure 1): Cardiovascular
 and Exercise Physiology (CEP), 13.5 FTE; Biomechanics and Tissue Engineering (BTE), 5.8
 FTE; Motor Control and Exercise Psychology (MCEP), 6.0 FTE. Of note, since 2014 the
 formation of BTE has increased the success of interdisciplinary research activities that link this
 UOA with other UOAs and multidisciplinary clinical and technology focussed centres that provide
 platforms for impact (Figure 1).




  Figure 1 Research groups with subgroupings, associations with other UOAs and
  Multidisciplinary Centres, supported by significant investment by UoL.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The highly collaborative, interdisciplinary nature of our research, and focus on global health
 challenges, underlies the sustainability of SES. Much of our research has translational relevance
 which extends, e.g. from drug or nutrition-based interventions, to the role of exercise and lifestyle
 changes in the maintenance of health, well-being and the treatment of disease. National and
 international collaborations contribute to high numbers of outputs, impact activities and grants.
 During the REF period, academics in UOA24 were awarded £9.7M in grants (as PIs or CoIs) and
 authored >300 research articles with over 35% in the top 10% journal percentile. Four new staff
 members secured external fellowships from UKRI, Royal Society and Marie Curie. We continue
 to invest in our research environment through improvements in infrastructure (£32.3M) to enhance
 collaborative research space and new facilities (£17.0M).

      1.2 Research and impact development strategy
 Our research reaches across the lifespan to examine the dynamic relationship between activity
 patterns, physical and mental health, predisposition to and recovery from chronic conditions and
 limitations to mobility. This requires a broad molecular-to-cell-to-systems research portfolio,
 supporting diagnostic and stratification approaches, with impacts ranging from physical capability
 (e.g. neuromuscular control) and optimal physical performance (e.g. movement efficiency) to
 improved health and well-being.

 Our aim is to enhance our world-class research activity, through strategic appointments (11),
 interdisciplinary research, national (Figure 2) and international (Figure 3) links and use of
 new technologies, such as neuromodulation and high resolution motion capture (section 3). We
 boost reach and impact through exploitation of our translational focus and interdisciplinary
 research programme. Impact is achieved via development of innovative solutions to major societal
 challenges.

 Our strategy for the future 5 years is to extend the practical application of interdisciplinary basic
 science, harnessing knowledge of physiological/psychological mechanisms to drive translational
 benefit and informing rehabilitation outcomes. Thus, the main non-academic beneficiaries are
 patient groups, healthy ageing populations, industrial partners, practitioners, professional
 services, UK and overseas governments and policy makers (section 4).

 Aligning SES research with national and international priorities
 Our responsive research groupings ensure continual alignment with global (e.g. UN sustainable
 development goal on good health and well-being) and national strategic priorities. These include
 MRC focus on resilience, repair and replacement, EPSRC aim to accelerate translation to
 healthcare applications, BHF strategy to support cardiovascular health and the BBSRC focus on
 healthy ageing. Indeed, we have demonstrated success in MRC funding of exercise interventions
 (e.g. £700K) and cardiac dysfunction in ageing and heart failure (£1.1M). Research also aligns
 with the WHO Global Action Plan on physical activity 2018-2030, which states the importance of
 regular physical activity to reduce prevalence of non-communicable diseases such as heart failure,
 stroke, diabetes and cancer.

 Our agile approach to the changing research environment is exemplified by the Culture, Health
 and Well-being Alliance recognition as best practice of the adaptation of the Dance On Partnership
 Project (Astill) for online delivery during the Covid-19 pandemic. This has recently led to further
 funding from Sport England.

 Enhancing interdisciplinary research
 Our staff engage extensively and successfully across the University, the UK and the World to
 boost outputs, enhance translational aspects of the research, and develop new technologies. For
 example, a high percentage of submitted outputs are with other Leeds UOAs (39%), other UK
 institutions (47%) or involve international co-authors (59%) and we have collaborative grants with
 other UOAs (49 %). Our research involves collaborators from 24 UK institutions and 30 countries
 (Figures 2,3). Working within multidisciplinary research centres (Figure 1), we draw together
 expertise in science, engineering, innovation and medicine to ensure translation of scientific

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 discovery into treatment. To enhance our international profile and reputation, a new Pro-Dean
 International position (initiated in 2018) engages with international partners and stakeholders.

 Investing in people
 Eleven new staff were recruited to UOA24 during the REF period, across all 3 research groups,
 enhancing research vitality and bringing new collaborative opportunities (section 2). These are
 supported by active mentoring, information exchange sessions, pump priming research funds (up
 to £100K/person) and the provision of a university funded postgraduate student. Combined with
 an initially low teaching load, this approach underpinned 20 new grants awarded to new
 appointees as PI (£3.5M). Staff are supported to succeed in their research strategy by the Director
 of Research and Innovation (DoRI) and research group leaders, who provide mentoring and
 coordinate their research environment, encouraging strategic alignment with targeted funding
 avenues. Support for impact is provided, with appropriate workload allowance and recognition of
 impact in the promotion criteria.

 Encouraging an open research environment
 Data from research are shared openly and extensively. Beyond open access (see REF5a),
 resources such as source code (which underlies the models, algorithms and/or analysis in
 publications), supplementary datasets or software developed for use by the academic community
 are made freely available online, hosted through appropriate repositories (e.g.github) and linked
 from websites. Raw data and representative images are freely available in the Research Data
 Leeds Repository, providing a unique DOI for public access included in publications or on
 laboratory webpages. Transcriptomic and proteomic data from tissue collected from patients and
 animal models of heart failure are available on ArrayExpress/EMBL-EBI database. UoL is
 committed to responsible practices in research evaluation by signing the San Francisco
 Declaration of Research Assessment (DORA).

 Embedding Impact
 Translational impact is supported through a Research and Innovation Development Manager
 (RIDM, 1.0FTE), Research Impact Officer (0.5FTE) and secretarial support (0.2FTE). Together
 with an Impact Champion embedded within UOA24, they enhance grant proposals and impact
 documents, deliver impact from fundamental research discoveries, and help develop Proof of
 Market and Proof of Concept proposals. For authors of ICSs, there is protected work time and
 funding to enable stakeholder meetings, data gathering etc. At Faculty level there is an impact
 support fund (£465k in this REF period) which includes the BBSRC Excellence with Impact runner-
 up award. MRC Confidence in Concept and Proximity to Discovery grants, administered in the
 university, have supported the creation of translational impact and academic-industry
 collaborations. The strategy has increased the translational impact of research in UOA24 and
 resulted in case studies that reach beyond health and welfare, by impacting directly on
 practitioners, policies and the public. Examples of these impacts are detailed in section 4 and our
 impact case studies (ICS) simply showcase examples across this discipline. Development of new
 interactions with companies to increase impact is supported at the University level by a
 Commercialisation team, the MTIKC and the newly completed Nexus Centre, enabling businesses
 from all sectors to connect with academics at Leeds to maximise innovation and commercial
 returns. These are already proving fruitful, with meetings between academics and SMEs leading
 to recent grant awards and applications (Astill, Birch, Deuchars,Tierney).

 Ensuring strong ethical governance
 UoL policy requires approval of all research with an ethical dimension by a University research
 ethics committee or the NHS Integrated Research Application System. This ensures compliance
 with the University’s values of academic excellence, community, integrity, inclusiveness and
 professionalism (REF5a). Local Research Ethics Committees operate under delegated authority
 to consider the likely benefits of research involving human participants or their data in relation to
 the potential risks. Research involving animals follows Home Office requirements and guidance
 and is reviewed separately by the University’s Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body that
 includes active research staff and lay members.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1.3 Research and Impact Delivered During the REF Period.

 We have 3 research groups with extensive interaction between groups to ensure high impact.

 Group 1. Cardiovascular and Exercise Physiology (CEP), 13.5FTE (new appointees in italics):
 Leader: Egginton (0.8FTE), Members: Benson, Birch, Bowen, Calaghan (0.8FTE), Colman,
 Colyer, Deuchars, Ferguson, Lancaster, Rossiter (0.2FTE), Smith, Steele, White (0.7FTE), Witte.

 Academics use an integrative bench-to-bedside approach to define the normal scope for
 cardiorespiratory and muscular function that limits exercise capacity, and understand mechanisms
 underlying disease progression and rehabilitation strategies. This involves a range of approaches
 from cellular, molecular and biochemical studies to experiments in animal models or human
 participants, underpinned by in silico models of disease. Close associations with research centres
 (MCRC) and cross faculty groups such as NeuR@L and LeedsOmics, all of which include
 clinicians, enable translational impact to be realised.

 Studies into the mechanisms of blood vessel growth use interdisciplinary approaches to
 ameliorate tissue ischaemia and reduce muscle frailty in cardiovascular diseases. Utilising cellular
 and molecular responses, new therapeutic avenues are defined, e.g. small molecule therapies,
 alongside exercise interventions in ageing and sarcopenia (Bowen), or mechanisms limiting
 skeletal muscle oxygen uptake and causing fatigue (Benson, Egginton, Rossiter). The interplay
 between vascular function, exercise, ageing and cardiovascular disease spans cellular, medical,
 and community-based activity. Exploring the potential of stem cell mobilisation and recruitment in
 promoting vascular and cardiac health (Birch, Smith), complements identified clinical imperatives
 to stratify treatment among chronic heart failure patients with co-morbidities such as diabetes
 (Witte, Bowen). The challenge of evidence-based advances in understanding aetiology and
 treatment of cardiopulmonary diseases has benefitted from coordinated small-scale experiments
 and large-scale clinical trials (Rossiter). An integrative approach addressing skeletal muscle and
 autonomic dysfunction in animal models and patients provides insight into effective interventions
 to ameliorate exercise intolerance and improve quality of life. Innovative techniques of non-
 invasive neuromodulation (Deuchars) and bespoke exercise modalities (Ferguson) have direct
 translational benefit in developing more effective patient rehabilitation strategies.

 A major strategic aim is to address the prevention and treatment of cardiac disease by focusing
 on arrhythmia mechanisms (Lancaster, Steele, White), right heart failure (White), the role of the
 beta-adrenergic signalling pathway (Steele) and the use of exercise as a rehabilitation strategy
 for skeletal muscle dysfunction developed as a comorbidity in heart failure or ageing (Calaghan).
 In parallel studies, magnetic resonance imaging in animal models of disease (Benson) and novel
 multi-scale computational models of cardiac electrophysiology (Colman) inform a more granular
 physiological understanding of cardiac and skeletal muscle, and cardiopulmonary regulation and
 dysfunction. Pathological mechanisms are identified using predominantly molecular and
 biochemical techniques, e.g. post-translational modification of key proteins and site-specific
 modifications in pathology, or use of super resolution imaging to explore intracellular signalling
 nanodomains (White, Colyer). These synergise with studies addressing changes in membrane
 structure and intracellular Ca 2+ handling in skeletal and cardiac muscle (Calaghan, Steele).

 Our future strategy will exploit fully the interface between established cardiovascular and exercise
 research activities and new areas of expertise, to identify novel opportunities for therapeutic
 intervention. Formation of specialised subgroups serve as a launch pad for the development of
 ambitious programmes of work, targeting longer, larger and multicentre research funding.

 Research and impact highlights:
    1. Improving lives of patients with chronic cardiovascular or pulmonary diseases by
       contributing to position statements and treatment guidelines (Section 4).
    2. Developing novel insights into origins and therapies for pulmonary hypertension as an
       important complication of heart failure (UOA24-224,UOA24-225,UOA24-226,UOA24-
       227).

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. First evidence that the Golgi apparatus operates as a functionally distinct Ca 2+ signalling
       organelle in adult cardiac myocytes (UOA24-505).
    4. Establishing the role of statins in skeletal muscle myopathy and possible interactions with
       exercise (UOA24-474).
    5. Evidence that high dose vitamin D3 supplementation is associated with a significant
       improvement in cardiac function in patients with chronic heart failure (UOA24-2176)
    6. A spinout company (Badrilla), producing antibodies and specialist research reagents
       (Colyer).

 Group 2. Biomechanics and Tissue Engineering (BTE), 5.8FTE: Leader, Askew. Members: Berry
 (0.8FTE), Edwards, Fermor, Tierney, Walker.
 This group has research interests ranging from fundamental science to translational medicine and
 emerging technology.

 We use integrative and comparative approaches to understand how muscles optimally deliver
 both powerful and controlled locomotion, and to identify the trade-offs underlying performance
 (Askew, Walker). Detailed computational biomechanical models allow the replacement,
 refinement and reduction of animal experiments, while facilitating targeted exercise interventions.
 State-of-the-art measurement and analytical techniques exploring one of nature’s most intractable
 biomechanical systems, the insect flight motor, will inspire development of bio-inspired micro-
 robotics and air vehicles, and aid design and control of micromechanical systems. Synchrotron
 and high-speed visual imaging, image analysis and mathematical modelling approaches are
 essential for such realistic modelling (Walker). Understanding the anatomical, physiological and
 biomechanical adaptations and constraints underpinning healthy locomotion is central to
 developing an understanding of dysfunctions occurring with age or disease. This knowledge has
 translational benefit demonstrated by understanding the impact of prosthetic limb design on
 locomotor performance. Our translational expertise in biomechanics is supported by the latest
 appointment (Tierney), who applies multibody modelling and wearable technologies to mitigate
 the impact of head trauma in contact sports.

 Academics are actively involved in iMBE - a leading global centre of excellence in biomedical
 engineering with over £30 million research funding and LBRC - an international centre of
 excellence in musculoskeletal disease research. Recent research focusses on the development
 of early intervention therapies, such as injectable peptide hydrogels and implantable acellularized
 scaffolds for musculoskeletal damage (Fermor, Edwards). Recruiting expertise in tissue
 replacement and regeneration led to elucidating the mechanisms of immunomodulation and tissue
 regeneration in acellular scaffolds for cardiovascular repair and replacement (Berry).

 Our future strategy is to integrate further our extensive expertise of biological function from cells
 to human, with our evolving technological capabilities and biomedical engineering, to develop
 solutions to hitherto intractable problems that limit healthy activity.

 Research and impact highlights:
   1. Successful commercialisation of a de-cellularisation process for porcine heart valves and
      pericardium, leading to clinical success [UOA24-2].
   2. Novel mechanisms of mosquito flight, described in Nature paper, revealed a unique pattern
      that may aid development of flying microrobots (UOA24-3747) with the impact of insect
      biomechanics research at Leeds highlighted by the BBSRC (Walker, Askew).
   3. The development of novel early-intervention regenerative therapies for cartilage repair to
      prevent or delay the onset of osteoarthritis (Fermor).
   4. The application of wearable technology and computational biomechanics led to new law
      trials and policy change for head and neck injury prevention with World Rugby and the Rugby
      Football League (Tierney).




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Group 3. Motor Control and Exercise Psychology (MCEP), 6.0 FTE: Leader, Ichiyama. Members:
 Astill, Burke, Delis, Divine, Nykjaer.
 This group focusses on maintaining healthy lifestyles, regaining exercise capacity and improving
 physical activity in clinical populations of all ages, including children, pregnant women and the
 elderly. The ultimate goal is to improve rehabilitation outcomes, maximise functional recovery, and
 increase the understanding needed to optimise employment of exercise for rehabilitation. MCEP
 uses diverse approaches to understand and develop new treatment strategies for motor
 dysfunction in spinal cord injuries, palliative care in cancer and sensory-motor function in healthy
 and clinical populations. It also explores physical activity behaviours and lifestyle during pregnancy
 and maternal health (Nykjaer). MCEP fosters extensive collaboration with the healthcare sector.
 Psychological and behavioural approaches are embedded in MCEP research, exploring the
 benefits of exercise and engagement in physical activity in a range of populations including cancer
 patients and survivors (Burke) and interaction of cognitive function with movement control in
 patients with dementia (Divine). Approaches span cellular physiology and morphology, whole
 organism behaviours, and ethnographical research. Facilities enable study of three-dimensional
 control of movement, using surface and indwelling electromyography. Central nervous system
 physiology, morphology, computational modelling and pharmacology (Astill, Ichiyama, Delis) are
 assessed in humans and animals with a range of neurological disorders.

 Our future strategy is to advance new treatment approaches for motor dysfunction in spinal cord
 injuries, palliative care in cancer and sensory-motor function in healthy and clinical populations.
 MCEP is expanding interdisciplinary research, while pursuing approaches that employ cellular
 physiology and morphology, whole organism behaviours, and ethnographical research. We make
 strides in patient centred research through work with the health care community, professionals
 and patients, garnering translational impact (Section 4).

 Research and impact highlights:
     1. Demonstrating the effects of specific rehabilitation parameters and neuromodulation in
        combination with plasticity enhancing interventions in locomotion and micturition following
        spinal cord injuries. [UOA24-1].
     2. Establishing guidelines for exercise in palliative care implemented across Sue Ryder care
        homes [UOA24-3].
 Developing a unifying model of modularity in muscle activity, which yields a compact
 representation of neuromotor signals and a reliable prediction of the task at hand (UOA24-
 3833).

 2. People
     2.1 Recruitment Strategy and Staff Development
 Our well-defined organisational structures and investment in people resulted in buoyant
 recruitment of leading research academics (Table 1). Our recruitment strategy ensured that
 research interests of appointed staff aligned within established research groups. A key aspect of
 our strategy is to exploit the interface between our established research activities and new areas
 of expertise provided by the appointees, all of whom have been recruited at the level of Early
 Career Researchers (ECRs)

 In CEP, we recruited staff with research expertise in the use of animal models of heart failure and
 skeletal muscle dysfunction (Bowen), stem cells and their role in maintenance of cardiovascular
 function (Smith) and advanced computational modelling capable of integrating data from
 subcellular compartments to the level of the intact organ and pulmonary hypertension research
 (Colman). In BTE, strategic recruitment of high quality researchers enhanced critical mass in
 biomechanics and tissue engineering, to form a new multidisciplinary research group. Targeted
 recruitment in MCEP of 3 academics added to one of few centres in the UK housing a critical mass
 of staff with interdisciplinary expertise in the psychology and neuroscience of motor control.




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Table 1 UOA24 recruitment over REF period (all ECRs)
                       CEP                  BTE                 MCEP
  Lecturer/Assistant   Bowen, Smith         Fermor (F), Tierney Delis, Divine                   (F),
  Professor (grade 8)                                           Nykjaer (F)
  UAF                  Colman               Berry (F), Edwards
                                            (F), Walker

 In 2014, the University invested £100M into the Great Minds University Academic Fellowship
 (UAF) scheme, to recruit internationally competitive future academic leaders. UAF appointments
 received a five-year tenure track contract and development scheme leading to permanent
 Associate Professorship appointment. UOA24 successfully recruited 5 UAFs, who obtained
 substantial funding since their arrival. One was recently recruited as a senior associate consultant
 at the highly regarded Mayo Clinic, USA. Their new awards averaged £630K/FTE. Crucially, these
 appointments, both lecturer and UAF level, have focussed on interdisciplinary research: Edwards
 was appointed jointly by Engineering and FBS, as part of iMBE; Berry maintains links with
 industry; Colman enhances capacity in established computational modelling and imaging
 research; Bowen has clinical links for research into exercise regimes as treatment in
 cardiorespiratory conditions. Two UAFs were externally funded research fellows who we mentored
 through the application processes and placed with senior mentors in appropriate thematic areas:
 Walker (Royal Society), Colman (MRC).

 In total, 27 staff (25.3 FTE) are returned, of whom 6 are Professors, 8 Readers/Associate
 Professors, 9 Assistant Professors and 4 UAFs. We return 39% of staff aged <40y, 32% aged 40-
 49y, 23% aged 50-59y and 6% >60y, reflecting future vitality of the UOA. Of these, 41% are female
 and 59% are male, higher than 2014 when 36% of staff were female. All aspects of EDI were
 evaluated via a Faculty and University process to ensure no one was disadvantaged with respect
 to inclusion in REF and choice of outputs. The needs of staff with respect to flexible and/or
 reduced working are constantly considered and reflected in the return of 5 staff on less than 1FTE.

 All recruited staff receive start-up funds (up to £100K) to pump prime research, provide support
 for travel and enable access to facilities. UAFs are provided with a PhD studentship, and other
 recruits were similarly supported by mechanisms, such as PhD demonstratorships (see below).
 Moreover, new lecturers and UAFs receive significant workload remission for 3 years e.g. in year
 one, teaching and administration load is ~33% of non-ECR academics. Throughout probation,
 they receive active mentorship from a senior academic staff member (separate from the probation
 advisor) and 6-monthly formal meetings with their mentor, Head of School (HoS), DoRI and
 Director of Student Education (DSE).

 To promote inclusivity during recruitment, we embed actions such as debiasing recruitment
 adverts, diversifying locations of advertising, optimizing use of professional networks and LinkedIn
 and producing short films on life as an employee at UoL. To ensure sustainability of staff and
 infrastructure, each Faculty has an academic and financial 5 year plan agreed annually with a top
 level University team. To cement our interdisciplinary approach, we recruit to enhance
 collaboration across traditional disciplinary boundaries e.g. between biology and mathematics,
 medicine, engineering or environment. The formation of the BTE group is an example of our
 success in promoting interdisciplinary research.

    2.2 Support and Development of Staff
 We develop and promote our staff, helping them achieve goals that are in line with our research
 ambitions. Post-probation, all academic staff are mentored and development facilitated in annual
 academic review meetings between individuals, HoS, DoRI and DSE. Workloads are assessed
 and redistributed as needed, allowing staff to tackle strategic or time sensitive objectives (e.g. in
 response to COVID-19). This helps staff achieve their potential by providing the opportunity for 2-
 way review of work progress, identifying key objectives, providing constructive feedback,
 recognising success, supporting improvement, identifying and planning appropriate development,
 and discussing career aspirations. The value of mentoring is reviewed each year and new mentors

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developed, both within and outside UOA24. To facilitate staff development, a wide range of
 opportunities are available centrally, through Operational Development and Professional Learning
 (OD&PL, REF5a), who run research culture cafes to promote a positive and inclusive research
 culture.

 Our success in staff development, reward of research accomplishment and external recognition is
 indicated by promotions in the REF period (1 Professorship, 3 Associate Professorships, 1
 Research Fellow to UAF). We also recognise success (not just research-related) with a financial
 incentive through the reward and recognition scheme, which is open to all stages of career and
 celebrate success in the Dean’s communication and UoL success pages.

 We are committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and
 adhere to the established University Policy on the Employment of Researchers to implement this
 approach. Our support of postdoctoral researchers (PDRAs) is enhanced by an academic
 postdoctoral champion, who also contributed to the institutional level HR Excellence award in
 2019, and a committee of PDRAs to ensure that the needs of these valued members of our
 community are fully considered. All PDRAs undertake at least 10 training days per year and
 opportunities for developing teaching supported, which has enabled interested PDRAs to obtain
 HEA Associate Fellowship. Local mentoring circles for PDRAs, aligned with 2 academic mentors
 from different backgrounds provide informal support for career development and any other advice.
 The PDRA community organises a “Coffee and Careers” series, with outside speakers talking
 about their postdoctoral careers outside academia. To foster research independence, the Dean’s
 Vacation Research Scholarships enable PDRAs to gain experience in leadership skills including
 applying for funding, advertising for and interviewing students, supervising them for 8 weeks and
 writing a final report. The UoL is also a signatory to The Technician Commitment and we have
 realigned technical structures to promote clear, transparent career pathways.

     2.3 Equality and Inclusion – Good Working Practice
 We are committed to delivering a supportive and professional working environment for all staff,
 through embedded practices supporting equality, diversity, protected characteristics, disabilities
 and flexible working. To set local policy and ensure implementation of local and University policy,
 each faculty has its own Equality and Inclusion Committee, chaired by the Dean and attended by
 Pro-Deans and HoS.
 In 2017, an Equality and Inclusion coordinator was appointed, leading developments of:
      Establishment of a FBS Well-being room
      Introduction of training sessions on Unconscious Bias and Equality for academics, PDRAs
         and PGRs
      Trans awareness training
      Campaign to represent the diversity of staff and students under the slogan FACES OF
         FBS
      LGBT Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematical (STEM) events
      Faculty Diversity Awards, funding attendance at BAME-ECR conferences for young BAME
         scientists
      Establishment of Wellbeing Works, a peer support initiative run for, and by, PhD students.

 We strongly support the development of women’s careers in STEM disciplines, recognised by
 Athena SWAN Bronze award in 2014, and elevation in 2020 to Silver award. Athena SWAN led
 the introduction of funding of PDRAs to support academics on prolonged leave (e.g. maternity
 leave), which enabled better maintenance of research output and productivity. New initiatives to
 support grant writing led to an increase in female staff contribution to successful applications (from
 16% in 2016/17 to 46% in 2018/19). Funding for leadership training for women (e.g. Aurora,
 Springboard) contributed to an increase in the % of leadership roles held by females (55% of posts
 in 2018/19 compared to 26% in 2016/17). Indeed the Executive Dean for FBS, and DoRI are
 female academics returned in UOA24.




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We will continue to review current practices annually through ‘Culture Surveys’ and focus groups
 on flexible working, mentoring, career progression and returning to work. These highlight good
 practice and provide an action plan to continue progression in equality and inclusion. We actively
 participate in workshops on flexible working to improve understanding for staff and managers.
 Speakers include academics from UOA24, who bring their experience of flexible working and offer
 mentoring to those considering part-time work. Staff with disabilities are provided with specific
 support or adaptations to enable full inclusion and monitored by Faculty Health and Safety and
 Occupational Health. An autism awareness workshop also runs regularly. Deuchars is an Equality
 and Diversity Champion and as part of this, introduced the first event for LGBTQ+ inclusivity in
 The Physiological Society. We have open Athena SWAN coffee meetings to encourage lively
 discussion of gender equality issues such as barriers to career development, ‘everyday sexism’
 and core hours. We now run an everyday sexism campaign in response to this discussion.

     2.4 Research Students
 We have a vibrant and active group of postgraduate researchers with 129 PGRs either completing
 or undergoing PhDs during the reporting period. The average number graduating per year is 86%
 higher than the last REF period. Furthermore, increasing numbers reflect recruitment of new staff
 into the supervisory pool and demonstrate upward trajectory, with 70 PGRs currently enrolled on
 postgraduate research degrees. We have more overseas (16%) and female (50%) PGRs than last
 REF period and of those graduating, 3 completed on a part-time basis. These PGRs contributed
 to over 43% of the overall eligible outputs, higher than last REF period (around 20%) and 56% of
 these had PGRs as first or last authors. PGRs have a primary supervisor responsible for direction
 of the research project and at least one co-supervisor.

 Each PGR is registered within either School of Biomedical Sciences or School of Medicine, with
 co-supervision integrated across other Faculties e.g. Engineering, Physical Sciences and
 institutes outside of Leeds. Co-supervision is further enhanced through multidisciplinary research
 centres, such as iMBE and MCRC – the interdisciplinary nature of the supervisory team is
 especially highlighted by Table 2 since 48 of the 59 people graduating had co-supervisors outside
 UOA24. In this challenging area for external studentship funding, academics benefit from 2
 internally-funded PhD demonstrator positions per year. These PGRs experience teaching and
 assessment as well as research training, enhancing their academic career prospects. We also
 participate in cross-faculty PhD initiatives such as MRC DiMeN Doctoral Training Partnership
 (DTP) with Sheffield, Newcastle and Liverpool (3 students at present), BBSRC DTP (5 students)
 or the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine (15
 students), which enables development of interdisciplinary research. These include co-supervision
 with Food Science (2 academics), Engineering (2 academics), FMH (7 academics). We also recruit
 PGRs funded on iCase studentships (Deuchars, Colyer) while a unique collaboration with
 Medtronic (Witte), the world's largest manufacturer of pacemakers, supported four PGRs, two of
 whom are allied health professionals, delivering the foundation for 3 subsequent NIHR fellowships.

 FBS established the first Graduate School on campus and initiated regulatory procedures that are
 now followed across the University. We utilise a University Code of Practice on PGR supervision.
 The Graduate School coordinates and administers all postgraduate training and supervision,
 through training plans and the GRAD system. The supervisory team includes two assessors from
 within the university who have relevant experience, meeting formally with the PGR to review
 progress at defined time points. These include: evaluation of a grant proposal or literature review
 (year 1); a transfer viva, examined by written report and viva voce (end of year 1); a draft
 manuscript (year 2); a thesis plan at the end of the penultimate year.

 Our successful PGR supervision is reflected in an overall pass rate on first submission of >98%
 (average 2017-2020). Overall submissions within four years is >78% (average 2017-20), and 8%
 of PGRs submitted after an approved hiatus for health or personal reasons. These PGRs are
 returned as having submitted within 4 years and the resulting calculation shows >82% of our PGRs
 submitted within 4 years. Our PhD graduate first destinations are principally science related, with
 >80% undertaking postdoctoral research, employed in relevant industries and the NHS or in
 science-related roles such as science admin, policy, publishing or consultancy.

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Doctoral
                 2013/ 2014/     2015/     2016/     2017/    2018/    2019/
  degrees                                                                              Total
                 14     15       16        17        18       19       20
  awarded
  UOA: UOA 24 Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism
  Professional
                                                                1                        1
  research
                                                                (0.35)                   (0.35)
  doctorates
  Other doctoral   2      4        8         10        7        12       15              58
  degrees.       (1.5)    (2.9)    (5.09)    (6.75)    (4.9)    (7.7)    (7.0)           (35.84)
                   2      4        8         10        7        13       15              59
  Total
                 (1.5)    (2.9)    (5.09)    (6.75)    (4.9)    (8.05)   (7.0)           (36.19)

  Table 2. Number of students awarded PhD or professional doctorates per year.
  Total number of people awarded degrees is given (values in brackets reflect co-supervision
  from other UOAs).

 PGRs receive at least 10 days per year of professional development training. OD&PL provide soft-
 skills training, including a broad range of workshops and events that support PGRs as they embark
 on research, and develop key skills for future careers within or outside academia. Examples
 include: project management; thesis writing; working with your supervisor; viva preparation;
 creative thinking and problem solving; effective networking. More bespoke training is also
 available, such as Leeds Omics workshops, Good Laboratory Practice. OD&PL together with the
 University Mental Health and Wellbeing service provide training sessions around resilience and
 well-being. Academics also provide training on reviewing manuscripts for both their PGRs and
 PDRAs.

 Our professional development programme is under constant review to reflect perspectives of, and
 relevance to, Research Councils and employers, resulting most recently in additional workshops
 on enterprise, public engagement with science, pathways to impact and working with industry. The
 paper and grant peer review process extends to PGRs to improve publication and external funding
 application rates. PGRs attend regular seminars across the university, with the breadth of
 seminars reflecting the interdisciplinary nature of the research. At the FBS annual symposium,
 which attracts over 250 staff and postgraduates, PGRs present a “three minute thesis” (year 1),
 posters (year 2) or talks (year 3).

 PGRs are encouraged to apply for their own grant and travel awards for national and international
 conferences, put forward for prizes and fully involved in many outreach activities (Table 3).
  Activity                    Examples

  Grants and travel awards    Research internships at Universities of Auckland (x2), Bordeaux
                              (x3), Vrijie, Dresden
                              Numerous travel awards from learned societies
  Prizes                      Many prizes for best oral communication TPS, ACSM, Romaine
                              Harvey prize for best Biomedical Sciences thesis (last 3 winners
                              from this UOA); £1000 grant at Europhysiology for a Kickstarter
                              competition
  Positions of responsibility Affiliate Trustee, Committee for Professional Opportunities for
                              Women, Central team member for the Yorkshire and Humber
                              Physical Activity Knowledge Exchange, FBS Ethics committee,
                              Engagement Excellence Fellow
  Outreach                    Discovery Zone, Pint of Science, Physiology Friday, Great
                              Yorkshire Show, Be Curious, taster lectures
 Table 3 Examples of PGR achievements

                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
     3.1 Income
 Our research benefited from 80 successful awards to academics from this UOA totalling £9.7 M
 in the REF period. Of these awards, 51% came from Research Councils (e.g. BBSRC, MRC,
 NIHR, UKRI, including those part-funded with industry), 40% from charities (e.g. BHF, ISRT,
 Wings for Life, Dunhill Medical Trust), and 5% from other sources, such as Leeds City Council,
 Sport England, Northern Ballet. Support for research grant applications and management of
 existing awards is provided through the Faculty Research Office, and the University Research and
 Innovation Service. Staff receive support to develop successful applications through local mock
 funding panels and a peer-led ECR group. Interview practice is given by local expert groups and
 by external professionals for fellowship interviews, which is especially relevant for ensuring
 inclusivity in obtaining grant income. This supportive environment has clearly enhanced
 application success, with the annual award value in the last three years averaging 75% increase
 in annual award value in the first three years of the REF period (compared to a UoL increase of
 37%) and a 51% increase in research expenditure. Furthermore, MRC funding has more than
 doubled since REF 2014. Many awards incorporated a clinical collaboration and 23% of awards
 involved research using human subjects or patient groups. Formation of a new Patient, Public
 Involvement and Engagement (PPIE) forum, where patients contribute to research direction and
 experimental design, has enhanced patient-centred research. Our 80 grants demonstrate our
 continued success in interdisciplinary research, with 49% co-funded with other UOAs, including
 collaborative grants with Arts, Humanities and Cultures. Our strength in establishing novel
 interdisciplinary biomedical and related research is further supported by The Wellcome Trust
 Institutional Strategic Support Fund.

 Funding highlights for CEP group include: 1) BHF Programme Grant (2016-2021), a 5-year
 continuation of a previous BHF Programme Grant, addressing the role of the Epac branch of the
 β-adrenergic pathway in physiological cell signalling and in pathology; 2) MRC New Investigator
 Grant to investigate signalling for muscle atrophy, mitochondrial dysfunction, and insulin
 resistance in heart failure and diabetes (Bowen); 3) BHF grant investigating factors limiting
 exercise tolerance in people with heart failure (Ferguson); 4) MRC CDA award (recently funded
 Colman) investigating remodelling of structure-function relationships underlying cardiac
 dysfunction in ageing and heart failure.

 Funding highlights for BTE group, include: 1) BBSRC grant to develop a new framework for
 computational biomechanical models and 3Rs in musculoskeletal research (Askew); 2) Royal
 Society Research Fellowship to characterise the biomechanics of the insect flight motor (Walker).

 The MCEP group has significantly increased research support from a range of funding agencies
 including: 1) International Spinal Research Trust grant on combining transcutaneous stimulation
 with functional practice to drive recovery of upper limb function in human spinal cord injury
 (Ichiyama); 2) Marie-Curie EU Fellowship on neural and behavioural mechanisms of active
 multisensory decision making (Delis); 3) Cancer Research UK grant on physical activity and
 cancer prevention (Burke); 4) Sport England grant on the development of a 'Dance Activator
 Programme' to increase physical activity levels in older women (Astill).

     3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities
 UOA24 concentrates research activities within physically-connected buildings, promoting
 collaboration by allowing research groups to share laboratory space and facilities. Our purpose-
 built laboratories are adjacent to the Leeds General Infirmary (LGI) and University Fitness, Sports
 and Wellbeing Complex providing excellent patient access and further promoting cross-faculty
 collaborations in sports and exercise focused research activities. We encourage sharing or
 donation of equipment and tissue to maximise research capabilities. The Garstang building, which
 houses the majority of our academics, is undergoing a further £32.25M refurbishment scheme to
 broaden collaborative research while facilities were boosted by £17M investment from the UoL.
 We provide ‘well found labs’ through an annual fund for maintenance and purchase of essential
 equipment, ensuring basic infrastructure and research facilities.


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Academics benefit from institutional and external investments to extend and improve our research
 facilities that facilitate collaboration. For collection of preliminary data for grant applications,
 facilities are provided to staff at no or low cost. Research facilities are managed by the Head of
 FBS Research Facilities (0.6 FTE, new position). Relevant equality and diversity issues are
 addressed for access to facilities, e.g. a recent visiting researcher with physical disabilities
 participated fully in electrophysiological experiments.

 The state-of-art communal exercise science facilities include 2 movement analysis laboratories, 3
 exercise physiology laboratories, and an environmental chamber. Equipment enables 3D motion
 analysis and eye tracking, electromyography, tissue oxygenation, blood gas, electrolyte and acid-
 base blood analysis. There is also a range of ergometry equipment including 3 Lode Excalibur
 Sport electromagnetically-braked cycle ergometers, Biodex and Lode isokinetic dynamometry
 systems, recumbent ergometry, arm cranking dynamometry and an iDXA body composition/bone
 density scanner. We have recently invested in additional specialist research laboratories including
 those for human spinal cord injury research. The facility has supported REF outputs (e.g. UOA24-
 4441,UOA24-1385,UOA24-1579,UOA24-1566,UOA24-1567,UOA24-1568)                      and      enabled
 collaborative research with GB Rowing and GB cycling. In addition, elite athletes, including
 Olympic and World Championship medallists have benefitted from performance analysis through
 this facility.

 Use of multi-species facilities for small and large animals contributes to over 30 of the returned
 outputs. It has well-equipped surgical suites, behavioural analysis rooms, Category II work and
 flexible space to meet academics’ research needs. A new wind tunnel facility enables research
 into muscle performance and fatigue to support recent grants (BBSRC). The facility now includes
 a software-driven animal locomotion analysis system for characterisation of spontaneous running
 performance in rodents (UOA24-474).

 The Integrated Bioimaging Facility provides high resolution imaging of biological samples and is
 located in a purpose-built suite. The facility comprises high-resolution microscopes including two
 LSM880 instruments with fast Airyscan technology and a Delta Vision Deconvolution system
 allowing multicolour automated imaging of live (UOA24-504) and fixed cells over extended time
 periods. Super-resolution microscopy is provided by expansion microscopy and 3D
 PALM/STORM (photoactivatable light microscopy/stochastic optical reconstruction microscopy)
 (UOA24-3234,UOA24-216). Two epi-fluorescence microscopes equipped with colour CCD
 cameras provide general fluorescence and histology imaging and an automated multicolour slide
 scanner enables high content imaging (UOA24-505,UOA24-504,UOA24-2076,UOA24-
 674,UOA24-672). Academics have also benefitted from strategic University investment (part of
 the £17M above) in the Electron Microscopy Facility from the University (UOA24-505,UOA24-
 675).

 Other new innovations include high speed camera systems for analysis of in situ muscle
 performance (UOA24-3747), EEG (UOA24-3832,UOA24-4482), transcutaneous magnetic
 stimulation, wearable technology to enable on-field data collection (Tierney) and implantable
 muscle stimulators for skeletal muscle angiotherapy (UOA24-2817).

 Since 2014, the UoL has invested >£2M alongside £1.9M from The BHF in the development of a
 new centre for translational cardiovascular imaging (UOA24-1566,UOA24-1567,UOA24-2176),
 which incorporates cutting-edge multimodality imaging platforms such as a 7 Tesla MR system, a
 PET/SPECT/CT scanner, µCT and optical imaging to enhance cardiovascular and biomedical
 research. The Clinical Research Facility is also used for measurements of human cardiovascular
 (UOA24-2179,UOA24-673,UOA24-1567,UOA24-2176) and pulmonary function (UOA24-3492).

    3.3 Support for Research and Impact
 Support for administration of research and innovation applications and awards is through the FBS
 Research and Innovation Office (6.6FTE). University research systems provide a streamlined “pre-
 application to post-publication and impact” environment, which supports all staff. The grant team
 supports costing of applications, provides advice on funders’ rules and helps navigate application

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 systems, liaising with the contracts team for collaboration and funding agreement sign off. In
 addition, they provide financial support for live awards tracking available funds, identifying
 overspends or ineligible costs, and submit financial reports to funders. Together with the
 University-level Research and Innovation Services (RIS), they also support service and
 consultancy activities. RIS provides a central research development team with a dedicated RIDM,
 who supports over-lapping activities between UOAs including visits from Research Councils,
 contracts and commercial services such as development of patents and funding of early
 translational work. Other staff (3.3FTE) provide administrative assistance and secretarial support
 to the research groups e.g. seminar programmes, internal peer review, open access, REF,
 summer research studentships. The office also advises on publication destinations, deposition of
 published manuscripts in open access repositories and ensures maximum availability and visibility
 of our outputs. We are over 90% compliant with open access.

 Three dedicated Health and Safety staff provide induction training, assistance with COSHH, etc.
 The Human Resources Office assist with staff recruitment, review and development, monitoring
 of probation etc. The University Procurement Office administers research purchasing, including
 assistance with tendering processes and acquisition of high value equipment. There is also an
 Operational Procurement team to support day-to-day acquisitions of lower value supplies and
 services. Computing software and hardware is purchased, installed and maintained by the
 University IT Service. A centrally organised team of technical assistants (6.5FTE) provide general
 research laboratory requirements and maintenance.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Despite many staff considered at early career stage, (61% of staff under 50), academics contribute
 extensively to the research base and society, reflected in the mention of all academics in this
 section. Our research involves extensive and productive collaborations across UoL for grant
 applications and research outputs. To facilitate these interactions, we organise cross-faculty
 conferences, to show-case techniques and opportunities. These lead to smaller, focussed
 meetings to build on identified strengths.

                                                  We      have     widespread     national      (24
                                                  institutions) and international (30 countries)
                                                  academic collaborations contributing to top
                                                  quality research and impact (Figures 2, 3,
                                                  Table 4). These include Zurich and Irvine (both
                                                  ISRT); Mayo Clinic and Louisville (both NIH),
                                                  Karolinska Institute (BHF) and University of Sao
                                                  Paolo (Brazilian government funded); all
                                                  contributing outputs. There are collaborative
                                                  grants with University of Auckland (White EU
                                                  Marie Curie grant), University of Montpelier
                                                  (Steele BHF programme grant), while Colman
                                                  (Barcelona Tech) is part of an international
                                                  consortium modelling calcium dynamics. Many
                                                  of these are critical for the collaboration and
                                                  impacts discussed below.

                                                  We interact with NHS Trusts across the UK and
                                                  over 25 world-wide health sector partners
                                                  including The British Menopause Society,
                                                  Wilhelmina Children’s Hospital (Utrecht), Leeds
                                                  Public Health and Age UK. We have ongoing
                                                  collaborations with NATO (Walker), The Arts
                                                  Council and Northern Ballet (Astill). We deliver
  Figure 2 Map of the UK with cities showing      bespoke packages of expertise for external
  established collaborations                      clients, including methods of inducing and

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 measuring behavioural change, technology to measure movement e.g. wireless sensors for in-
 home assessment of elderly inactivity, dietetic advice to overcome malnutrition in older adults,
 community engagement with physical activity and long-term management of projects. Burke is
 developing a physical activity information book for palliative patients.




  Figure 3 World Map showing international collaborations


 Economic, Commercial, and Organisational Collaboration and Impacts.
 We exploit our expertise and research findings by interacting with industrial partners to develop
 new products, such as innovations in treatment, ways of assessing patient or subject outcomes
 after new interventions, research tools or materials [UOA24-1-3]. Work with a number of
 companies, such as AstraZeneca, GSK, and Boerhinger Ingelheim enables studies of sponsor-
 developed investigational products and researcher developed (Rossiter) exercise based
 outcomes in COPD patients. Bowen collaborates with companies such as Myomedix (Germany)
 and Bienta, Enamine (Ukraine) related to developing drugs (small-molecule inhibitors) to prevent
 muscle wasting in health and disease. He is a member of the current Leducq Foundation
 International Network grant (US-EU, 8 groups, £5M project) to develop drugs to overcome
 myopathies. Berry is working with industrial collaborators (JenaValve Technology, USA and
 Novasterilis, USA) on biomaterials for transcatheter aortic valve replacements and supercritical
 fluid sterilisation methods.

 New collaborative ventures with an NHS-facing AI company and Seacroft Reproductive Services
 are in development, to assess the impact of engagement with mobile phone-based AI on uptake
 of exercise to enhance fertility (Birch). Tierney is working with Prevent Biometrics and Markers
 Diagnostics Ltd to develop technology for concussion prediction in contact sports. Badrilla Ltd
 (CEO Colyer) develops new imaging probes for DNA-PAINT microscopy and modelling for
 Western blot normalisation (Colman), and has licensed research tools, generating licence fee
 income. Tools are sold internationally to academic and commercial biomedical organisations,
 underpin 210 papers in REF period and generate R&D employment for 10 people

      4.1 Collaborations Leading to Impacts on Health and Welfare.
 Academics and clinical collaborations are critical to increase the impact of our work. Our research
 has driven changes in diagnoses and treatments and demonstrates health benefits of maintaining
 fitness and activity. Research findings are translated into products, guides for clinical rehabilitation
 and positive outcomes in pathological conditions or injury [UOA24-1,3]. Bowen is working with
 clinicians at LGI and UCLA to develop novel non-invasive exercise tests in humans to improve

                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 stratification of disease severity in heart failure patients. This was followed by invasive
 measurements to confirm the mechanistic basis of exercise responses amongst hundreds of heart
 failure patients. This will inform development of new guidelines for exercise testing. Edwards is
 working with NHS Blood and Transplant on the Optimising Knee Therapies project to develop new
 human tissue products for use in the UK. Rossiter contributed to the European Respiratory
 Society guidelines for using exercise as an outcome to assess treatment efficacy in patients with
 pulmonary diseases. Witte contributed to the Canadian Cardiovascular Society guidelines on
 cardiac pacing for the management of heart failure. Egginton was part of a team that informed
 management of clinical ischaemia based on models of impaired hindlimb blood flow. Bowen
 contributed to position statements for governing organisations, such as European Society of
 Cardiology, on how exercise is a beneficial treatment for human health and disease and is selected
 to join European Association of Preventive Cardiology (EAPC) committee (Secondary Prevention
 and Rehabilitation). In collaboration with the University of Glasgow, Delis is studying the neural
 basis of decision-making deficits in dyslexia. Birch worked with Leeds Community Healthcare
 Trust to assess physiological benefits of cardiac rehabilitation in patients following cardiac
 events/interventions. The findings of low dose physical activity are spearheading discussion of
 failures to implement rehabilitation prescriptions. In collaboration with Bumps and Babes in Leeds,
 Nykjaer demonstrated that 12 week community-based physical activity interventions in pregnant
 and postnatal women increased physical activity patterns and mental wellbeing. Tierney’s
 research into concussion risk factors in rugby featured heavily in pioneering legislative changes
 surrounding the tackle. He now works closely with national and international governing bodies for
 rugby league and union, providing expertise on injury biomechanics and with the Football
 Association to reduce the forces involved in football heading. He was appointed as an Expert
 Witness in Biomechanics for the legal team representing 100+ retired rugby athletes in the legal
 case against several national governing bodies

     4.2 Collaborations leading to impact on practitioners and professional services.
 Academics develop new clinical diagnostic tests, provide information for practitioners and
 establish ways to improve research models and outcomes from original research observations.
 Research regarding the impact of exercise on statin myopathy (UOA24-474) included ‘Clinical
 Competencies’, for healthcare professionals, describing how moderate exercise can be used to
 reverse detrimental effects of statins on muscle. Egginton developed a user-friendly, public
 domain series of analytical tools to assess muscle phenotype and impact of tissue oxygenation
 from biopsy samples, providing a high-throughput option permitting diagnostic investigations in
 human and animal samples. Ichiyama works with the RSPCA, researchers and veterinarians, on
 refinement of rodent models of spinal cord injury. Deuchars co-organised an international Joint
 Physiological Society/Intensive Care Society Covid-19 conference, considering lessons learned
 by clinicians and researchers.

     4.3 Collaborations leading to impacts on public policy, research environments and
         education.
 Academics provide research-based evidence for public policy and educational bodies via
 involvement in the development of training materials, expert reviews, and external advisory visits.
 Ichiyama addressed the House of Lords on the importance of spinal cord injury research in the
 UK. Astill/Burke work with Yorkshire Dance on an Arts Council funded project, looking at the
 benefits of dance for children from deprived areas in Leeds and for children and young adults in
 Leeds, Rotterdam, and Madrid. Astill actively engages with Yorkshire & Humber Physical Activity
 Knowledge Exchange. Rossiter is a member of The Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
 Biomarkers Qualification Consortium, an international industry-academic-regulatory authority-
 foundation collaboration to qualify new outcomes as targets for therapy. Bowen was involved in
 the production of European Society of Cardiology position statements on exercise training to
 prevent and treat cardiovascular diseases.

    4.4 Promotion and dissemination of research and impact
 The University Communications and Press Office achieve promotion and dissemination of
 research and impact beyond traditional academic routes. These provided widespread media
 coverage (we average 24 releases per year with several hundred international ‘hits’; Table 4).

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Academics play active role in patient, public involvement and engagement. Examples include:
 Ferguson to Heart Support Groups and targeted public engagement talks; Rossiter to numerous
 groups (e.g. PEP Pioneers) on the importance of exercise on pulmonary rehabilitation; Ichiyama
 speaking on spinal cord injury research to stakeholders including people with SCI, carers, donors,
 charities, politicians and the general public. Many academics give public lectures or exhibitions
 (Table 4). The Discovery Zone (Deuchars) has enabled over 5000 schoolchildren to experience
 hands-on scientific activities. These include healthy hearts, dangers of sedentary living and
 analysing muscle activity, staffed by PDRAs, PGRs and academics from UOA24.

     4.5 Other contributions to the discipline
 Academics contribute substantially to the wider research base (Table 4), acting as editorial board
 members or as associate editors on many journals and work as reviewers for an incredibly diverse
 range of over 70 journals. Academics also serve on grant panels such as BHF, BBSRC, NIH and
 review grants for a range of national and international funding bodies including MRC, BHF,
 BBSRC, Wellcome Trust, NSF, NIH.

 Many academics are actively involved in learned societies. Deuchars chairs Conferences
 Committee for The Physiological Society. Egginton was president of the British Microcirculation
 Society. Rossiter sits on the science policy committee for the American Physiological Society. We
 take an active role in organising workshops and conferences that enhance dissemination of our
 research and provide professional training. Bowen co-ordinated a British Council funded
 international workshop tackling world heath and humanitarian issues related to gunshot wounds
 and rehabilitation. Ferguson/Rossiter delivered a professional development workshop on
 cardiopulmonary exercise testing to over 20 International delegates. Academics are active in
 professional scientific organisations such as the International Society for Motor Control, National
 Association Sport Physical Education and BASES and maintain a wide range of knowledge
 transfer activities.

 Table 4 – contributions to the discipline


   Type of contribution           Selected Examples

   National and international BHF (White (vice-chair Fellowships committee), Calaghan,
   advisory boards            Lancaster), BBSRC (Askew)
                              Danish Council for independent research (Egginton),
                              International Spinal Research Trust (Ichiyama), NY State
                              Department of Health and Spinal Cord Injury Research
                              Program (Ichiyama), European Society of Cardiology
                              (Bowen), European Respiratory Society (Rossiter), COPD
                              Biomarker Qualification Consortium (Rossiter), International
                              Research Council on Biomechanics of Injury (Tierney),
                              National Institute of Health Research (Birch), Irish Health
                              Research Board (Berry)

   Society Trustee/Committee The Physiological Society (Egginton, Deuchars), Society for
   member                    Experimental Biology (Askew), American Physiological
                             Society (Rossiter), British Association of Sport and Exercise
                             Medicine (Egginton), Society for Qualitative Research in
                             Sport and Exercise (Burke)




                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Editorial board membership   Editorial boards: Biology Letters (Askew), Experimental
                                Physiology     (Rossiter),     Microcirculation      (Egginton),
                                Psychology of Sport and Exercise (Burke), Translational
                                Sports Medicine (Egginton), Cardiovascular Research
                                (Steele), Scientific Reports (Delis), Frontiers (Ichiyama)
                                Associate Editor: Research Quarterly for Sport and Exercise
                                (Burke), Autonomic Neuroscience: Basic and Clinical
                                (Deuchars), Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle
                                (Bowen)

   Invited speaker              Society for Experimental Biology (Egginton)
   (international)              World Congress of Biomechanics (Askew)
                                IUPS (Deuchars)
                                Spinal Research Network Meeting (Ichiyama)
                                Australian Physiological Society (White)

   Organiser of an international Europhysiology 2018 - Chair of programme committee
   conference                    (Deuchars)
                                 World Congress of Microcirculation, Vancouver (Egginton)
                                 World Congress of Biomechanics (Askew)
                                 International Brain Research Organization (Ichiyama)

   Visiting lectureship/chair   Covance (Colyer), SISSA, Italy (Ichiyama), Bordeaux
                                (White), UCLA (Rossiter), Athens (Delis)

   Prizes and esteem factors    Antarctic Service Medal of the USA (Egginton), Fellowship of
                                Physiological Society (Egginton, Rossiter), Young
                                Investigator Award, Computing in Cardiology (Colman),
                                Royal Society University Research Fellowship (Walker),
                                Fellow of ACSM (Birch, Rossiter), Chair of UK
                                Neuromodulation Network (Ichiyama)

   External examining (UG and Over 40 institutions including: UCL, Oxford, Dublin, Glasgow,
   PG)                        New Zealand, Australia, France, Denmark, Cape Town

   Promotion and                BBCTV, Sky News
   dissemination of impact      BBC World Service, Radio China
                                Discover Magazine, Science Magazine, Chemistry World
                                Guardian, Telegraph, Times, New York Times, Observer,
                                Daily Mail, MSN, Economist
                                Pint of Science, Café Scientifique, Be Curious, STEM
                                Ambassador, Physiology Friday, TEDx, School talks




                                                                                           Page 17
