Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Aberystwyth University

 Unit of Assessment: 18: Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context
 The Department of Law and Criminology is the oldest law school in Wales, with a proud tradition
 of scholarship and research that contributes to the development of the law in Wales, the UK and
 the international community, and which advances understanding of socio-legal issues in
 criminology and the wellbeing of vulnerable groups in society. The Department has undergone
 significant restructuring and changes to its staff profile in the REF 2021 assessment period as
 part of a university-wide Sustainability Implementation Plan. We have sought to use the process
 as an opportunity to maintain the fundamental importance of research in the Department, and as
 a catalyst for us to reconsider our priorities and objectives, guided by the reaffirmation of the
 centrality of research to Aberystwyth University’s (AU) mission in the University’s Research and
 Innovation Strategy, as outlined in REF5a.

 Policies and procedures in the Department have been adapted to strengthen collective and
 individual research capacity, and to align with new university initiatives described in REF5a. A
 new Head of Department was appointed in 2019; he has already made a significant contribution
 to guiding the Department, through his clear vision for its medium- to long-term development.
 This has contributed significantly to supporting and enhancing the vitality of a sympathetic and
 positive research environment, including the particular focus on encouraging and supporting
 early-career staff and a growing group of postgraduate researchers.

 The Department is committed to research of international significance which has policy and
 societal relevance and impact in Wales and beyond. Our research strategy recognises the
 particular historic and ongoing role of the University and the Department in Welsh society, and,
 as such, our responsibility to contribute to the work of Legal Wales and its development in the
 evolving context of devolution. Criminology has become a major area of teaching and research,
 building on an already substantial field of research activity in relation to Criminal Law, Criminal
 Justice, Victimology and History of Crime and the Penal System. We also host the Centre for
 Age, Gender and Social Justice (Dewis Choice), undertaking research that examines the
 welfarisation of older victim-survivors of abuse from a human rights perspective, including on
 elder abuse and domestic abuse, that has had significant societal impact.

 In order to support and sustain its research strategy, the Department’s research environment
 aims to promote and embed a vital, sustainable and strong research culture. We are nurturing
 an individual and collaborative working environment, including one-to-one research mentoring,
 and the support and development of individual and collective research output. Mentoring
 programmes are in place to support early-career researchers, and we strive to ensure equality of
 opportunity.

 Throughout this REF cycle that has seen considerable challenges to, and change in, AU, we are
 proud to have maintained our appreciation of the importance and value of our research – for our
 professional development, for the education of our students, and the benefit of the wider
 communities.

 Research and Impact Strategy
 The Department’s Research and Impact Strategy has been reinvigorated following restructuring,
 informed by the University’s Research and Innovation Strategy described in REF5a, feedback
 from REF 2014 and priorities indicated in the REF 2014 submission. The Strategy aims to:
 “support, encourage and promote as much research activity as possible that leads to outputs of
 the highest possible quality, which:



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       advances knowledge and understanding of the issues addressed, for the benefit of the
        wider community;

       increases the knowledge and expertise of the researcher;

       enables and fosters research-led teaching, for the benefit of our students;

       enhances the reputation of the Department and AU as a place that makes a valuable
        contribution to the education of its students, as well as the well-being of the wider
        community. To this end, the wider impact upon society of staff members’ research is
        significant; however, it is recognised that not all research produces readily discernible
        impact, even though it is of high quality and contributes to knowledge and understanding.
        The Department supports, and will continue to support, all legal and criminological
        research undertaken by its staff.”

 Implementing the Strategy in the assessment period has involved a number of targeted
 mechanisms designed to enhance the vitality and strengthen the sustainability of our research
 environment, including:

       Mentoring early-career and established staff on publication planning and internal peer
        review of draft manuscripts (and, occasionally, external review);

       Reintroducing a sabbatical programme, enabling research-active staff to benefit from
        dedicated time to work on significant projects and publications;

       Weekly research seminars attended by staff and postgraduate researchers, providing a
        valuable forum for testing ideas and obtaining feedback;

       Peer support and mentoring within the department for research grant applications,
        complementing support from the University’s Department of Research, Business and
        Innovation;

       Contributing to expansion of the graduate school, thus strengthening research training
        and professional development for postgraduate researchers;

       Promoting interdisciplinary research within AU and beyond, including encouragement of
        staff in interdisciplinary research projects and centres, and participation in
        interdisciplinary conferences.

 Evidence of the success of the research strategy in the assessment period includes the
 publication of 191 research outputs by staff in the Department, including 60 articles, 16 authored
 books, 52 chapters, 13 commissioned reports and 26 papers; a 165% increase in annual
 research grant income on REF 2014, including major awards from the Big Innovation Fund, UK
 Portfolio Accelerating Ideas Programme, and the Older People’s Commissioner for Wales; and a
 21% increase in the annualised rate of PhD completions on the REF 2014 period.

 Our approach to research emphasises the importance of making a positive contribution to the
 broader social, economic and political contexts in which the disciplines of Law and Criminology
 are rooted, including cross-cutting themes such as protecting vulnerable or excluded people
 both domestically and internationally. As a consequence of this deliberate approach, which
 includes a focus on working with external organisations, such as international organisations,
 public bodies and NGOs, the Department’s research output has had, and continues to have,
 significant impact on the law as well as wider society.

 Before she became the Faculty Associate Dean for Research, the Department appointed Wydall
 to the post of Impact Champion to assist colleagues, including postgraduate researchers, in


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 planning strategies for promoting their research to stakeholders and achieving impact on
 legislation, policy, society and the economy. Issues relating to impact are now co-ordinated by
 the Faculty Impact Group under Wydall’s leadership. Approaches include collaborations with
 charities, policy actors and community groups, and work in advisory roles with external
 institutions, as demonstrated by our selected impact case studies. Wydall’s research on the
 rights, wellbeing and safety of older victim-survivors of domestic violence and abuse (DVA) has
 been widely recognised, achieving impact through challenging previous responses to DVA which
 assumed gendered violence only occurs against women under 45 years old. The Dewis Choice
 initiative (1) improved access to justice and wellbeing for older victim-survivors of DVA across
 Wales, through delivering a unique, co-produced justice and welfare service, which contributed
 to safeguarding older victim-survivors; and (2) informed more effective provision and delivery of
 public services for older victim-survivors of DVA across the UK. Dewis Choice also had a
 significant impact on the provision of practitioner training and services for older victim-survivors
 of DVA UK-wide. This work continues, and should help bring about real improvements in how
 older people live.

 Piotrowicz’s work on human trafficking has been influential in shaping States’ actions to protect
 trafficked people and people at risk of being trafficked, most notably through the two periods
 (2013-20) he served as a member of GRETA (Council of Europe’s Group of Experts on Action
 against Trafficking in Human Beings), which monitors States’ compliance with their obligations to
 support human trafficking victims and to prosecute traffickers. In addition to this practical
 monitoring work, he has had particular impact in three areas: the clarification of when trafficked
 victims are entitled to refugee status or some other form of international protection; the obligation
 not to penalise trafficked people for offences they have been compelled to commit in the course,
 or as a consequence, of being trafficked; and the elucidation of the duty of States to work with
 civil society organisations in assisting trafficked people, and the scope of that duty.

 Research Structure and Management
 Developing and implementing the Research and Impact Strategy is the responsibility of the
 departmental Research Committee. The Committee has been significantly restructured in the
 assessment period to encompass a more inclusive mix of early-career, mid-career and senior
 staff, better gender balance and to be more representative of the diversity of Departmental staff.
 A core function of the Committee is the annual research meeting held between two members of
 the Committee and each staff member. The composition varies, so as to promote diversity and
 allow staff members to choose the individuals with whom they discuss their research aims and
 achievements. These meetings are supportive, being aimed at assisting staff to evaluate their
 own research, and to make realistic plans for future research activity.

 The Committee has particular regard to individual research plans, and measures progress
 against those plans. Confidence-building and positive encouragement are core aims. Failure to
 meet agreed plans is discussed with the member of staff, with a view to identifying and
 addressing any shortcomings.

 The Committee works within the framework of the Faculty of Arts and Social Science (FASS),
 which has responsibility for coordinating policies on research, supporting research development
 and capacity-building, and encouraging interdisciplinary engagement and collaboration between
 researchers in its constituent departments. The Faculty’s activities to support research and
 impact are led by Wydall as the Associate Dean, Research, Knowledge Exchange and
 Innovation. The Department is represented on the Faculty Research Committee by Piotrowicz
 (Law) and Hampson (Criminology).

 Protocols to ensure research integrity and ethical practice in research are maintained and
 administered by the University as described in REF5a. Bespoke arrangements are put in place
 for specific projects. For example the Dewis Choice project includes interviewing vulnerable
 people, some of whom are living with dementia, requiring NHS ethical approval and specific
 safeguarding protocols.


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department actively supports and practises open access publishing. In line with University
 policies detailed in REF5a, staff are required to deposit final author manuscripts of all articles on
 acceptance in the AU Research Portal, to be made available through the ‘green’ open access
 route following publisher embargoes. Funding for article processing charges for ‘gold’ open
 access publishing is available for journals covered by JISC agreements to which AU is party.

 Priorities for next REF period
 In the next REF assessment period, the Department will continue to strengthen the vitality and
 sustainability of its research activities, and work towards impact on wider society, guided by
 departmental and University research strategies. Key priorities for the early part of the period
 include:

       Increasing total research income generated by the Department, using current projects as
        springboards for further funding bids and fostering a culture of applying for external
        grants;

       Extending research activity in areas of strength, including humanitarian law and the
        protection of vulnerable people;

       Developing new areas of research activity in line with the interests and expertise of new
        members of staff;

       Multidisciplinary research, including involvement in the University The Lives We Want
        programme (of which Wydall is co-lead, mentioned in REF5a) and intensifying the work
        of existing multidisciplinary projects;

       Continuing to achieve local, national, UK and international impact through our research
        activity;

       Catalysing and participating in inter-institutional research on the law of, and justice in,
        Wales in response to the Report of the Commission on Justice in Wales.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 The strategy of the Department is to appoint individuals with excellent research records or
 potential, who can contribute to and expand our key areas of research, whilst ensuring that we
 continue to deliver required professional competences for our law degree. This approach means
 that most of our permanent academic staff are engaged in both research and teaching, enabling
 research-led teaching, but also research that is cognisant of, and responds to, the demands of
 relevant professions.

 The Department’s staff profile has changed significantly in the assessment period as a
 consequence of restructuring. This has presented an opportunity to bolster the sustainability of
 the research environment by consolidating staff expertise in core areas of research and to target
 strategic appointments. Lewis was externally recruited as Head of Department in 2019, bringing
 considerable expertise and experience in Welsh constitutional law and providing leadership for
 further development of Welsh legal studies in the Department. In the past two years, the
 Department has appointed five new members of staff who engage in research (including four
 early career researchers) and is advertising for two more research and teaching posts.

 Consequently, the Department has a sizeable cohort of early career researchers. We assume
 a special responsibility towards supporting and empowering these researchers to develop their
 research potential, in line with the University’s adoption of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers as described in REF5a.



                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A mentoring system operates during the three-year probationary period of a new research-active
 lecturer, designed around the specific profile of the individual. A three-year research strategy is
 agreed between the individual, their mentor and the University. This includes publication plans,
 attendance at, and participation in, conferences, and preparation of proposals for research
 funding. Performance is measured against this plan, and the mentor has a responsibility to
 provide on-going support and advice, and to act as a critical friend.

 Mentoring is available for all members of staff. The Department has instituted a research
 mentoring programme: staff more experienced in research act as mentors on a one-to-one
 basis with staff who want or need support to develop their research and writing skills. This
 entails regular contact with the colleague being mentored, with the aim of assisting them to
 develop their skills and confidence in finding their own voice.

 Considerable effort has been made to foster, encourage and support equality of opportunity for
 all staff in developing research leadership. In 2016, Aurora Leadership funding was provided to
 support the enhancement of research leadership by women. Three staff, all female, won Welsh
 Crucible Awards aimed at early-mid career researchers, to develop their research leadership
 potential. These initiatives are complemented by informal mentoring by Wydall.

 We have a very active research seminar series, which is central to our strategy to build
 research capacity by bringing colleagues together and facilitating constructive discussion,
 exchange of ideas and support for developing new projects. Each research-active staff member
 gives at least one seminar presentation per academic year, supplemented by invited external
 speakers. All postgraduate research students are required to attend and to present their own
 papers.

 The Department also has been running regular reading and writing groups since 2015,
 some peer-led, others led by senior staff, to encourage and assist staff in developing their
 writing and analytical skills. In 2018, we ran a writing school, a seven-week programme,
 aimed at assisting staff wishing to improve their writing skills, with a view to developing their
 research for submission for publication. The focus of these activities is and has been on
 identifying realistic targets and objectives and working towards them, while developing our
 skills as independent researchers and writers.

 Staff capacity for research has also been enhanced by reintroducing sabbatical research
 leave, as described in REF5a. Sabbatical leave is granted by a panel of the Faculty
 Research Committee (FRC Panel). Applicants must make a case, identifying intended
 outcomes, including any research funding applications. The departmental Research
 Committee offers support to staff (especially early-career researchers) in drawing up
 applications. This Committee also scrutinises applications and decides whether to support
 them. The Head of Department independently decides whether applications go forward to
 the FRC Panel. Applicants may be required to meet with the FRC Panel. In assessing
 applications, the FRC Panel may request revision. An application may be rejected if it is
 considered to lack sufficient merit, is unrealistic, or if the applicant has previously failed to deliver
 on reasonable projected outcomes. Following sabbatical leave, a written report must be
 presented to both the departmental and Faculty Research Committees. The staff member must
 also present to a staff research seminar on the research achievements of their period of leave.

 Staff are encouraged to participate in academic conferences and networks, and to explore
 opportunities for collaborative work with researchers elsewhere in the same field. Staff may
 apply for up to £800 of support annually for conference participation. It is recognised that some
 staff may benefit from participation in conferences even if they are not making a presentation, in
 particular early-career staff, and those who may be moving in a new direction.

 Postgraduate Research Students
 The Department attaches great importance to the development of its PhD community, supported
 by the activities of the University’s active Graduate School, as described in REF5a and below.

                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Currently, there are around two candidates per staff member (33 PhD students [28 FTE] were
 registered with the Department in July 2020). During the evaluation period, 22 research doctoral
 degrees were awarded compared to 13 in REF 2014, a 21% increase in the annualised rate of
 awards since REF 2014. Our postgraduate activity has been enhanced by the introduction of
 Criminology (there are now three PhD candidates in Criminology).

 Funding for PhD Studentships has come from the University itself and other sources, inter alia,
 from The Commonwealth Scholarship Commission, Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol, and foreign
 students funded by their own governments.

 The Department continues to recruit research students from around the world. Given the number
 of research-active staff, the expertise available to provide expert supervision has narrowed, and
 staff need to be flexible in assuming supervisory responsibility for new students. We take the
 view that the supervisor should have general competence and expertise to supervise a
 candidate in the field, but does not have to be an expert in the precise subject; more important is
 that the supervisor has a sympathetic understanding of the needs and experience of being a
 doctoral candidate.

 Each research student has two supervisors. The second supervisor will often be a less
 experienced colleague, who is able to develop their supervisory skills under the guidance of the
 first supervisor. All research students are monitored annually within the Department and by the
 University Graduate School. A detailed report on progress is prepared by the supervisors. The
 student has the opportunity to comment on this report before it is submitted to the departmental
 Research Committee, which reviews progress against agreed objectives, and submits its report
 to the Graduate School. The Graduate School then decides whether a first-year student can
 progress to full registration. For second- and third-year students, any concerns are identified,
 and a plan of action agreed. Progress against this plan of action is monitored by the
 departmental Research Committee, and a report made to the Graduate School. The Department
 has a programme of research training, complementing and supplementing the University’s
 programme.

 In accordance with the University’s requirements, all full-time research students take the
 required research training modules offered by the University, as appropriate to their research.
 Research postgraduates are fully integrated into the research activities and culture of the
 Department. Full-time candidates are provided with dedicated office space and computers, and
 participate in the weekly research seminars, each giving one presentation annually on their
 research topic. Through this forum, the students get the chance to further their research by
 receiving feedback and constructive advice from all staff members and other research students,
 not just their supervisors. The experience gained through participation in, and presentation at,
 the seminars contributes to the career development of the research students.

 Further, research students are actively encouraged to gain experience and exposure through
 participation in conferences; each is eligible to apply for up to £250 per annum to support this
 activity. A number of our postgraduate research students have been involved in organising
 conferences (Jurasz - Women In and At War, and workshops; Talbot – a training workshop for
 the National Citizens Service on supporting transgender youth), and may work with established
 researchers for example, Zerk’s work with Wydall, Clarke and J Williams on Access to Justice
 for Victims of Elder Abuse. This Project is an example of interdisciplinary work, involving law and
 criminology staff and postgraduates. Further opportunities for postgraduate research students
 have arisen through externally funded projects; for example, Zerk has presented at the
 International Academy for Law and Mental Health twice, and at the European Conference for
 Criminology.

 Several research training events have involved doctoral students (Talbot, Holt and Zerk) via the
 Dewis Choice research project, including travelling to undertake fieldwork and present research.
 Furthermore, Chirgwin, Zerk and Holt helped to develop and deliver the Festival of Law and
 Criminology event in January 2018, which showcased the research and other achievements of

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Department, integrating that research with film, music, poetry and discussion, and included a
 PhD question and answer session.

 The quality of our postgraduate research supervision is evidenced by the number of our
 completing PhD students appointed to academic posts during the assessment period, both at
 Aberystwyth and in other institutions, for example the London School of Economics, Swansea
 University, University of Stirling, Auckland University of Technology, Open University, Oxford
 Brookes University, University of Canterbury (New Zealand), Pedagogical University of Krakow,
 University of the West of England, University of Manchester, University of Sharjah UAE,
 Philadelphia University Jordan, HELP University Malaysia, and Masaryk University (Brno). Our
 PhD students are encouraged to publish in appropriate journals. During the REF period our PhD
 students were responsible for nearly 30 publications, including in the International Journal of
 Refugee Law, Criminology and Criminal Justice, British Journal of Social Work, and Journal of
 Adult Protection.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 The Department, in accordance with the University’s policies and practice as described in
 REF5a, is committed to building an inclusive research environment with respect to equality and
 diversity, reflected in recruitment, promotion and staff development policies; opportunities and
 support for research; research monitoring and REF selection; postgraduate recruitment and
 supervision; and impact and engagement activities. The staffing profile of the Department is
 diverse, with members from a wide range of educational backgrounds and cultures, many from
 outside the United Kingdom. There is an equal gender balance amongst the academic staff in
 the Department.

 All research-active staff have equal access to research support within the Department and
 University. This includes conference funding, sabbatical leave, access to University research
 support, specialist advice on drafting funding applications and continuing professional
 development. The length of service profile of the Department is reasonably balanced between
 early-, mid-career and senior staff. Succession planning and competence building is central to
 the sustainability of our staffing strategy. Our Research Committee, which includes a number of
 mid-career staff, reflects this. It also reflects the gender background and range of cultural
 backgrounds of our staff.

 The commitment of the Department and AU to equality and diversity is recognised by a Disability
 Confident Employer accreditation and inclusion in the Top 100 of the Stonewall Workplace
 Equality Index in 2017 and 2018 and current Stonewall Diversity Champion status. All staff are
 required to have completed Equality and Diversity Training. A number of networks promote
 equality issues and provide support for researchers, including the Women in Research Network,
 BAME Network, LGBT Network and Disability and Wellbeing Network. The Department has a
 very active Equality Champion (Talbot), who has worked closely with the University
 Communications and Equality Officer on several initiatives, including the All Our Trans
 Tomorrows conference series, which attracted notable trans activists. This project was
 shortlisted for three awards, and received national media coverage. In addition, Talbot has been
 appointed to the new post of departmental Equality Officer, focused on taking proactive
 measures on equality in the department.

 The Department currently has staff acting as mentees and mentors on the University’s female
 academic mentoring programme. Staff members also helped to implement the Women in
 Research Network, which has led to female staff members from across the institution being able
 to feed into executive level decision-making and strategy planning.

 A notable initiative that originated in the Department is the Women Doing Research Workshops
 organised within the Faculty of Arts and Social Science. These are a series of events led by
 Wydall as a confidence-building tool aimed at supporting female staff in developing their
 research, and also discussing issues of gender and career development in higher education.
 These events have been tailored to the needs of staff at all career stages, and have included

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sessions on international funding opportunities, research dissemination, the REF,
 assertiveness and confidence-building.

 Principles of equality and inclusion have been incorporated into the REF 2021 selection process,
 as outlined in the University’s Code of Practice, with all members of the REF Reading
 Committee and supplementary reviewers required to have completed unconscious bias training.
 The departmental REF Reading Committee included an independent member from a cognate
 department in FASS to monitor fair practice. Applications for output reductions for Special
 Circumstances are assessed through an anonymous process, with decisions made outside the
 Department.

 The Covid-19 pandemic towards the end of the assessment period has highlighted further
 challenges and inequalities, but has also provided opportunities for initiating new practices that
 can be adopted on a more permanent basis to increase inclusivity. These include moving the
 weekly seminar series to an online platform that had the additional benefit of enabling part-time
 research students living away from Aberystwyth to take part (all PGT and undergraduate
 students were also invited to join, enabling us to extend our inclusive research culture). We will
 continue with simultaneous online participation when in-person seminars resume.

 The Department supports a bilingual research environment, in which English and Welsh have
 equal status. Huws, Cunnington-Wynn and Lewis have all published in Welsh. Huws and Lewis
 both conduct research centred on the law relating to regional and minority languages, including
 the multidisciplinary Court Translation project led by Huws. Research through the medium of
 Welsh is further supported by Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol, which is currently funding a PhD
 and to which seven Departmental staff are affiliated. The Head of Department, who has
 considerable expertise in law and policy relating to minority languages (having served 12 years
 on the Council of Europe monitoring body for the European Charter for Regional and Minority
 Languages), is very supportive of extending the Department’s Welsh-medium research activity,
 including supporting two applications for Coleg Cymraeg funding for PhDs.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 The Department has substantially increased its external grant income, enabling it to expand
 research, as well as engagement with the wider community. Total income of £1,389,000 was
 received during the assessment period, compared with £374,954 in the REF 2014 period, an
 increase in annualised income of 165%. Annualised income per FTE increased by 246%
 compared to REF 2014, from £4,545 per FTE p.a. to £15,748 per FTE p.a. In addition, new grant
 awards obtained by researchers in the Department during the assessment period totalled
 £1,742,948. Grants and contracts have been secured from a range of sources, with notable
 awards including:

       2020-2021    ‘Creating safer spaces and building social connectivity during CV19’
        (Award £39,544: Comic Relief Emergency Covid-19 Fund)

       2020-2021    ‘Developing legal protection and social embeddedness when domestic
        abuse and dementia co-exist’ (Award £76,678: Comic Relief)

       2020-2021     Covid-19 Dewis Choice New Spaces and Networks in building the
        response to abuse (Award: £99,998: National Community Fund)

       2020-2021   ‘Investigating the safeguarding-related abuse of older people in Care
        Homes (Award: £20,779 Older People’s Commissioner Wales)

       2019-2022    Transforming the response to domestic abuse in later life (Award
        £341,437 Accelerating Ideas fund UK Portfolio)


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       2019-2021   Transforming the response to violence and abuse in Malaysian Indian
        Neighbourhoods’ (Award CIDRA)

       2019-2020    Dementia, Domestic Violence and Abuse (DVA) (Award: £69,937 Comic
        Relief Tampon Tax)

       2020      Veterans Legal Link (VLL) project (£498,392 People and Places programme,
        The National Lottery Community Fund),

       2019        VLL (£45,831.01 Royal British Legion’s External Grants programme)

       2016        VLL (£19.999 (Ministry of Defence, Armed Forces Covenant Fund)

 Smaller grants below this level have been won from both University and external funds to
 support focused research projects, to undertake scoping and pilot studies, and to support
 networking activities that might lead to future collaborations, contributing to the sustainability of
 the Department’s research environment.

 Additionally, Piotrowicz has undertaken directly funded human rights-related work for the Council
 of Europe and the European Commission that is not included in the HESA data for research
 income.

 Capacity-building for research grant capture is supported by the Department, the Faculty and the
 University’s Department of Research, Business and Innovation. The Department has developed,
 in addition to and supporting the wider institutional process, its own internal peer-review
 procedure to support individuals and groups in drafting research grant applications. These are
 supported by the regular meetings between individual researchers and the Research Committee
 (annually) to discuss research plans and to provide advice and support in relation to available
 resources. The Faculty has adopted initiatives to support research development, including
 designating Senior Research Development Leads with a remit to stimulate collaborative inter-
 disciplinary research and provide mentoring for grant applications. At university level, RBI
 maintains a Funding Opportunities database, and regularly holds workshops and information
 sessions on specific calls, and also capacity-building sessions such as research cafes, sandpits
 and a ‘Grants Factory’ workshop. Support for developing individual grant applications is provided
 by a Research Development Officer assigned to the Department, including assistance with
 costings. Targeted measures address equality and inclusion in access to research grant income,
 including Faculty Women Doing Research workshops, and for early career researchers an
 annual sandpit event to develop projects, and access to funding for small-scale and pilot
 research from ringfenced pump-priming funds.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 The infrastructure for research in Law and Criminology includes research centres established as
 focal points for work in particular specialist areas, enhancing vitality by creating clusters of
 researchers and projects and promoting sustainability by accessing small amounts of core
 funding, engaging with stakeholders and facilitating interdisciplinary collaboration. Most notably,
 the Centre for Age, Gender and Social Justice (previously the Centre for Ageing, Abuse and
 Neglect) is located in the Department, and externally funded through the Dewis Choice project
 and other grants. Directed by Wydall, it has a team of ten research and support staff currently
 working across five funded projects, and also academic associates, including from the
 Department’s Emeritus staff. Researchers in the Department also participate in other
 interdisciplinary research centres within the University, including the Centre for the Movement of
 People (CMOP), established in 2019, the Centre for Welsh Politics and Society (CWPS), formed
 in 2016, and the Centre for International Development Research at Aberystwyth, created in
 2018.

 The Department has significant library resources and excellent access to a wide range of online
 materials, benefiting from the physical and digital facilities and infrastructure to support research,

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as described in REF5a. All of the electronic resources for law and criminology can be found
 through Primo, which includes key resources such as citation databases, e-journals and e-
 books, selected websites, subject gateways, data and media resources, news, reference
 materials and library catalogues (for example, Lexis-Nexis; HeinOnline; SwetsWise). The
 Aberystwyth Research Portal is an open access repository to access AU higher degree theses
 and research. The National Library of Wales, with its extensive deposit collection and archival
 holdings, is an invaluable resource for our research community. It is also a place where research
 can be undertaken undisturbed by emails and telephones.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration
 Staff members have been actively involved in internal and external collaboration, leading to
 important contributions to knowledge and practical benefits to society (described in greater detail
 below). They include submissions to governmental commissions, media interviews, organising
 conferences with collaborators from other universities, cooperation with non-governmental
 organisations and international organisations, and also participation in advisory bodies.
 Internal collaborations include involvement in interdisciplinary research centres including the
 Centre for the Movement of People (CMOP) and the Centre for International Development
 Research at Aberystwyth (CIDRA) (for which Marais is a Steering Group member). The
 university-wide interdisciplinary gender studies research group (Aber Gender) is co-convened by
 Talbot, with several members of the Department playing an active role. It runs an annual series
 of events aimed at sharing research from a variety of disciplines and strengthening
 interdisciplinary networks for those interested in gender. One recent event addressed law and
 gender, with a number of speakers from the Department discussing aspects of law and gender
 related to their research. Staff in the Department have also contributed to developing a new
 university-supported interdisciplinary research programme The Lives We Want, as flagged in
 REF5a.

 Externally, staff members have worked with colleagues at other institutions in the UK and
 internationally. For example, Harding has been co-leader (since 2015) of an international
 research network investigating quasi-criminal enforcement mechanisms, which will result in a
 multi-authored book to be published by Hart Publishing early in 2021. He has also been a joint
 co-ordinator of two other European research networks in the field of EU Criminal Law, resulting
 in special issues of The New Journal of European Criminal Law early in 2020 and The
 Maastricht Journal of European and Comparative Law early in 2021. Marais and Piotrowicz
 participated as co-applicants in a multinational consortium for Horizon 2020 funding (2018 and
 2019). Olusanya served as a member of the Veterans and Families Institute Governance Board
 (VFIGB) at Anglia Ruskin University, and of the Governance and Steering Panel of the UK
 Veterans Research Hub (2014-17 in both cases). Wydall is a lead for the Violence Network
 within the Welsh Centre for Crime and Social Justice. The Department is heavily involved in the
 Welsh Government’s Hwb Doeth youth justice collaboration across academia, practice and
 policy. Hampson chairs the Dyfed Powys Hwb Doeth. She is participating in a collaborative
 project on prevention of youth offending with the Department of Psychology and Ceredigion
 Young Offending Team, and is involved with the Welsh Centre for Crime and Social Justice,
 having spoken at their annual conference several times.

 A number of staff have held visiting positions at other institutions, including Odello (Visiting
 Fellow, University of Cagliari (2015)) and Marais (Visiting Lecturer, Viadrina University, Frankfurt
 (Oder), and the Open University). Piotrowicz is an Adjunct Professor at the University of South
 Australia (since 2016) and a visiting lecturer at Viadrina University in Frankfurt (Oder) (since
 2001), a regular lecturer for the German Red Cross on international humanitarian law (since
 2007), and for the Humboldt University in Berlin, on human trafficking (since 2007). Piotrowicz is
 a Senior Research Associate at the Refugee Law Initiative at the School of Advanced Study,
 University of London.



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department welcomes visiting scholars from abroad, including during the REF period from
 the United States and France, making available working space, library access and technical
 support.

 Contribution to the Research Base
 Staff in the Department contribute significantly to the disciplines and research base of Law and
 Criminology, both individually and collectively. This includes supplying subject expertise and
 work which feeds into the development of academic and professional infrastructure, networking
 and significant impact activities (e.g., Piotrowicz and Wydall). Other contributions at local,
 national, UK and international level include providing expertise through refereeing and reviewing,
 guest lectures, external examining, development of collaborative projects, advising on research
 policy, as well as participation in and organising conferences and research meetings.

 The Department has continued to publish its own journal, the Cambrian Law Review. Articles are
 accepted for publication only after external anonymous review. The most recent editions
 contained articles based upon presentations made at the third Women In and At War conference
 in 2016, co-organised by Marais and Piotrowicz (vol 46), and articles derived from a conference
 on elimination of violence against women (vol 47).

 Externally, Olusanya is a member of the editorial board for Race and Justice: An International
 Journal, and for the Nigerian Yearbook of International Law (Springer); G Williams is a member
 of the editorial board for The Medical Law Review. Piotrowicz is a member of the Editorial
 Boards of the University of Wales Press International Law and the Journal of Human Trafficking,
 Enslavement and Conflict-Related Violence. He was also editor of International Focus, the
 international law section of the Australian Law Journal (1996-2018) and Book Reviews Editor of
 the International Journal of Refugee Law (2005-19) for which he is also a regular reviewer, and
 has in the last month been appointed to the editorial board. Odello is a reviewer for Cogent
 Social Sciences editorial board.

 Peer review activity, as a significant critical contribution to the standard of scholarship, is a well-
 established feature of departmental culture. This is done by a number of staff through refereeing
 journal submissions and book proposals for publishers, internal and external output reviews for
 REF, and reviews of applications for research funding. For example, Harding has acted as
 reviewer for the AHRC Peer Review College; Clarke as reviewer for the ESRC and the Ministry
 of Justice Research Consultation Group; Odello as peer review panel member of the Italian
 Ministry of Research, the National Science Centre, Poland and British Council Researcher Links
 Social Sciences Selection Panel, and as peer reviewer for the Leverhulme Trust, the Social
 Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, and Agencia Nacional de Evaluación y
 Prospectiva, Spain; and Piotrowicz as peer reviewer for the Polish National Science Centre, the
 Austrian Research Council, the Fund for Scientific Research (Belgium) and the Australian
 Research Council).

 Most research active staff who are not early-career researchers have examined PhDs during the
 census period in other UK universities and in the USA, Sweden, Belgium, Spain, South Africa,
 Ireland, Luxembourg, Finland and Australia.

 Sharing research through academic and professional conferences and meetings is an
 established part of the Department’s activity and contribution to the research base. Marais,
 Piotrowicz and Jurasz organized the Women In and At War conferences in 2014 and 2016. A
 number of staff members have been invited to present keynote addresses at conferences,
 symposia and workshops, including Wydall (keynote speaker at The Older People’s
 Commissioner Seminar series in Wales 2015 and 2017); Piotrowicz (keynote speaker at the
 Council of Baltic Sea States in 2016 and LaStrada International in 2019); and Odello (keynote
 speaker at the International Law Association UK conference, Lancaster (2016); invited expert in
 a workshop on UN military and civilian peacekeeping personnel and sexual violence at McGill
 University, Montreal (2014); and guest lecturer for the United Nations Interregional Crime and
 Justice Research Institute (UNICRI), Turin (2016)).

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The contributions of senior members of the Department to the research base in Wales and
 beyond were recognised in the election of Lewis and Piotrowicz as Fellows of the Learned
 Society of Wales in 2020; and by the award of the Audrey Jones Memorial Award for Feminist
 Scholarship to Wydall in 2016.

 Piotrowicz is engaged in mentoring early career researchers in other institutions. As a Senior
 Research Associate at the Refugee Law Initiative, University of London, he acts as mentor to an
 early career researcher working on refugee law. He is also a member of the Committee on Early
 Career Researchers of the Learned Society of Wales, which aims to foster and encourage
 research amongst early career researchers in all fields.

 Contribution to Law, Policy, Economy and Society
 The Department’s collaborations and the professional activities of its staff members further
 support its extensive and impactful contributions to the law, policy and society, in Wales, the UK
 and internationally.

 Wales
 The Department has engaged consistently with aspects of devolution in Wales, contributing oral
 expert evidence to the Silk Commission on Devolution in Wales (Huws, Sherlock, Lewis), the
 Justice Commission for Wales (Huws, Lewis), the Constitutional and Legislative Affairs
 Committee of the National Assembly for Wales (Huws, Lewis) and its Culture, Welsh Language
 and Communications Committee’s inquiry Supporting and promoting the Welsh language: An
 inquiry into the legislative, policy and wider context (Lewis); and evidence to the Joint Meeting of
 the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee of the National Assembly for Wales and the
 Welsh Affairs Committee of the House of Commons' inquiry into the Draft Wales Bill (Lewis).
 Huws and J Williams were also on panels of academic experts on the provisions of the Wales
 Act 2017, convened by the Welsh Government and the Office of the Secretary of State for
 Wales. Huws has delivered training sessions for judges of the Welsh Language Tribunal. Lewis
 is a member of the Law Commission's Welsh Advisory Committee and of the board of Legal
 Wales, is a consultant to the Wales Governance Centre's Justice and Jurisdiction in Wales
 project, and was a member of the Justice Stakeholder Group assembled by the Counsel
 General for Wales to report on Law and Justice in Wales: Some Issues for the Next Assembly.

 Olusanya is a member of the National Advice Network Wales, which advises Welsh Ministers on
 strategically developing the provision of social welfare information and advice services
 throughout Wales; he is an elected Board Member of the Ceredigion Armed Forces Community
 Covenant Strategic Board (CAFCCB) which works to support members of the Armed Forces
 Community working and residing in Ceredigion and to recognise and remember the sacrifices
 made. As Principal Investigator for the Veterans’ Legal Link project, he is involved with the West
 Wales Armed Forces and Veterans Mental Health Network which is a collaboration aimed at
 providing psychosocial support for and veterans and their families.

 Huws's courtroom interpretation project involved collaborating with a number of interpreters in
 Wales who are qualified to undertake legal interpretation, in order to learn from their insights into
 the court process.

 Lewis participated in the joint project between the Wales Governance Centre at Cardiff
 University and the Constitution Unit at UCL, which produced two papers influential in
 establishing a reserved powers model of legislative devolution for Wales (Delivering a Reserved
 Powers Model of Devolution for Wales (2015) and Challenge and Opportunity: the Draft Wales
 Bill 2015 (2016)). Hampson has worked with The Youth Justice Board, Swansea Youth
 Offending Service, and Gwynedd and Monmouth Youth Justice Service; Talbot has worked with
 the National Citizens Service Trust; Cunnington Wynn collaborated with People and Work on the
 programme Invest Local by Building Communities Trust.



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Piotrowicz is a member of the Wales Anti-Slavery Leadership Group, which coordinates
 responses to human trafficking in Wales. Marais has worked as an Appropriate Adult in the
 criminal justice system, in collaboration with police forces in mid- and north Wales.

 UK
 Members of the Centre for Age, Gender and Social Justice, led by Wydall and including Clarke
 and J Williams, have made significant contributions to law, policy and practice, especially
 concerning the abuse of vulnerable adults, including older people and care home residents. The
 Centre coordinates and hosts biannual Bystander Initiatives for all AU students, which teach
 students about domestic abuse, sexual violence and how to safeguard themselves and their
 peers whilst at university.

 In September 2018, Wydall hosted and led a four-day symposium, Older survivors of domestic
 abuse: A forgotten population, involving academics from a range of disciplines who focus on
 participatory action research methods in the field of domestic abuse and older people. Wydall is
 a member of the International Network addressing Filial Violence. She is on the board of the
 Consortium for Innovative Sexuality Studies; she is the Vice Chair on the board of Hafan Cymru,
 the national housing organisation that supports victims of domestic violence across Wales. She
 is an active member of professional bodies, providing input on her area of expertise – the
 Violence Against Women Domestic Abuse and Sexual Violence National Strategy Working
 Group and the Abuse Action Group for the Older People’s Commissioner. She was invited to
 speak at the Senedd with the Minister for Women, in 2018 and to Parliament to share her
 research at an event hosted by the All-Party Parliamentary Group for Ageing and Elderly people.
 Findings from the longitudinal research done by the Dewis Choice project highlighted
 discriminatory practices which led to the publication and dissemination of 2000 copies of
 practitioner guidance. Face-to-face training, including an LGB short film, was also delivered to
 8,046 individuals, including safeguarding practitioners, across the UK. To respond to Covid-19
 the team developed bite-size online training, completed by 383 practitioners between April and
 December 2020.

 Wydall, Freeman and Zerk, as part of the Dewis Choice project, delivered training to specialist
 domestic abuse workers on behalf of Safe Lives.

 Olusanya is a Member of the Forces in Mind Trust Research Centre Advisory Group within The
 Veterans & Families Institute for Military Social Research at Anglia Ruskin University. He
 contributes towards its primary activities which include curating the Veterans & Families
 Research Hub, providing advice and guidance to research-involved stakeholders and
 producing targeted research and related outputs.

 Piotrowicz has made submissions to UK parliamentary committees on issues related to human
 trafficking.

 International
 Piotrowicz has been engaged as a consultant, advisor and trainer on the law relating to human
 trafficking for international and other organisations, for multi-national and national audiences of
 legal and other professionals, throughout Europe and central Asia. The organisations involved
 include the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (on the duty for States to
 cooperate with civil society organisations); the European Parliament (on gender perspectives of
 the law relating to human trafficking); the International Organization for Migration (providing
 training on human trafficking for public servants in Turkmenistan and Italy - the latter annually for
 participants from around the world); UNHCR (training European border guards); the Council of
 Europe (training for prosecutors and judges on the non-prosecution of trafficked persons,
 Strasbourg and Pristina); the European Law Academy (training on human trafficking for public
 servants, in Lisbon, Trier, Riga and Thessaloniki); the International Centre for Migration Policy
 Development (training for Turkish judges and prosecutors) and the Human Rights Development
 Foundation (training for Turkish NGO workers). He has also advised law firms on legal issues
 relating to human trafficking.

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Piotrowicz was appointed for two terms to the European Commission’s Group of Experts on
 Trafficking in Human Beings (2008-15), which advised the European Commission on law and
 policy developments with regard to human trafficking. He was also twice elected (2012, 2016) to
 the Council of Europe’s Group of Experts on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings
 (GRETA). He was elected Second Vice-President by his colleagues in 2017, and First Vice-
 President in 2019. As a member of GRETA, he made monitoring visits to investigate States’
 measures and laws to protect trafficked persons, as well as law enforcement against human
 traffickers, to ten countries throughout Europe. In this capacity, he has also been the co-
 rapporteur for the GRETA reports on human trafficking in these countries, which are published in
 English and French on the Council of Europe website. Moreover, all of the country monitoring
 reports by the Council of Europe on States’ anti-human trafficking activities, policies and laws, to
 which Piotrowicz contributed substantially from 2013-20, play an influential role in affecting how
 States conduct these activities.

 Olusanya acts as lead on ‘Sentencing’ for the American Bar Association’s International
 Standards Task Force, chairing a sub-team of international experts working to create the
 sentencing section of the ABA’s resource for practitioners of international criminal law.

 Other public engagement
 In addition to these activities, the Department strongly encourages contributing to public
 discourse about and the public understanding of law and criminology. In October 2018, the
 Department hosted the annual Legal Wales conference. During the assessment period, public
 talks and events have taken place, the most recent given by the Supreme Court Judge, Lord
 David Lloyd-Jones.

 Members of the Department have used both traditional and new media outlets in order to inform
 the wider public about their research. This includes online pieces for The Conversation, and the
 blogs of other institutions, (e.g., LSE, Cardiff University’s Wales Governance Centre, Edinburgh
 University’s Centre on Constitutional Change, Research in Practice). We have also contributed
 our expertise to television and radio news and current affairs programmes, in both Welsh and
 English. Huws has given a TEDx talk on Why not follow the program? What lawyers can teach
 us about AI. Publications in traditional media include UK, Welsh and local press and magazines.




                                                                                             Page 14
