Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sussex

 Unit of Assessment: 27

 1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy

 Context and Structure

 UoA27 at Sussex is a multidisciplinary unit comprising 39.5 FTEs that includes English
 Literature, American Studies, English Language and Linguistics, and Creative Writing. All
 submitted staff are members of the School of English, until September 2020 the administrative
 home for English studies in the University. We maintain close connections with Drama,
 submitted with English in earlier research exercises, in which planned expansion now enables
 submission to UoA33 for REF2021.

 We share a commitment to active disciplinary and interdisciplinary renewal, reflected in an
 eagerness to re-imagine the scope and place of English as a creative and critical activity through
 research that extends from the Middle Ages to the contemporary. Building on our REF2014
 success has entailed ongoing recognition and support for notable constellations of strength: the
 early modern, the long nineteenth century, Modernism, the contemporary, the global dimensions
 of English language, American culture, poetics, and creative fiction. It has involved continuing
 investment in our research community: sustaining a decade-long commitment to early career
 faculty (7 early-career researcher (ECR) appointments made since 2013) and to our active
 doctoral and postdoctoral future researchers (80 current PGR students and 160 doctoral
 completions since 2013).

 Building from 2014 has also necessitated reflection: on emerging forms of cross-period and
 cross-disciplinary research that require new structures, capacities and collaborations; on social,
 cultural, and political transformations that challenge how and why we practise research; on the
 future of English studies itself, and the ‘real-world’ value of the humanities. Doing English
 involves a porosity to the world: the research that has come to fruition in this time has variously
 spoken across disciplines, including to the sciences; evolved out of public and cultural
 partnerships; and sought new audiences, open forms of access, and conversations with wider
 social purpose.

 Sussex English research is underpinned by our strategic emphasis on four connected areas:

    •   Critical and creative and thinking and practice: a belief in the social and transformative
        power of the imagination
    •   Innovation through intellectual rigour and historical acuity
    •   Endeavours to understand how English functions within and across cultures
    •   A determination to challenge, open and enrich our discipline

 In 2018 this strategic reflection was central to a faculty-led move to merge the Schools of
 English; Media, Film, and Music; History, Art History and Philosophy; and the Sussex Centre for
 Language Studies into a single School: Media, Arts and Humanities (MAH), formally established
 in September 2020. Supported by the university in the light of the Sussex 2025 strategic plan,
 this grassroots initiative has research at its heart. Linking Sussex’s recent £3.25 million
 investment in the Sussex Humanities Lab (SHL) – an engine imbricating critical humanities with
 digital technology, informatics and computation – and the £9.7 million refurbishment of the
 Attenborough Centre for the Creative Arts, this new School represents an internationally
 significant hub in which to pursue research and teaching excellence at scale, offering English
 researchers an academic and public platform for affirming the value of the humanities, and a
 collaborative environment for interdisciplinary inventiveness in scholarship, engagement, and
 impact. REF2021 marks the threshold of this new phase.



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research in English is primarily faculty-driven – characterised by what the AHRC celebrates as
 ‘investigator-led discovery research’ – sustained by a structure that ensures time to pursue
 significant research projects, space for collaboration, and support in funding, mentoring, and
 peer review. English has invested substantially in its research: over £450k of funding disbursed
 through the School Research Committee (RC) since 2014, of which £150k has been dedicated
 to impact. This investment has promoted external funding growth, from £1.26 million in 2008-13
 to £3.48 million in 2014-20. Notable successes include six AHRC awards (most substantially
 Wright’s £723k ‘Speaking Citizens’ project), eleven Leverhulme Research Fellowships, a Philip
 Leverhulme Award, and two Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fellowships. Investment has enabled the
 expansion of local, national, and international research collaborations, involving twenty-eight EU
 organisations, ten in the US, and sustained partnerships in Australia, Cameroon, and South
 Africa.

 Alongside increased grant income and external partnerships, the strategic use of research funds
 and the provision of research leave continue to nourish English’s ongoing production of field-
 leading outputs: 27 academic monographs, 4 scholarly editions, 2 substantial open access
 database archives, 106 contributions to edited collections, 135 journal articles, 4 special journal
 issues, 32 edited collections, 9 books of poetry, 2 collections of poetry in translation, 2 novels, a
 collection of short stories, a memoir, and 4 curated exhibitions (over 400 outputs in all, including
 blogs, podcasts, interviews, performances, and journalism). In this period our work has also
 been translated into more than 12 different languages, including Arabic (Royle), Chinese
 (Smith), Slovakian (Sutherland), and Turkish (Thurschwell).

 Since the University’s foundation, Sussex English has been defined by reinvention. Our
 determination to continue this process is illustrated by projects such as:

    •   Books leading new approaches to the human, such as Walter’s Middle English Mouths
        (2018), which reconfigures understandings of the mouth’s centrality to medieval thought,
        and Boxall’s The Prosthetic Imagination (2020), which reads the novel in terms of shifting
        technologies for the production of artificial life.
    •   Work that, in structure, form and content, rethinks the place of the literary in wider
        culture, such as Dimmock’s Elizabethan Globalism (2019), which brings material,
        diplomatic, art historical, and cartographical contexts to an understanding of early English
        writing and performance, and Smith’s Lewis Carroll: Photography on the Move (2015), a
        study of Carroll as writer and photographer, placing the camera at the centre of his art.
    •   New critical perspectives on nineteenth- and twentieth-century literature such as Cecire’s
        Experimental (2019), which theorises and historicises experimental writing, Solomon’s
        Lyric Pedagogy and Marxist Feminism (2019), a materialist account of poetic production
        in twentieth-century Britain, and Abberley’s English Fiction and the Evolution of
        Language, 1850-1914 (2015), an exploration of changing Victorian conceptions of
        language.
    •   Writing characterised by formal experiment: Salgado’s novel A Little Dust on the Eyes
        (2014), winner of the inaugural SI Leeds Literary Prize, which explores the trauma of the
        Sri Lankan Civil War and Boxing Day Tsunami through lyrical prose and innovative
        narrative structures (chosen alongside Okri’s The Famished Road for the EU translation
        project ‘Echoes of Realities’), and poetry such as Sutherland’s ‘prosimetrical’ Scherzos
        Benjyosos (2020) and Watts’ ecopoetical Kelptown (2020).
    •   Work on English in relation to other languages: Lauret’s Wanderwords (2014), a new
        poetics of multilingualism; Taylor’s Mock Politeness in English and Italian (2016), the first
        book concerning implicational politeness; Green’s co-authored Cameroon Pidgin English:
        A Comprehensive Grammar (2017), the first substantial linguistic description to
        showcase CPE as a fully developed language; and Murphy’s The Prodigal Tongue
        (2018), an exploration of the relationship between British and American English, which is
        the basis of one of the unit’s impact case studies.
    •   Interventions in the archive, such as Wolf, Stevens, and Crangle’s discovery and
        reframing of cultural holdings for new audiences (the basis of two further impact case
        studies); and decolonizing attention to the archival encoding of slavery and race, such as

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Wood’s comparative study The Black Butterfly: Brazilian Slavery and the Literary
        Imagination (2019).

 A crucial foundation for English’s funding, collaboration, and output success are our six research
 centres. The RC funds (£70,000 since 2014) and annually reviews them: Centres for Creative
 and Critical Thought; Early Modern and Medieval Studies; Modernist Studies; Sexual
 Dissidence; Photography and Visual Culture; American Studies; and two School-based research
 groups: Research on Language and Linguistics (ROLLS), and the Eighteenth- and Nineteenth-
 Century Studies Group. Our centres and groups generate research initiatives, impact and
 engagement, and link with institutions in the UK and internationally. All faculty, PGR students
 and postdocs belong to at least one of these groupings. Their undertakings range from quotidian
 activities – hosting speakers, screenings, reading groups – to organising major conferences
 (such as the British Association of American Studies in 2019), launching research bids (such as
 Stevens’s and Hadfield’s significantly funded AHRC bids on the Dalziels and on Nashe), and co-
 ordinating external, public-facing collaborations, such as the ‘Sussex Modernism’ exhibition
 (2017), ‘Shakespeare and Race’ at Shakespeare’s Globe (2020), and our ‘Quick Fictions’
 partnership with Myriad Publishers.

    •   The Centre for Modernist Studies (currently directed by Wolf and ECR Tyson)
        demonstrates how these groupings work in practice. Working closely with American
        Studies faculty, and connecting a range of expertise (including Boxall, Cecire, Currell,
        Crangle,Tyson, and Wolf), the Centre builds on an illustrious culture of Modernist studies
        at Sussex, with previous directors including Peter Nicholls (Henry James Professor,
        NYU) and Laura Marcus (Goldsmiths’ Professor, Oxford). The Centre’s reputation (it
        hosted the Modernist Studies Association 600+ delegate conference in 2013) has
        enabled greater reach through partnerships with NYU and the University of Chicago.
        Research students are integral to all activities, and particular success has come in
        unlocking cultural assets for new audiences: Wolf’s two substantial exhibitions emerged
        from long-gestating local connections – ‘Sussex Modernism’ (Two Temple Place,
        London, 2017) and ‘A Tale of Mother’s Bones’ (Bexhill’s De La Warr Pavilion, Camden
        Arts Centre, and Newlyn Art Gallery, 2018-19), the latter generating a conference on
        psychoanalytical, surrealist, and modernist responses to fascism. This rich vein of
        research and its wider influence forms an impact case study.

        A series of research events also demonstrate Sussex’s internationally renowned archival
        holdings in Modernism: Virginia Woolf’s Monk’s House Papers; the Leonard Woolf and
        May Sinclair Papers; a cache of Doris Lessing letters (under public embargo until 2016);
        and the Anna Mendelssohn Archive, the acquisition of which was facilitated by Crangle in
        2010, publishing the first collected edition of Mendelssohn’s poetry in 2020. Internal and
        external funding through the Sussex Modernism initiative has enabled collaborations with
        local institutions rich in Modernist holdings: Charleston House, Berwick Church, Ditchling
        Museum of Art & Craft (where Watts is Chair of Trustees), De La Warr Pavilion, Towner
        Art Gallery, Jerwood Gallery (now Hastings Contemporary), Pallant House Gallery,
        Farleys House and Gallery, and West Dean College.

 Strategic Aims for Research and Impact

 Our REF2014 entry directed English towards a number of strategic research objectives. These
 have informed the broader Sussex 2025 strategic framework which places research at the heart
 of the university’s mission and the development of the new School to sustain the vitality of our
 research culture in difficult and unpredictable global circumstances. Increasing external grant
 income and continuing investment in individual research initiatives leading to publication have
 been outlined above; the lead role English continues to play in CHASE (Consortium for the
 Humanities and the Arts in the South East) our AHRC DTP, detailed in section 3; the extensive
 development of research connections with overseas partners, outlined in section 4. Our further
 objectives are to:


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Continue investing in Early Career Researchers, with attention to the pressures of the
        research lifecycle and career development. English has sustained this commitment with
        7 ECR appointments since 2014. It is maintained once new faculty arrive by a 20%
        reduction in teaching for probationary appointments, the assignment of a senior mentor
        for support in establishing research careers, and ECR priority for internal funding and
        leave through the RC. The success of this strategy is directly reflected in published
        outputs: of the 27 monographs produced by English faculty in this period, half are first
        books.

    •   Develop the unit’s creative provision, building on strengths in contemporary poetics
        and Sussex’s distinctive combination of the critical and creative. Recruitment of poet
        Watts as Head of School (2016) and Ladkin at SL (2018) has enabled expansion. A
        focus on modernist poetics includes original attention to radical women poets: Solomon’s
        engagement with Riley, Dropkin and Brodine; Crangle’s critical work and field-
        transforming 780-page Mendelssohn edition. Faculty publish poetry prolifically in small
        press formats, as well as producing landmark volumes such as Sutherland’s Poetical
        Works 1999-2015 (2015). Sutherland’s international reputation is evident in his
        appointment as Bain-Swiggett Professor of Poetry at Princeton for 2016.

        Solomon and Sutherland have led the successful annual Sussex Poetry Festival, part
        funded by English, which has hosted over 150 poets from around the world over the last
        decade, including Leverhulme Visiting Professor and poet Marriott (UC Santa Cruz).
        English also supports the prominent ‘Hi Zero’ Brighton-based public poetry readings,
        which combine renowned poets with students just setting out. Solomon leads the ‘Race &
        Poetry & Poetics in the UK’ research network in collaboration with Ramayya (QMUL) and
        Wang (Williams College, Massachusetts); events include ‘Citizens of the Archive’ for
        schools at the South Bank Poetry Library. Watts leads a thread concerning refugees and
        migration, with her (‘standout story’ TLS) ‘The Interpreter’s Tale’, part of the Kent/GDWG
        Refugee Tales project with contemporary writers and now being adapted as an opera for
        the Citizens of the World choir. Watts’ work with the Sussex Medical School explores the
        impacts of storytelling on Nepalese migrant experiences (seed-funded with £53,000 from
        the Sussex IDCF fund), a project that contributed to Sussex’s recognition as an official
        University of Sanctuary in May 2020. English faculty have produced novels (Royle,
        Salgado), a memoir (Royle) and graphic work (Stevens) and engaged in a number of
        writing initiatives, including those with Glyndebourne and Brighton’s LGBTQ+ community.
        One shared specialism in poetics is the ‘New York School’ of poets, artists,
        choreographers and composers, which links Ladkin, Solomon and Sutherland to Kane
        (American Studies), Bailes and Stanger (Drama), and Pawlik (Art History).

    •   Engage with ‘Medical Humanities’ and its futures. From initial research and events
        that generated a special issue of Textual Practice on ‘Prosthesis in Medieval and Early
        Modern Culture’ (2016), edited by Porter, Walter and M. Healy (now emeritus, a former
        associate editor of the BMJ journal Medical Humanities), English has moved beyond
        traditional Medical Humanities to explore new cross-period and interdisciplinary
        conceptions of the imagination and human creativity. Subsequent work led by Boxall
        (alongside Haslanger and Jonik) has centred on prosthesis and the post-human;
        embodied in his Leverhulme Fellowship-funded monograph The Prosthetic Imagination
        (2020). This initiative received £10k from Sussex’s internal Annual Thematic Programme
        (ATP) fund in 2017, and traces the development of artificial life across the sciences and
        arts in the twenty-first century. Bringing together scientists, social scientists, and
        humanities scholars, it asks how redrawing relationships between real and artificial life
        transforms the ways we give discursive form to cultures and environments. 'Artificial
        Lives', a Leverhulme-funded conference held at Sussex (2017) was followed by a
        second, at University of California Riverside (2018), funded by Sussex and UCR. The
        project won $30,000 from the Huntington Library to stage a third conference there, now
        online (2021). Work with biologists is generating a further ‘knowledge frontier’ for this
        journey, ‘Thinking After Life’, in collaboration with biomedical colleagues at the Sorbonne,

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        drawing on SHL expertise to explore the transdisciplinary critical force of the imagination
        in the creation of synthetic concepts for biology. Funding bids are underway to support
        the establishment of an interdisciplinary 'Centre for the Study of Artificial Life' at Sussex.

 Other productive research initiatives – unforeseen in REF2014 – have generated new
 collaborations and possibilities for impact. They have emerged out of regular research ‘away
 day’ discussions, impact days and sandpit sessions for all research groupings. Some are
 embryonic initiatives: e.g. Adelman and Packham’s collaboration with the economic think-tank
 Green House on the genesis of modern economic thought, which prompted a conference –
 ‘Modelling Political Economy, 1750-1850’ (2016) – and an edited collection, Political Economy,
 Literature, and the Formation of Knowledge (2018). Others are more developed, such as the
 following examples:

    •   Sussex has a long-standing tradition of research in popular culture, notably initiated by
        the work of Peter Burke (at Sussex 1962-79), William Lamont (1966-1999) and Alan
        Sinfield (1965-2011), which challenges the parameters of traditional disciplines. With
        English this is manifest in a Research Companion to Popular Culture in Early Modern
        England edited by Hadfield, Dimmock and Shinn (2014), and in Stevens’ AHRC-funded
        Dalziel Project, which brought Victorian popular wood engravings out of the archive –
        rendered freely available now on the British Museum site – and into schools and popular
        fora: the basis for a REF2021 case study. O’Connell’s work on queer femininities and
        popular drag culture is emerging, while a new development focuses on popular music
        and youth culture. This began with Thurschwell’s Sussex-funded symposium on
        Quadrophenia and its Brighton contexts (2014), published as Quadrophenia and
        Mod(ern) Culture (2018). It has been sustained by her extensive writings on Bowie,
        Dylan, Mitchell and Springsteen (in, for instance, the Los Angeles Review of Books) and
        augmented by Kane’s work on poetry and punk in 1970s and 80s New York, exemplified
        in his monograph Do You Have a Band? Poetry and Punk in New York City (2017). A
        faculty cluster researching ‘Global Populism’ (outlined below) has international reach.

    •   Early Modern transformations: in 2014, in order to reflect the group’s expertise
        following the appointment of ECR Walter, the Centre for Early Modern Studies expanded
        to include Medieval Studies (CEMMS – currently directed by ECR Stenner). The Centre
        is renowned for rigorous and innovative pre-modern scholarship and this, coupled with
        an active postgraduate community, make it a rich environment for research initiatives.
        PGR-led conferences such as The Society for Renaissance Studies-funded ‘Literature
        and Philosophy 1500-1700’ (2015), and the CHASE-funded ‘Old St Paul’s and Culture’
        (2017) and ‘England’s Islamic Identity’ (2019) have been augmented with symposia on
        ‘Modified Bodies and Prosthesis’ (2014) and ‘Middle English Literary Theory’ (2016).
        Four books have appeared in recent years: from Dimmock (2019), Hadfield (2017),
        Stenner (2018), and Walter (2018). CEMMS events have also generated publications:
        Art, Literature and Religion in Early Modern Sussex (2014), The Intellectual Culture of
        the English Country House, 1500-1700 (2015), and News in Early Modern Europe
        (2018), the latter edited by PGRs Davies and Fletcher.

        CEMMS’ association with Shakespeare’s Globe (formalised in 2013) informs the
        research underpinning another of the unit’s impact case studies. This began with
        Hadfield’s work on the AHRC Nashe project (2015-20), which publicly staged a sequence
        of works through the Globe and the company Edward’s Boys. Dimmock’s collaboration
        with the Globe, with the company The Dolphin’s Back, and Anglo-Chinese company Red
        Dragonfly, resulted in his Leverhulme and HEIF-funded Elizabethan Globalism project
        (2016-20) and the creation of a new play, Ericson’s China Masques (2020). ECR Stenner
        brought further expertise, evidenced in her public collaboration with the RSC on
        Baldwin’s mid-Tudor Beware the Cat (2019-20). These initiatives led to Hadfield advising
        in the creation of opera and film work and Dimmock contributing research to productions
        at Glyndebourne, the Royal Opera House, and the RSC. Drawing on the influential
        Sussex heritage of the Subaltern Studies Collective from 1979, CEMMS performance-

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            research now focuses on questions of difference, coloniality, and the decolonising
            agenda. A major collaboration between Sussex, University of East Anglia (UEA) and the
            Globe on ‘Pre-Modern Race’ funded by Sussex and CHASE that began in late 2019 was
            moved online through 2020/21.

 Future Strategies for Research and Impact

 The 2020 creation of a School of Media, Arts and Humanities – with university funding of the
 Sussex Humanities Lab (SHL) and Attenborough Centre for Creative Arts (ACCA), including
 appointing its Artistic Director McDermott in 2016 – represents a major Sussex investment in
 Arts and Humanities research. English has led the way in demonstrating the potential of this new
 School, with Watts now Associate Dean for Research, working with a newly-appointed Research
 Manager (Fordham). Recent AHRC grants have been awarded to collaborations with History
 (Wright and Barron) and Media (Field and Highmore). MAH’s structures are designed to promote
 partnerships across disciplines and with non-HE bodies, enabling flexibility. An annual research
 budget of at least £150k with the potential for increase in line with external income growth
 (including seed funding for public engagement, impact and knowledge exchange), the provision
 of a Peer Review College, an Institute for Advanced Study and Social Engagement, and a
 distinct MAH Doctoral Hub are creating spaces to ‘reimagine interdisciplinarity’ in line with
 Sussex 2025’s strategic aims. English-specific strategies for research and impact intrinsic to
 these developments include:

    •       A ‘research commons’: to facilitate the generation of new forms of knowledge beyond
            established boundaries, to pilot collaborative exchange, open up access to research, and
            to facilitate grant capture. These spaces – including the new Institute led by a steering
            group drawn from academic as well as non-academic partners – will enable faculty to
            extend the Sussex legacy of risk-taking, interdisciplinary research, and engagement with
            technological innovation, with impact and knowledge exchange foregrounded and
            facilitated. The merger expands the SHL’s remit to support and inform this work, with
            particular emphasis on digital creativity and the creative economy, and on articulating
            cultural value (the subject of Ladkin’s Against Value, 2016) in line with the AHRC’s stated
            priorities. Our open access agenda for the dissemination of scholarship is augmented
            with MAH expansion of its dynamic digital publishing platform REFRAME.

    •       Research for all: engaging all students in English along a ‘spine’ of research practice
            from first year undergraduate to PhD, to affirm the value of English research, instil
            agency, and inculcate collaborative knowledge-production in addressing local and global
            challenges, including bringing non-HEI partners into the framing of research questions.
            This is already underway at a curricular level: and includes students engaging in ‘adopt a
            word’ linguistic investigations; examining the discourse of law courts in situ as part of
            forensic linguistics; group research to realise Tyson and Wolf’s ‘1935’ exhibition with
            curators at the De La Warr Pavilion (2018); interviewing World War Two survivors to
            explore the questions raised by ‘life-writing’. Since 2017, 24 second-year English
            students have successfully gained university Junior Research Associate (JRA) Scheme
            awards, financially supporting undergraduates to work with faculty over the summer on
            research projects. We have led in internationalising this programme: Crangle
            collaborating with University of Chicago in a research exchange of English UG students.

    •       Fostering the reach of new interdisciplinary constellations: developing research
            initiatives that demand new modes of thinking and movement across knowledge
            boundaries. This involves identifying key areas where synergies are necessary and
            opening spaces to broker them. Examples that directly address the UKRI ‘Global
            Challenges’ research strategies include:

        ▪     Thinking Ecologies. Sussex English research has found substantive common ground
              in an urgent engagement with ecology, the natural environment, and climate change
              (Abberley, Boxall, Cecire, Jonik, Ladkin, Solomon, Sutherland, Royle, Watts). This

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          shared focus, echoed across fields and periods of study in MAH, has driven
          engagements with the ‘risk’ of creative and critical thought, and the cross-disciplinary
          potential of emergent forms of collective intelligence (human, natural and technical)
          equipped for the planetary ecologies of the future. Examples include Abberley’s
          exploration of mimicry in nineteenth-century natural science, alongside his impactful
          AHRC-funded network project on nature writing, involving a national survey on the
          most popular nature book via BBC’s Springwatch; Royle’s earlier critical work on ‘veer
          ecologies’ now recognised internationally as a mode of thinking – not least by Morton
          at UC Davis, with whom he is now collaborating – and informing the experimental
          nature writing of his An English Guide to Birdwatching (2017). One strand reflects
          concerted interest in the recent ‘mycological turn’ in the ecological imagination: with
          fungi as life form and potential solution to crises in ecology and global capitalism. This
          Sussex group engages with start-ups, poetry, and policy whilst drawing on expertise in
          racial capitalism, science, and technology studies to explore the implications of this
          turn, and a potential ‘cruel mycelioptimism’ in imagining futures. They have established
          connections with the Sorbonne, and UC Santa Cruz, from which Chen was appointed
          Visiting Fellow at Sussex in 2019. Links with the Rachel Carson Centre in Munich,
          Paris-Diderot and Lille underline the potential of this constellation. Interventions are
          also local: English inaugurated ‘Critical Points Week’ across the university to gather
          specialists and external speakers in sustainability, energy, biological sciences,
          philosophy, and creative writing, to debate notions of a ‘tipping point’.

     ▪    Cultures of Populism: led by English faculty (Haynes, Masterson, Lauret), this
          research builds upon a five-year collaboration between the Universities of Sussex,
          Uppsala, and Witwatersrand (SA) called Fictions of Threat (funded by the Swedish
          STINT). Adding the Universities of Heidelberg and Miami, the new project challenges
          the discipline to address global populism through interdisciplinary perspectives. The
          thread linking the institutions involved is Americanist scholarship (Sussex Centre for
          American Studies; African Centre for the Study of the US; Heidelberg Centre for
          American Studies; Uppsala English Department) – but the project is focused on the
          political, socio-cultural, and economic relationships linking Trump to Brexit and
          European and African populisms. The group (including faculty across MAH) are
          involved in extensive stakeholder mapping to engage with public audiences and
          generate new research questions. The result will be a Centre for the Study of Global
          Populism – a virtual entity spanning institutions.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Since 2008, staffing has focused on early career appointments and development, a continuing
 commitment to outstanding research talent amongst new entrants to academia. Two external
 professorial appointments have been made in fifteen years, principally for management and
 research leadership: T Healy and Watts as Heads of School (HoS). Alongside the enhancing of
 our teaching provision, we give substantial weight to candidates whose work reflects the unit’s
 strategic research priorities. The University supports an international recruitment strategy even
 to first permanent posts. The result is a mutually nourishing balance of pedagogic freshness and
 recharged research capacity; followed by promotion through an emphasis on career
 progression.

 Recruitment is led by the HoS, with 9 appointments to English since 2014, all but two ECRs.
 Strategic development is paramount, exemplified in the appointment of Stenner, whose work on
 mid-Tudor print culture and performance bridges the medieval and the early modern whilst
 informing new CEMMS initiatives. English’s research in pre-1900 periods was augmented with
 the appointment of Abberley (nineteenth-century literature and science), and Haslanger
 (eighteenth-century cosmopolitanism) whose expertise connects productively with the work of
 Adelman, Packham and Wright, bringing new impetus to the unit’s strengths in political and

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 moral economy. The appointment of Field (Victorian visual and material cultures) augments the
 work of Smith and Stevens. Sussex’s extensive resources in the study of Modernism have been
 transformed for impact with the recruitment of Cecire (experimental American writing), Tyson
 (Modernism and its readers) and Wolf (Modernism and the visual arts). Hazenberg’s specialism
 in language variation, gender, and sexuality in world Englishes aligns with the work of Robinson
 and Taylor, but also brings new dimensions to Sussex’s Centre for the Study of Sexual
 Dissidence. Ladkin, appointed as SL from Sheffield, brings particular expertise to our growing
 critical-creative writing provision.

 Long-term investment in ECR recruitment necessitates a robust system for ‘whole career’
 development, a central research commitment of Sussex 2025. English has a strong record in
 this regard. Mentoring and probation are overseen by the HoS, with senior faculty appointed as
 responsive mentors. ECRs are prioritised in leave and funding considerations and given support
 with grant applications (a priority continued in MAH). Consequently of eight ECRs in 2014, seven
 have been promoted to Senior Lecturer in this REF period (Porter, Robinson, Solomon, Stevens,
 Taylor, Walter, Wright). Of our ECRs appointed since 2014, four have already reached SL
 (Abberley, Cecire, Field, Wolf).

 English also continues to develop the careers of established faculty, with focused leadership and
 related university training and support. Seven Readers (Adelman: an ECR in 2014, DeCaires
 Narain, Green, Haynes, Packham, Piazza, Thurschwell) and five Professors (Crangle, Kane,
 Lauret, Murphy, Salgado) have been promoted since 2014. There has been a notable movement
 of women into senior positions in the period. Sussex English has seen the retirement of senior
 faculty – Davies, DeCaires Narain, M Healy, T Healy, Bourne Taylor, and Vance – and the
 departure of others: Barnett to become Professor of Theatre at York, Newell to Professor of
 English at Yale, Rhodes to a Cambridge Fellowship, Salgado to Professor of International
 Writing at MMU and Uffmann to Düsseldorf as senior research fellow.

 Research in English is co-ordinated by the University-appointed HoS and the Director of
 Research and Knowledge Exchange (DRaKE). English devotes resource to enabling all
 research-active staff the time, space, and funds to pursue their research, and recognises the
 need for supportive grant buy-out. All faculty have annual appraisals (with the HoS) and
 research reviews (with the DRaKE) to discuss their Personal Research Plans. Faculty research
 is supported by external funding, university-wide funding initiatives, and School-specific funds,
 centred upon the Research Committee (RC) for faculty, and Research Degree Committee (RDC)
 for PGRs. Internal funding was disbursed by the School’s RC, chaired by the DRaKE (M Healy
 2014-16, Dimmock 2016-21). This committee comprised the HoS and a representative group of
 eight faculty members, including a member of the School’s Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion
 Group (Walter), speaking to a standing agenda item. Faculty are encouraged to apply to two
 annual funding schemes. The first funds individual research projects (developing initial research
 networks; attendance at conferences; archival trips; translation costs). The second, generated
 from the University’s HEIF allocation, supports impact and knowledge exchange (£25k to
 English yearly, now £120k for MAH). Both are supplemented by university-wide funding streams
 in which English faculty have been successful (with £131,446 awarded). English has maintained
 a generous research leave scheme (continued in MAH), in which each FTE is eligible for leave
 every three academic cycles (six semesters or nine terms) of service: applications are evaluated
 and recommended by the RC, which awarded fifty-two semesters of School-funded leave in this
 REF period. Postdoctoral researchers and those on Education and Scholarship contracts can
 request mentoring and funds for research support in a policy that enables career flexibility and
 progression, and embodies the unit’s inclusive ethos.

 The RC works in close concert with Sussex’s Research and Enterprise Office. A dedicated
 Research Development Officer (RDO), currently Bowyer, advises on funder opportunities and
 bid development. The RDO attends the RC and meets the DRaKE monthly; a new Peer Review
 College, research bid support and approval systems in MAH have been developed in close
 consultation with her. The School has a dedicated Media Relations Manager (MRM), currently
 Allen, who meets faculty regularly to publicise their research. Alongside RC-organised ‘Impact

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Days’, the RDO and the MRM organise a series of research-related events throughout the year:
 coffee mornings and sandpit sessions to respond to external funding initiatives, detailed IT and
 tech support, media-relations, and the management and costing of large bids. The RDO also
 works individually with faculty to develop and submit external funding bids. English holds annual
 research away days to explore collaborative opportunities, and enable participation in the unit’s
 research culture and its development; internal subject areas (American Studies, Language and
 Linguistics) also run their own field-specific research days.

 Research Students

 English maintains a thriving community of research students (160 doctorates awarded since late
 2013; an annual average of around 23). Approximately a quarter have been funded by the
 AHRC. The School has also been highly successful in attracting talented overseas researchers
 through Sussex’s Chancellor’s International Scholarship scheme, the China Scholarship Council
 Scheme, and other agencies. The research undertaken by this diverse cohort stretches from
 critical investigations into literature from the late medieval to the contemporary and archival
 exploration (including using the Mendelssohn and Mass Observation archives), to linguistic
 ethnography, creative writing and poetics, and intellectual history. They are at the dynamic heart
 of Sussex English research, running the English Graduate Symposium (EGS), active reading
 groups, and participating in our English Colloquium and ROLLS talks series.

 English retains a prominent role in CHASE, led by Sussex, which enables the continuing
 recruitment of high-quality research students. This multi-disciplinary collaboration between
 Sussex, The Courtauld Institute, Open University (OU), Birkbeck, Goldsmiths, School of Oriental
 and African Studies (SOAS), UEA, Essex and Kent, was initially awarded AHRC DTP status in
 2013, in a process led by English faculty: Lebeau (first Director of CHASE, then head of the
 Sussex Doctoral School) with Lauret (Academic Lead). DTP status was reaffirmed for a further
 five years in the second round in 2018 under Director DeCaires Narain (now Emeritus). The
 CHASE Director is currently Lacey (MAH, Media), with Haynes as Academic Lead. Since 2014
 Sussex English has welcomed 37 fully-funded CHASE research students, and will offer such
 studentships to UK and EU PGRs until at least 2024, maintaining our commitment to developing
 future generations of research excellence. The collaborative, cross-disciplinary ethos of CHASE
 is embedded in English through regular training and networking events available to all PGRs.

 The quality of postgraduate research is reflected in the outputs our graduates produce, and in
 the recognition they achieve. Since 2014, 33 have been appointed to academic posts at the
 Universities of Brighton, Cambridge, Coventry, Exeter, Lincoln, London, Northumbria, Oxford,
 SOAS, Surrey, Sussex, York St John, and to institutions in the British Virgin Islands, China,
 Holland, India, Japan, Norway, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, and USA. In the same period
 former English PGRs and graduates have collectively produced ten academic monographs, fifty-
 six peer-reviewed articles or book chapters, 3 books of poetry, and five published novels. Recent
 academic prizes include the 2017 British Association of American Studies Postgraduate Essay
 Award, the winner and runner-up of the 2018 British Association of Modernist Studies essay
 prize, and a 2017 Literary Encyclopaedia Travel Award. One prominent example of such
 success is poet Richard Georges, who completed a creative and critical doctorate at Sussex in
 2017. Now Poet Laureate of the British Virgin Islands, Georges won the 2020 OCM Bocas Prize
 for Caribbean Literature for his collection Epiphaneia (2019).

 English’s recruitment of doctoral students is managed by the Director of Doctoral Studies and
 the Research Degree Committee (RDC). The Director functions as the contact point for all
 PGRs, also reporting to Sussex’s Doctoral School. Selection of applicants is based on well-
 established norms – a proposal, writing samples, appropriate qualifications, and interview. Non-
 native speakers require a minimum IELTS 7 score in all categories. Through attentive
 monitoring, the RDC ensures that equal opportunities are observed in the recruitment, selection
 and award of studentships. To bolster student support and train new faculty as supervisors, the
 School provides co-supervisory ‘teams’ for each student (often at a 70/30% split). Training
 courses for supervisors are run by the Doctoral School and include up-to-date mental health

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 training in line with an institution-wide focus on PGR wellbeing. The RDC oversees adherence to
 University policies on supervisor training, supervision frequency and maintenance of supervision
 records. Each student has a formal annual appraisal and takes part in annual ‘supervisory
 reviews’ to support student-supervisor relationships. Areas of concern raised at appraisal are
 acted on by the RDC’s Director and, in the rare circumstances when warranted, by the HoS.

 PGR professional development and other training needs are met by an array of resources. The
 Doctoral School programmes research skills, teaching and career development training, such as
 the recent ‘Adapting to Change’ series with PGRs and supervisors, managing the impact of
 Covid-19. It administers funds for research students’ overseas conference attendance and
 outreach. The English School RDC maintained an annual sum (£15k annually from 2014-20) to
 fund further research needs (language instruction, palaeographic training, archival visits), with
 an alumni-funded Travel Award enabling students to conduct international research. The English
 Lecturer Training Programme (ELTP) for PGRs to gain teaching experience (required for
 undergraduate teaching) has now been adopted across MAH and the wider university as a
 model of its kind. Run by faculty, ELTP matches fortnightly formal sessions – running seminars,
 giving lectures, marking – with a mentoring programme in which students shadow modules
 convened by experienced faculty members. Most students complement ELTP with the central
 University ‘Starting to Teach’ course, which can lead to HEA accreditation. English has had
 regular successes in bids to the CHASE Cohort Development Fund to host events open to
 PGRs across the consortium. Doctoral students have organised methodologically-focused
 workshops (e.g. in Linguistics or Victorian visual culture), professional development events (on
 widening participation, publishing, and public engagement), and multidisciplinary research
 events (‘Aesthetics in the Anthropocene’ in 2018). English’s PGRs also participate in events at
 other CHASE institutions. These engagements enrich students’ own research, while also
 fostering their ability to share skills and knowledge successfully across disciplines.

 Doctoral research in English is international in its reach. Our PGRs have held fellowships at
 prestigious research institutes including Harvard’s Centre for the Environment, the Ukrainian
 cultural foundation Izolyatsia, the Rachel Carson Centre for Environmental Humanities in
 Munich, and the Institute of World Literature in Tokyo. Students have also won placements with
 Wasafiri, the Journal of International Contemporary Writing, and with museums and libraries in
 Europe and the US. Internationally oriented postgraduate research events include the 2014
 ‘Found in Translation’ conference, held at the ICA and involving all CHASE affiliated universities,
 and the annual ‘African Popular Cultures’ workshops held at Sussex by the Sussex Africa
 Centre. Internationalism is fostered by structures that have been extended within MAH, including
 facilities such as the School’s International Students’ Forum.

 English’s PGRs frequently engage with communities beyond the academy: a partnership with
 the NHS to implement ‘narrative medicine’, using creative writing and reading as therapy for
 health conditions (attracting media attention from the Huffington Post); the creation of ‘The Same
 Page’ arts initiative, operating in Delhi and Brighton to foster arts access through debate and
 experiential workshops; the hosting of free public reading groups at the Camden Arts Centre on
 modernist writing. Emerging entrepreneurial initiatives founded in English knowledge exchange
 are supported by Sussex’s Business and Innovation unit. Doctoral researchers have access to
 drop-in sessions with the Media Relations Manager to foster communication of these activities
 beyond the academy. In addition to a high frequency of academic appointments, recent
 graduates have accepted positions in the House of Commons, Civil Service, and a variety of
 broadcasting, media, and publishing organisations. They have held roles such as speech-writer
 to the Mayor of London, and founder of tech-start-up ‘Write Now’, which teaches accurate written
 expression through online games. Recognition of our PGRs’ impact outside of the academy
 includes the BBC 2015 Audio Award for Best Adaptation for the radio play Come to Grief, and
 the prestigious Marvin E Williams Literary Prize in 2016.

 Equality and Diversity



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The 2018 ‘Inclusive Sussex’ strategy establishes fundamental commitments to equality,
 diversity, accessibility and ‘flexible working by default’; supported by networks for BAME staff,
 LGBTQ+ staff, Trans, and non-binary staff, and those with disabilities. It was informed by a
 major CHUCL (Changing University Cultures) survey of institutional culture at Sussex, now
 captured in plans for Sussex 2025 with an undertaking to foster an open, transparent culture.
 The university’s charter work, along with its institutional Athena Swan Bronze, has established a
 framework for that inclusive journey. Sussex English is fully committed to these values, and to
 the continual reflexiveness they demand. We also recognise with UKRI that the ‘whole
 workforce’ contributes to research and innovation.

 Our Equalities, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI) Group (chaired by Lauret) is now subsumed into
 the larger EDI Group in MAH, which draws on best practice across the School. As English EDI
 Lead Lauret worked closely with the Deputy Pro-Vice-Chancellor (DPVC) Equalities and
 Diversity, and sat on the Sussex Diversity Forum, linking institution-wide and unit-specific
 initiatives, promoting EDI training, and offering individual support. She now joins MAH’s EDI
 committee, which has shaped the core values of the combined School from the outset, including
 a Race Equality Director (Rashid), and two Race Equality deputies. EDI representation on the
 English RC and REF Strategy Group ensured transparency of practice; correspondingly both
 EDI Chair and Racial Equality Director are on the MAH RC. Terms of reference governing the
 RC disbursement of funding and research leave, which require the privileging of ECRs, are also
 carried forward. Awards records are EDI-audited in accordance with the institution’s
 responsibilities as outlined in Sussex’s REF2021: Code of Practice.

 As a unit English aims to implement the requirements of inclusivity, understanding the depth of
 work over time that it requires. Progress has been made on addressing historic imbalances in
 gender equality, on working conditions, and on access. This has included representation of staff
 at all career stages, ECR recruitment, probation and promotion mentoring, and audit. Initial
 review of sector best practice around maternity return, for example, is now referred by MAH RC
 for wider EDI consultation. The adoption of a university-wide transparent workload model is
 currently underway. Recognition of the gendering of administrative and emotional labour in
 working practices informs promotional weighing of research profiles. Although Covid-19 has
 delayed English’s final submission for the Athena Swan bronze award, the rigorous AS process
 of survey and consultation has been revealing. English’s 39.5 FTEs comprise 16 male and 23.5
 female faculty members. In this REF cycle recruitment, promotion, and leave allocation have
 achieved a better gender balance: the RC has awarded 52 terms of research leave; 20 terms to
 male faculty and 32 terms to women. Of 14 faculty at SL, 9 are women (8 promoted since 2016);
 the professoriate is now almost equally balanced, with four women professors appointed
 internally since 2015 across the constituent areas of Sussex English.

 Progress is nonetheless slow in key metrics. Although the student body at all levels has
 diversified, faculty diversity is an issue, with 5.1% declaring as BAME. The MAH-wide operation
 of Racial Equality leads, with university work towards the Race Equality Charter, will provide
 support for long-overdue change here. Faculty participation in a decolonizing agenda co-created
 with students has transformed English curricula and research and is ongoing.

 English features the majority of characteristics protected by the Equalities Act, and is seeking
 ways of improving the working environment for all staff and students. Faculty come from a wide
 geographical and socio-economic range, and a substantial proportion (including a third of
 professors) are first-generation scholars; many have pre-school-age children (represented in the
 unit’s Working Carers’ Group); others face mental and physical health challenges. English
 ensures that reasonable adjustments and flexible working conditions facilitate an inclusive
 workspace. We are working to eliminate the gender pay gap, and pay all visa and related
 expenses for international staff whilst supporting them through the application and relocation
 process. The School has embedded an ethos of mutual toleration, and there is no acceptance of
 discrimination or bullying. A shared communications charter ensures that faculty and students
 interact with respect, particularly online. Our protocol for teaching material containing racist
 language has informed wider EDI debate in MAH.

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Our REF processes adhere to the university’s REF2021: Code of Practice which ensures fair
 and transparent REF preparation. DRaKE Dimmock sits on the University REF2021 Steering
 Group, and has played a key role in University-wide preparation. We have prepared for REF in
 the spirit of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment, with research considered
 on its merit and given time to come to fruition. EDI informs the reflexivity of our ethical research
 practice and open access agenda: Green’s major online database for Cameroon Pidgin English,
 for example, is a research resource from a language spoken in the global south that is
 accessible to all. All faculty with responsibilities for research have EDI training, and our return
 has been subject to an EDI audit. Impact case studies were selected through a transparent
 school-led process and all publications have been assessed by internal and external assessors.
 REF reports and strategy have been a regular item at School meetings, and faculty discussed
 REF criteria with the DRaKE. Faculty can choose to know the assessment feedback of their
 work, and request further assessment if it seems unfair. The provisional scoring of work has
 remained confidential to the author (if they so choose), the Head of School (HOS), the DRaKE
 as UoA Lead, and the university REF team, with the contextual nature of judgements
 emphasised throughout. Drama’s planned return to UoA33 was managed with full and open
 consultation of the Drama team.

 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 In this REF period faculty in English were awarded a total of £3,482,000 of which £3,357,000
 comprises external funding and £125,000 internal awards. This is a near-threefold increase from
 the £1,155,198 external grant income for Sussex English reported in REF2014.

 External awards in the period include Newell’s €2.3 million ERC grant on ‘The Cultural Politics
 of Dirt in Africa, 1880-present’. Newell left Sussex for Yale in 2014, and ERC regulations
 required the grant’s early termination. The further almost £2 million we have gained since 2014
 includes three successful AHRC awards of scale: Wright’s PI role on the £723k ‘Speaking
 Citizens’ project in collaboration with the Universities of Oxford, Leeds, King’s College London
 (KCL), and Middlesex, which seeks to influence government policy (www.speakingcitizens.org);
 Hadfield’s Co-I role on the £907k ‘Thomas Nashe Project’ (2015-20), in collaboration with PI
 Richards (Newcastle), producing a new OUP Collected Works of this major early modern writer
 (research.ncl.ac.uk/thethomasnasheproject); and Robinson’s Co-I position on the £1 million
 AHRC ‘Linguistic DNA of Modern Western Thinking’ (2015-18) in collaboration with Fitzmaurice
 and Pidd (Sheffield) and Alexander (Glasgow), which mapped the linguistic and conceptual
 changes which characterise and inaugurated modernity (www.linguisticdna.org). Further AHRC
 awards for individual projects include Stevens’ ‘Wood Engraving and the Future of Word-Image
 Narratives: The Dalziel Family 1839-93’ (£149,998).

 Leverhulme success in the period brought scholarship to fruition, with the award of eleven
 fellowships exemplified by Boxall’s ‘The Prosthetic Imagination’, and supported its emergence,
 such as Lebeau’s ‘Feeling Poor: Psychoanalysis and the Humanities’. Abberley’s distinguished
 Philip Leverhulme prize award on ‘Science and Emotion in Anglophone Natural History Writing
 1839-1919’ (£100k) was augmented with an Early-Career Fellowship on nature mimicry
 (£29,740), and an AHRC award for his ‘Land Lines: Modern British Nature Writing (1749-2014)’
 (£22,894): a constellation richly focused on the historicizing of environmental discourse, nature
 writing and politics.

 All areas and period groupings in English have secured external funding in the period, from
 Language and Linguistics, where Murphy was awarded two prestigious National Endowment for
 the Humanities Public Scholar Grants, to early modern scholarship, strongly represented in grant
 capture, including two Sklodowska-Curie fellowships working with Hadfield (Andreani 2014-16,
 Equestri 2017-19).

 Internal Awards. Sussex offers several internal funding routes for faculty: the Research Impact
 Fund (RIF); the Research Opportunities Fund (ROF); the Research Development Fund for larger

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sums (RDF). Specific initiatives include the International Research Partnerships and Network
 Fund (IRPNF), the Annual Thematic Programme (ATP), and the International Development
 Challenge Fund (IDCF). School of English faculty have achieved success in all internal
 competitions, notably Crangle’s 2014 £29,381 RDF for her work on ‘Rethinking Contemporary
 British Avant-Gardism’ and Currell’s 2015 £27,010 RDF for ‘Remapping the Radical American
 Periodical’. Boxall’s ATP award of £10,000 for ‘Artificial Life’ in 2017 kick-started that project and
 enabled further external collaborations and applications, as did Kane and Cecire’s 2015 IRPNF
 award of £20,299 for ‘Paris as an American City’, and Watts’ £15,996 IDCF award for the
 initiative ‘Co-Producing a Culturally Adaptive Storytelling Intervention with Migrants and Families’
 in 2019. Hadfield’s ATP award of £15,500 enabled a flourishing research partnership and
 exchange with University College Dublin (2017-19).

 The unit has benefitted from the University’s investment in new facilities and infrastructure:

    •   As part of its comprehensive £7.4 million refit in 2011, the Sussex University Library
        reconfirmed its centrality to Sussex’s world-leading research culture. In this REF period it
        has developed more explicitly as a strategic research partner, not least in its expansion
        of electronic resources and creative leadership of Open Practice in research. The Library
        provides open publication and data management services, and offers bespoke support to
        researchers. In the Arts and Humanities this entails delivering and sustaining technical
        infrastructure for Sussex-based publications, as well as strategic, future-oriented work
        with the Sussex Humanities Lab, focusing on innovative ways to disseminate open
        research. The library runs research events for postgraduate and postdoctoral students at
        the Sussex Research Hive, a dedicated space providing IT services and work spaces for
        individual and collaborative research. Ongoing investment included the late 2013 move
        of its Special Collections to a £19 million state-of-the-art archive facility – The Keep –
        adjacent to campus. Combined with the collections of the East Sussex Record Office, the
        Royal Pavilion, and Brighton and Hove Museums, this is a world-class facility for
        research-led teaching and archival research. English faculty and students have close
        research relationships with The Keep – resources include the Charleston and Monk’s
        House archives, Kipling, Sinclair and Woolf’s papers, the Mass Observation Archive, and
        a rare books collection rich in the visual arts. Research events English has undertaken
        with the Keep in this period include symposia on the Early English Qur’an, May Sinclair,
        Doris Lessing, nineteenth-century book illustration, and the linguistic mapping of Britain.

    •   The Attenborough Centre for the Creative Arts (ACCA), the hub for all performance-
        based research on the Sussex campus. The nine-year, £9.7 million refurbishment was
        completed in 2016 and the ACCA now offers five studios, a 350-seat auditorium, and full
        technical capabilities. This opens up new opportunities for cross-disciplinary work in the
        School, such as rehearsal space for the development of new dramatic work based on
        English faculty research (Ericson’s China Masques), a stage for public readings of early
        modern drama in collaboration with Shakespeare’s Globe (2017), or for Abberley’s BBC
        New Generation Thinker ‘Culture and Anarchy’ event (broadcast and streamed on BBC
        Radio 3), marking 150 years since Matthew Arnold’s landmark publication (2017).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society

 Sussex English is renowned for the distinctive strengths of its critical and creative scholarship,
 and the historical and theoretical reach and rigour of its research, which have shaped the study
 of English in the UK and beyond. Our challenge as a community is to sustain and extend that
 distinguished record. More than ever research engagement demands shared conversations, with
 wider social purpose. We believe in the radical capacity of our discipline to engage in
 transformative knowledge discovery: collaborative, open, and responding with others to the
 necessary questions of our time.

 Our strategy in Sussex English is twofold: continuing support for the development of curiosity-
 driven collaborations that develop out of individual research initiatives; and seizing opportunities

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for impact and knowledge exchange that do justice to the integrity, reach and import of that
 research. We work together to identify potential non-HEI partners (theatre companies, galleries,
 tech start-ups, think tanks, museums) and provide seed funding and consultant support to
 develop projects, impact, and knowledge exchange. An illustrative example connects a series of
 collaborative initiatives:

    •   Sussex Research and the Learning Economy. English faculty are using their research
        to influence school curricula, the Government’s education policy, and address major
        challenges in the education sector, including crucial work advocating for the English
        Literature A-level. Many in the unit work with schools across the region, including Field,
        Stevens, and Smith with their research into nineteenth-century print illustrators, and a
        series of Shakespeare-based interactions involving early modern faculty. Sustained
        engagement is taking place around creative writing, oracy (or public speaking), and
        literacy.

        As PI of the £723k AHRC ‘Speaking Citizens’ project linking specialists in literature and
        rhetoric with linguists and historians from the Universities of Sussex, Leeds, Oxford,
        Middlesex and KCL, Wright is leading responses to changes to the National Curriculum
        and the removal of the speaking component from the GCSE in English, which (along with
        social media and digital technologies) have side-lined oral skills in British state schools.
        These developments risk a generation ‘unable to speak in public’ (TES 2018). Working
        closely with teachers’ groups The Oracy Network, the Society of Teachers of Speech and
        Drama and the Association for Citizenship Teaching, and civic organisations The English
        Speaking Union, Voice 21, The British Council, Young Citizens, and Citizens UK, the
        project is generating new research and supporting policy-makers working on issues of
        speaking and listening education and citizenship: the All Party Parliamentary Group on
        Oracy set up in spring 2018 by Emma Hardy MP, the equivalent group for Skills and
        Employment chaired by Nic Dakin MP, and the Lords’ Committee on Citizenship and
        Civic Engagement.

        Our ‘Sussex Writes’ initiative connects faculty and student creative writers with the
        building of wider writing communities. Working since 2016 with more than 25 secondary
        schools from the region, the project secured SENCOP funding to develop local literacy
        initiatives and also operates as a hub for a generating outreach for cultural partners. A
        new research strand is emerging from advanced conversations with the National Literacy
        Council. Recent funding via the IDCF links Sussex Writes to international global research
        on youth and mental health, building on collaboration with Kenyan partners via their
        ‘Youth Café’, established during our ‘Lockdown Live’.

 The international reputation of Sussex English is demonstrated by the scale of our external
 engagements: we have given nearly 400 invited, plenary, and memorial lectures in this period, in
 22 countries. In terms of academic collaborations beyond Sussex, faculty have worked on
 research projects with 24 UK universities and 43 academic institutions globally, including 10 in
 the US and 28 in the EU. Since 2014 faculty have won four international journal article prizes
 (Adelman, Dimmock, Jonik, Lauret), and have organised a wide variety of research events,
 including 15 workshops, 22 symposia, and 31 conferences. We regularly contribute to public
 media and its knowledge base: from Hadfield on Renaissance lying and Currell on eugenics and
 garden cities (BBC4), to Murphy on the Americanisation of English in The Guardian or on Radio
 4’s Word of Mouth.

 Four specific examples illustrate the nature and reach of our research engagement:

    •   English has developed partnerships with major national institutions such as
        Shakespeare’s Globe and the RSC, the Wellcome Trust, British Museum, the National
        Poetry Library, the Photographers’ Gallery, and The Freud Museum. A particularly fruitful
        relationship has blossomed with the V & A. Two faculty members have been awarded V
        & A Exchange Fellowships (Field in 2017/18 and Stevens in 2019/20), leading to

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        important contributions to the museum’s interpretation of its collection of children’s
        clothing, and to curatorial work on wood engravings, with both fellows working on
        outreach projects as well as contributing expertise to the blockbuster (and Covid-
        delayed) ‘Alice: Curiouser and Curiouser’ exhibition.

    •   English faculty have made major contributions to our discipline’s wider fields, with
        six academic monograph series editors, twenty-seven members of journal editorial
        boards, six members of major editorial projects, and two members of the AHRC Peer
        Review College. Three international journals are also based within English: Textual
        Practice (at Sussex since 1995, ed. Boxall); the Oxford Literary Review (ed. Royle); and
        the Journal for Critical Approaches to Discourse Analysis across Disciplines (ed. Taylor).
        Hadfield’s contribution is particularly significant: the editor of Palgrave Macmillan’s
        ‘Literature and History’ (which has produced over one hundred titles) and the MHRA
        Tudor & Stuart Translations series, he sits on the boards of numerous journals, the OUP
        Complete Works of James Shirley, and the OUP Complete Works of Edmund Spenser,
        and is also a General Editor of the OUP Complete Works of Thomas Nashe. He was
        Honorary Chair of the Society for Renaissance Studies (2013-16) and awarded the Colin
        Clout medal for lifetime contribution to Spenser studies in 2017. Currell was Chair of the
        British Association of American Studies (BAAS) between 2013-16 and founded the
        Network for American Periodical Studies in 2015. She was awarded the BAAS
        distinguished Honorary Fellowship 2018-19, one of only ten recipients in the award’s
        history. Cahill is vice-president of The Association for Written Language and Literacy;
        Lebeau was appointed Scholar by the British Psychoanalytic Council for her ‘substantial
        contribution’ to the field.

    •   We nurture research connections with overseas partners. Senior faculty have
        established long-term partnerships with international institutions: University of California,
        Riverside (Boxall); NYU (Kane); UCD (Hadfield); Yaounde 1, Cameroon, and CNRS,
        Paris (Green); and the National Peace Council of Sri Lanka (Salgado). English has also
        been productively integrated into networks that combine contemporary politics with a
        focus on the marginalised. Haynes, Lauret and Masterson were leading figures in the
        Swedish-funded ‘Fictions of Threat’ research network, connecting Sussex to the
        Universities of Uppsala and Witwatersrand, Johannesburg; an evolving and expanding
        collaboration. Crangle was involved in the ‘Outsider Writing’ initiative that has joined
        Sussex with the Universities of Essex and Chicago, including the Neubauer Family
        Collegium for Culture & Society. Dimmock has involved Sussex in the EU-funded EuQu
        research network comprising the Universities of Amsterdam, Barcelona, Naples, Nantes,
        and the Hungarian Academy. Kane and Cecire also led the ‘Paris as an American City’
        project, partnering Sussex with the Musee Franco-Americain du Chateau de Blerancourt.
        Walter is involved in ‘The History of the Senses’ research network, linking Sussex with
        the Universities of Glasgow, Bern, and Arizona State.

        Faculty have also been appointed Visiting Professors at Granada (Hadfield), Princeton
        (Sutherland), Sorbonne (Boxall), and Uppsala (Kane), Visiting Fellows at the Folger
        Shakespeare Library (Dimmock, Hadfield), University of Freiburg (Adelman), Institut
        d’Etudies Avancees de Paris (Jonik), and the University of Ireland (Crangle), and sat on
        review panels in Italy, The Netherlands, Ireland, and Poland. English has hosted Visiting
        Fellows from Gottenberg (Sivefors), Frankfurt (Schultz) and Helsinki (Holmberg)
        universities, and the UC Santa Cruz (Chen), each making valuable and lasting
        contributions to English’s research culture.

    •   Our sharing of research with wider communities is also evident at a local and
        regional level. Building on the collaborations initiated by Wolf’s 2017 Sussex Modernism:
        Retreat and Rebellion exhibition in London, Sussex Modern (www.sussexmodern.org.uk)
        and ‘The Coastal Culture’ trail (coastalculturetrail.com) have allowed visitors to Sussex to
        explore its rich Modernist legacies. Public events and research collaborations with
        Brighton Museum and Art Gallery, Brighton based Myriad Publishers (with whom English

                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        ran the ‘First Fictions Festival’ in 2014), Petworth House and the National Trust, have
        had lasting impact. Prominent have been partnerships facilitated by the Sexual
        Dissidence Centre, which plays a central role in Brighton’s LGBTQ+ community. The
        Centre has organised reading groups, film screenings, and talks in collaboration with The
        Marlborough Theatre, Trans Pride Brighton, and Eyes Wide Open Cinema to celebrate
        and publicise local artists and causes. In 2019 English co-sponsored the ‘Coast is Queer’
        literary festival in Brighton and the Centre has continued to work with the local
        community in 2020 to explore the impact of lockdown on LGBTQ+ writers and their
        networks.

 These achievements demonstrate our strong commitment to collaboration, open to knowledge
 discovery and exchange at local, regional, national, and international levels. They illustrate how
 Sussex English is a research group that looks to play a leading role in the future of the subject,
 whilst remaining committed to taking forward the radical values – and critical imagination –
 shaped by our past.




                                                                                             Page 16
