Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Lancaster University

 UoA 18: Law

 Section 1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy

 Lancaster University (LU) Law School is a world-leading centre for interdisciplinary research on
 the relationships between law, people, institutions, and systems, with specialisms in socio-legal
 studies, international law and human rights, criminology, and family justice studies. We believe
 strongly in the importance of engaging with user communities and the potential for law and
 society research to promote beneficial social change for greater justice and equality.

 Notable successes this REF period include the following:

       Further investment in Category A staff, with numbers increasing from 29.8 in REF2014,
        to 37.92 FTE today (see section 2.1);

       Moves towards achieving gender balance in Category A grades, with, for example,
        women now comprising 41% of the Professoriate, compared to 33% for REF2014
        (section 2.3.1);

       An increase in the size of our PhD community, with the number graduating up by 88%,
        compared to REF2014, and greater embedding of PGR scholars into the research life of
        the School (section 2.4);

       A significant increase in research income, up by over 200%, from £421K in REF2014 to
        £1.31M this time (section 3.1.2); and

       A greater focus on the translation of research findings into benefits for user communities,
        including by establishing the Centre for Child and Family Justice Research (section 1.4).

 1.1. Achievement of strategic aims

 In our REF2014 submission, we outlined the following priorities: (i) develop our international
 links; (ii) require that our Research Centres develop an annual plan for the stimulation of new
 agendas; (iii) align our Social Media Strategy with our Research Strategy; (iv) ensure impact is
 integral to our work; (v) enhance the Annual Research Review; and (vi) put in place a strategy
 for open access.

 We have fully achieved these, as follows:

 (i) International links. The School has developed fruitful relationships with the University of
 Limerick; Beijing Jiaotong University; South China University of Technology; and Chinese
 University of Political Science and Law (see section 4.1).

 (ii) Research Centres. Centre Directors are now required to submit Annual Plans to the School
 Research Committee, explaining how proposed activities align with our strategic objectives,
 ensuring that our Research Centres continue to promote collaborative, interdisciplinary research
 and link scholars with user communities (section 1.4).

 (iii) Social media and engagement strategy. The School now has a vibrant Engagement Strategy
 that fully integrates its social media presence (Facebook and Twitter) and outward facing Law
 School Blog (https://www.lancaster.ac.uk/law/blogs/) with more traditional activities, such as
 conference presentations and public lectures (section 4.3).



                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (iv) Integrating impact. All staff are now required to consider the opportunities for impact during
 their Annual Research Review and we have seen a greater focus on translating research
 findings into demonstrable benefits for society, with more colleagues working closely with users,
 including international organizations, government departments, national and international
 charities, and local groups (section 1.5).

 (v) Refresh of the Annual Research Review (ARR). The ARR document was updated in 2015 to
 include questions on plans for impact and income applications. The benefits of the changes can
 be seen in a deepening and broadening of impact activities by staff at all grades (section 4.2)
 and a significant increase in external funding (section 3.1.2).

 (iv) Open access. LU Law School now has a clear strategy for open access (section 1.7). We
 have a 100% OA compliance rate for this REF.

 1.2. Post-2021 strategic aims for research and impact

 Our overarching post-2021 strategy is to further strengthen our position as a world-leading
 centre for law and society research in our core areas, whilst also developing new cutting-edge
 agendas in line with the University’s priority of engaging in research that changes practice and
 thinking. Specifically, we will:

 (i) Deepen and broaden our interdisciplinary collaborations and partnerships, across both the
 soft and hard sciences, to address the big issues of global concern and thereby expand our
 share of Research Council grant capture, with a focus on the AHRC, ESRC, and EPSRC;

 (ii) Further enhance the impact of our work through the deepening and formalizing of the
 relationships between our Research Centres and key strategic partners; and enhance our
 engagement activities by ensuring that research findings are available to all interested parties in
 an accessible format (e.g. in a Research Briefing);

 (iii) Leverage our strengths in research on health, care and ethics, and drugs and society, to
 work closely with Lancaster University’s new £41M Health Innovation Campus, to develop multi-
 disciplinary solutions to address health problems;

 (iv) Build on our strengths in the areas of Law, Business and the Economy, and Law, Cyber and
 Emerging Technologies, including through strategic appointments, to explore new research
 agendas against the background of contested globalizations;

 (v) Redouble our commitment to establishing a genuine equality of opportunity and experience
 for all staff and students within LU Law School, so that all of our diverse community of scholars
 can realize their full potential with us. Specifically, we will seek Athena SWAN recognition and
 deliver on our action plan; and work with the University to live up to our commitments under the
 Race Equality Charter.

 We see no reason why the global pandemic should impact on these strategic aims. Our firm
 view is that engaging in research on the inter-relationships between law and society, with a
 focus on policy relevant concerns for justice and equality, has never been more important: E.g.,
 FOVARGUE was part of an interdisciplinary team to receive funding under the UKRI AHRC
 Covid-19 call to explore ‘pandemic ethics’, examining NHS decision-making.

 1.3. Structure of the Unit

 Centralised management and leadership structures in the Law School oversee research and
 impact activities. Responsibility for strategy rests with the School’s Associate Head for
 Research, the Research Management Team, and Research Committee. The School allocates
 mentors and reviewers for the Annual Research Review; determines teaching and administrative

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 roles; awards sabbaticals (in conjunction with the Faculty); and provides financial support for
 research (section 3.2). Duality of membership of both the Law School and a Research Centre
 (details below) ensures higher levels of collegiality and reduces ‘silo-thinking’ on research
 problems by promoting interactions across the range of sub-disciplines within the School. One
 example of cross-School thinking is a research workshop exploring the different ways the term
 ‘coercion’ is used in legal discourses, resulting in publications on the subject in the areas of
 criminal law (WEARE), criminology (BARLOW), international law (WHEATLEY), and medical law
 (OST).

 1.4. Facilitating Collaborative Research

 We foster collaborative research and embed our strategy through our four Research Centres:

 Centre for Law & Society (CL&S) (Dir.: WHEATLEY). Established in 2006, CL&S is the pre-
 eminent Research Centre in the School, pushing forward our core agenda of examining the
 relationships between law, people, institutions, and systems. Interdisciplinary methodologies
 underpin the Centre’s work in four areas of excellence: Law, cyber and emerging technologies;
 Law, sex and society; Health, care and ethics; and Legal research and new methodologies.
 CL&S also looks to explore cross-cutting themes in law, hosting, for example, in 2020, a
 rearranged Zoom conference involving scholars at Lancaster and researchers from Universities
 in the UK, Europe, and the USA to explore the different ways that lawyers understand the wrong
 of ‘lying’.

 Centre for International Law and Human Rights (CILHR) (Dir.: SUMMERS). Established in 2012,
 CILHR reflects our research strengths in these areas – there are four Professors of International
 Law in the School (SKOGLY, SWEENEY, VADI, WHEATLEY). The Centre links staff and
 students with researchers in cognate disciplines in the University, working closely, for example,
 with the Richardson Institute, the oldest peace and conflict Research Centre in the UK. CILHR
 has an active visiting speaker programme, hosting over 50 events this REF, involving external
 speakers, allowing our ECRs and PGRs to engage directly with established academics from all
 parts of the world.

 Centre for Crime, Law and Justice (CCLJ) (Dir.: HUMPHREYS). CCLJ was established in 2014
 to promote interdisciplinary research on criminal law, criminology, and criminal justice. The
 Centre provides the public face for much of our criminological research: E.g., in 2019, HARDING
 organized an extremely popular ‘escape room’, showcasing CCLJ’s research at the ESRC’s
 Festival of Social Science. CCLJ’s priorities are to facilitate collaborative working in the areas of
 feminist research, research on drugs and society, and research on sexual abuse and violence;
 to integrate criminology PGR students fully into the research life of the School; and to promote
 connections with user communities: E.g., the Centre Director sits on Lancashire Constabulary’s
 Evidenced Based Policy Strategic Team. These links have resulted in an ESRC +3 CASE
 studentship and the development of projects on the statistical analysis of criminal justice data to
 inform the work of the Constabulary.

 Centre for Child and Family Justice Research (CCFJR) (Co-Dirs.: HARWIN (Law), Broadhurst
 (Sociology)). The establishment of CCFJR, in 2016, reflected a major investment by the
 departments of Law and Sociology in impactful, interdisciplinary research into the workings of
 family justice systems, with the explicit aim of improving the lives of children, young people and
 their families. HARWIN was appointed Professor in Socio-Legal Studies in LU Law School to co-
 direct the Centre. FITZPATRICK also has a senior leadership role. CCFJR has a strong record
 of attracting external research funding (over £750K since its establishment). Critical to its work
 are extensive, collaborative and reciprocal relationships with government departments (including
 the Ministries of Education, Health, and Justice); the Children and Family Court Advisory and
 Support Service (Cafcass); national policy agencies; and the Judicial College. These
 relationships have enabled CCFJR to play a central role in shaping the debates on family justice
 in England and Wales.


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.5. Facilitating Impact

 1.5.1 Strategy: We are committed to engaging with user communities to inform and influence
 policy and practice, and therefore to promote beneficial social change for greater justice and
 equality. There are three key components to our Impact strategy:

 (i) Policies and practices:
       LU Law School’s Pathways to Impact Fund facilitates direct academic engagement with
          use communities: E.g. to organize a multi-agency event with the Care Leavers
          Association; to hold a one-day conference for family justice stakeholders; and to produce
          materials for an end of project event on male survivors of sexual abuse;
       Questions on impact are now included in the Annual Research Review and we hold
          regular training and development sessions on impact, including at our research Away
          Days;
       The importance of impact is reflected in our promotions criteria: E.g. WEARE was
          promoted to Senior Lecturer, in part, because of her leadership role in refreshing and
          refocusing the School’s strategy on impact and engagement.

 (ii) Facilitating interdisciplinary links across the University: We encourage and make possible
 links with scholars in other departments within the University, with the aim of developing
 interdisciplinary approaches to societal challenges at regional, national and global levels. Our
 proactive approach has resulted in innovative, interdisciplinary work not typically seen in Law
 Schools: E.g., EASTON’s work with Professor Monika Buscher (Sociology) as co-investigators
 on the Ethical, Legal and Social Issues work package in an EU FP7 project on developing
 technology to assist in cross-border information sharing during disasters. Outputs included an
 interactive board game and development of a website to support and drive responsible
 innovation with digital ethics in the field of disasters and risk management.

 (iii) Strategic investments: HARWIN was appointed to lead the newly established Centre for
 Child and Family Justice Research. As Centre Director, HARWIN mentors other colleagues in
 the development of impactful projects: E.g., helping FITZPATRICK draft her successful
 application for Nuffield funding for a project that aims to disrupt the well-trodden pathways
 between care and the criminal justice system.

 The Faculty Engagement and Partnership Team provides further expert advice, helping us to
 build, capture, track and monitor our impact.

 1.5.2. Success:

 Our focus on the importance of impact has resulted in a deepening and broadening of our
 engagement with the non-academic users of our research, including:

       Staff undertaking consultancy and advisory roles with national and international
        organizations: E.g., GILLESPIE acted as academic advisor to the United Nations Special
        Rapporteur on child prostitution and child pornography for a report on ICT-based sexual
        exploitation;

       Colleagues organizing events to allow academics to work directly with user communities:
        E.g., WEARE organized a conference on ‘Understanding Intimate Partner Violence
        Against Men’, bringing together academics from the UK and USA, with police officers and
        NGOs working with survivors;

       Academics working directly with the public: E.g., OST was the expert advisor for a
        theatre company workshop for children and young people on child sexual exploitation;




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Law School staff engaging directly with public policy debates through appearances in
        high-profile outlets such as BBC News, national radio stations, national newspapers, and
        The Conversation website (see section 4.3).

 1.5.3. Selection of Impact Case Studies:

 Our choice of Case Studies reflects the success of our strategy:

 (i) ICS authors include staff at all stages of their career: E.g., ‘Domestic and sexual abuse:
 Improving criminal justice responses, victim support, and policy and practice nationally and
 internationally’ highlights the influence of BARLOW and WEARE’s work on policy debates in the
 UK and overseas. Both were Grade 8 Lecturers at the time the research was undertaken and
 pathways to impact developed.

 (ii) Two of the ICSs resulted from collaborations with academics in other departments:
 ‘Pioneering the use of large-scale family justice data to shape policy and practice for children in
 out-of-home care’ reflects work done by the Centre for Child and Family Justice Research – a
 joint venture between the departments of Law and Sociology; ‘Changing national policy on
 measuring and recording domestic violence in England and Wales, and catalysing new
 campaigns to prevent football-related domestic violence’ demonstrates the value of combining
 advanced statistical analysis, undertaken in the department of Mathematics and Statistics, with
 criminological research done in the Law School.

 (iii) Two of the ICSs reflect the success of the School’s strategic investment in the Centre for
 Child and Family Justice Research: ‘Pioneering the use of large-scale family justice data’
 (above) and ‘Keeping children safe: enhancing the sustainability of family reunification after care
 proceedings’, which led to a significant expansion of the use of family drug and alcohol courts,
 following the Centre’s research showing the positive outcomes for child safety and parental
 health.

 1.6. Facilitating interdisciplinary research

 Whilst we have an all-embracing approach to the methodologies employed by individual
 scholars, we encourage all staff, particularly ECRs, to explore the potential of interdisciplinary
 approaches in their own research on the relationships between law and society.

 Three of our four Centres were established expressly to promote interdisciplinary research: The
 Centre for Law & Society was set up in 2006 to encourage links between the Law School and
 other University departments, especially History and Sociology; When Criminology merged with
 Law in 2013, we created the Centre for Crime, Law and Justice; The Centre for Child and Family
 Justice Research was established in 2016 as a joint venture between Law and Sociology.

 1.7. Ensuring an open research environment

 LU Law School is fully committed to the open access agenda, to maximize the exposure and
 reach of our research findings and therefore the potential for promoting beneficial social change.

 Colleagues must upload the appropriate version of any work to the University’s repository
 (‘Pure’) within 3 months of acceptance for publication.

 We have a 100% OA compliance rate for this REF.

 Where copyright limitations allow, or the work is free of copyright restrictions, work is made
 publicly available immediately. The School has identified a small number of pieces where ‘Gold’
 access has been paid for (e.g., KÜÇÜK’s 2016 article on fairness in the European Union’s


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 asylum policy). Many staff also post their papers on open access repositories (e.g.,
 Academia.edu).

 The Associate Head (Research), EASTON is Editor of the European Journal of Current Legal
 Issues, Europe’s first fully open access law journal. She is championing, in the School, and
 beyond, Research England’s policy of immediately making academic research available
 electronically, free of charge, and free from most copyright restrictions.

 1.8. Ensuring a culture of research integrity

 Our research culture is driven by a full commitment to the Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity. We follow the ethical guidelines set out in the University’s Code of Practice and those
 specified by relevant funding bodies (e.g. AHRC, ESRC). The Faculty Research Ethics
 Committee is responsible for reviewing and approving research projects, including those of
 PGRs. Two Law School academics sit on the Ethics Committee and act as contacts for Law
 School staff to discuss ethical issues relating to research.

 Section 2. People

 People are the key component in our research strategy. We have sought to build a supportive
 environment for all of our diverse community of scholars. 93% of our core academic staff are
 categorised as research active, compared to, for example, 78% in Russell Group Law Schools
 (HESA, 2018/19). These figures are consistent with our success in REF2014, when we were
 rated 11th in the UK for research power, having returned 85% of eligible staff (THES, 2014).

 2.1. Recruitment

 LU Law School has seen sustained, significant investments in Category A staff in the past
 decade, with numbers increasing from 22 in RAE2008, to 29.8 in REF2014, to 37.92 FTE today.

 Our strategy is to appoint scholars of outstanding ability, or demonstrable potential, with an
 appetite for engagement with non-academic users of our research.

 We aim to attract the best candidates, nationally and internationally, from the most talented and
 diverse pool possible. We display our Lancaster University Athena SWAN Bronze award and
 affiliations to the Disability Confident Scheme and Stonewall Global Diversity programme on all
 job adverts. Recruitment panels must have a mix of genders and, where possible, a mix of other
 protected characteristics.

 We will recruit to Chair to provide research leadership in our core areas: E.g., this REF,
 HARWIN was appointed Professor of Socio-Legal Studies and YAR Professor of Criminology.
 Otherwise, our preference is to recruit ECRs, to make certain that early career training develops
 in line with our values and research and impact strategies. We appoint ECRs whose research
 interests align with the work of our four Research Centres: E.g.,
       Centre for Law & Society (AHMED, AKINTOLA, AL-ASTEWANI, BLAKELY, GUY);
       Centre for Crime, Law and Justice (BARLOW, BENSON, HARDING);
       Centre for Child and Family Justice Research (CUSWORTH); and
       Centre for International Law and Human Rights (LAWTON, MELLON).

 8% of our staff are from EU states; 16% from other countries. This compares with 7% EU (non-
 UK) staff and 10% international staff for REF2014.

 Our aim is to have all Category A staff on permanent contracts, providing the security and
 stability that underpins high quality research. All Category A staff on fixed term contracts on 31
 July 2020 (3 in total) successfully transitioned to indefinite contracts on 1 August 2020.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.2. Staff development, support and career progression

 We support the development of our staff in the following ways:

 Probation: In accordance with University policy, new appointments must undergo a three-year
 probation, with regular reviews with the Head of School. Requirements include the submission of
 external grant applications, increasing our success in this area: E.g., RIEDER was awarded
 £38K by the British Academy for his work on the cross-border movement of medical patients.

 Early Career Researchers (ECRs): There is a specific School development programme for
 ECRs, who receive a mentor from amongst senior staff, with regular review meetings. Mentors
 encourage ECRs to balance research, teaching, and service responsibilities, along with a
 healthy work-life balance. 30% of ECRs’ time is allocated to research in the workload model.
 ECRs are given an extra allowance to complete their PhDs (e.g. HARDING).

 Post-Doctoral Research Assistants (PDRAs): We now routinely employ a small number of
 PDRAs to work on large, impactful projects. They are strongly encouraged to join our Research
 Centres; to participate in work-in-progress sessions; and attend whole School meetings and
 research Away Days. PDRAs are included in the annual cycle of Professional Development
 Reviews and can gain teaching and supervisory experience. The School is fully committed to the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and one of our PDRAs
 successfully secured a lectureship at Durham.

 Mentoring: All staff (except Professors) are provided with a research mentor, who is a Professor
 or Reader. Mentors are allocated for three years. Their job is to support the mentee in the design
 and execution of research plans, by commenting on draft papers, suggesting suitable places for
 publication, encouraging conference participation and other dissemination opportunities, and
 prompting engagement with user communities.

 Appraisal: All staff have an Annual Research Review (ARR) with a senior colleague. The
 objective is to promote critical self-reflection on individual research plans; recognize and
 celebrate success; and help plan future activities in line with the School’s strategic priorities.
 ARR forms are reviewed by the Associate Head (Research) to identify cross-School
 collaboration and development opportunities.

 Staff development and training: The School organizes regular professional development events
 on research, supplemented by Faculty and University training. We have an annual research
 Away Day to discuss strategy and hold targeted development sessions. There are regular
 workshops throughout the year, allowing senior and early career colleagues to share their
 experiences, successes, and ambitions. We hold regular work-in-progress sessions and
 organize writing retreats at the University’s Forrest Hills conference centre, located in the
 Lancashire countryside.

 Peer Review College: In 2015, we established a Peer Review College, replicating the journal
 system of anonymous peer review. Robust internal feedback on draft papers is particularly
 helpful for ECRs, who might not have their own networks for expert comment: E.g., GUY’s 2019
 paper on private healthcare, published in Legal Studies, benefited under the scheme.

 Career progression: Our ambition is to develop and support colleagues so they can fulfil their
 potential and meet their career aspirations with us. Career progression is supported through:
     A Professional Development Review (PDR) scheme that allows staff to have a
        conversation with a senior colleague about their contributions, priorities, and career
        goals;
     Regular meetings with the Head of School to discuss career plans; and
     A School Promotions Committee, which reviews CVs and offers supportive, constructive
        advice regarding progression and promotion.

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.3. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

 We aim for our EDI policies and practices to be sector leading, so we can continue to develop
 and maintain an inclusive and supportive working environment for all colleagues, regardless of
 protected or other characteristics.

 Woman have held key leadership roles in LU Law School throughout this REF period, providing
 a role model for female academic leadership: E.g.,
      There have been two Heads of School, one female, one male;
      The current Associate Head (Research) is a woman; the Director of Research (the
         previous designation of the role) with primary responsibility for the REF process was a
         woman.

 Staff with other protected characteristics have held senior leadership roles in the School,
 including in the preparation of this REF submission.

 The University has clear policies in relation to all protected characteristics.

 In terms of Law School practices:
      All new staff must complete Diversity training within three months of taking up
        employment and there are resources to deal with unconscious bias;
      All important decisions, especially those concerning access to career-enhancing
        opportunities (e.g., funding and sabbaticals), are made following discussion in the
        relevant committee, to help remove potential bias in decision-making;
      ECRs are represented in all School committees, which operate on the basis of published
        criteria;
      EDI is a standing item on the agendas of the Senior Leadership Team and departmental
        (i.e., ‘whole School’) meetings.

 Since 2016, the academic lead for research has also led on EDI, ensuring that EDI remains front
 and centre in any discussion of research strategy, policy or procedure. The Associate Head
 (Research) is assisted by the academic lead for Athena SWAN and the wider EDI team.

 The School is supported in its EDI work by the Faculty’s Associate Dean for EDI & People and
 the University’s Human Resources department.

 2.3.1. Staff profile:

 There are 37.92 FTE Category A staff in LU Law School. 45% are women. The breakdown by
 role and gender is as follows:
  16
  14
  12
                                                           5.81
  10
                 4.6
   8
                                     1.8
   6
   4                                                         8
                6.71                  6
   2                                                                               4
   0                                                                              0
              Professor           SL/ Reader          Lecturer Grade 8     Lecturer Grade 7

                                           Male   Female




                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have made important moves towards achieving a gender balance in Category A staff this
 REF period: Women now comprise 41% of the Professoriate (compared to 33% for REF2014);
 23% of the Senior Lecturer/Reader grade (14% last time); 42% of Grade 8 Lecturers (58% last
 time); and 100% of Grade 7 Lecturers – all recent appointments – (50% last time).

 The University secured its Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2020. LU Law School will submit for
 our own Bronze Award in 2021/2. Lessons learnt so far include the need for greater consistency
 in the quality of guidance provided by reviewers in the Annual Research Review (ARR) and
 Professional Development Review (PDR). We have, therefore, introduced mandatory annual
 training for reviewers.

 The School supports remote working for all Category A staff. It is fully committed to its Flexible
 Working Policy. We recognize the importance of work-life balance and supporting staff to
 manage the responsibilities of work and home, including childcare, caring for relatives, and
 dealing with health issues. Academics with caring responsibilities can make timetabling requests
 (e.g. only teaching during school hours). Departmental meetings are scheduled between 10am
 and 4pm. Recognizing the difficulties that colleagues with caring responsibilities can face in
 terms of spending time away from home, we have encouraged and supported staff in hosting
 workshops and conferences at Lancaster, to facilitate the opportunities for collaboration and
 networking.

 The School adopts Lancaster University’s policy on parental leave. Maternity, paternity,
 adoption, and shared parental leave has been taken by seven colleagues (five women and two
 men) since 2015-when formal recording started. Those returning from leave are provided with
 support from the Head of School and their research mentor.

 We do not distinguish between full- and part-time staff in terms of career opportunities: E.g.,
 FITZPATRICK, who is on a fractional contract, holds a leadership role in CCFJR and was
 promoted to SL in 2019.

 16% of our Category A staff identify as BAME (compared to 10% at REF2014). We have begun
 a process of tackling the inequalities facing BAME staff and PGRs through a review of BAME
 colleagues’ lived experiences of our policies, procedures and behaviours. Lancaster University
 will sign the Race Equality Charter in 2021. The School will work with the University to develop
 its own action plan under the Charter to make positive improvements, to ensure a genuine
 equality of opportunity and experience for all staff and students.

 11% of our staff have a declared disability (compared to 14% at REF2014). We are a Disability
 Confident employer, committed to improving how we recruit, retain and develop persons with
 disabilities. Where a colleague discloses a disability, the Head of School, with Human
 Resources, meets with them to discuss any reasonable adjustments required. The School offers
 financial and organizational support to help staff with disabilities attend conferences in the UK
 and overseas.

 The University has formed a partnership with Able Futures to provide an Access to Work Mental
 Health Support Service for people working and living with mental health difficulties.

 13% of our academic staff are over the age of 60. The University has introduced a Flexible
 Retirement Policy that allows staff to take retirement benefits early whilst continuing to work
 between 0.4 and 0.8 FTE. The School fully supports this policy and has, for example,
 accommodated a request to work for one half of the academic year (0.5 FTE). We continue to
 maintain links with staff after their retirement. We currently have three Emeritus Professors,
 ensuring their informal research leadership and mentoring skills are not lost to the School.

 We aim to have an environment in which all members of the School can be open, or not, about
 their sexual orientation at work or study – and feel safe in that expression.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A Law School colleague was responsible for developing the University’s LGBTQIA+ Ally
 Network’s ‘Safe Home Base’, which provides confidential and supportive help and guidance for
 staff and students.

 2.3.2. EDI in the construction of this submission:

 The University’s Code of Practice established that the selection of outputs should follow clear
 principles of transparency, consistency, accountability, and inclusivity. LU Law School
 implemented these principles in the following ways:

 Transparency: We have been clear throughout about our REF policies and practices. These
 were communicated to staff by the Director of Research, responsible for REF. Regular updates
 on REF at the national, local, and UoA level were provided.

 Consistency: The selection of outputs followed the processes set out in the University Code of
 Practice, as elaborated by the School: Staff first proposed an output; This was then rated by two
 members of the School REF-reading group, comprised of all professors and readers, as well as
 a representative of ECRs; Where there was a divergence of views, outputs were sent for expert
 external review to inform the final decision on rating.

 Accountability: There have been clear and publicized lines of accountability throughout the REF
 process. The submission was led by the Director of Research, who also held the role of EDI
 lead. EDI issues have, therefore, been embedded in the process throughout. EDI training was
 provided for all staff involved in REF decision-making.

 Inclusivity: Only outputs were rated. No judgements on individuals were made. At least one
 output from each Category A staff member was included (apart from one colleague, who had no
 publications). Other outputs were selected on the basis of a hierarchy of ranking of outputs.

 Our final internal equality impact audit showed that 42% of selected outputs were authored by
 women (who comprise 45% of Category A staff); 18% by BAME colleagues (16% of staff); and
 17% by ECRs (18% of the submitter pool).

 2.4. Research Students

 The School has successfully expanded and strengthened its PGR community, in line with our
 objective of building a vibrant and sustainable research culture. We have seen an increase of
 88% in the numbers graduating, from 25 in the REF2014 period, to 47 PhD students this time.

 Recruitment: We received 802 applications for PhD study and registered 71 students this REF:
 56% of new registrations were female; 47% Black, Asian, or Minority Ethnic; 11% declared a
 disability. 31% were Lancaster graduates; 52% from elsewhere in the UK; and 14% from
 overseas. We spend time working with our taught postgraduate students interested in pursuing a
 PhD to develop a compelling research proposal – especially with those from non-typical
 backgrounds. Our success here is reflected in the fact that 32% of our PGRs’ parents do not
 have HE qualifications.

 Funding and scholarships: 29% of our externally funded, ‘home’ PGRs were funded under the
 ESRC North-West Doctoral Training programme. Many of our overseas students are funded by
 their home countries or home Universities. The Faculty offers scholarships on a competitive
 basis. Since 2014, LU Law School has received funding for 61 studentships, totalling £479K.

 Co-operation and collaborative arrangements for PGR training: As part of the AHRC North-West
 Doctoral Training Partnership, we work with other academic institutions to seek out and nurture
 outstanding PGRs and provide world-class training. We are also part of the ESRC North West
 Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership. Active participation in these schemes means that


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our students have access to a range of training and research opportunities, including ‘Methods
 North West’, a programme of workshops focusing on various methodological issues.

 Supervision, mentoring, and support: PGR students are supervised by a minimum of two
 academic staff. They have fortnightly contact, including via TEAMS, with more intensive
 supervision at key times. The Doctoral Director met, virtually, with all PGRs in 2020, when
 students were working away from campus to check on their well-being, as well as hosting
 several ‘virtual writing retreats’ for students. The University’s Doctoral Academy provides
 additional pastoral support.

 Monitoring and review: Details of supervision meetings must be recorded on the University’s
 online record management system. There is a demanding ‘upgrade’ process during the second
 year, including submission of a draft chapter (~15,000 words) and a meeting with a panel of
 internal examiners who provide detailed feedback. Mock vivas are held in preparation for the
 examination.

 Training and skills development: We provide an extensive training programme, with Faculty
 modules on, for example, research methods, design, data collection, ethics, and thesis writing.
 The University’s Doctoral Academy provides further high-quality training. The Library’s Learning
 Development team gives one-to-one study and writing guidance; the Law Librarian offers one-to-
 one support on the use of specialist databases.

 Support for research activities: PhD students have excellent facilities, sharing work and social
 spaces with academic staff. Because of social distancing rules, they are presently in single
 occupancy offices or have decided to work from home. PGRs have access to University
 facilities, such as the Library, Information Systems Services, and the Disability Service. They
 can access Faculty funds, with Law School students successfully applying to the Research Skills
 Training Fund to attend specialist training events; and to the Conference Presentation Grant
 Fund to present overseas: E.g. at the 2019 Law and Society Association conference in
 Washington, DC.

 Embedding PGRs in our research culture: Our PhD students are strongly encouraged to affiliate
 to one of our Research Centres; participate in work-in-progress sessions; and attend all
 organized research events. PGRs have an elected representative on the School Research
 Committee, allowing them to influence policy: E.g., in 2019, students proposed (and the School
 supported, financially and administratively) organizing a conference on ‘Law and Social
 Transformation’, which attracted 80 delegates from 15 countries. This has become an annual,
 student-led event, with a second conference on ‘Law and Justice’, in March 2020, attracting 65
 delegates from 15 countries.

 Employability: We aim for every PhD student to graduate into the professional career of their
 choice. The Faculty training programme includes modules on career planning. Those PGRs who
 wish to become academics are encouraged and supported to publish and given the opportunity
 to teach undergraduate seminars. Many of our PGRs have obtained academic jobs, either with
 us (e.g., WEARE, WEBB), at other Universities in the UK, including Liverpool, Manchester, and
 York, or with overseas Universities.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Research Income

 The School sees a direct link between research funding and the generation of high-quality,
 impactful research outputs. 26 staff were involved in one or more successful bids in this REF
 period, typically resulting in high quality publications: E.g. VADI’s EU grant on globalization and
 cultural heritage produced a research monograph and several substantial articles in leading
 international law journals.


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3.1.1. Strategies for generating research income.

 We encourage and enable staff to make high quality grant applications in the following ways:

 Information: The University’s Research and Enterprise Services (RES) horizon-scans for new
 opportunities, which are then communicated to staff by the School’s Associate Head (Research),
 with individuals targeted with specific information. RES also provides invaluable advice and
 guidance relating to pre-award development, post-award support, ethics, impact and contracts
 for research.

 Staff development: The importance and value of external research funding, in terms of income,
 prestige, and resource is reinforced by the following:

       Mentoring: Colleagues with a track record of success act as mentors to others
        developing funding applications;

       Annual Research Review (ARR): Discussion around funding is central to the ARR;

       Training: The University, Faculty and School all provide development and training
        opportunities on successful research income capture;

       Sharing of good practice: Examples of successful funding applications are made
        available via the LU Law School staff intranet.

 Workload: Success is recognized in our workload model, where research buy-outs for funded
 projects are included in the calculations, reducing teaching and administration obligations.

 Seedcorn funding: We provide initial financial support for ‘pilot’ projects, highlighting the potential
 and deliverability of large-scale plans. Priority is given to ECRs: E.g., WEARE was awarded
 funding to run an online survey to gather qualitative data on men forced-to-penetrate a woman,
 to find out whether men would share their experiences. She then applied, successfully, to the
 British Academy for support for the first major piece of research in this area.

 Robust internal peer review: In 2016, we established a Funding College to peer review
 applications for external research income. The College is led by an experienced Professor with a
 proven track record in obtaining grants. Any colleague wishing to make an external bid benefits
 from constructive feedback from the College. The Head of School will only ‘sign off’ an
 application when review comments have been taken into account. The Funding College has
 improved the quality of our applications, increasing external research funding.

 3.1.2. Success.

 This REF has seen a 211% increase in external research funding, up from £421K in the
 REF2014 period to £1.31M for REF2021.

 Staff obtained 51 external grants from a wide range of sponsors, including the Royal Society and
 Royal Society of Edinburgh; UK Research Councils (AHRC, EPSRC, ESRC); the British
 Academy; Charities (British Council, Coram, Leverhulme Trust, Nuffield Foundation, Sir Halley
 Stewart Trust, Wellcome Trust); Professional bodies (BILETA, Modern Law Review, Socio-Legal
 Studies Association); Government bodies (HEFCE, Home Office, local government); and the
 European Union (European Commission, European Parliament).

 The following are some highlights:

       HARWIN was awarded £460K by the Nuffield Foundation for research on Supervision
        Orders and their contribution to family justice and child outcomes. The study addressed

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        knowledge-gaps on the numbers of children subject to Supervision Orders made by the
        courts following evidence of significant harm resulting from parenting; and the
        effectiveness of the Orders, which are intended to help support birth families stay
        together.

       VADI was awarded £347K by the European Union to investigate the interplay between
        globalization and the protection of cultural heritage. The project examined whether
        existing legal frameworks sufficiently protect cultural heritage and suggested ways to
        foster synergies between heritage protection and economic development.

       FITZPATRICK was awarded £166K by the Nuffield Foundation to investigate the
        experiences of those girls and women in care who are also involved in the youth and
        criminal justice systems. The project team interviewed girls in care, imprisoned women
        with care experience, and the professionals involved, with the aim of disrupting the well-
        trodden pathways between care and custody.

       SWEENEY was awarded £47K by the British Academy for a project on transitional justice
        and journalism, examining the role of journalists in historical accounting during times of
        transition; he was also awarded £52K to examine the EU’s transitional justice activities,
        as one part of a Horizon 2020 project investigating how European societies deal with
        their troubled pasts.

 3.2. Infrastructure supporting research and impact

 Central to our strategy is giving staff the time and resources needed to conduct world-leading
 research and engage with user communities. To that end, we have the following organizational
 and physical structures in place to support research and impact:

 School research management: Strategic responsibility for research rests with an Associate
 Head, who is part of the School Leadership Team. Research is a standing item on the agendas
 of meetings of the School Leadership Team and departmental (i.e. ‘all School’) meetings. The
 Associate Head is supported by the Director of Research Development; Director of Early Career
 Research Development; Director of Engagement; Doctoral Director; AHRC/ EHRC Lead for Law;
 and the Chairs of the Peer Review Colleges for Funding and Publications. The Associate Head
 is also assisted by the School Research Committee, which comprises the Directors of the four
 Research Centres; members of the Research Management Team; and elected representatives
 of Grade 7/8 Lecturers, ‘research only’ staff, PDRAs, and PGRs.

 Strategic investment in Impact: The Centre for Child and Family Justice Research was
 established in 2016 to undertake highly impactful work. HARWIN was appointed Professor of
 Socio-Legal Studies to lead the Centre. CCFJR’s expertise is shared more widely within the
 School through the direct mentoring of staff and through dissemination of best practice at the
 School’s Research Committee and at research Away Days.

 Workload allocation: All Category A staff receive a standard allowance of 30% on the workload
 model (WLM) for research. The WLM distributes teaching and other responsibilities so that
 academics are provided with time to conduct research, participate in collaborative activities, and
 develop research management skills.

 Sabbaticals: Research leave is awarded on merit, by open competition. Seniority is not
 considered. Leave has been awarded to 37 colleagues this REF: 54% were women; and 43%
 Grade 7/8 Lecturers. The School’s Research & Education Leave Committee provides feedback
 to applicants on plans for publication and impact. Following leave, staff must complete a report
 to Faculty and report on their research findings at a work-in-progress seminar and in a Law
 School blog.



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Financial support: There are a number of School, Faculty and University funds available to
 support research and impact activities:

       Personal Research Allowance: £1K is provided to all Category A staff which can be used
        for a variety of purposes, including attendance at conferences, meetings etc. Staff can
        request additional funding from the School.

       Faculty Research Fund: 15 Law and Criminology colleagues have accessed this Fund
        during the REF period, with awards made on a competitive basis. This has allowed staff
        to, for example, host an international conference on complexity theory and law, resulting
        in an edited collection (WEBB, WHEATLEY); undertake ethnographic fieldwork, leading
        to the publication of a monograph (FOLLIS); and take up visiting positions at the
        Universities of Amsterdam and Maastricht (GUY).

       Faculty Staff Conference Travel Fund: This fund, which provides support to give papers
        at overseas conferences, has been used extensively by Law School staff, with, for
        example, colleagues presenting at the annual meetings of the Law and Society
        Association in Minneapolis, 2014; Seattle, 2015; Toronto, 2018; Washington, DC, 2019;
        and Denver 2020. The majority were ECRs, reflecting the fact that Faculty funding gives
        priority to ECR applications.

       University funds: These are awarded on a competitive basis: E.g., CUSWORTH and
        HARWIN both successfully applied to the University’s ESRC Impact Accelerator Account
        to support, respectively, research on children born into care, and the role of special
        guardians; XU was awarded £5K from the Global Challenges Research Fund to explore,
        with Professor Gao Wei of Peking University, the principles and practices underlying the
        emerging case law system in China.

 Estate: All Category A staff have their own generously spaced, individual offices that include
 high-quality networked computing facilities. Colleagues are grouped according to shared
 research interests. The School will buy specialist equipment when required: E.g. a higher
 specification computer for HUMPHREYS, needed to process large data sets and do more
 sophisticated analysis to support his research on the mathematical modelling of crime statistics.

 The Library: A dedicated Librarian supports the work of Law and Criminology colleagues,
 providing one-to-one assistance with obtaining specialist materials. Other parts of the Library
 offer one-to-one support on the use of specialist resources, including qualitative and quantitative
 data packages. The Library further provides research information and data; advises on search
 strategies; and helps locate grey literature. Considerable financial resource has been put into the
 library over this REF, including: a £25M investment in the physical infrastructure, with a new
 dedicated PGR and research staff space; Major new Library acquisitions; and, Moves to
 facilitate electronic research. In addition, the Library has launched a Research Data Service that
 provides systems, services and training to enable the effective planning, storage, preservation,
 sharing, reuse and citation of digital research data according to FAIR (findable, accessible,
 interoperable and reusable) principles.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Establishing productive working relations with scholars outside the School to tackle global,
 national and regional challenges is a central part of our research strategy: E.g., 15.2% of outputs
 this REF were written with academics overseas.

 Internationalization: The School encourages strategic partnerships where there is the potential
 for academic synergy. We have a sister Law School in Ghana, with regular staff exchanges and

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategies for research collaborations being developed. We have close links with the University
 of Limerick; Beijing Jiaotong University; South China University of Technology (with five visiting
 scholars from there spending time in Lancaster); and the Chinese University of Political Science
 and Law (Beijing), where, in 2015, we held a research roundtable (including SUMMERS,
 SKOGLY, WHEATLEY) to exchange ideas and perspectives on international law as a global
 language of shared common values.

 External research networks: LU Law staff continue to lead global research networks: E.g.,
     CAMPBELL was one of the convenors of a 2017 international symposium on Brexit at
        New York University, with the papers published as a special issue of the Cardozo Law
        Review;
     POTTER has the leading role, alongside Professor Tom Decorte (Ghent), in the Global
        Cannabis Cultivation Research Consortium, which brings together over 30 academics
        from 16 countries to conduct empirical research at a time when many countries are
        revisiting their drugs policy.
     SKOGLY was a founder member ‘Maastricht IV’, a global network of 30+ scholars
        working towards the elaboration of authoritative principles on ‘Human Rights of Future
        Generations’ to be adopted in 2022. She is a member of the steering committee.
     WEBB and WHEATLEY led a network of academics from the UK and USA exploring the
        questions suggested for law by complexity theory, including organizing an international
        conference at Lancaster in 2015. The resulting publication is the first coherent statement
        of the possibilities of complexity theory for law (see review article, (2020) 83 MLR 661).

 Other staff are involved with the British Association of Comparative Lawyers (GUY); British
 Society of Criminology’s Women, Crime and Criminal Justice Network (BARLOW); Global
 Ecological Integrity Group (VADI); North West Mental Health Law Network (WEBB); UK-China
 Forum (XU); and UK Private International Law Group (AHMED).

 Internal research networks: Colleagues have established deep, productive working relationships
 with the University’s Cross-Faculty, Interdisciplinary Research Institutes. EASTON, FOLLIS,
 GILLESPIE, and SWEENEY have all worked with Security Lancaster, a global leader in
 research on cyber security: E.g. FOLLIS used grants from Security Lancaster to support
 ethnographic fieldwork for his book on Hacker States, including attending the extradition
 proceedings of the hacker, Lauri Love, at Westminster Magistrates Court and at the Royal
 Courts of Justice. BLAKELY and EASTON have both been Fellows of the Institute of Social
 Futures, which links scholars in the social sciences with developments in technology and
 material science.

 Visiting Scholars: In this REF period, we have welcomed, inter alios, seven visitors from China,
 two each from Saudi Arabia, Spain, and Turkey, and researchers from Greece, Japan, and
 Uzbekistan. Visiting scholars are given office-space, as well as access to IT facilities and the
 Library. They are encouraged to participate in the research life of the School, including attending
 at, and presenting to, work-in-progress sessions. Sitting judges have held honorary
 appointments, including Sir Ernest Ryder, a Lord Justice of Appeal and Senior President of the
 Tribunals. Six honorary researchers have been attached to the School.

 4.2. Interaction with key research users

 Engaging with key users of our research is central to our mission of doing work that promotes
 beneficial social change. We believe that this enables us to: Focus our research on key
 problems and questions; Understand the full complexities of an issue; Design research
 questions that result in a deeper understanding of the problem and are more likely to suggest
 outline solutions; and, Fulfil our mission of applying our research skills for wider societal benefit
 across the region, the UK, and the wider world.

 Globally: The expertise of colleagues has been sought by a number of international
 organizations, institutions, and NGOs: E.g.,

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       GILLESPIE acted as advisor to the UN Special Rapporteur on the sale of children, child
        prostitution and child pornography;
       IGANSKI worked with the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE)
        to produce a practical guide targeted at criminal justice practitioners on ‘Hate Crime
        Victims in the Criminal Justice System’;
       SKOGLY gave evidence to a closed meeting of members of the United Nations
        Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and selected NGOs on conflict
        prevention and human rights in 2018; she is now serving as pro bono consultant to the
        Committee, which is drafting guidelines on sustainable development and human rights.

 Other international bodies advised include the Danish Judicial College, and European
 Commission (GILLESPIE); Levudenvold, a Danish Domestic Abuse NGO (BARLOW); and the
 United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (VADI).

 Locally and nationally: Colleagues have given evidence to a range of bodies and inquiries within
 the UK: E.g.,
      FITZPATRICK’s written evidence to the independent review on Keeping Children in Care
         Out of Trouble (The Laming Review) fed directly into the recommendations in the final
         report;
      HARWIN was invited by the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology to assist in
         the preparation of a report on parental alcohol misuse and children, with the aim of
         informing debates in both houses of Parliament. Her work was heavily cited and she peer
         reviewed the final report;
      OST’s expertise on sexual exploitation by doctors and child sexual exploitation was
         sought by the Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse. She was commissioned to
         review their draft thematic report on abuse in healthcare contexts.

 LU Law Staff have also provided advice to public and third sector bodies: E.g.,
     FITZPATRICK advised Her Majesty’s Prisons and Probation Service (HMPPS) on their
       research on care leavers in prison. She sits on the HMPPS research forum for care-
       experienced people and the HMPPS working group on care-experienced women in
       custody.

 Additionally, colleagues’ expertise has been sought by the College of Policing (BARLOW); the
 Crown Prosecution Service, Judicial College, Law Commission, Ministry of Justice, and National
 Police Chief’s Council (GILLESPIE); the Insolvency Service (AKINTOLA); Lancashire
 Constabulary, and Office of the Police and Crime Commissioner of Lancashire (HUMPHREYS);
 Nuffield Council on Bioethics (FOVARGUE); Public Health England (HARWIN); Royal Institute of
 International Affairs (WHEATLEY); Survivors Manchester (WEARE); and UK Board of Shariah
 Councils (AL-ASTEWANI).

 Consultancy & training: Staff often use their research expertise to inform professional practices
 beyond academia: E.g.,
     BARLOW used her ground-breaking work on coercive control to develop a training
        package for police officers to improve their responses to domestic abuse victims. She
        acted in a 'train the trainer' capacity for the Merseyside, Cumbria, and Northumbria
        Constabularies, and for the Independent Office for Police Complaints.
     SWEENEY drew on his research on transitional justice to provide training to the judges
        on the Kosovo Supreme Court and Kosovo Constitutional Court, helping them identify
        and address competing values in a post-conflict society.

 LU Law staff also carry out continuing professional development training for practicing lawyers,
 drawing on their expert knowledge: E.g., MILMAN regularly presents his research findings at
 Exchange Chambers in Manchester and Leeds, where he is a Professorial Associate. He is an
 Honorary Fellow of the Insolvency Lawyers’ Association.



                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3. Engagement with diverse communities and publics

 We believe strongly in the mission of the University to inform and explain. Lancaster University
 has signed the Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research, and holds a Civic University
 Agreement. The Law School regularly engages directly with local communities: E.g.,
     MÜLLER & POTTER gave a public lecture in the city of Lancaster on the arguments
        surrounding the decriminalisation of cannabis, attended by more than 100 people.

 We have, in this REF period, established ourselves as a key contact for media organisations,
 with colleagues giving over 50 interviews to national and international broadcasters, including Al
 Jazeera, BBC News, France 24, and Sky News: E.g.,
      POTTER’s interview on the medical use of cannabis and SUMMERS’ on the Salisbury
         Novichok poisonings both reached a potential audience of over ½ million people on the
         BBC News Channel.

 LU Law staff also appear on national and local radio stations: E.g.,
     SUMMERS’ interview on the rules of war (Radio 4’s World Tonight) and WEARE’s on
       forced-to-penetrate cases (BBC Radio 1/BBC Radio 1Xtra) both had a potential audience
       of over 3¼ million.

 Our work has been reported in national and local newspapers, with HUMPHREYS’ and
 WHEATLEY’s research appearing in The Independent; and OST’s in The Guardian. Staff
 regularly write for The Conversation research blog, with OST’s piece on sexual relations
 between doctors and patients being read by over 80,000 people.

 Our engagement activities are supported by the University’s Communications and Marketing
 team and the Faculty media office.

 4.4. Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline

 LU Law School and its academic staff make major contributions to the sustainability of the
 disciplines of law and criminology, especially in our core areas of research strengths: E.g.,
      EASTON, who leads the ‘Law, cyber and emerging technologies’ stream in the Centre for
         Law & Society (see section 1.4), was Chair of the British and Irish Law, Education and
         Technology Association (BILETA), presiding over a number of international conferences,
         establishing a seminar series, and creating a programme of responses to national and
         EU technology-focused consultations.

 Other examples include colleagues serving as board members of the European Society for Drug
 Research (POTTER) and European Society for the Study of Symbolic Interaction (MÜLLER);
 and as members of the Socio-Legal Studies Association’s Executive Committee (MAYFIELD,
 WEBB).

 OST served as an Outputs Assessor for REF2014; she is a UoA18 Sub-Panel Member for
 REF2021.

 Law and criminology staff have organized over 15 national and international conferences at
 Lancaster during the census period. Highlights include the following:
     The Centre for International Law and Human Rights hosted the 2016 International Law
       Association, British Branch Annual Conference, welcoming 115 delegates from 20
       countries to Lancaster;
     Centre for Law & Society members organized the 2016 Annual Conference of the Socio-
       Legal Studies Association, bringing 500 delegates from across the world to Lancaster,
       with over 500 papers presented, across 53 streams.




                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.5. Contributions to, and recognition by, the research base

 Scholarly peer review: LU Law staff play key roles in the process of timely and effective peer
 review, which we view as essential to sustaining the disciplines of law and criminology: E.g.,
      OST has been Editor-in-Chief of the Medical Law Review, the leading journal in health
        care and law based in the UK, since 2011. FOVARGUE is the Associate Editor.
      EASTON is Editor of the European Journal of Current Legal Issues, Europe’s oldest fully
        open access peer review law journal.

 Other staff serve on the editorial boards of the Human Rights Law Review (GILLESPIE,
 SKOGLY); International Journal of Drug Policy (POTTER); Italian Yearbook of International Law
 and International Trade Law and Regulation (VADI); Journal of Criminal Law (GILLESPIE);
 Nordic Journal of Human Rights (SKOGLY); and Social and Legal Studies (WEBB).

 Colleagues act as editors for book series, including Routledge’s series on Post-Conflict Law and
 Justice (SWEENEY); Routledge’s Studies on Cultural Heritage and International Law (VADI);
 and Kluwer’s series on International Economic Law and Globalization (VADI).

 LU Law staff have reviewed for over 100 academic journals, including all of the major law and
 criminology journals.

 Staff also act as reviewers for the major law and criminology publishers of monographs,
 including Cambridge University Press, Edward Elgar, Oxford University Press, Palgrave
 Macmillan, and Routledge.

 Membership of Research Council or similar: Colleagues provide expert reviews of grant
 proposals to inform funding decisions: E.g., FOVARGUE is a member of the AHRC Peer Review
 College; SWEENEY is a member of the ESRC Review College; and GILLESPIE has been
 appointed to the College of Expert Reviewers for the European Science Foundation. Staff have
 reviewed for the European Research Council (WHEATLEY); Finland Academy (MILMAN);
 Research Foundation Flanders (SWEENEY, VADI); and UNICEF (GILLESPIE); as well as for
 the AHRC (FOVARGUE, GILLESPIE); British Academy (GUY, GILLESPIE, WEARE); Medical
 Research Council (FOVARGUE); Nuffield Foundation (FOVARGUE, HARWIN); and Public
 Health England (HARWIN).

 Fellowships and visiting positions: LU Law staff have been awarded the following prestigious
 fellowships in this REF:
       MURPHY, as Herbert Smiths Freehills Visiting Fellow at the University of Cambridge;
       VADI, as Emile Noel Fellow at New York University; and as a Grotius Research Scholar
        at Michigan University; and
       XU, as a Fudan Scholar at Fudan University.

 Colleagues have also held visiting positions at the Amsterdam Centre for European Law and
 Governance, and Maastricht University (GUY); Auckland University of Technology
 (CAMPBELL); European Union Institute (VADI); Hong Kong University (MURPHY); Melbourne
 University (EASTON); Monash University (BARLOW); and University of Newcastle, Australia
 (OST).

 Election as Honorary Fellow: Emeritus Professor, David Sugarman (inaugural Director of our
 interdisciplinary Centre for Law & Society) was Elected an Honorary Fellow of the American
 Society for Legal History in 2019. This is the highest honour the American Society can confer: ‘It
 recognizes distinguished historians whose scholarship has shaped the broad discipline of legal
 history and influenced the work of others.’ The Legal History Blog notes that ‘[British] socio-legal
 history has blossomed under David Sugarman’s brilliant leadership.’

 Invited keynotes and lectures: Our staff are regularly invited to give public and plenary lectures
 at important international events: E.g.,

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       SKOGLY at the United Nations Intergovernmental Working Group on a Treaty for
        Business and Human Rights, attended by around 100 state delegates and 250 NGOs.

 Other staff have given public lectures overseas in Belgium (WHEATLEY); Croatia (GILLESPIE);
 Cyprus and Japan (EASTON); Denmark (BARLOW); France, Norway, and Sweden (IGANSKI);
 and Italy (VADI). In the UK, staff have given public lectures at the Care Leavers’ Association
 national conference (FITZPATRICK); Coastal Child and Therapeutic Services conference (OST);
 United Patients Alliance conference (POTTER); and President of the Family Division’s annual
 judicial conference (HARWIN).

 Colleagues have also delivered key addresses at international conferences: E.g.,
      SWEENEY at a United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) & University
        of Luxembourg symposium on ‘Protection of People Fleeing Armed Conflict’, where the
        participants included academics, UNCHR staff, and judges from the European Court of
        Justice and European Court of Human Rights.

 Citations: Our research has been cited by the World Trade Organization; by the High Court in
 England & Wales; the Court of Appeal; and by the Supreme Court; and by Courts in Canada,
 India, Jersey, and Scotland, and the Supreme Courts of Ireland and New Zealand. MILMAN’S
 work alone has been cited on 24 occasions this REF, including by the UK and Irish Supreme
 Courts. Our research has also been cited in debates in the House of Lords: E.g., on the notion of
 commonhold, 2015; on the closure of the FDAC National Unit, 2017; and on the Conscientious
 Objection (Medical Activities) Bill 2017-19.

 4.6. External examining

 Colleagues have been external examiners for over 40 PhDs in this REF period, including at the
 Universities of Bristol, Durham, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Leeds, Manchester, and UCL; and,
 overseas, at the Universities of Amsterdam, Australian National University, Cape Town, Galway,
 Leiden, Malta, Oslo, Rome, Utrecht, and Vilnius.




                                                                                          Page 19
