Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: The University of Leeds
  Unit of Assessment: UOA9 (Physics)
  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
  Overview. The School has 42 academic
  staff structured into five scientific
  research groups covering major fields in
  Physics and Astronomy. We are key
  partners in several multidisciplinary
  research centres across the University as
  well as a number of National Institutes
  (Fig. right); Capital letters used
  throughout (AP, CM, SMP, TP and MNP)
  refer to the research groups. 34 staff are being returned through UoA 9, 4 joint appointments through
  their partner schools/faculties (Medicine, Biology and Chemistry) and 4 have teaching roles.
  Research strategy and plans. Our aim is to perform world-leading research in each of our research
  areas in both fundamental and applied research as well as addressing key questions and Global
  Challenges at multidisciplinary interfaces. The primary objective for the school as outlined in
  REF2014 was to grow our areas of strength, with particular emphasis on the development of
  interdisciplinary links at the biophysics/healthcare interface (MNP), in Astrophysics (AP) and in
  materials (CM). We also indicated the desire to strengthen the existing Soft Matter Physics (SMP)
  and Theoretical Physics (TP) groups. To this end the School has made 22 strategic new
  appointments, which equates to 16.4 FTE within the school. In pursuing the goal of strengthening
  multidisciplinary research 6 of these appointments have been made jointly across different schools /
  faculties within the University. Two major challenges/opportunities not foreseen in our strategy for
  REF2014 relate to: The departure of Olmsted, the previous head of SMP, to the USA. This allowed
  for a strategic appointment of Gleeson to lead the Soft Matter activity in the School and to establish
  a leading “Liquid Crystal” activity. The recruitment of Marsh, a former Deputy Director of the National
  Center for Atmospheric Research to the Priestley Chair in Comparative Planetary Atmospheres.
  We now describe our Research strategy/plans at the group level, Objectives set in REF2014 are
  referred to by Obj1, etc. whereas objectives set in REF2021 are identified by group initials followed
  by a number e.g., CM1, etc.).
  Astrophysics (AP). The AP group made 2 FTE University Academic Fellow (UAF)* appointments
  (Panić, Walsh) (*see Section 2), 1 FTE lecturer (Van Loo) and 0.2 FTE full professor (Marsh) taking
  the total number of academic staff to 7.2 FTE. These appointments bolstered our activity in the
  physical and chemical processes that are at work in planet-forming disks and planetary formation, in
  line with Obj1, 2 and 3 set in 2014. These included expanding: efforts into MHD modelling of planet-
  forming disks (Obj1); use of astrochemical and radiative transfer modelling of star and planet
  formation (Obj2) to compare with high resolution techniques using leading telescopes at various
  wavebands (Obj3, Obj4), as well as maintain involvement in the planning of future facilities (Obj5).
  The new expertise strengthened links with Chemistry and Earth and Environment within Leeds. Panić
  won a RS Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowship and Walsh a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship. Van Loo’s
  interdisciplinary work on fluid dynamics has led to collaborations with Mathematics and Engineering
  at Leeds. The group is one of the few in the world that has all of the expertise required for attacking
  the key problems in this field; We apply basic hydrodynamic and magnetohydrodynamic (MHD)
  processes to gravitationally collapse and feedback in star formation. The group carries out high
  spatial and spectral resolution observational studies of accretion, outflows and binarity in massive
  protostars using cutting edge IR techniques and radio and (sub)-millimetre interferometry, supported
  by an STFC Consolidated Grant (Obj 1-4). AP also conducts observational and theoretical studies of
  the physical and chemical process in proto-planetary disks, the birthplaces of planets.
  Astrophysics plans to extend their research into planet formation and exo-planetary atmospheres
  (AP1). These efforts concern both the use and further development of theoretical MHD models, dust
  Monte-Carlo radiative transfer, multi-dimensional chemical models, as well as bespoke atmospheric
  models to interpret observations from state-of-the art observatories and further into the REF period
  new facilities such as JWST, SKA and the ELT (AP2). We will incorporate new physics models and
                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  radiative feedback processes in the 3D MHD models to understand massive star formation and its
  impact on the evolution of galaxies over cosmic time (AP3). The arrival of a new Head of School in
  Spring 2021 (Mark Thompson) will strengthen our efforts in survey astronomy and our involvement
  in the next generation radio telescope, SKA.
  Condensed Matter (CM). Objectives from REF2014 were the extension of conventional spintronics
  to single spin manipulation, pure spin effects and organics (Obj1), quantum transport in topological
  systems (Obj2), systems with reduced dimensionality (Obj3), materials for lower power consumption,
  sustainability and post-CMOS electronics (Obj4). CM appointed two lecturers: Sasaki an expert in
  topological processing and superconducting materials (Obj2,3) and Barker (URF) who specialises in
  atomistic computational physics working on fundamental magnetism (Obj1,3,4), spin and heat
  transfer (Obj1,3) and sub-ps magnetisation dynamics (Obj2). This work is also supported by a RS
  top-up grant. All the objectives have been pursued by group-wide projects: two successive EPSRC
  Platform Grants, a Strategic Equipment grant for multifunctional scanning probe microscopy and
  Royce Institute support, which has provided a £2.2M UHV deposition system for growing complex
  oxides (PLD), organics (thermal evaporation), metals and other materials (sputtering) and topological
  materials (MBE) and has led to over 20 new international collaborators. Significant funding has been
  secured for (Obj2,4): Skyrmions: This work (supported by EU MagicSky, EMPIR TOPS and multiple
  EPSRC grants, including a Programme grant led by St. Andrews) is studying synthetic
  antiferromagnets in transport and Quantum Spin Hall effects. (Obj1,2): Pure spin currents and
  quantum transport in topological systems feature in a new EPSRC Programme Grant (£10M) led by
  Manchester that will develop advanced materials by ion implantation of samples grown in our ‘Royce
  growth’ system. (Obj1,4): Molecular Hybrids. A strong thread of the group’s activity (EPSRC-SFI
  grant (£2M)) sustained by advanced characterisation using SQUID-VSM and Raman microscopy.
  (Obj2, 3, 4): Magnetic nanostructures including artificial spin ices, perpendicular magnetisation,
  hybrid piezo/magnetic structures (supported by 2 EPSRC grants and an EU ITN (MagnEFi).
  CM plans to build on its strengths of growth, characterisation and transport, to create the spintronic
  equivalents of metamaterials. Our research objectives are (CM1) reducing the energy cost of
  spintronics, (CM2) creating and influencing quantum and classical states through topology, strain and
  hybrid structures, (CM3) neuromorphic computing applications (CM4) influencing the exploitable
  properties of magnets and heavy metals through the use of organic molecules (CM5).
  Molecular and Nanoscale Physics (MNP). Objectives from REF 2014 for the group were to:
  Increase translation of physics to biology and healthcare (Obj1); Develop further our work in synthetic
  biology (Obj2); Develop hierarchically assembled (Bio)systems (Obj3); Develop new collaborations
  on “Life in extreme environments” (Obj4). We appointed 6 (4.8 FTE) UAFs and 1 (0.4 FTE) associate
  professor in Biophysics/Bionanotechnology during the period. Our strength in membrane
  biophysics was recognised through ERC early career award (Richter), a BBSRC Early Leader
  Fellowship (Adams) as well as EPSRC programme grants CAPITALS (Connell) and Low-
  Dimensional Chemistry (Evans) and has focussed on the understanding of biomolecular interactions
  at membranes (Obj2,3), the in-vitro formation of minimal systems for light harvesting (Obj2). The
  EPSRC Fellowship (Dougan) focusses on development of protein-based gels for healthcare (Obj1,2).
  Our microfluidic based assembly of lipid membrane coated bubbles and LC droplets for diagnostics
  and therapeutic delivery (Obj1-3). Our excellence in Scanning Probe Microscopy /Spectroscopy
  of biological and soft matter systems has been strengthened through the appointment of Sweetman
  (UAF) a leader in low-temperature force-probe measurements, who holds two Fellowships (URF and
  ERC) and the recent appointments of Heath (UAF), to develop high-speed high-resolution AFM, and
  Ponjavic (UAF) to develop high-speed fluorescence microscopy. These appointments have led to a
  substantial award for a new Wolfson Imaging Facility aimed at imaging biological systems, from single
  molecules to whole cells and organoids (Obj1). We have strengthened links with Medicine through
  Ong (UAF) in nanomaterials for therapy and Peyman (UAF) in microfluidics for evaluation of cancer
  therapies and understanding cancer evolution (Obj1). Dougan’s work on Life in Extreme
  Environments led to an ERC award and she has subsequently been instrumental in establishing an
  NSF funded Extreme Biophysics Research Coordination network (Obj4).
  MNP plans to develop; improved, high-throughput, single cell approaches to understanding disease
  progression (MNP1); microfluidic platforms for the formation of complex cancer-on-chip and biofilm
  models (MNP2); improved understanding and control of hierarchical protein hydrogel structures
  (MNP3); novel high-speed, high-resolution, force probe microscopy/spectroscopy and fluorescence
  imaging platforms for imaging of membrane proteins involved in force transduction and immune
                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  response (MNP4); hybrid biological model membranes for light harvesting (MNP5). These objectives
  align with EPSRC-funded Physics of Life Grand Challenges and Directed Assembly Networks.
  Soft Matter Physics (SMP) and Theoretical Physics (TP) have transformed significantly since
  REF2014. SMP appointed Gleeson (Head of Group), Jones (Professorial EPSRC Advanced
  Manufacturing Fellow) and Nagaraj (UAF) to develop a new activity in LC research. TP lost Spiller,
  Kendon and Dunningham who were replaced by Papic and Jennings. Further, Harris transferred from
  SMP to TP to create a critical size of activity within Theoretical and Computational Physics. Thus,
  some of the objectives from REF2014 are no longer relevant/ or referred to in the following text.
  Soft Matter Physics –SMP experimentalists continue to work closely with theoreticians [Impact
  Case: McLeish] and chemists. Our world-leading facilities include; LC characterisation and device
  fabrication as well as advanced tools for polymer systems (e.g. NMR, rheology, and mechanical
  analysis). In liquid crystals: investigations of novel materials led to: discovery of the first synthetic
  molecular auxetic system (a liquid crystal elastomer); advances in understanding molecular order;
  deducing the physics of anomalous elastic behaviour; finding novel field-behaviour in dark
  conglomerate phases; inventing new LC sensors and devices. In polymers, glasses, colloids and
  composites we have: improved knowledge of the dynamics, structure, and mechanics in glasses
  through model polymers; provided a deep understanding of hydrogen bonding in polymers, ionic
  liquids and cellulosic materials [Impact case; Futamura] (Obj3); invented new, sustainable,
  lightweight composites; found solutions for energy challenges, including Li+ batteries through
  multidisciplinary research with collaborators (Obj2). SMP works closely with industry applying
  fundamental understanding to applications, e.g. adaptive optics, sensors, lightweight strong
  cellulose-based composites, gel solutions for Li+ batteries; auxetic composites.
  SMP plans appointments to grow theoretical research and stronger links with Chemistry, developing
  new soft materials. A Leverhulme EC Fellow joins in early 2021 to build critical mass in LC elastomers.
  Our key aims engage directly with Grand Challenges (Nanoscale design of materials; Physics of Life,
  Out of Equilibrium, Novel Manufacturing). Deducing fundamental links between gelation, flow, the
  glass transition, and complex structured materials (smart surfaces and speciality thin films) (SMP1);
  Controlling novel LC geometries and surfaces (design of devices/sensors (SMP2); Understanding
  auxeticity in LC elastomers, (SMP3); Understanding hydrogen bonding and supramolecular
  materials, eg water, cryopreservation, and cellulose (SMP4) and Exploiting novel LC devices (SMP5).
  Theoretical Physics (TP). Papic (Leverhulme Trust’s Research Leadership Award) and Jennings
  (Royal Society RF & UAF) extended the expertise of the group in quantum, statistical and condensed
  matter physics (Obj1). In addition to solving fundamental challenges of modern theoretical physics,
  all group members have close links to experimental research groups and have been Co-I’s of the
  national EPSRC Quantum Technology Hubs. Current research covers key applications in quantum
  information science: from computation and simulation, metrology and sensing to communication. Our
  research has resulted in a spin-out company for medical applications (CREAVO by Varcoe) and a
  novel tool (UNISCAN) for the non-invasive detection of oil pipelines (Impact Case: Speir Hunter)
  (Obj4). In 2015, the group became a partner of the EU Coordination Action QUTE and hosted the
  leading European Quantum Information conference (QIPC2015).
  TP plans to recruit in Soft Matter /Biological physics and to expand our activities in the applied
  quantum photonics area (TP1), to expand its research into exotic particles, topological effects and of
  open quantum systems to further reduce the resource requirements for quantum technology tasks
  (TP2). On the applied side, TP seeks to expand its research into near-term quantum technology
  devices, e.g., quantum sensors for medical applications (TP3). Our studies into quantum
  thermodynamics, into novel phenomena in quantum many-body physics and into computational
  biophysics aim at increasing our understanding of processes in designed, natural and biological
  systems (TP4). In addition, we will be applying concepts and techniques from quantum information
  science to condensed matter systems with applications in quantum transport (TP5).
  Impact Strategy. We support academics to develop commercial and public recognition/impact for
  their research. For “Outputs” the press office helps to generate publicity increasing both academic
  and wider public awareness; for example, recent press-release on ‘Organic magnets’ paper featured
  on the front cover of the journal Nature and achieved over 1M readership. All outputs and data are
  publicly available on local open access repositories and staff are moving towards publication in ‘full
  open access journals’ which carry the “DOAJ Seal”, e.g., Phys. Rev. X.

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  The potential commercial impact of research is considered prior to publication through discussion
  with our Research and Innovation Services. Staff take advantage of Impact Acceleration Awards,
  MRC-Proof of Concept, Northern Triangle Initiative funding, etc, to develop further impact/IP or to
  partner with relevant companies. This led to 38 patents on ~9 research topics. We work closely with
  industry, both at the individual level via staff secondments or funded collaborations as well as through
  the development of larger strategic partnerships e.g., with Merck (on Liquid Crystals) and the
  Medicines Discovery Catapult (for Microbubble based Therapies). Our Physics Outreach Officer (1
  FTE) leads engagement activities ensuring broad dissemination across age groups, genders and
  ethnicities. Highlights include the New Scientist ‘The biggest questions in physics’ Live lecture; a
  project with Royal Society and British Sign Language to develop 50 new signs for Exoplant research
  and the National Saturday Art Club. Outreach is supported by the Ogden Trust, IOP Public
  Engagement grants, Royal Society and Biochemical Society ‘Diversity in Science’ awards and have
  been recognised by a finalist award in the New Designers show at the London Business Design
  Centre and took silver at the Creative Conscience Awards. With artists at the Cultural Institute, we
  have led an initiative to pair scientists with creative artists providing innovation in materials design,
  including a partnership with Yorkshire Textiles, Caroline Horton Theatre and artist Dominic Smith.
  The University requires all staff to operate in accordance with its ‘Codes of Practice’. Details of the
  policies, procedures and codes of practice are available: www.leeds.ac.uk/secretariat/policies_
  procedures_ codesofpractice.html

  2. People
   i. Staffing strategy and staff development
  Recruitment. The School has grown, in accord with the
  strategy set-out in REF2014, from 28 staff (equating to a
  UoA9 return of 24 FTE + 4 FTE teaching related) to 42
  staff (equating to a UoA9 return of 34 FTE + 4 FTE
  returned through other UoAs + 4 FTE teaching related).
  Our growth has been largely achieved through our
  success in winning both External (RS-URF and ERC)
  and internal University Academic Fellowships (UAFs),
  the latter being 5-year positions that lead to a permanent
  academic post on successful completion of probation
  (three of these have now done so and hold Associate
  Professor positions). These appointments have made a positive change to the gender balance within
  the School, with an ~50% F/M ratio for the new appointees, significantly above the sector norm, and
  is part of our continuing efforts to increase EDI in school (figure above shows changes since 2014).
  Key strategic appointments. Gleeson was appointed as the Head of Soft Matter and Head of School
  to provide leadership to the Soft Matter Group and establish a leading Liquid Crystal activity with
  Jones (Prof.) and Nagaraj (UAF). The appointment of Marsh, Panic and Walsh was central to
  development of exo-planetary research. Personal Research Fellowships. During the census period
  our staff have been successful in achieving >12 of funded fellowships. Dougan, Sweetman and
  Richter have held/hold ERC early career fellowships. Sweetman, Barker and Jennings hold RS
  Fellowships (URFs), Panić is a Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin Fellow. Walsh holds a UKRI FLF.
  Dougan holds an EPSRC Early Career Fellowship and Jones has an EPSRC Manufacturing
  Fellowship. Ries held a RS Industrial Fellowship, at Futamura (Impact Case). Critchley and Evans
  have both held discipline hop awards from the EPSRC and Wellcome Trust/MRC respectively. Adams
  held a BBSRC Future Leaders Fellowship. Future appointments. The School has identified Theory
  (Soft Matter/Biophysics) as a priority to support the experimental activities in these areas.
  Staff Development. We provide a supportive environment to allow staff, at all levels, including
  support and technical staff, to reach their full potential. All academic staff are invited to agree
  challenging research targets that align their ambition to the goals of the school and that allow
  creativity to flourish. The School encourages participation of all staff in relevant national and EU
  research networks and promotes collaboration both internally and externally. At the heart of staff
  development is the Staff Review and Development Scheme, which provides all staff (including
  PDRA and support staff) with 2-way review process to identify key objectives aligned with the
  School’s strategic plan, as well as opportunities for individual training and career progression. All new
  staff are allocated a mentor and undergo probation if they have not already done so for their current

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  or similar role. Progress is discussed annually, and formally assessed midway with new objectives
  set and potential training needs identified. The school introduced a Sabbatical policy in 2018 offering
  staff the possibility of taking one term after three years qualifying service or two terms after six years
  qualifying service. This has been used by Harris to build new links and become the lead for
  successful renewal of the UK CCP-BioSim Network and by Hickey to develop a ‘Progamme Grant’
  application. Academics are supported during maternity, adoption, shared parental, additional
  paternity, extended carer's, or long-term sickness leave through the provision of temporary
  appointments that support their research and are entitled to one term of sabbatical leave on return
  without teaching commitments. This is designed to enable staff to maintain and re-integrate with their
  research activity. The school is supportive of staff undertaking exchanges with industry, discipline
  hopping and to other third sector bodies. For example, Ries spent 18 months working with Futamura
  plc and Evans’ discipline hop led to his becoming the Research Director for the NIHR Surgical
  MedTech Cooperative, as well as being invited to sit on the Life Sciences & Healthcare Programme
  Expert Group for BEIS. Junior level appointees (University Academic Fellows /new lecturers)
  receive start-up funds ranging from £30k-£50k and a guarantee of at least one PhD within the first
  two years of their appointment to help build their research team. Their teaching duties are ramped-
  up to an average load over a 3-year period. The UAF scheme provides a bespoke training and
  support programme. All new appointees are expected to become a Fellow of the HEA, as part of their
  probation. Reward & Recognition. Staff, on grades 2-9, can apply for promotion at any time and are
  supported in the process by the Head of School. The University has a continuous process for
  recognition of exceptional contributions, made on the basis of recommendation by a line-manager
  these range from one-off payments to gift vouchers – since 2017 we have made 21 such rewards for
  researchers. There is also a reward scheme, based on a recommendation from the School, for
  discretionary payments/increments, recent examples, include Ye for the discovery of a method to
  create “atomically thin gold’’ and Hanson for the development of a soft-matter outreach study. We
  also recognise research accomplishment or community service in our workload model.
  ii. Research students
  Recruitment. We recruit to MSc and PhD level programmes, engaging in CASE collaborations with
  industry and with CDTs including SOFI, Fluids (etc.). All prospective PGs are interviewed by their
  potential supervisor plus an additional member of academic staff and assessed against a standard
  set of criteria to ensure fairness and uniformity across the school. During the REF period the School
  has grown its PhD cohort from 1.7 to 2.4 students/FTE. The breakdown of our 229 PGRs was
  141:19:69 Home: EU: Overseas and 157: 72 Male: Female.
  Training & Support. All PGs undergo a training needs analysis to allow students to tailor their own
  development. It focuses on progressively more specific skills, including those concerning safety,
  ethics, entrepreneurship, exploitation of research, impact, project management, cv design, and
  interviewing strategies. Students give talks within their research groups and present their work at
  national and international conferences. Final year students give talks and second year students
  present posters to the entire school at the annual Postgraduate Symposium. Physics have been
  successful in winning EPSRC Doctoral Prize fellowships and our students have won numerous
  prizes, including the Glen Brown Award of the International Liquid Crystal Society 2020. The School
  has two post-graduate (PG) tutors for admissions and progression, plus a Women’s tutor and an
  International tutor to support research students.
  International Travel. Students receive £1.65k pa for minor consumables and attendance at
  conferences. Students are encouraged to present their work at international conferences and to apply
  for small travel grants (e.g. from the IoP, RSC, etc.) to support their attendance. Over 60% of students
  have been successful in this. Over 40% of our students take the opportunity to work at international
  facilities, in collaborators’ laboratories or in industry during their PhD.
  Progress Monitoring and Support. Each PG has a supervision team comprising of at least two
  academic supervisors, an assessment team comprising two members of staff and a support team. If
  the primary supervisor is on probation, an experienced staff member is appointed as the co-
  supervisor. The students have a transfer viva towards the end year 1 and a progress viva at the end
  of subsequent years. All students file monthly reports monitoring their progress. The PG researchers
  have group representatives who attend the School’s PG committee and the School meetings to
  represent PG matters. Our PGs also undertake an anonymous survey each year to allow them to
  express their views regarding our PG processes including supervision, research culture, and issues
  affecting their PG experience as a whole. In addition, we have introduced an ‘Expectations’ document
                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  for incoming PhD students and supervisors, a School Code of Conduct and a PhD+ scheme for
  International students (with an additional year support and training, prior to starting the research
  aspect of the PhD). Such innovative practises contributed to Gleeson being awarded the Times
  Higher Ed. ‘Outstanding Research Supervisor’ in 2018.
  Studentships & Completion Rates. During the REF period 229 PhD students were registered
  within the school, of whom 182 have completed or are still studying and 5 students have withdrawn
  from their studies. The school has an expectation of completion within the funded period and the
  University has an expected completion within 4 years, supported through progression monitoring and
  an expectation of publication throughout the study period wherever possible. The students registered
  within the School are typically funded through RCUK (50%), the UoL and scholarships (25%), self-
  funded and other sources (25%). Members of the School supervise students from 3 Doctoral Training
  Centres (Soft Matter and Functional Interfaces (SOFI), Molecules-to-Manufacture, Fluid Dynamics).
  Destinations. Approximately 56% of the PhDs during the REF period have remained in academia ,
  either as PDRA’s, research fellows or lectureships, 28% have moved into industry, 5% have gone
  into other/public sector and 11% are unknown/undecided.
  iii. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion.
  Our E&I committee works to ensures EDI is carefully addressed in all elements of school activity and
  has a developed action plan for promoting equality and diversity. We hold ‘Juno Practitioner status’
  by the Institute of Physics, for our proactive approach to achieving equal opportunities and
  encouraging best practice among staff. This included a new School Code of Conduct for promoting
  inclusivity across the School. The committee continuously monitors both qualitative and quantitative
  data such as female to male ratios in staff recruitment, promotion, and student admissions through
  to graduation. The Faculties of Mathematics and Physical Sciences (Athena SWAN Bronze Award)
  and Engineering Faculty (Athena SWAN Silver Award) were merged in 2020. The School promotes
  the Athena SWAN scheme values, including;
       • transparency in policies for committee membership & selection
       • ensuring recruitment and induction processes embrace equality issues and training
       • ensuring review meetings consistently focus on promotion and career development
       • aiming to improve gender parity among staff, PDRAs, and PhD students
       • supporting researchers returning from periods away from work
       • introduced a phased return to teaching for staff returning from parental leave
       • supporting staff working part-time and working flexibly
  The latter three have all been taken-up by staff during the REF period.
  The School also runs an Annual Women in Physics lunch, for PhD level upwards, and encourages
  participation in a university-wide Women in Science, Engineering Technology group. We promote a
  culture of openness and inclusion via invitation of all staff to: Monthly School Meetings; Summer,
  Christmas and Eid events, to recognise their contribution to the school. An annual away day to
  discuss school operations and ambitions is attended by all permanent staff and representatives of
  PDRA/ PhDs. There is direct access to the Head of School via bi-weekly ‘open-office’ sessions.
     All members of the school have access to counselling, mindfulness and a broad range of additional
  resources through the University’s Staff Counselling and Psychological Support Service. All staff
  undertake an anonymous questionnaire on school operations/ management/ gender issues, etc. The
  results are fedback and discussed at a School meeting.
         3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
  Income. We have been investigators on grants worth £52M of
  which ~£27M has been attributed to the school, equating to
  ~£152k per annum per FTE. This figure should be taken in
  context that 11 of our staff are early career researchers in their
  first academic post. The School has ambitious plans to grow
  its research income, driven through a combination of factors
  including: the substantial investment in the new UAF cohort; a
  new state of the art building for the School (from 2021) and
  new collaborations arising from engagement within the Bragg
  Centre for Materials and the Royce Institute. These will be
  coupled with a strong internal peer review process and
  initiatives to incentivise grant submissions. The School has performed well through EU funding with
                                                                                           Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Advanced ERC Fellowship Awards to Caselli and ERC Awards to Dougan, Sweetman and Richter.
  The School has led numerous EU-ITNs (£0.5M, Oudmaijer), (Spinicur, £4M, Hickey) and EU-RIA
  (£2M, Lumsden). Other major grants within the current REF period include support for growth facilities
  in the Sir Henry Royce Institute of Advanced Materials (£2M), Wolfson Imaging Facility (£0.75k).
  EPSRC Fellowships to Dougan and Jones (£1M and £2M respectively), Royal Society Fellowships
  to Sweetman, Barker, Jennings and Panić ~£0.5M each). Healthcare Partnership: Engineering
  Therapeutic Microbubbles (£1.2M (0.6M EPSRC and 0.6M MDC), Support from Merck (£1M). The
  Astrophysics group has been funded through STFC Consolidated Grants (£3M over the 2014-2021
  period) and a Newton Fund project funded via STFC (£3.8M) for human capital development in radio
  astronomy in Africa (DARA, led by Hoare, involving 15 African Universities and institutes). We have
  also been partners on several EPSRC Programme Grants with a total value in excess of £24M,
  including; Low Dimensional Chemistry (with Sheffield), Nanoscale Advanced Materials Engineering
  (with Manchester & Imperial), Sculpting Dynamic Amphiphilic Structures (with Imperial/ Durham) and
  Enabling next generation lithium batteries (with Oxford).
  Infrastructure. The School is one of the major beneficiaries of the largest single investment that the
  University has made, namely £96M for the construction of a new building – the Bragg Building. The
  School will relocate in its entirety over the course of 2021. The Bragg Building will house the School
  of Physics and Astronomy, the Bragg Centre for Materials, and the School of Computing. It will
  provide an integrated suite of world-class research facilities covering all aspects of the research
  currently undertaken within the School. It is expected to underpin the development of new, stronger
  linkages to the schools of Chemistry, Chemical & Process Engineering, Electrical and Mechanical
  Engineering among others and thereby help facilitate the development of new multidisciplinary
  research. The building will provide state of the art clean rooms, laboratories for the deposition of
  metals and semiconductor thin films, low vibration laboratories for materials characterisation (electron
  and scanning probe microscopy) and biological and soft-matter physics research laboratories. The
  building will also house new undergraduate teaching laboratories and teaching space so that the UG
  student experience will be strongly embedded within our research environment. We have an annual
  investment of ~£150k for replacement/upgrade of equipment within the School.
  Internal Facilities. The School operates three EPSRC recognised small research facilities (SRFs);
  i) materials deposition and cryogenics (3 sputterers, 2 MBEs, helium liquefier), ii) surface analysis &
  scanning probe microscopy (which will include new Wolfson Imaging Facility (£750k)) and iii) NMR
  of soft materials. The equipment facilities have been boosted by various grants from EPSRC,
  BBSRC, MRC as well as from the University. These facilities are widely available (School, Faculty,
  Bragg Centre, Royce Institute and Astbury Centre) via web booking portals, allowing both wider
  internal use and facilitating external academic and industrial access to our facilities. Research
  Facility Support. The School has 5 experimental officers who oversee the maintenance of
  laboratories, health and safety and operation/training of specialised facilities/equipment and are key
  to running our EPSRC recognised small research facilities (SRFs). Technical Workshops. The
  School has a dedicated electronics workshop (3 staff) mechanical workshop and cryogenics (5 staff)
  to provide expert technical support to researchers. Their staff design and build new equipment and
  maintain and repair existing equipment – we are well known for our skills in designing and building
  UHV chambers for deposition, cryostats and measurement systems. Career development for support

  staff is centred on acquiring specialist skills in areas that are vital for the research programmes. HFG
  chairs the University Technicians Commitment Committee and has ensured that staff are taking full
  advantage of available promotion opportunities. Administrative Support. 1 clerical and 2
  administrative staff are involved in supporting the School’s research activities.
  External Facilities. Members of the School have access to world leading facilities. As part of the
  UKMHD consortium, AP theoreticians have access to DiRAC II high performance computing as well
  as the Leeds high performance computing facility ~1900 cores. AP use leading external facilities,
  including ALMA, ESO (including the very large telescope (VLT) and the VLTI), VLA, MERLIN and
  ATCA, as well as the MeerKAT. Theory makes heavy use of HECToR high performance computing
  and has recently taken over the lead of the EPSRC Supported CCP-BioSim network. CM makes
  extensive use of neutron and x-ray scattering facilities: ISIS, Diamond, ESRF, as well as BNLS and
  ALS in the US. MNP collaborate closely with researchers at ISIS and are heavy users of neutron
  facilities at ISIS while SMP use BESSY, Diamond, ISIS and ILL. Our use of International and RCUK
  facilities during the REF period amounts to an in-kind contribution to our research of £6.36M.
                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
  Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships. All of the research groups are involved in national
  and international research projects. The latter are supported through the International lead for the
  School (Panić) and our International Office, which is responsible for drawing up Memoranda of
  Understanding (MoUs) and Collaboration Agreements.
  The AP group collaborates with 150 universities and 50 research institutes. Members of the group
  have led several large international survey projects including the RMS survey (10 partners from Asia,
  Australia, Mexico and UK) and the CORNISH North and South surveys (18 partners from Europe,
  North- and South America, Africa and Australia). Exploitation of the large, well-selected samples
  derived from these surveys underpins some of their observational work. Other major international
  collaborations led by Leeds personnel include the e-MERLIN Legacy Programme on Feedback
  Processes in Massive Star Formation, EU ITN and Space projects led by Oudmaijer and Lumsden
  respectively, a large VLT X-Shooter collaboration on planet hosting stars (Panić) and an ALMA Large
  Programme on the Chemistry of Planet Formation (Walsh), all with partners from around the world.
  Hoare and Oudmaijer have important roles in the science teams for the SKA and ELT projects
  respectively. CM works with 30 universities 6 international research institutes, 5 companies. The
  projects range from the large (2 EU projects with ~ 10 partners each, joint EPSRC – SFI project), to
  the medium scale (EPSRC with 2-3 partners). Our collaborative team brings expertise in microscopy
  (IBM Zurich, Glasgow), scattering (ISIS, Brookhaven, PSI), theory (Tokyo, Tohoku, Delft, Bristol) as
  well as devices and applications (Cambridge, NPL). As a result, CM have increased its use of
  scattering facilities, incorporated new measurement techniques in our labs, published higher impact
  papers and enabled our students and postdocs to work in our collaborators’ labs. The CM group have
  been partners in a JSPRC/EPSRC core to core programme with University Tukhuro, Japan. The
  MNP group have two ongoing JSPS / Royal Society awards. One to collaborate with Tokyo Institute
  of Technology (4 staff) for the peptide-controlled fabrication of nanomaterials – which has led to 7
  joint papers to date and a second to work with Kobe University on the development of novel
  approaches to study light harvesting systems (4 staff). They are also collaborating with Tokyo
  University and are a member of the multinational network ‘Serendipity Laboratory’ led by Tokyo
  University (>50 staff). MNP hosts an annual International Microbubble Symposium
  (https://microbubbles.leeds.ac.uk) which brings world leaders to the UK (ran since 2011). MNP
  collaborates with Baumberg on nanomaterials; Schlau-Cohen (MIT), Montano (Northern Arizona
  Univ.) and Scheuring (Weill-Cornell Medical Institute, NY) in lipid membranes and have hosted and
  co-organised TETHMEM International Meeting on Lipid Membranes for ~20 yrs. We participated in
  the NSF/Deep Carbon Observatory workshop on Extreme Biophysics and co-wrote a ‘white paper’
  to lobby for the funding of the Extreme Biophysics area, leading to the launch of the NSF funded
  Extreme Biophysics Research Coordination network (MNP-Obj1). SMP –collaborate with Osipov
  and Mottram (Strathclyde) on theory, Goodby, Cowling and Mandle (York) on chemistry with Merck
  on novel LC devices, and with Warner and Terentjev (Cambridge), Evans (Exeter), Cleaver and
  Alderson (Sheffield Hallam), Mistry (Denver) on auxetic LCEs, and with Musevic (Ljubljana) on liquid
  crystal colloids. Nagaraj works with Tschierske (Halle) on materials.        In polymer physics we
  collaborate with Budtova (Ecole des Mines, France) on cellulose processing and with Durham and
  Kyoto on entangled polymer dynamics. TP is internationally highly recognised, regularly welcomes
  international visitors (e.g. Jackiw, Lloyd, Haldane and many others) and has collaborators across the
  world (e.g. Spain, Italy, Belgium, Switzerland, France, US, India and China). External recognition is
  reflected in the fact that the TP group hosted the main European Quantum Technologies conference
  QIPC 2015 (funded by a European Cost Action) with Beige as Chair, and Photon 16, an annual IoP
  conference. In addition, TP hosted the QiICC Summer School 2019 with funding from the EPSRC.
  Impacting Society. The School has a dedicated outreach officer to support the engagement of our
  research groups with local schools (including students and teachers) and the general public. All
  members of staff have been actively involved in local events such as Leeds Science Festival, Leeds
  Light Night, Pint of Science, Soapbox Science, the annual Be Curious Festival at UoL as well as the
  annual Astbury Conversation which includes a public engagement event. Our Bolton lecture in
  Astrophysics typically attract 400-500 attendees. Nationally, we have been involved in a number of
  Science festivals and other regional events (e.g., Sidmouth Science Festival), lead IOP CPD teacher
  training events and developed teaching frameworks for physics higher education. In 2018 alone we
  held 57 events as well as Pint of Science exposing over 5000 people to our research and to physics
                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  more generally. This has included all age groups (240 early learners, 1200 primary, 1160 secondary,
  380 A-level, >1900 general public and U3A). We have visited or had visits from over 120 schools
  from across England. In addition to these engagement events we make contact to a wider public
  through press releases, websites and newsletters and social media. Dougan won an EPSRC public
  engagement champion fellowship to establish the “Bragg Centre Creative Labs” which is establishing
  collaborations between scientists and artists. With over £3M support from the Newton Fund and the
  Global Challenges Research Fund we are leading the training of future generations of radio
  astronomers in Africa (& South America) to enable their participation in international projects (e.g.
  SKA) as well as to inspire younger scientists from a range of African countries to consider physics as
  a career. To date we have provided basic training to over 264 young graduates and postgraduate
  training to 31 students. A particular goal is to increase the economic development through the
  acquisition of transferable skills, especially in the space sector. We are also the lead partner in the
  refurbishment / re-use of three radio telescopes at Goonhilly, in Cornwall. This is expected to open
  radio astronomy to a large number of visitors as well as be beneficial for private investors (Deep
  Space Network) and thus be of significant benefit to the local community.
  Impacting Industry. Our close collaboration with industry has led to indirect (>£1M) and direct
  investment to the School (>£1M) and has added benefit to those companies as well as leading to
  new spinout companies. During the REF period the staff in the School have filed over 9 key patents
  (with~40 separate filings) and created a number of spinouts including; Dynamic Vision Systems Ltd,
  Creavo Ltd. Our research has led to new technologies that are currently being evaluated in clinical
  trials in the US and UK for rapid, low cost diagnosis of acute myocardial ischaemia and could lead to
  significant savings in the healthcare sector as well as better patient treatment. The TP group has
  also developed new approaches for analysing the integrity of oil and gas pipelines which has led to
  significant collaboration with Speir Hunter (Impact Case: Speir Hunter). The MNP group has
  industrial collaborations on the application of force microscopy techniques to study soft materials with
  Pfizer, PepsiCo Int., Johnson Matthey, Syngenta/ Astra Zeneca, P&G. Further industrial
  collaborations have arisen with Medicines Discovery Catapult on therapeutic delivery, Astra Zeneca
  on cell-based sensing and Valeo (Spain) on quantum dot-based LEDs. The SMP group have
  extensive industrial collaborations: including the first Merck-university UK research partnership,
  DisplayData, Trelleborg and Ultravision on liquid crystals and their applications; Victrex and Propex
  on polymer composites; QinetiQ and Polystore on polymer gel electrolytes for lithium battery
  applications; Innovia Films on cellulose processing. Ries held a RS Industry Fellowship from 2013 to
  2017 in which he worked with Futurama on the development of more efficient polymer processing
  and which has led to a significant cost saving for the company (Impact Case: Futamura).
  Contributions to the Research Community. Since 2014 members of the school have hosted 20
  international conferences in Leeds. We have >50 instances of programme committee membership,
  of which 8 were session/conference chairs. We have given over 200 plenary, keynote and invited
  talks. More than 400 refereed papers were published of which 90% were in sector leading journals
  such as Physical Review Letters, Nature, Astrophysical Journal etc. Members of the school have
  editorial roles in >20 Journals (including: Phys Rev B, Nature Physics Journal Quantum Information,
  Biophysical Journal). The school has had representation at IoP Awards committee, Chair of the Bell-
  Burnell Graduate Scholarship Fund (Gleeson), REF2021 Panel (Gleeson) and EPSRC Physical
  Sciences Strategic Advisory Team Member (Marrows, Harris) and STFC (Hoare, Pittard). Members
  of the School sit regularly on EPSRC / STFC grant awarding panels, mid-term reviews and advisory
  boards as well as act as reviewers. Dougan sits on the STFC Life Sciences and Soft Materials
  Advisory Panel as well as the STFC Facilities Access Panel. Evans is a Healthcare & Lifesciences
  Programme Expert Group member for BEIS and a panel member for A4I (BEIS). Hoare is a member
  of SKA Science Working Group on Cradle of Life.
  Prizes and Awards. Dougan was awarded the Water Woman award for Research Excellence
  (2020), the British Biophysical Society Young Investigator Medal (2018) and the Medical Research
  Council and Royal Society Suffrage Science Award (2015). Jones was awarded the Katherine Burr-
  Blodgett, Gold Medal and Award; IOP (2018) and the George Gray medal (2015). Gleeson was
  awarded the Rank Prize Lectureship (2016) and the Times Higher Ed. Outstanding Research
  Supervisor of the Year (2018). Nagaraj and Whale (PDRA in SMP) won the British LC Society Young
  Scientist Medal in 2015 and 2019 respectively.


                                                                                               Page 9
