Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Liverpool Hope University

 Unit of Assessment: Unit A6 (Agriculture, Food and Veterinary Sciences)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Unit Context

Liverpool Hope University (LHU) is a vibrant, liberal arts inspired institute, which since 2005
has had an emphasis on repositioning itself in part through the strengthening of its research
focus and by nurturing and celebrating enquiry. This has been achieved through several
research environment associated endeavours. These have considerably improved the
profile of LHU and will be outlined in this document. It is the aim of the institute to continue
this mission with a view to becoming a natural epicentre for research. The aims of this
particular Unit of Assessment (UoA) are to mirror those of the overall institute. This is the
first UoA regarding Agriculture, Food and Veterinary Sciences submitted by LHU.

This is a very small UoA consisting of seven (6.6 FTE) staff (Dr Leo Stevenson, Dr Farzad
Amirabdollahian, Dr Rosanna Cousins, Dr Richard Webb, Dr Grace Farhat, Dr Peppy
Emeagi, Dr Claire MacDonald-Clarke), four of whom have joined the team within the last
three years (Dr’s Stevenson, Webb, Farhat and Emeagi). The core of the team is comprised
of five Nutritionists (4.6 FTE) who are all registered with the UK Voluntary Register of
Nutritionists. The register is governed by the Association for Nutrition, whose purpose is to
protect the public and assure the credibility of nutrition as a responsible profession. The two
members of staff who are not registered Nutritionists are Dr Emeagi and Dr Cousins, a
biologist and a health psychologist respectively, who bring a complementary range of
expertise to the team. Furthermore, a sizable proportion of the team is comprised of early
career researchers (four people, 3.6 FTE) and one member of staff (0.6 FTE) is currently
taking a two-year career break. This core team forms the Nutrition department, which sits
within the School of Health Sciences at LHU. This submission consists of 17 selected
research outputs and two impact case studies.

Since REF2014 LHU has undergone extensive changes, in terms of both staffing and
facilities. This has been the result of the University investing heavily in capital infrastructure,
spending approximately £14 million, which was invested entirely from its own funds. A key
example of this being a new £8.5 million Health Sciences building where the Nutrition
department is based, which was opened in 2016, providing a forum for research
engagement, where diverse disciplines including Nutrition, Biosciences, Sports and


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Exercise Science and Psychology intersect and collaborate. This building also contains
several facilities from which the UoA directly benefit, which are referred to later in this
document (see section 3).

More specifically, the research interests directly related to the UoA can broadly be defined
into two principal themes:

1) Healthy Aging: This theme draws from multiple disciplines, including Nutrition, Sports
and Exercise Science and Psychology. The research performed under this theme has been
undertaken with a view to enable the attainment and maintenance of optimal health over the
lifespan and to have a large user/beneficiary focus.

and

2) Health of Young Adults: This theme also draws from the disciplines of Nutrition, Sports
and Exercise Science and Health. In the UoA two research projects have been carried out
in succession to assess the diet, physical activity, and mental health of young adults with a
view to creating a positive impact upon their cardiometabolic health.

The establishment and refinement of research capability in these areas has been extremely
exciting and fruitful. It is also heartening to recognise the drawing together of individuals,
predominantly from the Nutrition department, who were otherwise operating separately and
the recruitment of new members of staff from other departments to create capability. That
said, it must be emphasised that it is only the first step of a longer journey and a wider
strategy to increase the research profile of LHU (details of which will be described later in
this section under the heading ‘Future Strategic Aims and Goals’).

Research Strategy

In line with the University’s overarching research strategy for 2015-2021, our aims are
sixfold: 1) To improve the research culture, 2) To increase research income, 3) To increase
postgraduate numbers, completions, and experience, 4) To maximise research impact, 5)
To strengthen leadership, 6) To maintain research integrity.

The School has recently formed a Research Committee who are now responsible for the
overarching strategy. however, it is important to note that the research strategy specifically
pertaining to the UoA is more heavily weighted towards improving the research culture, to
increasing research income and to improving postgraduate numbers, with a view to creating
research ‘momentum’. Since 2014 significant investment by the University in the physical

                                                                                       Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
infrastructure has improved the tangible research environment and staff profile to provide
the manpower required to produce high quality research. Indeed, in REF2014, Quality
Related (QR) funding was quadrupled from the 2008 exercise and all of this was invested
back into research at a Unit level (which contributed towards this first REF submission by
the UoA). Furthermore, several small internal grants have also been awarded at Unit level,
specifically to attend conferences, obtain impact evidence, produce staff development
workshops and seminars and to procure specialist equipment and software, with a view to
facilitating pump-priming activity and stimulating growth.

Highlights of achievements since REF2014 are shown below in the light of the six aims
previously described:

1) To improve the research culture: Building a £8.5 million Health Sciences building to act
as a hub for research excellence in the Health Sciences at LHU has contributed towards
this, by predominantly enabling better interactions between colleagues. Similarly, the
strategic employment of several staff members to improve research productivity within the
UoA and being awarded several small research grants to assist with the procurement of
research impact data and to improve the research environment have also contributed. We
have also developed subject-specific research seminar events where excellent researchers
from external institutes have been invited to share their expertise with staff and students at
LHU. We are particularly pleased to report that these events have continued through the
last few years, even throughout the COVID pandemic.

2) To increase research income: Several external grants with the sum values of over half a
million pounds have been submitted by the UoA to increase research income. These grants
have yet to be successful, however there are some ‘grants in kind’ from industrial
collaborators received; for example, from an indirect calorimetry instrument manufacturer
loaned and then donated the equipment with a view to validating their product.


3) To increase postgraduate numbers, rate of completion and experience: After an open call
for high-quality research projects, three Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship awards were
awarded to the UoA with a view to increasing the number of high-calibre postgraduate
research students (PGR) within the unit. Furthermore, the introduction of a new MRes in
Food and Nutritional Sciences in 2019 has already improved the number of postgraduate
students in the UoA from four to eight in total.




                                                                                       Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4) To maximise research impact: The UoA has decided to focus on a small number of
research areas (i.e. ‘Healthy Aging’ and ‘Health of Young People’) with a view to improving
the impact of research through a more refined approach with a focus on appropriate external
links.

5) To strengthen leadership: An example being our recently developed MRes programme,
which gives staff members a valuable opportunity to supervise postgraduate students and
to improve their own leadership skills.

6) To maintain research integrity: Developing a series of staff development sessions to
improve the quality and consistency of research and through the incorporation of the Vitae
Researcher Development framework into the studies of PGR students to better ensure that
good research integrity is recognised and maintained.

Future Strategic Aims and Goals

Over the next five years staff submitted to the UoA plan to build upon the accomplishments
described above by contributing towards a range of objectives within the framework of our
two principal research themes of ‘Healthy Aging’ and the ‘Health of Young Adults’. These
objectives are shown below:

         •   To further investigate how optimal health through aging and for young adults might
             be achieved by mapping current and previous research undertaken by the UoA in
             this area against other departments in the University. For example, with the
             School of Social Sciences where colleagues are currently investigating themes of
             young adults and healthy aging from sociological perspectives. By doing this it is
             hoped that new synergies may be realised to increase research scope and impact.

         •   To improve our likelihood of obtaining internal and external funding to facilitate the
             production of high-quality research through the introduction of grant writing
             workshops, applying to a more diverse range of funding sources and by increasing
             collaborations, both internally and externally.

         •   To further develop the research environment through the additional development
             of staff members and PGR students, in the form of expanding upon our current
             portfolio of development workshops and training, as well as offering more
             leadership opportunities to staff members.

Impact Strategy


                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The importance of impactful research is recognised by LHU and the institution has given
significant attention to this throughout its Research and Scholarship Development Plan. The
University aims to align with the REF’s definition of impact, whilst supporting other research
activities (that may be valuable in their own right and) which contribute towards the
institution’s commitment to public engagement and contribution.

Similarly, at a Unit level, the creation and documenting of impact regarding our principal
research themes has aimed to complement these broader institutional goals. This has been
achieved through the development of a range of outreach activities, such the facilitation of
community engagement seminars for older adults centred around healthy aging and events
to promote cooking skills in young people (these are described in more detail in the relevant
impact case studies). These activities also link with the strong end-user focus of our two
principal research themes.

Furthermore, with regards to research integrity, the University is actively working towards
establishing an open research environment, where internal and external collaboration and
outreach is encouraged. The University is also a signatory of the Concordant to Support
Research Integrity and has demonstrated its commitment to taking its open access
requirements seriously by producing the ‘Hope Institutional Research Archive’ for all
research output produced by academic staff to be held. It is also noteworthy that all work
submitted to this particular UoA meets the requirements of availability via an institutional
repository, within the timeframe allocated by the REF. Furthermore, the University has also
established its own research ethics committee which ensures good research practice across
the institute. The UoA adheres to these aspects, and also has its own School-specific
research ethics committee which serves the UoA to ensure that all research is scrutinised
by knowledgeable and capable committee members.

The strategy for the UoA moving forward is to build upon these foundations and to work
further towards promoting an open community by encouraging staff to publish articles via
open access, as well as openly publishing datasets. Furthermore, actively engaging with
beneficiaries of our research is regarded as an important marker of impact specifically for
our UoA and we would like to further capitalise upon this in future to increase the value of
our findings. We have already started preliminary talks with organisations involved in
Healthy Aging, such as Age UK and Abbott Nutrition, with a view to collaborating on research
projects. Furthermore, there has also been advanced discussions with an organisation
called Crossroads Care Northwest, who deliver home-based care to elderly people still living
at home, with the intension of developing collaborative research regarding the nutritional
                                                                                       Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
status of this particular group of individuals. Links have also been established with key
individuals involved regionally with supporting NIHR (National Institute of Health Research)
bids. Again, this is linked to research relevant to supporting aging populations in the context
of NHS priorities in this area) and we are aiming to strengthen relationships such as these
over the coming years.


 2. People

Staffing Strategy

Since REF2014 LHU has undergone significant developments in terms of staff investment.
This has been in line with the University’s ‘Our People 2020’ strategy, which aims to employ
fully engaged new staff members and retain existing staff with the appropriate skills, attitude,
behaviours, and professionalism required in the increasingly competitive world of higher
education. More broadly, it also aims to create effective compliance and performance
frameworks, staff development programmes and define academic standards related to
recruitment and promotion activities, reflecting the maturity of the institution and the aims of
the corporate plan.

The UoA is no exception to this and has recruited four members of staff (4.0 FTE) to the
Nutrition department over the past three years (Dr Grace Farhat, Dr Richard Webb, Dr
Peppy Emeagi and Dr Leo Stevenson). Each of these individuals has been employed in part
because of their ability to contribute towards research and to directly improve the research
environment. For instance, recruitment actively targeted individuals to enhance research
capability in the areas of Healthy Aging and Health of Young Adults themes, with Drs Farhat,
Webb and Emeagi being employed as early career researchers able to offer expertise in
clinical nutrition and biology relevant to both themes and Dr Stevenson as a Senior Lecturer
with a long-established research career which has more recently focused on the elderly.
These have been strategic decisions, made with a view to building and reinforcing expertise
in these areas and to increase the capacity of the UoA to ultimately do more, better research
and have a greater impact.

Since the last REF the University has introduced a series of Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship
awards. These awards have enabled four Postgraduate Research (PGR) students to pursue
PhDs in the UoA. All students have now successfully completed their PhDs (100% success
rate) and each has produced a range of research outputs which have contributed towards
the research performance of the UoA. Two of these individuals (Dr Kate Mooney and Dr

                                                                                         Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Luke O’Brien) have gone on to gain full-time employment working for charitable
organisations within the field of Nutrition and the third (Dr Ben Kirk) has achieved a
postdoctoral position at the University of Melbourne, Australia, continuing his research
investigating nutrition in elderly populations.

Furthermore, last year LHU has introduced, for the first time, an MRes in Food and
Nutritional Sciences. This course has recruited x4 postgraduate students who are all
currently conducting a range of short research projects, ranging from food analysis to clinical
nutrition. These projects each augment the research profiles of individual staff members and
embedding this research expertise into a relevant skilled workforce, thus contributing
towards a pathway to impact. It is hoped that in future years the UoA can grow upon this
small initial foundation to ensure the sustainability of this pipeline of PGR students, which is
contributing towards the research environment.

Staff Development

Since the last REF Liverpool Hope University has spent a significant amount of time building
a dynamic and supportive working environment that values staff and PGR students at all
career stages. The UoA currently has seven (6.6 FTE) members of staff, all of whom are
research active, together with 1 FTE administrator and 1 FTE Laboratory Technician.

Since 2014 average staff numbers have not greatly changed in the overall department, nor
has there been any real change in the profile of BAME members (as the department has
historically been diverse). There has been staff turnover with individuals joining other
institutes, pivoting to roles in industry, or pursuing a change of career, however this has
recently been accompanied by a more specific and focused recruitment strategy. This
strategy has been in part to create a sense of belonging in the UoA through the adoption of
a ‘thematic’ approach to research, with the two principal themes of ‘Healthy Aging’ and the
‘Health of Young People’ being established. In the light of this, the recruitment policy has
focused on recruiting members of staff to directly contribute towards these research themes.
As previously mentioned, this has resulted in the recent recruitment of three members of
staff who have already began contributing through undertaking interesting and valuable
research, which has resulted in several research outputs and applications for a number of
external funding opportunities.

Within the UoA members of staff are managed by the Subject Leader (Dr Leo Stevenson),
who is in turn managed by the Head of School. To ensure that staff are working towards
individual and departmental targets and to highlight any areas for growth and improvement

                                                                                         Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
every individual must participate in an annual performance review. A departmental
mentoring programme also exists, whereby all new members of staff are linked with a mentor
(who is a more senior or long-standing member of staff) to ensure their smooth transition
into the institute. Staff successes are also celebrated within the department by promoting
these on the University webpage and the School bulletin and newsletter.

With regards to scholarly activity, LHU encourages and financially supports all academic
staff to attend one conference per year where they can disseminate their research findings.
Within the UoA several staff members have taken up this opportunity and attended and
presented at a range of national and international conferences, including those organised
by the Nutrition Society, Diabetes UK and the Federation of European Nutrition Societies.

Early Career Researchers are also encouraged to become involved in the supervision of
PGR students. At the most basic level, this is in the form of an advisor and, with the guidance
and mentorship of more senior academics, they can eventually progress to the level of
Director of Studies. Two Early Career Researchers in the department (Dr Richard Webb and
Dr Grace Farhat) have both applied to act as research supervisors. More senior academics
are also encouraged to engage in the supervision of research students; however, it is
suggested that they aspire to do this in a Director of Studies role. Dr Farzad Amirabdollahian
has achieved this status and acted as the primary supervisor for a number of years, recently
guiding three PGR students through to the successful completion of their PhDs.

In addition to this, several professional development workshops specific to the UoA have
been delivered, with a view to improving the skillsets of researchers at LHU. These
workshops have included inviting Professor Castori Senn (Oxford University) in 2018 to
deliver a series of writing days specifically targeted around the field of ‘Healthy Aging’. More
recently, throughout 2019/2020 a variety of professional workshops centred around often
neglected, yet vitally important skills were delivered. For example, the use of social media,
scientific writing, and research grant writing. These complement wider research-orientated
courses provided by the institute, for example a series of writing retreats which occurred in
2020, facilitated by Professor Tina Cook. These activities demonstrate our commitment to
expanding our current portfolio of workshops and training, as described previously. More
broadly, the University also holds regular ‘Communities of Practice’ sessions, whereby staff
hold seminars on a range of topics, frequently relating to good research practice and
conduct. This scheme has won several awards and a research project has recently been
undertaken highlighting its effectiveness. All staff are strongly encouraged to attend and
share examples of good practice and create a forum for discussion to improve upon these.
                                                                                         Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Postgraduate Research Student Training and Supervision

To ensure that PGR students are adequately trained and supervised the University has
implemented several measures. For example, all PGR students are expected to attend
annual monitoring meetings, where their performance is reviewed. Their progress is also
gauged against the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, which is a series of criteria
that demonstrates the knowledge, behaviour, and attributes of a successful researcher.
Indeed, every PGR student mentioned in this statement has successfully completed this
process. Furthermore, all PGR students are invited to skills development workshops, with
topics ranging from ‘research ethics’ to ‘how to write a thesis’ etc. Just like staff members,
PGR students at LHU are also encouraged to present their findings at national and
international conferences; an opportunity taken up by every PGR student mentioned in this
UoA.

For instance, the PGR students belonging to the UoA (Dr Kate Mooney, Dr Ben Kirk, and
Dr Luke O’Brien) have all recently successfully completed their PhDs. These individuals
were all Home / EU students, and they were all funded via the Vice-Chancellors Scholarship
scheme. During their time at LHU each had access to the high-quality facilities available at
the University, as well as the opportunity to teach across the Nutrition and Human Science
undergraduate programmes in order to develop their lecturing skills.

Equality and Diversity

In addition to conforming with the Equality Act 2010 and building upon the Ref 2014 Equality
Impact Assessment, the University has created its own Equality and Diversity policy. We
adhere to these policies and all new and existing staff are expected to undergo annual
Equality and Diversity training to ensure their knowledge is maintained. Statistics are also
regularly reviewed to ensure that the University is operating in-line with these policies.
Furthermore. although the University currently does not hold an Athena Swan Charter Mark,
it is working towards this and has established a Self-Assessment Team designed to prepare
the University for its submission.

More specifically, the UoA is proud to have historically had a heterogenous mixture of staff
members, consisting of varying proportions of males and females from a variety of BAME
ethnic groups. It is important to recognise that due to the small size of the department there
is an inherent sensitivity in our Unit’s statistics. That said, currently the UoA consists of three
males and four female members of staff, with two being Middle Eastern, four from the UK
and one who is Nigerian.

                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Since REF 2014, LHU has undergone extensive development as a result of significant
investment. Perhaps the most prominent example of this has been the creation of a Health
Sciences building to house much of the School of Health Sciences, in particular the
departments of Nutrition, Sports and Physical Activity. This new building has provided a hub
for research collaboration and has facilitated a range of research projects to be performed
relating to the Unit of Assessment, which would otherwise have been impossible given the
previous infrastructure. An example of this is a randomised control trial investigating
exercise and dietary protein as a countermeasure to skeletal muscle weakness (Liverpool
Hope University Sarcopenia Aging Trial (LHU-SAT)). This study was led by Dr
Amirabdollahian and performed by two PhD students funded by the Vice-Chancellor’s
studentship scheme (Dr Kate Mooney and Dr Ben Kirk). The study required elderly members
of the public to visit the University several times, during which a number of measurements
were taken, and they were asked to engage with the researchers and the intervention.
Although the analysis of the data is ongoing, the principal findings highlighted that
consuming a protein beverage along with physical activity and performing physical activity
alone were driving forces for the prevention of sarcopenia; however, consuming a protein
beverage in isolation was not. That said, it became apparent during the study that
consuming the beverage was difficult for some participants. These findings have since been
published in peer-reviewed journals, as well as being disseminated to local community
centres across North West England. Furthermore, based upon the results from this study a
symposium on "healthy diet and physical activity for older adults" was hosted at Liverpool
Hope University in May 2019 and was open to members of the public. Furthermore, a
‘Lectureathon’ (8 hours of continuous and integrated expert talks) symposium regarding
healthy aging was also conducted in collaboration with Age Concern in March 2017, raising
£300 for the charity. These events increased awareness regarding the importance of diet
and physical activity in promoting healthy ageing and this was evidenced by surveys and
testimonials.

Within the new Health Sciences building, there are several laboratories supporting to the
UoA. These include Nutrition Science laboratories, a specialist Food Science laboratory,
and General Science laboratories.

The Nutrition Science laboratories contain a variety of equipment specifically relating to the
field. Examples of these include instruments to measure body composition (i.e. BodPod and

                                                                                      Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Tanita bioimpedance scales), devices to determine resting energy expenditure (i.e. QUARK
and ECAL) and instruments to investigate an individual’s vascular health (i.e.
sphygmomanometer and Sphygmocor pulse wave velocity). This laboratory also contains
devices for the measurement of anthropometric parameters, such as scales and
stadiometers etc. Another recent study performed at LHU investigating the health of young
people (i.e. Collaborative Investigation into the Nutritional Status of Young Adults (CINSYA))
directly relied on the use of these instruments. This study focused specifically on University
students; a population known to have changes in dietary intake when starting their studies.
The study, along with colleagues in Sports and Exercise Science investigated this in terms
of their overall cardiometabolic health.

Similarly, the Food Science laboratories in the new Health Sciences building at LHU are
purpose built to industrial standards and furnished with high quality materials and
professional kitchen equipment. To the side of the kitchen is a vibrant seating area where
seminars, lectures and workshops regarding food take place. Furthermore, the Food
Science laboratory is also linked to an industrial standard sensory analysis suite, which has
been built to ISO8589 standards. Within this suite each booth contains a touchscreen
computer running Compusense software. This is a specialist piece of software which assists
with the running of sensory tests and the analysis of the resulting data. An example of how
these facilities have been used to contribute specifically to the research environment is via
a study performed by Dr Grace Farhat, which investigated the effects of stevia consumption
upon postprandial glucose response, satiety and energy intake; all crucial elements related
to healthy aging. The study revealed that stevia was not associated with an increase in
hunger and energy intake, a finding in line with previous clinical trials. The development of
a high standard, purpose-built sensory suite has significantly enhanced our research
capabilities and opportunities to engage with industrial stakeholders. This is a key element
of the future strategy for the UoA, diversifying income and enhancing impact.

When performing the research projects mentioned in this UoA, for example, the LHU-SAT
trial, where human blood samples needed to be analysed for several biomarkers, a variety
of pieces of equipment were required. These included a Randox Evidence Investigator
biochip immunoanalyser, Randox Misano semi-automated clinical chemistry analyser,
BioRad Chemidoc imager, thermocycler, a variety of electrophoresis plates and
spectrophotometers. These are housed in a number of general science laboratories utilised
by the unit, which are specifically designed for research purposes. These stem from a central
‘Research Laboratory’ which also offers a variety of microscopes, a high-performance liquid

                                                                                      Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
chromatography (HPLC) workstation and a gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy
(GCMS) workstation.

As well as hardware laboratory equipment, the university has also invested in a range of
software programmes for research purposes. Compusense sensory analysis software has
already been previously mentioned; other software programmes procured by the University
include SPSS statistics (for the analysis of numerical data), MyFood24 (for remote dietary
assessment during research studies), and Microdiet (also for dietary analysis). Similarly, to
the hardware instruments previously described, these software products have been used
across several research projects and have been essential to their success.

With regards to income generation, the research team for this UoA at LHU is very small and
is largely composed of early career researchers. Although all members have been actively
applying for external grant funding these applications have yet to be successful. It is
important to note that a number of new staff members have only been recently employed
and the grant applications have only been recently submitted over the last three years. In
the light of this recent surge towards applying for external funding, the team are confident
that in time and with continued focus and effort higher levels of success will be enjoyed.
Furthermore, we would also like to emphasise our commitment to ensuring that this
happens, and we are actively developing our strategy to increase the likelihood of this
through external mentoring, developing our grant writing skills and collaborations with other
institutions. We are also increasing our use of students to assist with the generation of
preliminary data to enhance applications and by continuing our research momentum by
maintaining and building upon our recent body of research students.

This UoA has enjoyed several ‘grants in kind’ to assist with the production of research. These
include for the donation of an ECAL indirect calorimeter from Metabolic Health Solutions
Ltd. as a grant in kind to enable a comparison study to take place with the commonly used
QUARK RMR device (an instrument already housed at the University). Furthermore, Dr
Claire MacDonald-Clarke, a key member of staff leading the CINSYA study which aims to
investigate the health of young people, has also been working with a nationwide not-for-
profit scheme called ‘Let’s get cooking’, devised by the British Dietetic Association (BDA)
and was facilitated by a £300 grant by the BDA. The aim of this scheme at LHU was to draw
from the findings of the CINSYA study to promote student health and to increase the ability
and confidence of students to cook, shop frugally and prepare food in a sustainable manner.
This scheme was also developed in collaboration with the LHU Sustainability and Wellbeing
team.
                                                                                      Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Moving forward, it is the aim of the UoA to increase funding and infrastructure using a variety
of methods. These include working with stakeholders in the community to gather further
funding for impactful aging research; for example, Everton in the Community and Liverpool
dementia action alliance (LDAA). Both organisations are actively accepting proposals for
research projects and members of the team are currently engaging in discussions regarding
prospective future research projects regarding healthy aging.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The University has actively encouraged national and international collaborative endeavours
in order to not only enable our research strategy, but to also enable the UoA to perform the
research it wishes to do. Some of these have resulted from inviting individuals and
organisations to the University for research-related activities. For example, every year the
University holds a week-long celebration for British Science Week. Since REF 2014 staff
submitted to the UoA have invited several guest speakers to increase the profile of the
research environment. For example, last year Dr Margaret Ashwell, a world-renowned
expert in the field of Nutrition, was invited to deliver a talk to staff and students outlining her
research achievements. Furthermore, during this week the Unit also showcases the
research ongoing in the department with interactive workshops for members of the public to
engage with, for example, some undergraduate and postgraduate research students
presented their findings from their assessments and research respectively. Similarly, in June
2018 the University also invited members of the public to the ‘Big Hope 2’ conference. This
was a University-wide event which aimed to tackle the four themes of freedom, conflict,
equality and change with a range of high-profile speakers and a multitude of activities for
delegates. Our Unit actively engaged with this event by contributing towards the theme of
health’s various activities and using the event as an opportunity to promote research
undertaken by PGR students.

In addition to University-wide events, a series of subject-specific research seminars have
been created, specific to the UoA. These have included varied internal and external
speakers with research topics ranging from the use of insulin pump therapy in patients with
Type 1 diabetes, through to the fortification of zinc in rural Pakistan. These have been open
to staff, students, and members of the public and have contributed towards the creation of
a vibrant research culture for all involved with LHU. Investment of funds has facilitated an
improved programme of talks composed of experts in the field of Nutrition who aren’t
necessarily from local institutes. For example, Dr Christian Reynolds from the University of

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Sheffield who is a leader in the field of food sustainability. Although impacted in 2020 by the
COVID-19 pandemic, these seminars are being maintained online as a significant
component of our plans to enhance our research environment, exposing early career
researchers and research students to dynamic speakers, broadening their knowledge of
their subject areas and techniques and stimulating discussion and collaboration.

In addition to this, staff submitting to the UoA have delivered a range of sessions aimed at
disseminating research into the local and wider community. An example of this was a
symposium aimed specifically at the elderly, based upon findings from the LHU-SAT study
previously mentioned. This workshop was a resounding success, with 40 people attending
and many of the participants feeding back that the session had a positive impact upon their
lives. Open sessions such as these have directly contributed to the research environment
by allowing the general public into the institute to directly engage with academics submitting
to the UoA and allowing research findings to permeate directly to the individuals who are
likely to benefit most from the outcomes.

Staff within the Unit have been active in developing collaborative activities with other
institutions and external partners with a view to improving the research environment within
the UoA by enabling research to take place which would not have been otherwise possible.
These collaborations are numerous and key strategic relationships exist in the local area.
An example being with Liverpool John Moores University (LJMU), where members of the
UoA have a number of previous and ongoing research studies. For example, Dr Leo
Stevenson has been involved with a study to assess the quality of takeaway foods across
the city of Liverpool, Dr Richard Webb is currently involved in a study to determine the
cardiometabolic risks of individuals using anabolic steroids, a prevalent activity within young
adults and Dr Amirabdollahian has been involved in research to determine the
cardiometabolic risk in phenotypes of obesity related to diet, nutritional status, lifestyle and
physical activity, which is crucial for healthy aging. Other local collaborations are with
colleagues from Edge Hill University, where Dr Grace Farhat has performed a study to
determine the effects of dark chocolate upon salivary cortisol.

Outside of the local area the UoA has engaged with various other collaborators from UK
institutes; for example, the University of Nottingham, where Dr Farhat has been working on
a number of external grant applications with colleagues to investigate brown fat. Dr
Stevenson has also collaborated with Aberystwyth University to further his research into
take-away foods by analysing the urine of habitual consumers of these products to
determine if metabolic ‘signatures’ associated with take-away foods can be detected.
                                                                                        Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Links with these partners have contributed to the research environment by allowing the
organic growth of ideas into projects and collaboration with experts from a range of fields
and access to facilities and equipment which would otherwise be out of reach. For example,
a recent project with Northumbria University and LJMU to develop a superior method for the
separation of lipoprotein particles from human blood required the use of an ultracentrifuge
and metabolomics suite, both of which are unavailable at LHU. However, the partnership
with these external collaborators has enabled this to happen and the results are now being
prepared for publication. Another example is the use of a clinical autoanalyser for the
analysis of human blood samples collected during the PhD of Dr Luke O’Brien. The close
working relationship LHU has with LJMU facilitated this and allowed Dr O’Brien to obtain
results for various blood markers which would have not otherwise have been possible using
the infrastructure of LHU alone.

These links are continually growing and benefitting the research environment, with the most
recent additions being the formation of strong links with the School of Medical Sciences at
Universite Catholique de Lille in Lille, France and the Ouachita Baptist University in
Arkansas, United States, where Memoranda of Agreements have been formed. The
agreement with the Ouachita Baptist University is focused on staff and student mobility and
gives students exposure to nutrition research-based projects and training in study design,
recruitment and ethical procedures. The visiting research students have also had the
opportunity to learn practical research skills during their time at LHU, such as new laboratory
techniques and how to operate several instruments such as centrifuges, plate readers and
immuno-analysers to carry out multiplex arrays and ELISA assays etc. The benefits of this
for our Unit are that it allows us to collect preliminary data, which can be used to strengthen
subsequent grant applications and present at conferences, thus improving our research
profile. Furthermore, it also allows supervising staff members an opportunity to improve their
leadership and supervisory abilities.

In addition to forging collaborative links with institutes and organisations, members of staff
submitting to the UoA have also contributed through other means, such as via national and
international committees. For example, Dr Leo Stevenson is currently an external reviewer
for the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) School for Public Health Research
(SPHR) and is responsible for reviewing and advising on project funding being awarded to
those institutions who are members of the NIHR SPHR. This has the potential for Dr
Stevenson to gain exposure to the types of proposals being submitted by groups with much
more capacity and experience than the UoA. Dr Stevenson will then be better placed to

                                                                                       Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
advise members of the UoA when devising proposals, thus further optimising the likelihood
of success. Furthermore, Dr Grace Farhat has also contributed directly to a recent
agreement with the Faculty of Medicine in the Universite Catholique de Lille to initiate
research focused on obesity; however, due to the COVID pandemic this has not yet been
possible. Similarly, Dr Farhat also participated in the Erasmus scheme, an outcome of which
was to be the initiation of further research projects, but again this has been delayed due to
COVID. Endeavours such as these have in turn improved the research environment at LHU
through the development of relationships which have stimulated the formation of new
research projects, with more to be established in the future.

To conclude, the UoA at LHU consists of a very small, but highly ambitious group of people,
who are working tirelessly to grow the research environment into a sustainable entity that
will contribute worthwhile and impactful research with a view to improving healthy aging and
the health of young people. This is the ultimate goal of the staff members and whilst this is
our first REF submission and we are starting from a low baseline we are enthusiastic to
develop upon this in subsequent exercises. We are aiming to do this by influencing and
leading the institutional and departmental strategies outlined in this document to build a
vibrant and productive research environment for those working within it, for our wider
disciplines and ultimately for society as whole.




                                                                                     Page 16
