Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Bishop Grosseteste University (BGU)

 Unit of assessment: 4 – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Bishop Grosseteste University (BGU) is making a submission to Unit of Assessment (UoA)
 4 – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience for the first time. It focuses on the research
 activity of the staff who deliver the taught provision in psychology and in associated
 disciplines. The emergence of the Psychology department as a provider of research and
 knowledge exchange (RKE) reflects a widening of BGU’s portfolio since 2014. Based in a
 School of Social Sciences until 2019, the Psychology department is now part of a single
 Faculty introduced to foster interdisciplinary work in teaching and learning as well as RKE.

 1.1 Context and structure

 The Psychology department is currently situated within one of BGU’s five programme
 portfolio areas, Applied Social Sciences, which includes other departments with which there
 are joint taught programmes as well as RKE collaborations – Health and Social Care,
 Counselling, Business, and Sport. Staff in the Psychology department also collaborate with
 researchers in other portfolio areas, particularly Counselling, Education, and Special
 Educational Needs, Disability and Inclusion (SENDI). Together, staff from all of these
 subject fields form part of the Psychology, Health and Wellbeing Research and Knowledge
 Exchange Unit (RKEU).

 The suite of BA Psychology programmes was introduced in 2014 and there has been
 greater than six-fold growth in student numbers since then (see Table 1). The staff base has
 also expanded. In 2014 just one academic psychologist was employed at BGU, by 2020
 there were nine FTE members of academic staff – each with ‘significant responsibility for
 research’. The University has a broad and dynamic programme of research activity to
 showcase their work.

 With only one exception, the Psychology department staff are all independent researchers
 and contribute to a developing buoyant and collegial environment. The submission to
 REF2021 demonstrates the emergence of focus, breadth and expertise at BGU, especially
 in terms of outputs and environment. Impact work demonstrates broad public awareness of
 the emerging research activity and profile of Psychology at BGU.

 Although wide in scope and substantive in the context of a small higher education provider,
 the Psychology department at BGU is small relative to many other Psychology departments
 in other universities. The undergraduate offer is for BA programmes, reflecting interests in
 applied aspects of the subject field, qualitative approaches, community engagement and the
 arts. The award is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS) and therefore also
 reflects the scientific nature of the discipline.

 Table 1: Psychology student numbers (FTE)

              UG Single      UG Joint      PGT       PGR        Total
  2013-14           0          18.5          0         0         18.5
  2019-20         51           72.0          0        3.0       126.0




                                                                                        Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2 Subject structure

 Psychology is delivered at undergraduate level with single and joint honours options with a
 full-time academic Programme Leader (Becker). Joint programmes involve a 50/50 delivery
 pattern across two subject fields, with final year students completing a dissertation in each.
 In order to ensure that BPS accredited curriculum content is delivered, staff have been
 recruited and appointed across core areas of Psychology, including health, social,
 developmental, cognitive, and personality and individual differences, with an equal split of
 research expertise across quantitative and qualitative methods. Due to the economy of
 scale, research interests tend to be broad and complementary, rather than shared.
 Nevertheless, internal collaborations are building and add to external collaborations, both
 existing and new.

 Joint honours subjects span the broad fields of education (SENDI, Education Studies, Early
 Childhood Studies), health (Counselling, Sport) and the humanities (English, Drama,
 Sociology). Approximately one third of current Psychology students are enrolled on a single
 honours Psychology programme.

 The size and research experience of the Psychology department (see Section 2.1) have
 been enhanced to accompany the expansion of the student base whilst maintaining its
 diversity. The undergraduate programmes are delivered by academic psychologists as well
 as invited expert guests to deliver occasional one-off contributions to reflect the breadth of
 the discipline. Psychology sits firmly within the Applied Social Sciences portfolio, but there is
 extensive collaboration across the university and across other subject fields with broad and
 shared interests.

 Since 2014, Psychology department staff have joined BGU from a range of national and
 international institutions, and have been appointed at Lecturer (Grade 7) or Senior Lecturer
 (Grade 8) levels. Internal promotions have been secured by three colleagues and a Reader
 (Horton) leads the development and strategic approach to research.

 Psychology is both academic and applied in its nature. Staff and students engage with
 laboratory work, such as using E-Prime experiment generation software, using virtual reality
 to administer learning paradigms, or undertaking projects exploring sleep within the
 DrEAMSLab, as well as having the opportunity to undertake placements and engage with
 modules such as Psychology in the Arts and Communities.

 Although there is no taught postgraduate psychology provision, seven of the nine staff being
 returned are doctoral (PhD and/or EdD) supervisors. Currently there are two full time PhD
 students within Psychology, two part-time students, and several others working in related
 disciplines (for example SENDI, language learning, exploring play across the early years).

 As with any BPS-accredited course, there is a strong emphasis on the development of
 students’ research skills, and staff expertise reflect this. The Psychology department plays a
 key role in sharing research methods expertise across the institution, by providing formal
 training in both quantitative and qualitative approaches within the EdD programme, and by
 ensuring that research ethics is understood and applied consistently. Colleagues within
 Psychology also contribute occasional guest lectures to a range of courses, including
 SENDI, Counselling, MA Mental Health and Wellbeing, and the Staff Development Series.

 The Psychology department has been instrumental in involving students in research
 opportunities. Financial support for research has been secured from the Centre for
 Enhancement in Learning and Teaching’s (CELT’s) two funding streams – Learning and
 Teaching Investment Fund (LTIF) and Student Engagement Investment Fund (SEIF) – and
 by developing a Psychology Summer Research Internship Programme, which has recently
 been extended to run throughout the academic year.
                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.3 Research and Impact Strategy

 The research and impact strategy for REF 2021 has been informed by both institutional and
 Unit-specific drivers, motivations, and aspirations. The Psychology team has set out to
 achieve a strong first submission as part of its general ambition for growth and development
 across its RKE activities. The return reflects holistic, inclusive and integrating research
 extending to interdisciplinarity with SENDI and Counselling, with a focus on applied aspects,
 including forensic psychology, education in developing countries, health and wellbeing, as
 well as a commitment to personality and individual differences, mechanisms of memory
 formation, gender identity, and experiences of cancer survivorship.

 The Psychology team’s research and impact strategy for the 2014-20 cycle was therefore
 to:
 • Build a staff base with critical mass for a REF2021 submission to UoA 4
 • Generate a sufficient portfolio of high quality to make a strong first REF submission
 • Develop an understanding of impact by building evaluations and measurements of
     public engagement into impact and knowledge exchange activity
 • Engage with public impact activity
 • Seek and secure external funding for research projects
 • Develop an environment for high quality research and sharing that research via
     seminars, public engagement, social media and collaborative work
 • Showcase high quality research both within the University and externally
 • Develop a Psychology-led RKEU.

 1.4 Psychology, Health and Wellbeing RKEU

 In 2015 BGU developed Research ‘Clusters’, and a Psychology and Resilience Cluster was
 developed that comprised BGU’s two academic psychologists and a number of external
 partners and stakeholders. With staff change and growth, alongside a research re-structure
 away from Clusters and towards RKEUs, the Psychology, Health and Wellbeing RKEU was
 developed. Launched in 2018, it is the largest at BGU and embraces the activity of
 University’s DrEAMSLab as well as the RKE work of the Psychology department (i.e.,
 Becker, Blanchard, Bloxham, Dimolareva, Dunn, Horton, Nastajus, Nicholds, Postavaru). It
 also includes collaborations with colleagues in Health and Social Care (Walsh, Garrod,
 McHugh), SENDI (Jeffery, Efstratopoulou), Counselling (Swaby née Elliot, Hamilton, Hicks,
 Cormack) and Education (Parrish, Nye). Ten of these 20 staff are early career researchers
 (ECRs) and the RKEU plays a strong role in supporting the development of new projects and
 ideas, whilst sharing best practice in relation to a range of research methods. Doctoral
 researchers are active in this RKEU as well as more established researchers, and the RKEU
 adopts an inclusive policy for anyone who has a research interest in Psychology, Health
 and/or Wellbeing in the broadest sense. Non-academic staff also support the RKEU (Purle,
 Smith, Thompson), reflecting BGU’s commitment to wellbeing.

 Projects cover a broad range of approaches and interests:
 • Intervention studies (e.g. mindfulness, Dunn; pets as therapy, Dimolareva)
 • Meta-analyses (animal assisted interventions, Dimolareva; effect of sleep on
    autobiographical memory, Horton)
 • Laboratory-based experiments (virtual reality to explore episodic memory, Nastajus;
    targeted memory reactivation in sleep for procedural memory consolidation, Bloxham)
 • Interview studies (lived experience of pregnancy loss, Garrod; experiences of parents of
    picky eaters, Cormack)
 • Psychometric explorations of personality (The Dark Triad, Blanchard).

 Peer-reviewed research outputs are produced by colleagues within the RKEU, along with

                                                                                         Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 more creative knowledge exchange and impact events, including podcasts (e.g., The Sleep
 Science Pod; https://shows.acast.com/sleep-science-pod), webinars, consultancy work and
 presentations. Regular RKEU meetings, workshops and seminars take place that are
 advertised across the staff portal, with invitations to the wider public for specific events.

 The scale of the Unit’s staffing is beneficial to the development of the productivity, culture and
 identity of the team, and has facilitated the achievement of strategic direction through
 collaboration, collective activity, communication, and mutual support (see Section 2.1).

 1.5 Output

 Psychology will return the equivalent of 23 outputs across nine current members of FTE staff
 for REF 2021. The main strategic emphasis during the current REF cycle has been to promote
 an environment in which high quality outputs can be developed. Output production has
 exceeded the proportionate increase in the staff base and the majority of the outputs being
 returned were produced whilst at BGU. The production and selection of outputs for UoA 4 was
 intended to maximise the proportion of potential 3* and 4* outputs, to eliminate outputs that did
 not meet a minimum 2* threshold.

 The submitted outputs are almost entirely empirical projects, across a range of methodological
 approaches. However, in addition to these, a variety of other outputs have been produced that
 demonstrate a broad scope of popular and impactful research at BGU, reflecting a strong
 community and applied focus. Examples include:
 • Project reports
    Baseline study to support Plan Cambodia’s Young Bamboo integrated early childhood care
    and development projects in Ratanakiri and Stung Treng (PLAN International Cambodia on
    funded project – Horton, Smith, 2018)
    Reports to the Circles UK Research and Evaluation Meeting Group, Sexual Offences,
    Crime and Misconduct Research Unit (Elliott, 2017 & 2020)
 • Books
    Sexual Crime and Trauma, Palgrave Macmillan (Swaby, 2020)
 • Editorials
    Cognition during sleep: Hyperassociativity, associativity and new connections. Frontiers in
    Psychology 11, January (Horton, 2021),
 • Conference proceedings
    Reactivating and consolidating memories in sleep and dreams. International Journal of
    Dream Research, 12, S40 (Bloxham, Horton, 2019)
 • SAGE research methods case studies
    Analyzing qualitative minigroup data using thematic analysis (Cormack, Postavaru, 2018)
    A case of methodological premises underlying literature reviews (Postavaru, 2016)
 • Reviews
    Metaphor and hyperassociativity: The imagination mechanisms behind emotional memory
    assimilation in sleep and dreams. Frontiers in Psychology: Psychopathology. 6, 1132
    (Horton, 2015)
 • Theoretical applications
    Self-determination theory as a theoretical framework for a responsive approach to child-
    feeding. Journal of Nutrition Education and Behavior (Cormack, Postavaru, 2020)
 • Practice recommendations
    Future directions: Moving forward with sexual crime prevention. In Sexual Crime and
    Prevention. Palgrave Macmillan, pp.181-200 (Elliott, 2018).
    Best practice standards in animal-assisted interventions: How the LEAD risk assessment
    tool can help. Animals, 10 (6): 974 (Dimolareva, 2020).
    Mapping the challenges in making the transition to taught postgraduate study in
    Psychology. Psychology Teaching Review, 25 (1): 12-21 (Becker, 2019).


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Outputs are also of high quality. At least two of Dunn’s research outputs are ranked in the top
 5% of all research outputs scored by Altmetric. Dunn’s work has also accumulated 1042
 citations (according to Google Scholar) since 2014.

 1.6 Impact, outreach and public engagement activity

 BGU has a strong record of knowledge exchange and public engagement activity. There
 have been several instances of outreach work and public engagement activity. Most notably:
 • Brexit, Sunday Politics (15 September 2019, Blanchard)
 • Healthy sleep as part of the Chronarium 10-day public science exhibition in Manchester,
    reviewed in ITV News and https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/health-and-families/the-
    science-of-sleep-and-why-napping-is-good-for-you-a7388701.html, (2016, Horton)
 • Meditation and near death experiences,
    https://metro.co.uk/2018/12/12/give-near-death-experience-without-nearly-dying-8239018/
    (2018, Dunn)
 • Science and dreams in The Guardian, The Independent and Stylist
    https://www.stylist.co.uk/life/careers/sleep-researcher-dreams-meaning-science-psychology-
    memory/350653 (Horton, 2020).

 Other outreach work has included hosting the BPS East Midlands Branch Psychology in the
 Park event in 2019, inviting members of the public to engage with practical demonstrations of
 Psychology research at BGU, including virtual reality demonstrations of learning and dreaming,
 exploring pets as therapy, and learning about sleep tips.

 The institution’s strategic objectives of developing its impact in psychology is expressed very
 strongly in the breadth of work of the Psychology department. Two impact case studies are
 submitted to REF 2021 that demonstrate major interest in, and impact on health and wellbeing:
 • ‘The impact of mindfulness-based interventions on wellbeing (Dunn)
 • ‘DrEAMSLab: Sleep, dream science, health and wellbeing’ (Horton).

 1.7 Income

 The Psychology department has attempted to capture external funding for its research, and
 successes are outlined in Section 3. This reflects a broader institutional imperative but in the
 case of Psychology initial funding has been sought for small-scale projects from a range of
 funders, as well as grants to support its growing public engagement activities and related
 projects. They include pump-priming, student-research engagement, and collective Cluster /
 RKEU projects that have also been supported by internal funding from either the Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Centre (RKEC) or CELT (see Sections 3 and 4).

 1.8 Doctoral Research

 Establishing a postgraduate researcher community is part of a key institutional priority to
 achieve Research Degree Awarding Powers. It is also a departmental ambition to provide a
 pathway from undergraduate study through to doctoral study via a potential new MSc Research
 Methods programme. From 2016 Psychology was identified as one of four disciplines for
 institutional studentships. The number of supervisors and supervisions have grown through the
 current REF cycle (see Section 2).

 1.9 Strategy for post-REF 2021

 The Psychology department’s strategy through the next cycle will in part reflect the current
 institutional strategic plan to 2025, but will also:
 • Increase output volume and enhance quality
 • Build impact work into project design, such that intervention, audit and evaluation activity is
     routine

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 • Further develop the expertise in meta-analysis and systematic review methods
 • Grow income
 • Increase doctoral student numbers
 • Achieve Research Degree Awarding Powers.
  Section 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and development

 The Psychology department’s approach to staffing has been to increase the number of its
 research-active members through both recruitment and the development and support of its
 staff. Recruited colleagues have been experienced researchers, even though early-career at
 the time of appointment (Dimolareva). The research activity and production of outputs of
 sufficient quality has meant that seven of the staff have been approved by the University of
 Leicester to act as doctoral supervisors. Recruitment has also been targeted to support the
 teaching and learning of an increased student population and programme structure based
 around core BPS topic areas.

 The Psychology department is highly research active and has generated a large output pool.
 The impact case study threshold requirement of two has been met and an external peer
 reviewer has been recruited to support the evaluation of output quality evaluation and to
 provide mentoring support in the final stage of the assessment period.

 Table 2: Psychology Unit permanent staff establishment (FTE)

                   FTE        Submitted     Reader         Senior       Lecturer      Doctoral
                                                          Lecturer                   Supervisors
  REF 2021          9            9              1            5             3             7

 2.2 Postgraduate research

 The Unit is productive, collaborative and cohesive in its culture and identity. This is a benefit
 derived from a single location for teaching and public spaces, and access to a Psychology
 laboratory housing most of the specialist equipment such as BIOPACs and the virtual reality
 facilities. There is also the DrEAMSLab (sleep laboratory) space and other specialist facilities,
 such as small interview rooms for data collection and analysis. Staff numbers and physical
 location have facilitated team interaction, communication, exchange, peer support, and ethos.

 Doctoral research projects are typically supervised by disciplinary and interdisciplinary teams
 across the BGU Faculty. Supervisions involving Psychology staff since 2014 are as follows:

 Table 3: Doctoral students supervised (headcount)

                          Internal
                                           External
                  First         Second
  2014-21          4               1           2

 First-supervised projects within the Psychology department comprise:
 • Is dreaming related to sleep-dependent memory consolidation (Bloxham)
 • Experiences of parents of picky eaters (Cormack)
 • Experiences and care of pregnant women following a previous pregnancy loss: A
     Heideggerian analysis (Garrod)
 • Virtual reality explorations of episodic memory (Nastajus).

 In addition, Horton has examined three PhDs externally and one MRes.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 2.3 Equality and diversity

 Equality and diversity (E&D) are overseen and reported at institutional level, with UoA-specific
 profiling monitored and evaluated as part of centrally directed REF Equality Impact Assessment
 (EIA).

 The E&D data are reported in summary form in the Institutional Environment Statement, the EIA
 final report, and made available for audit as appropriate. Data are not given in detail in BGU’s
 Unit-level Environment Templates and with full protected characteristics profiling, given the
 relatively small numbers of staff comprising the submission to this UoA.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 The Psychology Unit has aimed to grow its external research income through small grant
 capture. This has been complemented by success in winning competitive internal funding aimed
 at pump priming or student engagement and co-production. The department has been awarded
 various grants and funding to support research and related public impact as well as awarding
 four full-time doctoral studentships, as outlined above.

 Successful external income is outlined below. During the current REF cycle total funding
 secured was £69,010.

 Table 4: Income secured from Psychology staff, 2014-2020


Awarded                                                                                  Awarded
                       External Funding                     Internal Funding
  in                                                                                       to
  2020    £5,000 secured by the United                                                 Postavaru
          Lincolnshire Hospitals NHS Trust                                             (PI).

  2020                                              £350 BGU LTIF & SEIF, Testing      Dunn (PI),
                                                    the Simulation of Smile Model      Blanchard,
                                                    (SIMS): the role of priming,       Horton
                                                    emotion contagion, and sex in
                                                    smile detection accuracy

  2020    £400 secured for commissioned sleep                                          Horton
          Hygiene webinars, 2 x Brindley Place,
          2 x Lakeside Harbour
  2019    £2,000 secured Clore Social                                                  Nicholds
          Leadership Chapter

  2019                                              £3,000 Learning and Teaching       Horton (PI),
                                                    Fund (BGU), Sleep well: The        Wood (UoA
                                                    development of a targeted sleep    23),
                                                    hygiene intervention in students   Blanchard,
                                                    and staff                          Dunn.




                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  2019    £1,500 awarded from Dream Science                                           Bloxham,
          Foundation Reactivating and                                                 Horton.
          consolidating memories in dreams

  2018    £18,596 secured by the United                                               Postavaru
          Lincolnshire Hospitals NHS Trust                                            (PI)

  2018                                            £1,092 Learning and Teaching        Postavaru
                                                  Innovation Fund                     (PI), Becker

  2017    £25,381 Plan Cambodia, Baseline                                             Horton
          study to support Plan Cambodia’s
                                                                                      Allocated to
          Young Bamboo integrated early
                                                                                      UoA 23
          childhood care and development
          projects in Ratanakiri and Stung
          Treng*

  2017                                            £2,979 BGU internal Research        Horton (PI),
                                                  Investment Fund, Episodic and       Dunn, Smith,
                                                  autobiographical memory             Nastajus,
                                                  consolidation during sleep:         Bloxham.
                                                  Implications for learning in a
                                                  Higher Education environment

2016-18 $2,500 (approximately £1,812                                                  Horton (PI)
        equivalent) secured from the Dream
        Science Foundation (USA), Future
        oriented cognition in dreams
  2017                                            £900 International grant to         Postavaru
                                                  support the set-up of an            (PI)
                                                  international clinical psychology
                                                  fieldwork, Foundation Fund

  2017    £3,000 awarded by the BPS, The                                              Postavaru
          psychological and physical wellbeing                                        (PI)
          of cancer carers: how much do we
          (not) care?

2015-17 £3,000 BPS Seminars Competition,                                              Horton (PI)
        What can dreaming tell us about
        memory consolidation in sleep?

  Total   £60,689                                 £8321                               =£69,010.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 In 2015-16 the Psychology laboratories were introduced for student and staff research use - the
 main Psychology lab and the DrEAMSLab. Launched by Horton in 2016, the DrEAMSLab was
 supported by the BPS as part of a funded programme of activities exploring dreaming and
 memory consolidation. It has featured extensively in national and international media,
 specialising in dream, sleep and cognition research. In 2018-20 the laboratories were re-
 developed to include two individual interview suites to also house virtual reality, experiment
 generation software within individual cubicles. In addition, there is a sport and exercise science
 suite available to Psychology and Sport students and for those requiring specialist equipment for

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 dissertation projects. Individual laptops are available to all students creating portable laboratory
 space which has proved especially supportive during the COVID19 pandemic.

 Software supporting research includes NVivo (qualitative analysis software), SPSS and AMOS
 (statistical software), Qualtrics and Online Surveys (survey subscription accounts), E-Prime
 (experiment generation software), Sleep Profilers (portable basic EEG for polysomnography),
 BIOPAC for basic physiological measurements and a library test bank of psychometric measures.
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborative partnerships and networks

 All staff being returned within the Psychology REF 2021 submission are engaged with both
 academic and public engagement collaborations. Postavaru, Horton, Dunn, Dimolareva, Jeffery,
 Efstratopoulou and Blanchard all act as principal investigators on collaborative national and
 international projects. Horton has also been recruited by researchers and practitioners in
 Australia to support a doctoral research project.

 The following collaborative partnerships and networks beyond traditional academic
 collaborations exemplify the breadth of expertise and research involvement within the Unit:
 • Nicholds (an ECR) is involved with several non-academic partnerships – Steering Group
     member for CLORE Leadership Chapter, Lincolnshire; Tackling Gender Inequality Working
     Group, BGU; Director, Linking Up Ltd (Social Enterprise); Trustee and Company Director,
     Children’s Links; and Trustee, LIVES First Responders.
 • Dimolareva, Becker, and Nicholds coordinated the Psychology in the Park event in 2019
     (BGU/BPS East Midlands).
 • Postavaru is an Honorary Researcher at the United Lincolnshire Hospitals NHS Trust,
     Haematology Department, February 2019
 • Horton is a founding member of the Lincoln Sleep Research Centre; and is an external
     faculty member of the University of Swinburne, Australia.

 4.2 Research council / committee membership

 Becker was elected Chair of the British Psychological Society East Midlands Branch in 2018.
 Blanchard is Secretary/Treasurer for the International Society for the Study of Individual
 Differences. Horton is an expert reviewer for the ESRC and an Advisory Board member for
 Clinical Pharmacist.

 4.3 Committee membership and leadership of associations and societies:

 Nicholds is a BPS East Midlands Committee Member. Horton acted as BGU’s representative for
 the East Midlands and is an advisory board member for Clinical Pharmacist, specialising in
 sleep.

 4.4 Publication editorial positions and reviewing activities:

 Colleagues have extensive experience with peer reviewing and editorial positions, including:
 • Horton has been a regular reviewer for Frontiers in Psychology, Psychopathology (action
     and topic editor), Frontiers in Psychiatry (action editor), Clinical Pharmacist, Journal of
     Cognitive Neuroscience, Consciousness and Cognition, Spanish Journal of Psychology,
     American Journal of Psychology, International Journal of Dream Research, Dreaming and
     Brain Sciences.
 • Swaby has reviewed for Journal of Forensic Psychiatry and Psychology, The World Journal
     of Biological Psychiatry, and is an Academic consultant for SAGE Publications (SAGE
     Research Methods Cases: Medicine and Health).
 • Blanchard reviews and edits for Personality and Individual Differences.

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Postavaru is an academic consultant for SAGE Research Methods Cases: Medicine and
     Health.
 •   Dunn reviews for Mindfulness, Applied Neuropsychology: Child, Spatial Cognition and
     Computation, and Political Psychology.


 4.5 Conference and symposium organisation:

 The Psychology department has been involved extensively in conference and symposium
 organisation, with some events being hosted at BGU, but many more taking place externally.
 Recently, several events have moved online, with department members contributing to their
 organisation and delivery. Indicative examples include:
 • Horton, C.L. (2017). To dream perchance to remember, Invited keynote presentation,
    Research on the Rise Conference, BGU
 • Horton, C.L. (2018) Sleep and learning: How to maximise memory in the most restful of
    ways! Oral presentation at BGU Annual Learning and Teaching Conference, BGU
 • Nicholds, T (2020) Women in Third Sector Leadership: Putting your wellbeing first. Online
    event with St Barnabas Hospice
 • Nicholds, T (2019). Women in Third Sector Leadership: An Introduction to Psychological
    Resilience. Involving Lincs and The National Lottery Community, BGU
 • Nicholds, T (2019). Women in Third Sector Leadership: Peer Support and Mentoring.
    Involving Lincs, Boston Lincolnshire
 • Nicholds, T (2019). Women in Third Sector Leadership: Facilitating Difficult Conversations.
    Involving Lincs, CLORE Leadership Chapter, Gainsborough, Lincolnshire.

 4.6 Grant/project external peer refereeing/reviewing

 Horton has reviewed several external grants for the ESRC, BBSRC, Wellcome Trust, Royal
 Society, provided an end of award report for the ESRC, and is a British Council and Newton
 Fund reviewer.

 4.7 Awards, prizes, distinctions and fellowships

 Bloxham’s PhD research, supervised by Horton and Fleming (BGU), was awarded funding and
 commended as doctoral research at the International Association for the Study of Dreams.

 4.8 Keynote addresses and public lectures/workshops/performances

 Horton has been invited to deliver a series of keynote and public lectures, as outlined below:
 • Kirov R, Horton C.L, Llewellyn S. (2017) Spotlight on new concepts in sleep and cognitive
    neuroscience: The role of dissociative consciousness and predicting coding. Plenary lecture
    at Scientific Conference and Workshop with International Participation Dedicated to the 70th
    Anniversary of the Institute of Neurobiology, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Sofia, Bulgaria.
 • Horton. C.L. (2018) Sleep well, dream well, be fearless (almost). TEDx talk. Brayford Pool
    #Fearless event, Lincoln.
 • Horton, C.L. (2017). Sleep, memory and dreaming, Invited keynote presentation,
    “Midsummer Night of Science” event, Royal Institution (http://www.rigb.org/whats-on/events-
    2017/july/public-experience-midsummer-night-of-science).
 • Horton, C.L. (2017). Dreaming to remember, Invited lightning presentation and associated
    DrEAMSLab interactive exhibition, “Lates: Dreams” event, National Museum of Science and
    Media, Bradford
 • Horton, C.L. (2016). The ᴪence of dreaming, Invited keynote presentation,
    “Psychology4Students” event, British Psychological Society, London.
    (https://www1.bps.org.uk/system/files/user-
    files/psychology%204%20students%202016/P4S%20London%202016_WEB.pdf; see also a

                                                                                         Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    review of the presentation here: http://thepsychologist.bps.org.uk/volume-30/february-
    2017/tour-dreams-and-nightmares




                                                                                             Page 11
