Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Roehampton
 Unit of Assessment: 4 - Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Research strategy and structure
 The Psychology unit at the University of Roehampton comprises 29 (28.4FTE) researchers
 working across experimental psychology, cognitive neuroscience, comparative psychology and
 counselling therapies. Our work aims to improve understanding of the factors that influence health,
 mental health and wellbeing in humans and animals. We develop strategies and interventions to
 improve mental health, particularly for young people and adolescents. In doing so, our research
 addresses one of the most important current societal challenges: enhancing understanding of the
 social, psychological and biological mechanisms that affect health and wellbeing, to inform mental
 health practice and policy nationally and internationally. To drive our multidisciplinary activities,
 we have invested both in senior scholars to ensure strong research leadership, and high-
 performing ECRs (7) to provide a firm foundation for future excellence. In 2014, Professor Mick
 Cooper was appointed to lead research in psychological and counselling therapies, followed in
 2015 by Professor Paul Allen to lead our work in cognitive neuroscience and neuroimaging. They
 joined Professor Cecilia Essau, who has an international reputation for psychological research
 in child and adolescent mental health, and Professor Stuart Semple, who leads work in the field
 of animal behaviour and emotion, an area developed since 2014 to further extend the range of our
 multidisciplinary work.

 Research clusters
 Since 2014, we have organised our researchers into four clusters with the aim of delivering our
 strategic objectives, to facilitate a more collaborative, mutually supporting culture, to better
 integrate our research students into our research environment, and to produce outstanding
 impactful research. Our clusters are:

 (i) Cluster for Cognition, Neuroscience and Neuroimaging (CCNNI) (Allen, Aksentijevic, Brandt,
 Bruton, Dyall, Faulkner, Fuggetta, Gibson, Gilleen, Molina-Holgado, Sahai, Sandrini).
 CCNNI draws together our researchers in cognition and cognitive neuroscience who seek to
 understand the brain, cognition and behaviour in the context of psychopathology and associated
 risk factors. Research is also conducted to develop techniques for cognitive enhancement and
 behavioural change. We have access to state-of-the-art facilities including Magnetic Resonance
 Imaging (MRI) and repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS). Since its formation in
 2016, CCNNI has hosted seven PhD students and four Erasmus students. CCNNI staff have
 received approximately £850,000 of external funding as PIs, Co-Is, and seconded researchers in
 collaboration with other UK and international institutions. We hold monthly seminars and meetings
 to which external and internal speakers are invited to speak. Much of our work builds on the
 influential work of our former colleague, Eysenck, on anxiety and its effects on cognition, for
 example, adapting his work for fMRI to better understand the neural basis of attentional control
 and how this is affected by anxiety and worry (e.g. Cortex, Brain and Behaviour, Neuroscience,
 Biobehavioural Reviews and NeuroImage Clinical). Allen’s work is focused on understanding the
 neural basis of psychiatric disorders and their development in young adults, auditory
 hallucinations, and effects of cannabis on the brain (e.g. American Journal of Psychiatry, Trends
 in Neuroscience, JAMA Psychiatry, Translational Psychiatry). Allen has also led real-time
 neurofeedback proof-of-concept work, for novel applications in people experiencing psychiatric
 and affective symptoms (funded by MRC, British Academy and Rosetrees Trust). Sahai explores
 the mechanisms of action of drugs – particularly novel psychoactive substances – using cutting-
 edge in silico techniques, with this work having significant impact on drug rehabilitation and
 education. Molina-Holgado has worked extensively identifying and understanding the
 mechanisms and mediators of the neuro-protective actions of endocannabinoids in the brain,
 helping develop the hypothesis that neuroimmune networks, via endocannabinoid system
 signalling, have important effects that influence neural stem cell renewal and fate. Sandrini has
 developed a programme of research with collaborators at the Casa di Cura Privata Del Policlinico,
 Department of Neuroriabilitative Sciences in Milan, Italy funded by a Marie-Sklodowska-Curie
 award to improve cognition in older adults using transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) (e.g.,

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Human Brain Mapping, Neurobiologigy of Aging). Gibson is conducting cognitive research to
 improve diet and reduce obesity-related behaviours among pre-schoolers in Malaysia (‘ToyBox’
 study) funded by the Newton Fund Impact Scheme Grant (recently renewed). He collaborates with
 Dyall, who is leading a project on the role of omega-3 fatty acids combined with other nutrients
 for managing stress and anxiety in young adults.

 (ii) Cluster for Research in Social and Psychological Transformation (CREST) (Cooper, Davies,
 Hayes, Steffen, Rae J, Rae T). Established in 2015, CREST's research in the psychological
 therapies and social policy is designed to develop knowledge on interventions and methods that
 support enhancements in psychological and social wellbeing. Our research is focused on themes
 around shared decisions with clients and personalisation, empowering children and young people,
 and engaging with death, dying, and bereavement. Led by Cooper, the cluster has recently
 completed an ESRC-funded (£835,000) multicentre trial of school-based humanistic counselling
 in adolescents. Findings from the ‘Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness Trial of Humanistic
 Counselling in Schools: Individual RCT (ETHOS)’ trial have been published in The Lancet: Child
 & Adolescent Health (January 2021). As well as individual research activity, CREST holds regular
 meetings to coordinate research activity, a monthly seminar series, and annual conferences (most
 recently on pluralistic counselling and psychotherapy). We facilitate public exchange through
 social media and provide a bank of resources for practitioners. A principal activity of CREST is
 also the psychotherapy research clinic. Research by CREST members has been published in
 leading international journals in the psychotherapy field, such as the Journal of Consulting and
 Clinical Psychology, and Clinical Psychology: Science and Practice. CREST has hosted 12 PGR
 students since 2015, all of whom are regularly engaged in activities such as organising seminars
 and workshops. Cooper has also been funded by the Health Foundation and British Association
 of Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP) for work on school-based counselling interventions and
 for the development of a psychotherapy preference tool. Steffen’s work has advanced the
 development of meaning-centred therapy for bereavement and Hayes has conducted work around
 psychological and relational approaches to hearing voices, the experiences of continued presence
 in grief and child and adolescent psychotherapy process research. Davies and Rae have
 collaborated to explore the scale of benzodiazepine and Z-drug usage in the UK, complementing
 Davies’ exploration of prescription drug use and over-use, and providing data contributing to the
 Public Health England review (2019) and The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence
 response (2019) on this topic.

 (iii) Cluster for Applied Research and Assessment in Child and Adolescent Wellbeing (CARACAW)
 (Essau, Mayer, Lucas, Jackowska, Thrower). CARACAW was established in 2008 with the aim
 of improving the social and psychological wellbeing of children, adolescents, young people and
 their families, through innovative research into public health, health services, policy and practice
 and mobile technologies. CARACAW research is focused on the following themes: applied family
 research; research related to culture and cross-cultural psychology; promoting social and
 psychological wellbeing via new interventions; personality and early life experience. Impact is
 central to the work of CARACAW, and we have received funding from the ESRC, the MRC, The
 European Commission, The British Council and Wandsworth Borough Council. Led and
 developed by Essau, the ‘Super Skills for Life’ (SSL) programme is a resilience-building
 programme that has been rolled-out within the UK and in all the schools in the state of Penang,
 Malaysia, supported and funded by the Penang government. This research has had considerable
 impact and has been funded by the GB Sasakawa Foundation and more recently the ESRC (in
 collaboration with University of Surrey and King’s College London) and has been published in
 leading international journals (e.g. Social Psychiatry and Psychiatric Epidemiology, Journal of
 Autism and Developmental Disorders, Journal of Affective Disorders, Journal of Memory and
 Language). Jackowska has published extensively on the relationship between sleep and mood
 using data from large cohort studies, and Lucas and Mayer have conducted work examining
 reading and learning in children with Autistic Spectrum Disorders (Sleep Medicine, Psychological
 Medicine). Thrower investigates the psychosocial development of young athletes and parenting
 in sport, including issues such as the stressful nature of youth sport for young athletes and the
 negative impact this can have on their experiences and involvement. Essau organises an annual
 international conference entitled ‘International Conference on Child and Adolescent

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Psychopathology’ (ICCAP). Since starting in 2006, ICCAP has been a major platform for
 disseminating new research and best practice and is at the forefront of promoting research to
 improve practice in young people’s health.

 (iv) Cluster for Animal Behaviour and Emotion Research (CABER) (Semple, Berbesque,
 Lehmann, McElligott, Marshall, Perna). CABER brings together researchers who study the
 social behaviour and emotionality of animals. In line with the unit’s overall strategic aims, a key
 focus of this work is to explore the factors affecting health and mental wellbeing in such systems,
 informing understanding of health-related issues in modern society. CABER conducts research
 into sociality and wellbeing, emotion and welfare, evolution of cooperation, communication and
 coordination. We have secured research funding of approximately £382,000 from Innovate
 UK/BBSRC, NC3Rs/BBSRC, Leverhulme Trust, British Academy, EU, Royal Society, National
 Science Foundation, John Templeton Foundation, Farm Sanctuary, Fondation Fyssen, Swiss
 National Science Foundation, LSB Leakey Trust, Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour,
 The Carter Center and Santander. CABER researchers have published in leading journals
 including Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Current Biology, Proceedings of the
 Royal Society London, Evolution and Human Behaviour, and Trends in Cognitive Sciences.
 Lehmann explores the link between sociality and wellbeing in wild macaques and, in conjunction
 with Berbesque, also investigates such links in Hadza hunter-gatherers. Semple and McElligott
 explore emotion, stress and welfare in a range of non-human animals (monkeys, goats, horses),
 providing new insights into the evolution of complex emotional capacity, and informing debates
 around animal wellbeing. Working with CCNNI colleagues, much of their work adapts methods
 from human studies (e.g. judgment bias task, emotional Stroop tests) for use in other species.
 Marshall and Lehmann, working with wild macaques, baboons and banded mongooses, have
 made ground-breaking discoveries about the evolution of cooperation. Berbesque has also
 provided similarly critical insights in this area through her work as a member of ‘The Human
 Generosity Project’, a large-scale transdisciplinary project investigating for the first time the
 interrelationship between biological and cultural influences on human generosity. Perna and
 Semple explore fundamental questions around communication and coordination in gregarious
 species, with theoretical and empirical work revealing important common principles underpinning
 the social behaviour of humans and other animals.

 Coordinating research activity and support
 The integration, planning and support for the work of our four clusters is overseen by an executive
 committee (Allen, Cooper, Essau, Semple) that works with the Head of Department and research
 support staff to provide research governance. The committee’s primary role is to ensure research
 activity is in alignment with our strategic aims, to promote interdisciplinary approaches to research
 and bidding, and to allocate seed funding for projects that meet these criteria. Two members of
 the committee (Allen and Semple) also participate in a University-wide forum, as Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Leads, that facilitates the management of researchers who sit in different
 departments to their research unit and supports the identification of potential research affinities
 and interdisciplinary collaboration. The unit’s research activities are further supported by the
 University Research Office, which supports bidding and facilitates the development of networks
 and partnerships. A bi-weekly unit-level seminar series is held to encourage a broader disciplinary
 understanding amongst staff. The seminar series attracts world-leading speakers from within and
 outside the UK, e.g. Professors Sophie Scott (UCL), Dame Vicki Bruce (Newcastle), Avi
 Reichenberg (Mount Sinai, New York), Kenneth Hugdahl (University of Bergen), Lucy Johnstone
 (Bristol). During the pandemic, the Departmental Seminar Series has been hosted online and has
 attracted around 300 attendees for each seminar from institutions and clinics across the UK.

 Impact strategy
 Our research is both fundamental and applied, and our approach to impact starts with targeted
 and sustained relationships with potential non-academic beneficiaries of our research who include:
 i) people who experience health and mental health difficulties; ii) practitioners, mental health
 professionals and associated policy makers; iii) commercial organisations working to increase
 accessibility to health and mental health interventions; and iv) facilities that look after animals. We
 work with our beneficiaries to understand their needs and objectives and focus our research

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 accordingly (e.g. our partnerships with McPin Foundation, Youth Access). The unit is also
 engaging with local stakeholders (e.g. Roehampton Youth Centre and Alton Green Regeneration).
 Research with the potential to have impact in clinical settings or at policy level is also identified
 and developed at the outset of research projects. Our three Impact Case Studies exemplify this
 approach. For example, through working with the Department for Education, Cooper’s ESRC
 funded ETHOS study was designed to have direct impact on school counselling programmes and
 associated governmental policy; Essau’s work has increased access to evidence-based mental
 health interventions for young people by underpinning the development and dissemination of
 ‘Super Skills for Life’, which to date has produced positive mental and emotional health outcomes
 for 10,661 children and young people across 13 countries. Recently, led by Davies, the unit has
 worked with a range of stakeholders (APPG, BPS) to produce a documentary film, Medicating
 Normal, as part of guidance for psychological therapists, that enables conversations with clients
 taking or withdrawing from prescribed psychiatric drugs.

 Research findings with strong impact potential are identified in advance of publication, and we
 liaise with the University communications team to determine the most effective means for
 engagement with print, broadcast and online media, in particular seeking coverage in places that
 set the news agenda (e.g. BBC Online, AP news, Radio 4 Today programme). This approach has
 led to very extensive coverage of research projects including the work on antidepressants by
 Davies (e.g. Sky News, Newsnight, BBC Online, The Times, The Guardian, The Telegraph) and
 chimpanzee gestural communication by Semple (e.g. Today programme, BBC World News, The
 Times, The Guardian). Our successful dissemination strategies have been crucial to increasing
 the profile of our research, which has helped sustain existing collaborations and catalyse new
 partnerships.

 Staff involved in impact related work are eligible for substantial workload allowance and support
 to allow for the development of ongoing and new impact and PhD bursaries have been awarded
 to support collaborations and research with impact potential. An example of how the unit embeds
 pathways to impact into our research is an NC3Rs funded project, 'Attention bias: a novel method
 to assess psychological wellbeing in group-housed non-human primates' (2014-2015, £74,000 -
 Semple, Co-I), which was designed and carried out in close partnership with an end-user of the
 research, the Medical Research Council’s Centre for Macaques. The results of this study were
 translated into beneficial changes to the housing and husbandry of laboratory-housed primates.
 Recent external bids such as Allen’s ‘Identifying the cognitive-emotional mechanisms
 underpinning the onset of COVID-19 related anxiety’ have also embedded impact by involving
 policy advisors, in this case the King’s College London Policy Institute. To ensure that we continue
 to support the vitality and sustainability of our impact in the future, we will strive to create links to
 a greater number and diversity of end users. Nascent impact work will continue to be supported
 by departmental funding. We have already identified a number of studies with significant impact
 potential, including continuations of our existing high-impact work, led by Cooper, Essau, and
 Davies, respectively, which will be extended through new research collaborations. New research
 impacts addressing the effects of COVID-19 on the mental health of the general population (Allen)
 and on NHS staff (Gilleen), have also been invested in through internal pump-priming funds.

 Supporting interdisciplinary research
 Developing a unique brand of interdisciplinary research – across the areas of cognitive science,
 neuroscience, therapy, and animal behaviour research – is central to our future strategic aims.
 Members of the unit are strongly encouraged to explore questions that require interdisciplinary
 approaches both within and beyond the expertise in our clusters. To foster such work, we regularly
 invite speakers working across disciplinary boundaries to contribute to our seminar series, and in
 our research cluster meetings we use brainstorming sessions and discussion of new papers and
 emerging issues in order to identify topics. Departmental seed funding is available to support and
 facilitate interdisciplinary research ideas with potential and to encourage collaborative research
 projects across our clusters. For example, Allen and Cooper are developing neurocognitive
 outcome markers to measure therapeutic efficacy, while Gibson and Essau are working to
 develop wellbeing interventions (based on diet) to improve mental health outcomes in children
 and adolescents both nationally and internationally (funded by Newton Foundation). More broadly,

                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 unit members are working with colleagues in the Life Sciences, Arts, and Humanities to address
 societal priorities around understanding and enhancing adolescent mental health and well-being
 through novel interdisciplinary approaches and interventions (Cooper, Gibson). To further
 facilitate this the unit has established strong partnerships with the local NHS Trust (Wandsworth
 Child and Adolescent Mental Health Service [CAMHS]), and national, local and youth
 organisations (e.g. Youth Access, Roehampton Youth Centre).

 Open research
 We recognise the benefits of open access research and data, both to promote a health research
 ecosystem, and as a way to extend the utility of our research beyond the academic environment.
 Since 2014, we have made significant steps towards fostering a more open research environment,
 which has also supported the reproducibility agenda by allowing for the publication of studies
 reporting negative results. We have a commitment to open data where this is feasible and ethically
 appropriate, with data from several studies uploaded and available via the Open Science
 Framework (e.g., Morgenroth et al., 2019, Sandrini et al., 2018). A notable example of open access
 data is the ESRC funded study ‘Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness trial of humanistic
 counselling in schools for young people with emotional distress’ (Cooper), which is publicly
 available via UK Data Services. Allowing for reuse and secondary analyses, we have also
 implemented a data archiving and sharing initiative for all MRI studies conducted since 2015. This
 has recently led to the publication of a study in Addiction Biology (Faulkner et al., 2020), with
 several other outputs using this resource in preparation. Further, a significant replication study
 using MRI data in people with a clinical risk for psychosis was published in Schizophrenia Bulletin
 in 2018 (Allen et al., 2018). The unit has achieved 94% open access compliance and the number
 of outputs from the unit for which all data were made publicly available and/or are pre-registered
 rose from 0 in 2014 to 12 in 2020 e.g., outputs co-authored by Gibson (British Journal of Nutrition),
 Sandrini (Cortex), Allen (Cortex), Cooper (Lancet Child and Adolescent Health). In order for all
 unit members to be informed of the nature, tools and benefits of open research, we have appointed
 a member of our academic staff (Gibson) to support and facilitate open research/science within
 the department, including the delivery of workshops and seminars on open science and data
 sharing initiatives.

 Research integrity
 We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of research integrity and rigour. All human
 research complies with the Declaration of Helsinki and with the British Psychological Society's
 Code of Ethics and Conduct (2018). In addition, we adhere to the University of Roehampton Ethics
 Guidelines and the Code of Good Research Practice and Research Integrity in accordance with
 the revised Concordat to Support Research Integrity (Universities UK, 2019). All ethics
 applications are overseen and scrutinised at institutional and departmental levels. Furthermore, in
 considering ethical issues surrounding animal research, we follow the guidelines of relevant
 professional bodies or scientific societies, e.g., Association for Social Anthropology ASA ethical
 guidelines, International Primatological Society code of best practices for field primatology, and
 the Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour guidelines for the treatment of animals in
 behavioural research and teaching. Work cannot begin until approval has been given, and any
 substantive changes to the project require sign off by the relevant ethics group. As part of the
 ethics application process, a health and safety declaration must be made after associated risk
 assessments have been completed and approved. All research staff are also required to attend
 research ethics, integrity and best clinical practice workshops.

 Future strategic aims
 Our primary aim for the next five years is to utilise our diverse expertise to develop a programme
 of world-leading interdisciplinary research across our areas of core research strength, including
 through collaboration with other university departments and external collaborators (both academic
 and non-academic) in order to address fundamental research questions relating to mental health
 and wellbeing. We will ensure that our research strategy is positioned to meet changing and
 evolving societal needs, and strategic funding priorities, by:



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Nurturing an interdisciplinary and cross-departmental research programme to address
        issues around mental health and wellbeing. A particular focus is to facilitate collaborations
        between staff researching human and animal behaviour/emotion.
    •   Further aligning our research with the strategic priorities of the external research
        environment, particularly around well-being and adolescent mental health in our local
        community, to support external investments in our research. For example, staff in the unit
        are currently developing an innovative collaboration with St George’s NHS Trust and other
        local stakeholders to develop novel, user-led interventions to improve mental health and
        well-being. We have also begun a partnership with the National Society for the Prevention
        of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC).
    •   Ensuring the continued sustainability and viability of our impact strategy, by increasing the
        significance and reach of our research impact, engaging with a wider range of potential
        beneficiaries and creating links to a greater number and diversity of end users. We are
        currently building collaborations with commercial, charity, government and clinical
        organisations with a view to developing new impact pathways to ensure the future real-
        world benefits from our research.
    •   Developing inclusive research cultures, by actively supporting diversity in research
        careers, including interventions to support transitions from our UG and PGT community to
        PGR study, and also through supporting the transition from PGR to ECR for
        underrepresented groups in STEM.

 Our future strategy for research, impact and knowledge exchange was designed and launched
 prior to the effects of the global pandemic. We remain committed to its delivery, however we will
 also take advantage of the opportunities afforded by new working practices, such as the virtual
 seminars we have rolled out with great success in 2020-21, which extend our intellectual reach.

 2. People

 Staff support and wellbeing
 All staff returned to this unit are on permanent contracts. Currently, all research staff have 30-40%
 research time allocation (pro-rata), and are eligible for sabbatical (one term on a three year
 rotation). All research staff are assigned a research mentor and supported to develop a clear and
 achievable research plan (for the next 3-5 years). Staff appraisals are carried out annually, with
 research plans for the upcoming year and longer periods discussed and agreed. A key aim of this
 process is to identify training and other needs, in order to facilitate staff development. In addition,
 the specific criteria, milestones and benchmarks for promotion are identified and discussed, so
 that staff are clear how they can progress in their careers to become future research leaders. Staff
 wellbeing is delivered through our college system. All staff are affiliated to one of our four colleges,
 who provide research events, community building opportunities, and dedicated Wellbeing Officers
 for staff. All staff and PGRs have been offered mental health first aid training in 2020, whilst
 dedicated research staff and PGR wellbeing sessions have been delivered on mental health.

 Staff recruitment strategy
 Our recruitment strategy, underpinned by the core principles of equality, diversity and inclusion,
 aims to attract colleagues who show evidence of delivering - or the greatest potential to achieve -
 world-leading research, and whose work both complements our existing strengths and facilitates
 new intra- and interdisciplinary collaborations. In line with this, and our strategic objectives, we
 have invested in the recruitment of hi-calibre research staff, appointing 17 (16.6FTE) new research
 staff since 2014, with a strong focus on high achieving ECRs who can contribute to existing, and
 develop new, areas of research excellence (Faulkner, Lucas, Jackowska, Hayes, Marshall,
 Perna, Sahai). We have recruited and retained the most talented therapists, psychologists and
 neuroscientists, providing them with excellent facilities in a supportive, intellectually stimulating
 and vibrant environment to maximise their research development and to ensure the long-term
 sustainability of the unit. New staff are supported to generate external income appropriate to their
 career stage, and to establish collaborations within the unit and outside the University.
 Demonstrable experience of public engagement and knowledge exchange are also important
 criteria in new appointments. All new researchers take part in University induction and welcome

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sessions and are given experienced research mentors to assist them in their planning of
 immediate projects and longer-term goals. In accordance with the unit’s strategy, we have both
 enhanced our existing strengths and developed key areas. For example, in addition to the
 appointment of Allen, CCNNI research has been strengthened by the strategic appointment of
 staff with track records in cognitive neuroscience related to health/mental health, i.e. fMRI, EEG,
 tDCS (Sandrini, Gilleen, Fuggetta, Faulkner), three of whom have been awarded PhD student
 bursaries to further support our research in this area and to develop and expand supervisory
 experience for these staff. In addition to Cooper, appointments have also been made to
 strengthen therapies and counselling research (Steffen, Hayes).

 Equality, diversity and inclusivity
 Our research strategy embeds equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI) in its staffing, research
 culture, and support mechanisms, implementing University policies and legislation relating to
 equality, diversity and anti-discrimination. We are committed to providing a culture and
 environment in which the principles of EDI are applied in all areas relating to the recruitment and
 support of our staff and research students. The Head of Department and the members of the unit’s
 executive committee are all trained in EDI and implement the University’s Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion policy to ensure that recruitment, promotion, sabbatical, and funding decisions are made
 equitably. It is a requirement that new staff undertake a Diversity in the Workplace training course
 as part of their induction to the University, and existing staff are strongly encouraged to take the
 training, with completion rates being monitored carefully. We ensure that all members of long-
 listing, short-listing and interview panels have received unconscious bias and EDI training, and
 that such panels are gender balanced. The same considerations apply in promotion and bidding
 processes. Senior staff provide bespoke support, for example, in relation to the allocation of duties,
 timing of work, relieving pressures of internal deadlines and ensuring that workspaces are
 appropriate. The distribution of internal research support funds is always made with EDI in mind,
 to ensure that individuals’ needs and circumstances are considered. Remote and flexible working
 are supported, with particular consideration and accommodation given to those with family or other
 caring commitments. The move from full-time to part-time and vice versa is supported wherever
 possible, as commitments or personal situations change. Periods of parental leave, caring duties,
 illness or other personal circumstances are taken into account when determining workload
 allocations for research staff, when considering applications for conference and research-related
 travel, and in evaluations of requests for training funds. Where feasible in these situations,
 teaching duties are shifted or some teaching/administrative duties are relieved, to free up more
 substantial blocks of time for research. Part-time and fixed-term staff are fully supported, with pro-
 rata expectations for progression. We also support progress to research posts via a Professional
 Development Scheme that provides 30% time in their workload to develop nascent research
 where it aligns with the unit’s strategic objectives.

 The unit is currently comprised of 35% female researchers (9.4 FTE female staff, 19 FTE male
 staff). Female staff returning from maternity leave (three since 2014) have been supported by a
 reduced teaching workload and accelerated sabbaticals to allow greater focus on their research
 responsibilities. Appropriate representation on committees is ensured so that gender balance on
 them reflects the gender balance in the unit. A member of our research staff (Steffen) has a role
 for monitoring and addressing issues relating to equality and diversity in the unit. In terms of ethnic
 diversity, the unit is currently comprised of only 7% BAME staff, although this figure rises to 25%
 for our professoriate. We recognise that our ethnicity profile highlights a lack of diversity. In order
 to address systemic inequalities in the discipline, future recruitment will use positive action to
 identify and actively encourage applications from BAME candidates. Our PGR cohort is more
 diverse, with 82% of our completed PhD and PsychD students being female. In addition, we are
 making steady progress in supporting inclusive practices to support a pipeline of diverse talent.
 19% of our completed PGRs identified as BAME, and this figure rises to 27% among our current
 cohort. We are committed to further addressing the sector-wide structural issues around research
 career paths for underrepresented groups and are currently exploring mechanisms whereby we
 can support our PGRs who identify as BAME to make the transition to ECR.



                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our selection of outputs process was accompanied by a robust equality and diversity analysis to
 ensure decisions had no adverse effect on staff with protected characteristics. We are submitting
 66 outputs in total, of which 32% were produced by female staff, 11% by BAME colleagues and
 6% by staff who identify as LGBTQ+. We have striven for an inclusive, balanced submission
 comprising the work of researchers at all career levels: 8% were produced by Lecturers, 41% by
 Senior Lecturers, 21% by Readers and 27% by Professors.

 Mentoring, development and reward of research staff
 A peer mentor scheme is in place for all research staff. Mentoring is conducted by senior
 researchers (Allen, Semple, Cooper, Essau) and is organised around disciplinary themes, e.g.
 Allen mentors research staff conducting cognitive neuroscience work, Cooper mentors staff
 working in the psychology therapies etc., or career priorities, for example the development of
 impact. Each mentor is assigned 6-7 mentees including ECRs. As part of the mentoring
 arrangement, staff complete individual research plans and meet with their mentor regularly (a
 minimum of three times per year) to discuss progress towards their research goals and the
 potential of their work for impact and ways in which that impact might be developed. Recognition
 of research and its strategic importance is supported through the distribution of staff development
 funding. Our reward for research performance is primarily delivered through promotion, which is
 benchmarked against clear expectations for academic roles. During the current REF cycle, 11 of
 our staff have been promoted, including two promotions to Reader in recognition of the quality of
 their research activities (Aksentijevic, Berbesque). Unit members are supported with one-
 semester sabbatical every third year, during which time they are relieved of teaching and
 administrative duties and allowed to fully focus on research and impact activities. 22 unit members
 have benefitted from at least one sabbatical since 2014. Sabbaticals are often used to prepare
 outputs for submission, external funding bids and/or to establish overseas collaborations and
 partnerships. We have incorporated impact as a key part of individual staff research plans. It is
 formally recognised in the criteria for appointments and promotions, and we hold regular
 workshops and seminars focusing explicitly on impact. We draw on our unit’s unique expertise in
 psychotherapy by running activities where practitioners and research staff share and explore one
 another’s work. We also hold a competitive annual small research grant (SRG) to support seed
 funding for new projects (24 x £3,000 awards since 2014). ECRs are particularly encouraged to
 apply for our SRG and are prioritised when it comes to distributing funds. Support is also available
 for attending conferences and the importance of this activity is recognised through an £800
 allowance to any member of staff presenting (poster or oral presentation) at a national or
 international meeting.

 We promote the exchange of staff between academia and appropriate professional contexts
 through the flexible use of sabbatical time, the ability to reduce FTE of individual posts, and the
 use of honorary fellowships. We also have mechanisms to support those entering higher
 education, through the provision of a year-long Professional Development Allowances, which can
 provide dedicated workload allocation of up to 30% to support the transition to a research career.
 Our seminar series and Graduate School training programmes also include practitioner or
 professional speakers to encourage mutually supportive networking. Research Impact Officers
 also support these relationships once established and prioritised by the executive committee and
 Head of Department.

 Support for new staff and ECRs
 All new staff are supported through their probationary period with clear objectives in relation to
 research, and additional workload allocations to support their integration in the unit. Meetings with
 research mentors and line managers support probation and annual appraisals, which offer
 structured opportunities to discuss career development and resources to support it. ECRs are
 assigned a mentor expert in their research field, with enhanced support through more regular
 meetings. In addition to research mentoring, mentors advise ECRs on career development,
 research supervision and training opportunities. To assist with the establishment of their research
 careers and their integration into our research culture, ECRs have reduced teaching and
 administrative loads during the first year of their appointment formalised through workload
 arrangements. ECRs are also incorporated in PhD supervisory teams as co-supervisors. New staff

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have access to start-up funds for research and to all facilities, including MRI scans (if needed) for
 pilot studies. All ECRs are supported with access to accelerated research sabbaticals within their
 first three years of employment, subject to appropriate timing to best support their research.

 Post-doctoral research workers and research assistants
 Since 2014, the unit has hosted six Post-Doctoral Researchers and four Research Assistants
 supported by external grants and strategic investment. On appointment, all Postdoctoral
 Researchers/Research Assistants are assigned a mentor to provide advice on research and
 career development. New research staff attend workshops in the targeted Research Development
 series on topics designed to meet their needs. Post-docs in the unit have had successful career
 trajectories, and we actively support staff with clear progression routes and development
 opportunities. Post-docs Stafford and Orlov have subsequently been recruited as ECRs in our unit
 (Stafford, left 2020) and at other institutions (Orlov). Research assistants working in the
 department have embarked on clinical psychology training (Barker).

 Research students
 PGR recruitment is facilitated through open competition for all funded opportunities, and PGRs
 are able to approach the Graduate School to identify appropriate supervisory teams. All PGR
 applications are supported by the Research Degrees Convenor and the Head of Department.
 PGRs are only recruited where projects align to staff expertise and research strategy. We have a
 vibrant, diverse and international PGR student group comprising PhD and PsychD students that
 has grown since 2014. In the REF2014 cycle, the unit had 38 PGR completions. In the current
 REF cycle 142 PGRs have completed: 44 PhD and 39 PsychD students have been returned as
 part of our REF2021 submission. An institutional reporting error to HESA between 2013/14 and
 2017/18 incorrectly categorised a further 59 PsychD completions (8 in 2013/14, 15 in 2014/15, 25
 in 2016/17, and 11 in 2017/18), which were not returned as research degrees.

 PhD students are supported through a competitive unit-level bursaries scheme and a Vice
 Chancellor’s scholarship scheme that has provided £1,220,600 worth of funds in the current cycle.
 The unit has also secured individual bursaries from the BACP, The Leverhulme Trust and the
 Roehampton University Sacred Heart international PGR scheme. Careful attention is paid to
 ensuring that doctoral students are well integrated into the research environment. They are
 provided with research and travel budgets and are encouraged to develop work for publication;
 they are provided with dedicated computer-equipped desk space and full access to all our
 research facilities; and they are full members of our research clusters, participating in all activities
 and working collaboratively with research staff. PGRs who have completed since 2014 have taken
 up post-doctoral positions at King’s College, London, Edinburgh Napier, Bangor, Sussex, and the
 École polytechnique fédérale de Lausanne.

 PGRs have two or three supervisors. One of these is designated Director of Studies (to qualify for
 this role, at least one student must have been supervised to completion), and this individual is
 responsible, where needed, for mentoring less experienced supervisors. All supervisors undergo
 mandatory training, comprising a two-day programme Supervising Postgraduate Research.
 Overseas training placements have been established with funding support from the Experimental
 Psychology Society (i.e. University of Basel [computational modelling] and Utrecht Medical Centre
 [Clinical Trials]). Bursary students gain valuable experience as teaching assistants, demonstrating
 practical sessions, and marking first year research reports. Our PGRs benefit from being members
 of a cross-University community, through the training and events offered by the Graduate School.
 All PGRs are required to undertake the Graduate School's Research Student Development
 Programme which comprises a series of workshops providing methodological, academic writing,
 ethical and career development training. Funds are available for every PhD/MPhil student to
 attend one international conference and they are encouraged to attend and present at least one
 national or international meeting per year. PGRs are encouraged to acquire new research
 techniques and use our equipment, and colleagues organise workshops on methods/techniques
 (e.g. eye tracking, EEG, MRI, transcranial stimulation) that PGRs are encouraged to attend.
 Students using fMRI facilities for their PhD/MPhil projects have free scanning time. This
 arrangement has led to several peer-reviewed journal publications, e.g. Neuroimage (Horne et al.

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2018), Cortex (Morgenroth et al. 2019). We create opportunities for research students to
 participate in the academic life of the unit. Research students feature prominently at our annual
 PG research event during which they are required to present their work (3-minute presentation) to
 other PGR students and colleagues. All PGRs present their work at research cluster seminars,
 and they are expected to provide a 3-minute ‘thesis presentation’. We also have our own induction
 to welcome new students in September/October and January.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Research income has been a major strategic priority for the unit since 2014, and both bidding and
 bidding success have seen significant increases. In the current REF period grant capture has
 increased to £1,940,000, whilst research income stands at £1,905,431. This represents an
 approximately four-fold increase on the £431,643 research income reported to REF2014, and
 these external funds have supported a number of ground-breaking research projects across our
 multidisciplinary unit.

 Our strategy has prioritised bidding for funds to support health and mental health related research
 and has been enabled by our effective and well-integrated research support structures, including
 mentoring and planning processes, in which individual staff are teamed with senior colleagues
 with track records of bidding success, a peer review and development process for bids at unit and
 university level, and a dedicated Research Development and Impact officer attached to the unit
 from the Research Office to assist in planning, timing and management of bids. Two areas of
 increased focus in the period have been the designing of bids to maximise the reach and
 significance of impact on non-academic audiences, publics and industry partners, and the
 development of Knowledge Exchange activities and links with external bodies in line with the
 University’s Research Impact and Knowledge Exchange strategy (2020). This is already bearing
 fruit and will drive research bidding in the coming period. We have also sought to diversify our
 funding sources, particularly where our research enquiries have provided clear clinical or policy
 applications.

 Since 2014, our research has been funded by the UKRI and UK Charities, including through the
 ESRC for ‘Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness Trial of School-based Humanistic Counselling’,
 £830,000 (Cooper) and ‘A multi-perspective analysis of university students' personal mental
 health and well-being capital and its effect on their life outcomes’, £217,581 (Essau); the Newton
 Foundation/Medical Research Council for an intervention to improve healthy energy balance-
 related behaviours in 4-6 year old children in rural and urban settings in Malaysia, £310,553
 (Gibson); the British Academy/Leverhulme Trust and Rosetrees Trust for ‘Attentional bias
 modification for trait anxiety using real-time fMRI neurofeedback’, £61,100 (Allen); the BBSRC for
 ‘LIVEQuest: A self-contained wearable Internet-of-Things System for Precision Livestock
 Agriculture’, £20,752 (McElligott) and the Leverhulme Trust for ‘Emotional awareness as a basis
 for social success in a non-human: the domestic horse’ (Semple). Evidence of diversification of
 research income in applied settings can be seen in grants from Wandsworth Clinical
 Commissioning Group for ‘Evaluation of Super Skills for Life intervention’ (Essau), The Health
 Foundation for ‘Helping Young People Thrive: implementing a person-centred model of care for
 Young People’s Mental Health’ (Cooper); the Experimental Psychology Society (Brant, Allen)
 and the BACP (Cooper).

 Staff are also encouraged and supported to develop research with peers in other institutions and
 are Co-Is and/or seconded researchers on approximately £2m of funding awarded to other
 institutions for major research projects since 2014 (including MRC, Wellcome Trust [Allen], Marie-
 Sklodowska-Curie Fellowship [Sandrini], King’s Health Partners [Gilleen]), which has led to
 cutting edge research, outputs and impacts. ESRC funding (Cooper and Essau) has enabled
 research that is impacting policy and practice around school counselling and the development and
 implementation of psycho educational programmes for adolescents. MRC/Newton Foundation
 funds have supported international research that aims to improve diet in pre-school children.
 BBSRC and Leverhulme Trust funding (McElligot and Semple) has informed models of animal

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 behaviour and emotion and British Academy/Rosetrees Trust funding has facilitated the
 development of innovative neuroscience (non-pharmacological) approaches to the treatment of
 anxiety. We will seek more diverse funding opportunities through collaboration, and actively seek
 the development of industry-partners and a concomitant portfolio of Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships.

 Facilities
 The unit enjoys a wide range of facilities and research infrastructure. Our largest facility is the
 Combined Universities Brain Imaging Centre (CUBIC: http://www.cubic.rhul.ac.uk/). As members
 of the CUBIC regional HEI consortium (Roehampton, Royal Holloway, Brunel, Surrey), we own
 and run a 20% share in the research-dedicated Siemens TIM Trio MR scanner sited at Royal
 Holloway University of London. This represents a significant contribution to our physical
 infrastructure and has undergone a complete upgrade in 2014 (at an overall cost of £329,000),
 now providing cutting-edge capabilities across the full spectrum of MR imaging modalities
 (anatomical, BOLD fMRI, DTI and MR spectroscopy, real-time fMRI neurofeedback and tDCS
 compatible systems). The scanner is accessible to all unit staff and PGR students. CUBIC
 supports much of the cognitive neuroscience work that is taking place in CCNNI, including several
 projects examining neurobiological factors related to mental health and wellbeing. We also have
 access to research cubicles with dedicated computers and a large Cognition Laboratory (155
 square metres) that houses two dedicated EEG suites, one dedicated rTMS suite, a dedicated
 Eye-tracking suite and two psycho-physiological suites (equipped for blood and saliva collection).
 Additionally, the laboratory has 12 Windows networked machines (for research only) and licences
 for a range of research software (e.g. E-Prime, Superlab, Brain Voyager, SPM and LCModel [MRI
 analysis], Matlab, NeuroScan Package [EEG software tool], EEG Lab [EEG software tool]). Since
 2014, we have invested £181,500 in new research equipment. CARACAW also conducts research
 in local schools (Wandsworth, London) and has access to millisecond software and video
 equipment for data collection. To facilitate the unit’s counselling and therapeutic research the
 CREST Clinic is a fully functioning psychotherapy research clinic based within the unit. It has two
 large consulting rooms, each equipped with furnishing, whiteboards, and personal alarms as
 appropriate to a psychotherapy service. Data is stored and managed by the ‘Pragmatic Tracker’
 data management system. One of the consulting rooms is equipped with four ceiling-mounted HD
 video cameras that are used for video capture of individual and group psychotherapy sessions.
 Annual funds are made available to research clusters for equipment, and time on the MRI scanner
 for pilot work is subsidised. We intend to continue our partnership and funding arrangement with
 CUBIC (approx. £45,000 per annum to cover staff, insurance and maintenance costs), and are
 currently seeking funding to upgrade the MRI scanner at CUBIC.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations, advisory and consultancy roles
 To advance our strategic aim of enhancing understanding of factors that influence health, mental
 health and wellbeing, we seek to ensure that the outcomes of our research benefit a wide body of
 users, including scholars, practitioners, patients, institutions, policymakers, publics and industry,
 both nationally and internationally. To this end, staff collaborate with a wide variety of peers,
 research users and organisations. They play a key role in a range of academic and non-academic
 projects, and undertake a variety of advisory and consultancy roles, to maintain and further the
 excellence of our research and to ensure the vitality of the field and to realise the public benefits
 of our findings.

 Advisory and consultancy roles: To engage with and advise upon national and international policy,
 unit members act as expert advisors and consultants for several national and international
 organisations related to mental health and/or adolescent mental health and wellbeing. Essau is a
 member of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) advising on Family Therapy
 for Juveniles with Drug Use Disorders. Gibson advises Abbott Nutrition, the International Life
 Sciences Institute and the Natural Hydration Council, and Cooper is a National Advisor for
 Counselling for Children and Young People’s Improving Access to Psychological Therapies
 (Department of Health/NHS England). The unit also has strong collaborative international ties with

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 policy makers and practitioners in the Malaysian Department of Education, where Essau’s
 psychoeducational programme has been implemented in over 700 schools, and engages with
 commercial and charity partners to further our strategic aims and objectives, i.e., Thrive and the
 NSPCC’s ‘Sharing the Science’ initiative (Allen/Cooper/Essau).

 Academic Collaborations: Academic collaborations are also aligned with the unit’s strategic aims
 and members play key roles in large-scale international, multidisciplinary projects, in particular
 through grants held by staff as Co-Is and seconded researchers which further embed our work
 within international collaborative frameworks. Notable collaborations include those with the
 University of Durham on ‘Hearing the Voice’ (Wellcome Trust, Allen), a major interdisciplinary and
 multicentre project that facilitates collaborations between researchers and people with lived
 experience of voices; and, with King’s College London on ‘Neurobiology Underlying the Onset of
 Psychosis’ (Wellcome Trust and MRC, Allen), which has produced research leading to a better
 understanding of how psychosis develops in the brain. Collaborations also include investigating
 the pro-cognitive effects of a novel compound in schizophrenia (IRCCS Fatebenefratelli Brescia,
 Italy, GiIleen), memory enhancement induced by tDCS in aging (Sandrini) and the ETHOS study
 which has established a collaborative network for counselling and psychotherapy research with
 the Universities of Manchester, Sheffield, UCL and LSE (Cooper). Berbesque is a member of the
 ‘Human Generosity Project’ (NSF and Templeton Foundation), a large-scale multidisciplinary
 research programme that employs diverse methodological approaches to explore the nature and
 evolution of human generosity. Lehmann has worked with an international team (colleagues from
 Veracruz, Michigan, Texas, Smithsonian, Neuchatel, Swansea, St Andrews) to explore fission-
 fusion dynamics in animals (Proc Roy Soc B 285, 20180532), developing new theoretical
 approaches and validating these with data from long term studies of wild animals. Semple works
 with colleagues from Barcelona, St Andrews, Neuchatel and Michigan on a project exploring
 linguistic laws beyond human language; this work has led to the proposal that compression may
 be a unifying principle underpinning the communication systems of all species, including humans
 (PNAS 113, e2750-e2758; Proc Roy Soc B 286, 20182900). Other notable collaborations that
 have enhanced our research environment and support our research strategy include the Icahn
 Medical School, Mt Sinai, New York, USA (Allen), Imperial College London and Faculty of Health
 Sciences, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia (Gibson), Idaho State University, Marquette University
 and the University of Scranton, USA (Cooper), and the University of Bergen (Allen).

 Engaging research users, beneficiaries and audiences
 To enhance and promote our reputation as a centre of excellence for health-related research, staff
 regularly present at national and international meetings and conferences and deliver guest
 lectures at external institutions. Several unit members have delivered keynotes internationally:

    •   Gibson at the 10th Nutrition & Health Conference, (Latvia, 2018), and Conference on
        Family Wellbeing (India, 2018);
    •   Essau at the 48th Annual Congress of the European Association for Behavioural and
        Cognitive Therapies, (Bulgaria, 2018), and the 7th International Conference on Health
        Psychology (Cuba, 2014);
    •   Allen at the 5th International Consortium of Hallucination Research, Chicago, (USA, 2016);
    •   Cooper at the British Psychological Society Division of Counselling Psychology (UK,
        2019), and BACP Research Conference (2016);
    •   Semple at the Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour (UK, 2020);
    •   Davies at the Towards Openness and Democracy in Mental Health Services, Open
        Dialogue Conference (2015).

 Essau has also established and leads The International Conference on Child and Adolescent
 Psychopathology and The International Conference on Child and Adolescent Psychopathology,
 Malaysia. These international meetings have established the unit as a leading global centre of
 excellence for research in this area. Allen is an inaugural and current steering committee member
 of the International Consortium of Hallucination Research (now in its 10th year) and Cooper
 organised the 2nd International Conference on Pluralistic Counselling and Psychotherapy 2019,
 and the 2016 Embodying Social Justice conference. Our strategy to maximise the coverage of our

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research in electronic and print media has also underpinned a range of activities that draw
 attention to research discoveries and impacts for non-academic audiences. These include staff
 appearances on: BBC TV and radio (Allen discussing schizophrenia and auditory hallucinations,
 BBC Horizon ‘Why did I go Mad?’, 2 May 2017) and other outlets; Gilleen has appeared in the
 media discussing MDMA (Ecstasy) and how this affects pro-social behaviours; Gibson, through
 a blog on Nutritional Health. Through the period we have strategised the identification of clear
 pathways and plans for impact in research projects from their start. A current example in the proof-
 of-concept stage is work by Allen using fMRI neurofeedback (MRC/Rosetrees Trust) which has
 exciting impact potential for people experiencing mental health issues and for commercial
 organisations. This work has already attracted international media coverage from NHS Choices,
 BBC TV/radio, Sky News, The Daily Mail, and The Metro.

 Contribution to the research base
 Our staff and their research have been recognised by a number of awards and honours. Essau
 was awarded the British Medical Association Medical Book Prize and is a Fellow of the British
 Psychological Society, and Cooper has gained an Academy of Social Science Academician and
 Carmi Harari Mid-Career Award (American Psychological Association). Staff are active society
 members across a wide range of organisations engaged with health, mental health and wellbeing
 including: the British Association for Cognitive Neuroscience, Council for Allied Health Professions
 Research, Experimental Psychology Society, International Early Psychosis Association, British
 Psychological Society Developmental Section and the British Association of Counselling and
 Psychotherapy. In addition, unit members hold a number of prestigious visiting positions,
 including: Visiting Professor at the Icahn Medical School, Mt Sinai Hospital, New York, USA, and
 King’s College London (Allen); Visiting Professor/Scientific advisor, Riga Stradins University,
 Latvia (Gibson); Visiting Professor, University of Adelaide, Australia, and Distinguished Visiting
 Professor, De La Salle University, Philippines (Essau).

 All unit members are involved in ad hoc reviewing activity for international peer-reviewed
 psychology, neuroscience and psychiatry journals, specifically those publishing work aligned with
 health and mental health. These include The Lancet, PNAS, JAMA Psychiatry, Psychological
 Science, Current Biology and Journal of Neuroscience. Several unit members act as journal
 editors, e.g., Essau for European Psychologist, Gibson for Frontiers in Nutrition, Cooper for
 Counselling Psychology Review, Allen for Frontiers in Human Neuroscience. Unit members sit on
 national and international grant funding panels, e.g., Allen for the Irish Research Council and
 Institut Universitaire de France, Senior Fellowships Panel, Brandt for the Experimental
 Psychology Society, and Essau for the German Federal Ministry of Education and European
 Consortia for Horizon 2020. Members also conduct ad hoc reviewing for a range of funding bodies
 including the ESRC, Medical Research Council, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research
 Council, Netherlands Organisation of Scientific Research, National Institute of Health Research,
 British Council (Newton Programme), European Commission, European Research Council, British
 Academy, Swiss National Science Foundation, European Research Council, National Science
 Foundation (US), European Union (Marie Curie COFUND), AHRC, Primate Society of Great
 Britain, LSB Leakey Foundation, Social Science and Humanities Research Council (Canada), and
 the National Science Research Centre (Poland).




                                                                                             Page 13
