Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Coventry University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA3: Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Achievement of strategic research aims from REF2014 has generated significant growth in the
current REF period of:
    • 45% in research funding, increasing from £8.15M to £11.8M;
    • 130% in publications, rising from 318 papers to 731 papers;
    • The percentage of papers with international co-authors (based on the authors’ affiliation at
        the time of publication in Scopus) increasing from 17.6% to 60.9%;
    • 93% in the number of staff returned with UoA3 up from 17.6FTE to 34FTE;
    • 235% in PhD completions, all within 4 years, increasing from 17 to 57.

Structure of research
Allied Health Research (UoA3) primarily bridges across two inter-disciplinary Research Centres in
the Faculty of Health & Life Sciences; viz. the Centre for Sport, Exercise and Life Sciences
(CSELS) and the Centre for Intelligent Healthcare (CIH), each led by an Executive Director. The
overarching aim of our research is to “Improve the health and well-being of individuals and
communities”. CSELS and CIH have their own focus and expertise, but together they capture the
breadth of research activity across UoA3, with the exception of a small amount of interdisciplinary
research with the Centre for Data Science (CDS) and the Institute for Future Transport and Cities
(IFTC). In total, UoA3 comprises 35 independent researchers (34 FTE).

Research in CSELS and CIH is organised into Research Themes, each led by a Professor.
CSELS: aims to be a research-intensive leader in improving the health and wellbeing of humans
by adopting multi-disciplinary approaches to increase our mechanistic understanding of life, from
molecules and cells to organs and the whole body.

This breadth of expertise facilitates the evolution of multi-disciplinary teams to address global
problems. Research activity is divided into two broad areas; i) Integrative Biosciences (UoA3), ii)
Sport and Exercise Sciences (UoA24). This co-localisation of UoA3 and UoA24 encourages cross-
UoA interdisciplinary collaboration (e.g. Renshaw(UoA3)/Turner(UoA24);
James(UoA3)/Tallis(UoA24); Maddock(UoA3)/McGregor(UoA24)). Research within CSELS
contributing to UoA3 is subdivided into three research Themes: Cell Signalling and Membrane
Biology; Disease Prevention, Therapeutics & Diagnostics; Bioscience & Biotechnology
Engineering. These Themes have been developed since REF2014 to address key research
challenges and priority research areas of major funders. Each Theme brings together researchers
with related interests and facilitates effective communication, collaboration and sharing of
instrumentation and resource. Themes have been structured with deliberate overlap to prevent
research activity being ‘silo-ed’ and to encourage cross-Theme collaborations (e.g.
Reynolds/Wheatley; Maddock/Sandhu/Wheatley; James/Maddock; Renshaw/Farnaud;
Reynolds/Greaves; Dodd/Greaves/Bennett) resulting in cross-Theme papers, grant applications
and collaborative research with industry. The Bioscience & Biotechnology Engineering Theme in
particular is inherently multi-disciplinary. The research centres are linked through the Professor of
Healthcare Technology, a post held jointly between CSELS/CIH plus jointly-held dedicated support
from a Research Development Executive from Research Services.


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


CIH: is building to become a globally-recognised research centre for pioneering and opinion-setting
research in the area of digital healthcare and its contribution to monitoring healthcare and enriching
and prolonging individual lives and improving communities. Research goals are delivered by three
research Themes: Behaviour and Implementation Science (BIS); Healthcare Technology and
Innovation (HTI); Epidemiology and Evidence Based Healthcare (EEBH).


Research objectives
Within our REF2014 Environment statement we identified five objectives for the current REF
assessment period:

1. Develop further research in health behaviour change techniques;
2. Build further capacity for original research;
3. Improve patient and public participation in research;
4. Build on and develop existing and new international collaborations for research;
5. Address international and national priorities for research.

The strategy for achieving the UoA3 research objectives has made a step-change since 2014,
prompted, in part, by an increase in the drive to integrate technology, artificial intelligence
modelling and the provision of wireless networks into healthcare and translational medicine.
Recognising the changing nature of real-world problems and technological advances, we took the
strategic decision to develop and open CIH which launched in 2018 to function alongside CSELS,
formally Centre for Applied Biological and Exercise Sciences. Such an investment was based on
the close linkage between the University and the University Hospital Coventry and Warwickshire
(UHCW) and strong links established with Public Health Warwickshire and the Biotechnology and
Pharmaceutical Industries. These partners and collaborators have seen changes in their approach
to healthcare with an emphasis on the need for the inclusion of a more technological approach to
disease treatment, prevention and management. The response from the University was to assist in
this development by providing a research base (CIH/CSELS) to enable the generation and
development of new tools and techniques to monitor, diagnose and treat health and to foster
linkages with local healthcare bodies and industry.

2014 Objective 1: Develop further research in health behaviour change techniques (BCTs)
The creation of the Behavioural and Implementation Science (BIS) Theme within CIH was a
strategic response to achieving this objective, creating a critical mass of researchers (Lycett,
Johnson, Martin, Turner, Whelan and three researchers returned in UoA4). BCTs form the
foundation of the BIS Theme. All our interventions are built on BCTs and we have expanded the
work on BCTs and developed a sister taxonomy for alternative health techniques (Lycett), such
that many interventions integrate both. We work in partnership with Public Health Warwickshire,
where we are commissioned to integrate and evaluate public health interventions in accordance
with BCTs. Our BCT-based research focus has been expanded by the appointment of new staff to
BIS (Johnson, Martin, Whelan) and encompasses online interventions to improve mental health of
a broad range of population groups, including: eating behaviour in obesity (Lycett); autism (Martin);
diabetes (Whelan); plus living with cancer (Turner). This expansion in BCT is reflected in papers,
grant capture and PhD studentships. The development of the face-to-face and digital Help to
Overcome Problems Effectively (HOPE) programme in the last REF period, has led to the
formation of a spin-out company in this REF period to license its use by MacMillan Cancer
Support, the NHS and Carers Trust UK, to support individuals living with and beyond cancer

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Turner), people living with long-term conditions (Turner) and parents of children with autism
(Martin). This research is captured in the UoA3 Impact Case Study “Hope 4 The Community CIC:
Improving the lives of people living with a long-term health condition by providing self-management
tools”.

2014 Objective 2: Build further capacity for original research
There has been a vigorous and sustained programme of investment over several years to grow
research capacity within UoA3. This has focused on three synergistic aspects of the research
environment;
   • space - in 2018, UoA3 moved into purpose-built brand-new dedicated research
       laboratories and office space located in the new £59M Alison Gingell Building (details in
       Section 3);
   • staff – 14 new strategic recruitments were made within UoA3 (six Professors, four
       Associate Professors, two Assistant Professors, one Lecturer, one Independent Research
       Fellow) plus dedicated research time increased for three Early Career Researchers (ECR)
       (details in Section 2);
   • equipment - £2.3M was invested in new capital equipment (details in Section 3).

Outputs from UoA3 subsequently increased from 318 papers in REF2014 to 731 papers in
REF2021.

2014 Objective 3. Improve Patient and Public participation in research
Concomitant with the delivery of our research strategy over this REF period, which included
establishing CSELS and CIH Research Centres, has been increased Public Patient Involvement
and Engagement (PPIE). Service-users are consulted in co-creation, for example, of self-
management interventions and furthermore, co-deliver interventions provided by Macmillan, the
NHS and Carers UK. Indeed one of the UoA3 spin-out companies established since 2014, “Hope
for the Community” (Turner) was co-founded by four service-users. Likewise, Allen engaged with
patients and other volunteers on the PPIE panel to develop a medical device related to peripheral
arterial disease for primary care. In addition, an Innovate UK-funded project developing an Open
Source electronic observations software solution for bedside monitoring of patients includes as
partners: OpusVL (an Open Source software specialist); South London and Maudsley NHS Trust
plus Cheshire and Wirral Partnership NHS Trust; Apperta Foundation (a clinician-led, not-for-profit
company, supported by NHS England); NHS Digital and Coventry University (Wark).

2014 Objective 4. Build on and develop existing and new international collaborations for research
We have developed a wide range of collaborations across 27 countries (Sections 3 and 4). In
REF2014, 56 of the 318 papers published (17.6%) had international co-authors (based on the
authors’ affiliation at the time of publication in Scopus). This increased to 445 of 731 outputs
(60.9%) for the current REF period with 94% of UoA3 staff publishing an international co-authored
paper in the period.

2014 Objective 5. Address international and national priorities for research
This has been facilitated by the creation of CSELS and CIH and the strategic development of new
research themes within UoA3 since 2014. Our research (details below and in Section 4) has
addressed nationally-defined research priorities including: the Life Sciences Industrial Strategy
(https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/life-sciences-industrial-strategy) Science in
healthcare: Delivering the NHS Long Term Plan (https://www.england.nhs.uk/publication/chief-
scientific-officers-strategy/); the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC)
                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
priorities of Bioscience for Health; World-class Underpinning Bioscience; Healthy Ageing Across
the Life-Course; Food Nutrition and Health; Integrative Microbiome Research plus disease
priorities of major biomedical charities (Cancer Research UK, British Heart Foundation). Promoting
physical health in older age (Medical Research Council (MRC)), in silico trials and technology for
developing, testing and accessing biomedical and pharmaceutical relevant products (EU Societal
Challenges Horizon 2020 Personalised Health and Care; EIT Digital Health) plus obesity, mental
health, multi-morbidity, health behaviours (National Institute for Health Research (NIHR)); maternal
health monitoring (Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation) and religion & spirituality in health (John
Templeton Foundation). Maximise the commercial impact of world-class knowledge developed in
UK industries and its research base (Innovate UK; Horizon2020). A growing role for technology in
the NHS and digitally-enabled care (NHS Long-Term Plan).

Summary of our research strategy since REF2014:
Our Allied Health research strategy since REF2014 has been to develop impact from the
laboratory to the clinic and community and has focused activities on two major areas, each at
different stages of the translational pathway:
    i.  Disease-orientated research in the discovery phase
Achievements include identification of molecular mechanism providing insight into normal and
pathological states (Aspinall, Burke, Greaves, Maddock, Morozov, Renshaw, Reiman, Sandhu);
the role of cell processes in disease development (Bennett, Burke, Dodd, Farnaud, James,
Maddock; Tapp); the allied molecular mechanisms of drug action (Deganutti, Reynolds, Wheatley);
studies on drug toxicity (James, Maddock, Sandhu); the development of diagnostic and
mathematical and computational tools to support drug development and clinical decisions
(Blundell, Deganutti, Gould, He, Maddock, Mukandavire, Reynolds, Wheatley). Aligned to this, the
award-winning spin-out company, InoCardia Ltd, (Maddock, details in Section 3) assesses
cardiovascular drug safety for the Pharmaceutical Industry.
   ii.  Translation and Assessment of research and its applicability
Our aim for this phase of work was to move projects from the feasibility/discovery phase to
assessment of their viability, with the ultimate aim of bringing them into practice. Achievements
here include development and evaluation of interventions (Dong, Jakovljevic, Johnson, Lycett,
Martin, Szczepura, Turner, Whelan) and interventions for chronic health conditions (Horton, Lycett,
Martin, Morozov, Wark, Williams); innovative methods of measuring physiological and clinical
parameters (Allen, Kurmi, Maddock, Sandhu, Shah, Zheng). In part, these viability assessments
have been achieved through the links forged with external partners such as UHCW (Coad,
Maddock, Morozov, Renshaw), Public Health Warwickshire (Lycett), Moor Instruments, Newcastle
Hospitals, Microsoft Research (US), National Physical Laboratory, Photometrix (Allen) plus
TherapyAudit, Cheekmate, OkDok (Zheng), UCB a global BioPharma company (Maddock,
Wheatley), Sosei Heptares (Deganutti, Reynolds) and Cresset-Group (Maddock).

Research Objectives over the next 5 years

Our mission is to improve human health, professional practice, patient outcomes and cost-effective
care through synergistic research undertaken across UoA3 with a focus on “Molecules/cells to
public/community health”.

We will continue to focus on excellent fundamental research with a translational pipeline delivering
health and wellbeing improvements, coupled with cutting-edge technology development and
implementation. We will:

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  i.    Build on Research Centres’ synergies - Fundamental and Translational Research

Our research mainly focuses on major public health concerns related to ageing and chronic
diseases including cardiovascular and vascular disease, cancer, immunological and metabolic
disorders. Our primary strategic aim is to focus on these issues, and the underpinning molecular
and cellular mechanisms, to develop and expand basic, clinical and healthcare science research
and increase our award-winning innovative research pipeline, to expand translation of outputs to
clinical utility and commercial venture and so improve health outcomes worldwide.

We will play to our strengths in translational and healthcare science research to extend
understanding of mechanisms and further develop and assess pharmacological, physiological,
physical activity, nutrition, exercise and behavioural interventions to improve public health in
collaboration with colleagues submitted to UoA24.

  ii.   Grow and Support Allied Health Professional and Healthcare Scientist Research
        Capacity

Building on current REF period achievements, a new Centre for Healthcare Research (CHR) will
be created to integrate enhanced patient care and academic excellence through research, practice
development and innovation, while fully embedded within the NHS healthcare structure.
Furthermore, a new Institute for Health & Wellbeing (IHW) will form an umbrella over the CIH,
CSELS and CHR research centres. IHW will build on current evidence-based research projects
and innovative activities to inform and enhance clinical practice aimed at influencing clinical
improvements and national/international patient outcomes.

 iii.   Innovation

IHW will enable research focussed on innovation excellence from molecules to public/community
health, lifestyle, nutrition, exercise and behavioural sciences in order to improve health across the
life-course. We will build on our existing award-winning multidisciplinary approach to novel
physiological measurements, computational modelling, data science and medical technology
research both across our research centres and in partnership between the Institute for Complex
Systems, the Health Trusts, global biopharma and med-tech industries and regulatory
stakeholders. By working closely with industry and healthcare partners we will aim to accelerate
the adoption of new innovations into the NHS. To support this approach a Clinical Community
Diagnostic Centre initiative will be established (£25-30M; preliminary planning stage) in partnership
with UHCW and Coventry City Council). This will be a dedicated facility to deliver
routine diagnostics, education and training, research and innovation (Precision
diagnostics/Personalised care, Digital pathology, Novel biomarkers, Translational medicine,
Cutting-edge technology with industry and SMEs) and establish a landmark facility that will provide
access to high-quality diagnostic healthcare. We seek to become a major rallying institute linking
pharma, diagnostics, robust interventions and healthcare systems worldwide, and enable
businesses to test and embed their technologies aimed at improving patient outcomes and cost-
effective care.

 iv.    Grow Funding to underpin research

Staff submitted within UoA3 have already attracted funding from BBSRC, InnovateUK, British
Heart Foundation (BHF), Royal Society, NIHR, Horizon2020 and from many national and
international industrial collaborations (Section 3). Globally, governments are concerned about the
rise in non-communicable diseases because these have a considerable impact on healthcare costs

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and many are looking towards technology to reduce this financial burden. The international
response to this challenge, of moving towards integrating technology into healthcare, was mirrored
nationally in the UK drive to involve innovation and technology in all aspects of patient
management and to assist with the Sustainability and Transformation Partnerships currently
operating within many regions. Over the next five years we aim to grow high quality funding
streams and consolidate emerging work in med-tech, healthcare science technologies with
industrial partners, particularly building on synergy across the health themes and alignment with
translational technological innovation.

The objectives above align to the national “Science in healthcare strategy”
(https://www.england.nhs.uk/publication/chief-scientific-officers-strategy/) and “Life sciences:
industrial strategy” (https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/life-sciences-industrial-strategy)
focusing on a strong healthcare and life science research agenda to give allied health
professionals and healthcare science workforce greater opportunity to lead scientific research,
making best use of their unique combination of skills in creative product development, strong
analytical skills, as well as the clinical expertise to contextualise how innovation will fit into the
wider health system.

Impact
Within UoA3, impactful research has been facilitated by the appointment of an Advisory Committee
comprising Executive-level members from NHS, SMEs and third-sector organisations, as a
proactive approach to generating impact by targeting research with unmet needs. A Professor of
Healthcare Technology (Farnaud) was appointed as a CSELS/CIH joint-position, whose role in part
is to link researchers with SMEs to facilitate end-user impact. Research Services assist in
exploiting our research, identifying intellectual property, linking with stakeholders and collecting
impact evidence.

Arising from our ethos of ‘research excellence with impact’ (Coventry University Corporate
Strategy) and supported by Research Services plus the Enterprise and Innovation Office (EIO), our
strategic research decisions have resulted in the creation of three spin-out companies; InoCardia –
Safety Pharmacology (www.inocardia.co.uk; Maddock), Hope for the Community (H4C)
Community Interest Company (www.h4c.org.uk; Turner) and OVO Biomanufacturing – Optimising
vaccine manufacturing (www.ovobiomanufacturing.com; Gould, see below), of which both
InoCardia and H4C provided impact case studies for UoA3 (“Safer Heart Therapies: Improving
Drug Development and Patient Outcomes with InoCardia Ltd” and “Improving the lives of people
living with a long-term health condition by providing self-management tools”, respectively.
InoCardia (Maddock) benefited from assistance from Coventry University in spinning-out the
company, identifying potential funders and providing expertise in company management. Members
of EIO provided H4C (Turner) advice on start-up, selecting best-suited company structure,
intellectual property and licence negotiation. Research Services plus EIO also facilitated the
stakeholder involvement which led to our final impact case study (‘Improving Care for Young
People with Long-Term Illnesses and Complex Health Needs’, Coad), in which the local hospital
(UHCW) was heavily involved supporting the research and providing access to patients and
resources.

Interdisciplinary Research
UoA3 has fully encouraged and developed cross-collaboration with other research disciplines. This
is evident in how our research Themes, which have significant differences in their research

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
methods and data analysis, have been bought together to respond to the whole life-cycle of
providing healthcare interventions; from big data analysis through assessing patient needs to
behavioural change, healthcare science technology, biomechanical engineering, health economics,
health services commissioning, medicine and surgery, and prototype design. This interdisciplinary
environment is developing an exciting new culture where all of our research community is looking
beyond its own focus to the expertise of researchers across the University, nationally and
internationally, to increase the reach of research outputs, strengthen funding applications and
increase the diversity of PhD supervisory teams. The interdisciplinary environment within UoA3
has been enriched by mathematicians in CDS (He, Mukandavire) addressing biological problems
and electrical engineering expertise (Blundell, IFTC) applied to health problems. Farnaud (UoA3)
collaborating with Graves (UoA12) has exploited microbes to recover metals from waste electronic
components, resulting in an Impact Case Study for UoA12 in this REF submission plus a
presentation to the UK Parliament, Industry and Parliament Trust. Other examples include
Wheatley, PI on a project combining protein expression, molecular pharmacology, biophysics and
immunology (BBSRC-Industrial Partner Award; 3 universities plus the Pharma UCB). Jakovljevic,
Maddock are part of multi-national consortia (EU Horizon2020-funded SILICOFCM; EIT Digital
Health) comprising experts in cardiovascular clinical medicine, molecular biology and physical
biochemistry, bioengineering, and computer scientists to develop a computational platform for in
silico clinical trials and drug development respectively.

Open Research
Our commitment towards an open research environment goes beyond the REF open access
policy, as shown by the involvement of service-users in the co-creation of the self-management
interventions and by our approach to public and patient involvement and engagement with
appropriate research projects within UoA3.

Reproducibility is a core tenet in every aspect of our research and is the foundation on which our
research outputs are built. In support of this, statistical methods training including the use of
software packages such as SPSS, is offered to staff and post-graduate researchers (PGR). This
enables researchers to determine the correct sample size for a specific trial or the number of times
a laboratory experiment has to be replicated to provide surety for the results. The training also
provides both resources and understanding about how to analyse data-sets. Combined with
training in ethics plus our governance structure, this provides assurance to researchers that others
can replicate their results.

Research Integrity
The research unit follows the five principles of Universities UK’s Concordat on Research Integrity,
ensuring that we embed the highest levels of research integrity through; mentoring, peer-review,
staff training and development, and through the governance of our highly-experienced Research
Ethics Committee. Ethics applications are mandatory for all research projects, using an online
portal which includes access to the Integrated Research Application System (IRAS) for those
requiring NHS approvals. Research involving the use of chemical or biological materials, requires
hazard and risk assessments to be completed, which are approved and held centrally.

Ethics training is recognised as a key objective for all our researchers, including Post-Doctoral and
PGRs, and this is evidenced through our unique programme of training researchers to become
ethics reviewers. All researchers are encouraged to attend this programme and become reviewers
for applications submitted across the Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, an approach

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
underpinned by our Unit’s values of encouraging development, supporting colleagues and being
collaborative.

 2. People

This UoA3 submission comprises 35 independent researchers (34 FTE).

Research Staff Development
Staff development within UoA3 aligns to the institutional policies and processes, in addition to
national strategic priorities such as the NHS (2019) Interim NHS People Plan
(https://www.longtermplan.nhs.uk/publication/interim-nhs-people-plan/). Academic development
and progression are assisted by mentoring, internal seed-corn funding schemes, funded PhD
studentships, identification of research funding support, training in the preparation and submission
of grants and papers, research seminars and funds for conference attendance. We were pro-active
in keeping the detrimental effects of COVID on the research of our staff to a minimum and
encouraged regular informal on-line interactions to promote well-being.

There is a commitment to professional development with support and engagement for clinical
academics and allied health professionals including a dedicated formal Clinical Academic
Research Excellence (CARE) programme. The CARE programme was established in partnership
with UHCW during this REF period to support allied health professionals working in the NHS to
undertake translational research and become research leaders of the future. The CARE
programme encourages capacity and capability, with an emphasis on helping drive the delivery of
the highest quality research and aligned clinical care. NHS-employed researchers at UHCW and
neighbouring NHS Trusts are also encouraged through Comprehensive Local Research Networks
(CLRN), funded mentorship schemes and integration via Honorary Research Fellowships (Coad,
Turner, Maddock, Renshaw have mentored 10 such researchers). This enables health
professionals to benefit from expertise of the unit's staff and vice versa and has resulted in clinical
academics such as Johnson and health professionals (Gordon submitted to UoA24) to be
employed and integrated within a research centre that offers full research support and
accommodation. In 2015 an HEE/NIHR MRes programme was awarded (£1.5 million; Coad)
supporting 32 allied health professionals/healthcare scientists. Since being awarded the
HEE/NIHR, additional grants and accolades have been awarded (i.e. Best CLRN researcher in
West Midlands 2019; Gordon submitted to UoA24). Resulting research outcomes have been used
by NICE, NHS, and sector charities internationally to develop specialist training, enhance resource
allocation, and influence policies and guidelines to improve care services, which is further
demonstrated in UoA3 ICS “Improving Care for Young People with Long-Term Illnesses and
Complex Health Needs” (Coad). Going forward, four jointly-appointed Professors will be employed
to work across Coventry University and UHCW to further drive our future aims, supported by a
collaborative Board and set of governance processes.

Unit’s staffing and recruitment policy and evidence of its effectiveness
The number of research-active staff in UoA3 has increased from 17.6FTE in REF2014 to 34FTE in
the current REF submission. Our strategy is to develop, recruit and retain world-class researchers.
This has included strategic recruitment of specific expertise to enhance research in the Themes
and to build on the areas of research strength identified since REF2014. Professorial appointments
in the current REF period included a blend of internal development and promotion (Farnaud,
Lycett, Maddock) plus external appointments (Allen, Jakovljevic, Renshaw, Reynolds, Wheatley,


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Zheng). In addition, a total of four Associate Professors – Kurmi, Martin, Shah, Tapp; two Assistant
Professors – Johnson, Whelan; one Lecturer - Burke and one Independent Research Fellow -
Deganutti) have been recruited. Recruitment was not uniform throughout the REF period, as
recruitment increased markedly with the opening of CIH and following the opening of the new
Alison Gingell Building in 2018, as would be expected. By deliberately making appointments at
early career, mid-career and Professor levels we have maintained a balanced staffing structure.
Furthermore, this recruitment at all levels enhances the sustainability of the Unit going forward as it
provides a vibrant research community possessing an effective balance of potential and
experience. Our future research activity and succession planning is also supported by our
favourable demographic profile which shows that 65% of UoA3 staff are in the 31-50 years age
group.

Support for Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
Institutionally-funded research investment schemes are available to support ECRs. Schemes have
clear eligibility criteria to ensure a sustainable and targeted approach to support and to verify that
applicants have sufficient experience. Those on fixed-term contracts can apply where their contract
is longer than the proposed duration of the project. Such schemes include access to internal pump-
priming funds to undertake transformative, cross-disciplinary, cross-national, and cross-sector
research. These schemes support researchers at different career stages to develop their research
practice, to work together as teams, and to enhance the wider research environment at Coventry
University. The schemes have included an ECR and doctoral studentship scheme, ECR
networking and skills development scheme, funds for purchasing research equipment, international
and interdisciplinary pilot projects, and for public engagement with research. In addition, each
Research Theme receives annual funding enabling academics to travel to national or international
conferences.

The Academic Support Programme in Research Excellence (ASPiRE) supports ECR academics,
with strong research promise, to access the University's rich research environment and work
towards becoming independent researchers by providing combined mentorship and training over a
two-year period. There are two ASPiRE Fellows linked to UoA3, with Aspinall and Renshaw as
their mentors. We are committed to our ECRs and are prepared to invest in them to provide career
development opportunities for talented ECRs in UoA3. In addition to ASPiRE, we also have an
Associate Membership of Research Centre Scheme. Fundamentally, the scheme provides
teaching staff with dedicated time and resources for research and embeds them within a Research
Centre’s environment. The individual’s research profile and aspirations are taken into consideration
at application. Within UoA3, we utilise and adapt University-level schemes to maximise the
potential of our researchers and have the potential to review workloads so opportunities can be
fully realised. For example, in recognition of their research potential, three ECR Research Centre
Associates (Assistant Professors – Bennett, Dodd, Greaves), who have produced high-quality
outputs, had the proportion of their time dedicated to research (rather than teaching) increased
from 0.4FTE to 0.6FTE to support their research career development at this critical stage.

Further support is available via our ‘Trailblazer’ scheme, which is restricted to applications from
ECRs, and provides fully-funded PhD studentships, giving talented ECRs the opportunity to lead a
PhD supervisory team. They are supported in this role by the University’s comprehensive
Supervisor Development Framework and Programme. Currently, three ECRs (Bennett, Dodd, He)
in UoA3 have been awarded Trailblazer PhD studentships.



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
These schemes provide a raft of mechanisms that helps us to encourage and nurture the important
and growing contribution of ECRs to our research outputs and to secure their contribution to the
future reputation of our Unit. In this regard, it is noteworthy that one of our ECRs (Dodd) sits on the
Early Career Advisory Panel for the Biochemical Society plus the Education, Training and Public
Engagement Committee (as the ECR member).

Post-Doctoral Researchers are integral to the day-to-day activities of UoA3. As full members of the
Research Themes, they are consulted on strategic matters such as developing new research
initiatives within Themes and multi-disciplinary projects across Themes and with external
collaborators. Post-Doctoral Researchers are actively encouraged to present their research in our
regular seminar programmes and to invite external speakers. In addition to assisting with the
training of PGRs, Post-Doctoral Researchers are offered opportunities to improve their education
skills through involvement in teaching and supervisory activity, which ranges from project student
supervision to research-led lecturing. Moreover, to expand their experience and develop their
careers, Post-Doctoral Researchers are often included on the supervisory teams of PGRs in UoA3.

Procedures to stimulate and facilitate exchanges with non-academic bodies
The Unit has developed partnerships with SMEs through the activity of its members in conjunction
with the Enterprise and Innovation group. This group is responsible for running the UK and
European government-funded knowledge transfer programmes (such as Innovate UK) and also for
a substantial percentage of the SME engagement activities under the Higher Education Innovation
Fund activity undertaken by the University. The University’s EIO is frequently the first point of
contact and engagement for SMEs and larger companies, and also supports University Group
spin-outs in the exploitation of our IP. Partnerships during this period include: Life Science Group
(Farnaud, Renshaw); Therapy Audit (Zheng); Abcam (Renshaw); InoCardia (Sandhu); Agrifesh
(Morozov); Cell Therapy Sciences (Gould); NovoNordisk (Dodd). In addition, as cited above, part
of the role of the Professor of Healthcare Technology is to work with the Advisory Board to assist
UoA3 researchers develop links with SMEs and public and third sector bodies to establish joint
programmes of work.

Supported by Research Services, capturing funding through the BBSRC-Industrial Partnership
Award scheme provided another route to facilitate exchanges with industry (Wheatley collaborating
with UCB the multi-national bio-therapeutics company). In addition, Reynolds was awarded a
Royal Society Industry Fellowship (2017-2021), linked to the pharmaceutical company Sosei
Heptares (Cambridge) which involved spending time regularly on-site. The Unit has also forged
links with local public bodies including UHCW (Maddock) and Public Health Warwickshire (Lycett).

Research students
PGR students are at the centre of research in UoA3; our students are embedded in all of our
research, co-author most of our papers, run seminars with us, are physically co-located with staff,
and considered as research staff. Staff in this submission currently supervise 44 PGR students
registered for PhD, and there have been 57 successful PhD completions since 2014, an increase
on the 17 PhD completions in the previous REF period. Coventry University match-funded 10 of
the MRes NIHR studentships (detailed above) to convert them to PhD studentships further
supporting embedded clinical research and health improvements within the NHS setting. The Unit
has increased the number of fully-funded PhD studentships each year and currently funds 32
students. A significant development since REF2014 is the co-funding model, where 50% of the
studentship is funded by an external partner. This adds an applied/translational element to the

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research, enriches the PGR training experience and increases external funding. External partners
co-funding PGRs in UoA3 since 2014 include: Network2Supplies; InoCardia; Cell Therapy;
Agrifresh; Abcam; UHCW (x2); Singapore A*STAR.

Within the current REF period, the University has developed a centralised Doctoral College to
coordinate all aspects of recruitment, training and progression of PGRs across the University which
involves an annual Progression Review Panel comprising an independent Chair and a subject
expert. This activity is complemented by a Doctoral Training Centre (DTC) for UoA3 activity, which
provides practical laboratory skills training and development. We have successfully adopted a ‘hub
and spoke’ model of PGR training, with the central Doctoral College coordinating transferable skills
training and the DTC providing practical laboratory skills training and support. Each PGR has a
supervisory team (maximum of four people) who meet with the student regularly. Within UoA3 we
exploit this wider team to broaden the in-put of research experience support to the PGR. In
addition to membership of PGR supervisory teams within our unit, UoA3 staff are on the
supervisory team of 20 PGRs hosted outside of UoA3 providing multi-disciplinary support.

The effectiveness of our approach to Doctoral training was formally recognised by the Royal
Society of Biology (RSB) in January 2018 when CSELS became the first RSB Accredited Doctoral
Training Programme in the UK.

Equality and Diversity
The research centres contributing to the UoA3 submission are committed to promoting equality
and supporting diversity in all its forms. We are proud of providing and promoting an inclusive
environment in our research community. Our work and practices follow Coventry University’s policy
on Equality, Diversity and Inclusion. There have been increases in the proportion of females and
individuals from BAME backgrounds working in grade 9 and 10 posts in the institution since 2016,
the Director of CSELS within UoA3 is female (Maddock) and another female (Lycett) was a Theme
Lead before subsequently becoming Director of CIH. Support for equality is provided by the
University’s Gender Leadership and Development Working Group and the Aurora programme, a
woman-only leadership development programme. Of the 35 staff (34FTE) comprising the UoA3
submission: 20% are of BAME background (a greater proportion than the overall sector average of
8% for Nursing and Allied Health Professionals); the gender balance is 40%:60% (female/male)
which is more equitable than the 74%:26% (female/male) for the Nursing and Allied Health
Professionals sector; and age distribution for UoA3 staff is more evenly spread than for the sector
overall, with 65% of UoA3 staff in the 31-50 years age group compared to the sector average of
49%.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Staff in UoA3 have captured funding from a rich variety of sources totalling over £11.8M for this
REF period. This represents a growth in research funding of 45% since 2014, increasing from
£8.15M in the previous assessment period. Researchers within UoA3 have acted as PIs and Co-Is
on numerous projects, supported by a range of funding agencies and funding schemes - from
Research Networks, Responsive Mode grants, Follow-on Funding for impact and engagement plus
strategic programmes from a number of prestigious grant awarding bodies including the MRC
(Jakovljevic, Lycett, Wark), NIHR (Allen, Coad, Szczepura), BBSRC (Wheatley), Innovate UK
(Farnaud, James, Maddock, Renshaw, Wark, Zheng), Cancer Research UK (CRUK) (Szczepura),

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Royal Society (Reynolds), Royal Academy of Engineering (Zheng), National Environment
Research Council (NERC) (Morozov), Academy of Medical Sciences (Greaves) and the
Technology Strategy Board (Maddock, Szczepura). In addition, staff within UoA3 have actively
secured funding from a number of charities and third sector bodies (including Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation (Zheng), Arthritis Research UK (Allen) plus John Templeton Foundation, Acorn
Children’s Hospital Trust, The Bailey Thomas Charitable Fund, Teenage Cancer Trust, Linking
Lives UK, The British Academy. Funding was secured from Warwickshire Public Health (Lycett)
plus a series of NHS Trusts (Coad). Additional funding has been secured from the European
Commission from a number of collaborative projects funded through the Horizon 2020
programmes (Jakovljevic, Maddock) and the NIHR Newcastle Biomedical Research Centre (Allen).

With respect to cross-HEI research infrastructure, Wheatley and Reynolds are co-members of a
multi-centre research consortium of nine British Universities, awarded BBSRC funding (£368,680)
via the 19ALERT scheme, for an Electron Paramagnetic Resonance (EPR) spectrometer (housed
at Essex University in 2020) to study protein dynamics. Access to this specialised equipment and
being part of a large consortium will be a springboard for future new projects for grant applications,
collaborations and publications.

We have secured funded international collaborative projects with a range of countries including
Australia (Monash; Johnson), Canada (Hamilton Health Sciences Corporation; Turner), Belgium
(UCB; Maddock, Wheatley; EIT Digital Health, Maddock); China (Southern University of Science
and Technology, YiTing Health and Technology Limited; both Innovate-UK, Zheng plus Beijing
University of Technology; Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Zheng), Jordon (German Jordanian
University and Atlas-Medical; Newton Fund, Zheng); Serbia, Austria, Belgium, Greece (Kragujavac
University, Vienna University of Technology, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Ioannina University;
EU Horizon 2020, Jakovljevic); South Africa (Stellenbosch University [with University of
Birmingham as PI]); BBSRC, Wheatley). In addition, the Indonesian Government funds five PhD
studentships (Farnaud, Fei, Lycett, Martin, Turner) and the Singapore agency A*STAR jointly funds
one PhD (He).

Overall, these cited research funds from a raft of agencies have been central for generating and
supporting highly innovative research, including high-quality papers and conference presentations.
Examples include multiple papers in Nature, Cell, Nature Cell Biology, Nature Communications,
invitations to speak at conferences, to collaborate with industry plus a Technical Innovation Award
by the Safety Pharmacology Society for research undertaken within UoA3 by InoCardia and
CSELS (ICS; “Safer Heart Therapies: Improving Drug Development and Patient Outcomes with
InoCardia Ltd”).

Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
The unit has been supported by high levels of investment over the REF period in order to extend
the research and its subsequent impact. Coventry University has supported and encouraged the
development of research activity in UoA3 through the provision of purpose-built dedicated research
laboratory space in a brand-new building, the Alison Gingell Building, opened in 2018. This is a
£59M building containing approximately 2000 m2 of research laboratory space to the value of
£2.4M along with specialist research equipment totalling £2.3M, together with teaching laboratories
and simulation facilities. In addition, there are office and meeting spaces plus kitchen areas and
break-out space, designed to encourage interaction and discussion across Research Themes and
disciplines and between all staff, irrespective of experience, job role or grade. Consequently, the

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
physical space has contributed to a sense of cohesion, built research momentum and encouraged
support and collaboration. The new space has provided, in part, the expanded physical space
required to accommodate the increase in UoA3 staff since REF2014. Furthermore, the working
environment within the new building has facilitated the strategic recruitment of new staff and
provided space to house associated specialist research equipment. The organisational
infrastructure of UoA3 was also re-configured to better develop our established research
strengthens and in recognition of the rapidly changing nature of technological advances in the
Allied Healthcare Professions, clinical settings and in society. Our strategic response was to
develop and open a new Centre for Intelligent Healthcare to support research at the forefront of
digital healthcare and healthcare technology.

Infrastructure and facilities
£2.3M has been invested in capital equipment during the current REF period. One example of this
is University investment and research expansion in Healthcare Technology which includes the
intersection between engineering, healthcare and information technology, to enable the continued
development of translational and applied health-related research and including a state-of-the-art
clinical physiological measurement room, with microvascular imaging capability, and nano-sensor
fabrication facilities, including clean-room capability and a Prototyping Development lab. Similarly,
in recognition of our growing work examining health benefits of exercise in different populations,
the University has invested in a specialist body composition laboratory housing an iDEXA (£116k)
to increase capacity for research and engagement activity related to bone and muscle health. In
addition, significant investment to enhance the Cell Signalling and Membrane Biology; Disease
Prevention, Therapeutics & Diagnostics areas includes: bespoke high-performance computing
capability dedicated to computational molecular dynamics and modelling (>£110K); Nikon confocal
microscope with live-cell chamber with hypoxia and Z-stacking functions plus total internal
reflection fluorescence (TIRF) microscopy (>£272K); FACSMelody Cell Sorter; ÄKTA PURE
protein purification system; ClarioStar high performance plate-reader; next-generation sequencer;
Agilent Seahorse for mitochondria analysis; ICP-mass spectrometry system with single cell
analysis function; inverted fluorescence microscope; real-time PCR analysis; bioreactors.

Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research excellence with impact
The Unit has benefitted from the approach taken by the University in assisting in the development
of research impact through the provision of expertise, facilities and technical support. For example,
the award-winning spin-out company InoCardia (‘Technological Innovation Award’ from the global
Safety Pharmacology Society in 2020, followed by a ‘Women in Innovation’ award from Innovate
UK to Maddock), has laboratory space within the new Alison Gingell Building and the close
association between the company and the University has facilitated its access to funding, its further
interaction with local hospitals and the benefit of close association with other academics and
biotechnology industry. A second example, Hope for the Community (H4C), an award-winning
social enterprise (Top 25 of the NatWest SE100 ‘Trailblazing Newcomers’ and named 'One to
Watch' by 2020 Medilink West Midlands Medical & Healthcare Business Awards) provides digital
products and services to empower people to manage their wellbeing. In addition to providing funds
and facilities, the University provides the servers for the digital platform at the centre of this
enterprise. Both of these spin-outs have contributed UoA3 Impact Case Studies (InoCardia
(Maddock), “Safer Heart Therapies: Improving Drug Development and Patient Outcomes with
InoCardia Ltd”; H4C (Turner), “Hope 4 The Community CIC: Improving the lives of people living
with a long-term health condition by providing self-management tools”.



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

A significant feature of research in the unit is the emphasis on collaboration to foster multi-
disciplinary approaches and to extend the reach and impact of our research.

Effectiveness of research collaborations, networks and partnerships
Robust links have been forged with both the national and international academic, clinical and
industrial communities, through collaborative research projects, or through supervision of PhD
students funded by co-tutelle schemes (Stellenbosch University; South Africa) where PhD students
are supervised by academics from both Universities in the co-tutelle. Furthermore, a novel format
of PhD studentships has been developed in 2020 within UoA3 (Wheatley) in collaboration with
Stellenbosch University (Chemistry Department) in which two ‘reciprocal PhD students’ (one based
at each institution) spend three to six months at the partner institution funded/supported in a
reciprocal arrangement. The synergy in this case, between the bioscience and chemistry expertise
respectively, will be mutually enriching for the research environment of both host laboratories.

Academic: Our international partnerships have made major contributions in the Allied Healthcare
research arena. For example, Zheng collaborated with German Jordanian University to develop an
innovative wearable sensor to monitor respiration rate in newborn babies, which was short-listed
for the Newton Prize 2020 (final 4 out of 180+), and with Southern University of Science and
Technology China to develop a big-data centric hearing impairment rehabilitation solution (funded
by InnovateUK-Guangdong urban innovation challenge; 2017). Zheng also collaborates with
Sichuan University (China) to use machine learning to teach computers to ‘listen’ to stethoscope
sounds and is developing a PhD co-tutelle with Sichuan University in healthcare technology. In
Australia we have collaborative links with the University of Sydney (James) and Monash University
(Deganutti, Reynolds), the latter of which generated a series of high-impact papers (Nature, Cell,
Nature Comms included in UoA3 Outputs) describing drug action at the molecular level.

Clinical: Nationally we have established links with hospitals (including UHCW, Coad, Maddock,
Morozov. Renshaw; Newcastle Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Allen, Jakovljevic; Salford Royal
NHS Foundation Trust, Allen; Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Maddock,
Sandhu; University College London, Maddock, Sandhu) and with Public Health Authorities
(Warwickshire Public Health Authority; Lycett) which have resulted in the joint projects. These
partnerships have resulted in publications in top journals including Journals of the American
College of Cardiology, Circulation: Cardiac Imaging and EMBO Molecular Medicine.

Industrial: We have forged collaborative partnerships and projects with the industrial sector, from
the large multi-national Bio-therapeutics company UCB (Maddock, Wheatley) to a range of SMEs
including TherapyAudit, Cheekmate, OkDok (Zheng), Cresset-Group (Maddock), Cardinale Health
(Jakovljevic); LSG (Renshaw, Farnaud) and Network 2 Supplies Ltd (Farnaud) and have
developed overseas links with Atomwise (Reynolds and Wheatley) a drug discovery company in
the US exploiting Artificial Intelligence. Reynolds was awarded a Royal Society Industrial
Fellowship to translate his computational molecular modelling into an applied drug-discovery
context at the Pharma Sosei Heptares (Cambridge), with potential impact on several ‘in-house’
research projects, UK economy and society.




                                                                                                  Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Relationships with key research users/beneficiaries
Our approach for developing best-practice for reproducible research is detailed in ‘Open Research’
in Section 1. Research across the unit has benefitted academics, the Pharmaceutical and
Biotechnology Industry, patients, their families and policy makers, as demonstrated by the three
impact case studies (Coad, Maddock, Turner). Researchers have had close interaction with local
public health bodies, including Public Health Warwickshire, and with the local Council to translate
their research findings into practice. These studies have included work around influenza
vaccination, smoking cessation and breastfeeding.

We are actively involved in generating interest in our research and engaging the public in our work
through a number of efficient avenues. Engagement with diverse communities and public is
inherent in the research this unit undertakes. This is particularly apparent in the multiple projects
focusing on health behaviour change technique (BCT) detailed in Section 1 (REF2014 Objectives 1
and 3) plus the research captured in two UoA3 ICSs viz. “Hope 4 The Community CIC: Improving
the lives of people living with a long-term health condition by providing self-management tools” and
‘Improving care for young people with long-term illnesses and complex health needs’.

Coventry University has an active press office, which disseminates scientific-based research to a
wider audience. In addition, several colleagues deliver interactive lectures to the general public in
an attempt to promulgate an awareness of basic and clinical science research. Staff also
participate in radio and television broadcasts (Coad; Gould; Maddock) about translational research.

In addition, through numerous collaborations within the NHS, industry and academia, our research
has had a broad impact on people, on scientific investigations, tools and techniques, on new
drug/compounds testing with improved reliability towards humans, on predictivity and on
throughput leading to national economic benefits in terms of improved patient compliance, patient
quality of life and clinical outcomes (wide-ranging evidence provided via testimonials in all three
UoA3 ICSs). Interactive websites have been commissioned to publicise our work and also to raise
public awareness.

Engagement
To promote our scientific findings in the public arena, research staff have engaged with the
community through outreach work including ‘Pint of Science’ (Maddock) and ‘Café Scientific’
(Maddock; Morozov; Aspinall). Staff have actively participated in the Science Festival held at
Jimmy Doherty’s farm, famous for the television show “Jimmy’s Farm” (c. 4,000 attendees),
promoting research. This event involves children's activities and interactive scientific sessions to
promote science aligned to allied health research. We have not only engaged with school pupils
but also their teachers. In 2019, Wheatley was invited speaker at the Association for Science
Education Annual Conference. This is the biggest international science education conference in
the UK attended by ~3,000 science teachers to give a talk on his molecular pharmacology
research - how drugs work.

We have inspired children to enjoy and study relevant scientific subject areas by holding a
conference every year during the summer for schools across the city, in partnership with Coventry
Local Education Authority, to show pupils how science influences our lives (Maddock, James,
Renshaw). Staff also attend school careers events to promote biomedical and pharmacology-
related research. We host several post-GCSE level work experience students from local schools,
who are given a thorough introduction into the research interests of the unit and who undertake

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
small experiments in areas directly related to ongoing biomedical research. In addition, the unit has
run the Coventry Young Researcher event for families with children aged 6-12 years old providing
community opportunities to learn about science and research through experiments and art/crafts
demonstrations. Feedback from these events has been very positive.

Responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives
Implicit in our fundamental objective of ‘research excellence with impact’ is engaging in research
that matters. To fulfil this aim, and maintain sustainability, our research addresses
national/international priorities and we respond to changes in research priorities, whether driven by
funding agencies or society.

Changing lifestyle behaviours to improve health is an international public health priority and we are
contributing significantly to the evidence base. Our strategy is to develop interventions which are
stratified (appropriate for the individual or group), scaleable (suitable for use at community, region
or national levels) and sustainable (sustainable long-term by the provider and delivering sustained
behaviour change). Our research includes development and testing of behavioural interventions to
support the treatment and rehabilitation of patient populations such as metabolic disorders
(Renshaw, Reynolds, Williams); cardiovascular disease such as heart failure (Jakovljevic,
Maddock, Tapp, Zheng), vascular disease (Allen, Tapp, Sandhu); Cancer (Turner, Lycett,
Maddock, Sandhu) and maintaining weight loss (Williams). For example four newly revised weight
management services were delivered across Coventry area by Coventry City Council as a result of
the `Be Active Be Healthy’ behaviour change support project; One Body One Life (OBOL) family,
OBOL 2-4, Buggy Workout Extra and Lifestyle Advisors (Williams).

Our work also includes validation, evaluation and assessment of diet, lifestyle, wellbeing and
health status using traditional and new digital technologies (Dong, Jakovljevic, Johnson, Lycett,
Martin, Szczepura, Turner, Whelan) and interventions applicable to chronic health conditions
(Horton, Lycett, Martin, Morozov, Wark, Williams)

Another example was provided when Coventry University and InoCardia showcased the use of
human tissue in safety assessment and demonstrated the ability of technology to reduce and
replace the use of animals in research. To gauge the current use of human tissue models in safety
pharmacology and the barriers to greater uptake, in May 2017 a Safety Pharmacology Society
European regional meeting was organised entitled ‘The Use of Human Tissue in Safety
Assessment’, which Maddock organised with the NC3Rs and Safety Pharmacology Society. This
Stakeholder meeting influenced a wider community of end-users (e.g. Pharmaceutical,
Biotechnology, Agrochemical, Nutriceutical and Cosmetic industries, relevant government related
bodies & departments with health and tissue donation responsibilities, the British CardioOncology
Society and regulatory bodies namely the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency
(MHRA) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), to develop approaches to optimise the use
of human tissue. InoCardia’s Work-loop Platform and Contractome-AI reduces animal tissue use
and helps position the UK as a leader in the development of new technologies to replace the use of
animals in research. The adoption of the InoCardia’s technology by the Pharmaceutical industry
has led to reduced animal usage and is detailed in the UoA3 ICS “Safer Heart Therapies:
Improving Drug Development and Patient Outcomes with InoCardia Ltd.”.

Both the University and UoA3 responded with agility to the recent COVID-19 pandemic caused by
the SARS-COV-2 virus, due in part to our breadth of expertise and multi-disciplinary capabilities.

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The University provided funding for 50 full-time PhD studentships to research all aspects of the
pandemic. Following internal review of the proposals, researchers in UoA3 were awarded 24 of
these studentships. Aligned to this, spin-out company OVO Biomanufacturing, co-founded by a
UoA3 researcher (Gould), aims to improve the efficiency of vaccines for example the Oxford
COVID-19 vaccine (ChAdOx1 nCov-2019) by the identification and removal of defective interfering
viral particles from the vaccine stocks. Previous research with influenza vaccine suggested these
viral particles had an adverse effect on the vaccine efficacy. In addition, InoCardia was awarded
funding by the UK Government to reduce the risk of new COVID-19 drugs causing life-threatening
effects on the heart (Maddock).

Wider influence
We are widely engaged in the peer-review process for both academic publications and funding.

Publishing: In recognition of their research contribution and reputation in their respective
disciplines, many of our staff have been invited to serve on editorial boards of journals or to act as
guest editors. Over the current REF period, editorial roles have included: Physiological
Measurement (Allen, Zheng); Experimental Gerontology, Immunology of Aging (Aspinall); Frontiers
in Physiology, Frontiers in Computational Physiology and Medicine (Allen); Applied Sciences
(Farnaud); Microorganisms (Gould); Frontiers in Cardiovascular Medicine (Maddock); Acta
Diabetologica (Dodd); BMC Public Health, Journal of Mathematics (Mukandavire); Future
Medicinal Chemistry (Reynolds); Frontiers of Endocrinology (Wheatley); Computational and
Mathematical Methods in Medicine, Biomedical Physics & Engineering Express, Frontiers of Digital
Health, Frontiers of Physiology, Scientific Reports (Zheng); Sensors (Allen).

In addition to these editorial roles, our research staff routinely review manuscripts for a wide range
of journals reflecting the breadth of the unit’s research expertise in the Allied Health Professions
including: Nature, New England Journal of Medicine, Lancet, British Journal of Pharmacology,
Proceedings of the Royal Society B, Journal of Endocrinology, PLoS One, Biophysical Journal,
Biochemistry, Bioinformatics, Journal of Medical Internet Research, American Journal of
Physiology-Heart and Circulatory Physiology; Medical Engineering and Physics; IEEE
Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, Age and Ageing, Mayo Clinic Proceedings, Scientific
Reports to name but a few.

Funding: The expertise of staff has been valued by major Government Research Council funding
agencies: Maddock serves on the BBSRC Follow-On Fund Committee and Tapp was a Member of
the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) grant review panel (2014-
2019). Zheng is a member of the Biological and Medical Sciences Review Panel of the Newton
Fund coordinated by the British Council.

In addition to reviewing grant applications on behalf of UK funding agencies including: NIHR,
BBSRC, MRC, EPSRC, Wellcome Trust, British Heart Foundation, NC3Rs, British Council,
Leverhulme Trust, Leukaemia & Lymphoma, RoseTrees Trust; staff have fulfilled the role of expert
reviewer on behalf of overseas funding agencies, commensurate with their international research
reputations, including: South African Medical Research Council (Farnaud, Maddock Renshaw);
European Research Council, Fonds National de la Recherche Luxemburg (Tapp); VLAIO -
Agentschap Innoveren & Ondernemen, Flanders (Allen); Israel Science Foundation (Maddock);
Royal Society of New Zealand (Maddock, Wheatley); National Research Foundation of South
Africa (Mukandavire, Wheatley); Austrian Science Fund, Fund for Scientific Research, Brussels,

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Belgium, Research Grants Council of Hong Kong (Jakovljevic); Agence Nationale de la Recherche,
France (Reynolds); European Commission (Sandhu); National Heart Foundation of New Zealand
(Wheatley); Science Foundation Ireland, The Health Research Board Ireland, The Broad Medical
Research Foundation USA (Burke); National Science Foundation USA (James).

Potential to influence policy: In addition to serving on Research Council Committees, our staff
have used their expertise to contribute to other influential committees that have the potential to
influence policy in the Allied Health Professions arena. Aspinall is a Member of the UoA3 UK REF
Panel and has been a Trustee for the British Society for Research on Ageing. Farnaud is a
member of the All-Party Parliamentary Group for Micronutrients and Health. Maddock is a member
of the Human Tissue Working Party, part of the joint initiative of the National Centre for the
Replacement, Refinement & Reduction of Animals in Research (NC3Rs) and the Medicines and
Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) working to reduce the use of animals in
pharmaceutical development. Staff also make a range of contributions in the clinical area,
including: Panel Member for the West Midlands NIHR Research for Patient Benefit (Turner); Mid
Essex, Southend and Basildon (MSB) Innovation Advisory Board member, Steering Community
member of Healthy Birth, Growth and Development (Zheng); Chair of the Quality Standards
Committee of the British Dietetic Association (Lycett).

Awards and honours: The success and esteem of our staff has been recognised in a number of
awards and honours since 2014. These include award of the Lord Cohen Medal to Aspinall in 2015
for pioneering research in the field of age-associated immune deficiencies and issues concerning
vaccination in older people. In 2015, Maddock was recipient of the Safety Pharmacological Society
Investigator Award which was followed by the Safety Pharmacological Society Technological
Innovation Award (2020). Maddock also received the Innovate UK ‘Women in Innovaton Award’ in
2020. Allen’s research has received international recognition; he was Team Leader for two entries
shortlisted for the 2017 Institution of Engineering and Technology Innovations Awards: Healthcare
Technologies and Emerging Technology Design categories, both awarded ‘highly commended’. In
2019, Allen was recipient of a Research Achievement award by the Editor-in-Chief of the Institute
of Physics Publishing, Physiological Measurement journal for obtaining 1000+ citations, the largest
number for any article in this journal. Wheatley is an Honorary Professor in Biosciences at the
University of Birmingham and Reynolds is Honorary Professor in Life Sciences at the University of
Essex.

Fellowships: A series of Fellowships have been awarded to staff in recognition of their
contributions to their respective fields of research: Aspinall is Fellow of the Royal College of
Physicians (Edin), and Fellow of the Royal College of Pathologists; Farnaud is Fellow of Institute of
Biomedical Science; Wheatley was elected to Fellow of the British Pharmacological Society in
‘recognition of distinguished service to pharmacology’. Farnaud, James, Maddock, Renshaw are
Fellows of Royal Society of Biology. Allen is a Fellow of the Royal Photographic Society and
Accredited Senior Imaging Scientist. Reynolds is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry
(FRSC) and was awarded a Royal Society Fellowship.

Contributions to learned societies: Colleagues make a significant contribution to the scientific
community through their roles in learned societies including: Biochemical Society (Early Career
Advisory Panel, Dodd; Education, Training and Public Engagement Committee, Dodd); British
Pharmacological Society (Finance & Risk Committee, Maddock); Safety Pharmacology Society
(Academic Outreach and Abstract Committee, Maddock). Royal Photographic Society (Imaging

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Science Group Committee, corresponding member, Allen). Institute of Physics and Engineering in
Medicine (Member of the Physiological Measurement special interest group, Allen). Royal Society
of Biology (Heads of University Biosciences, Gould); Royal Society of Chemistry (Theoretical
Chemistry Group Committee, Reynolds); British Dietetic Association (Chair of the Quality
Standards Committee, Education Board member, Lycett); Society for Endocrinology (Science
Committee. Renshaw); Society of Experimental Biology (Animal Biology Committee, James).

As a consequence of their research reputation, our staff have organised conferences, including:
Conference Co-Organiser, 2015, “GCPRs: Beyond structure towards therapy”. Prato, Italy
(Wheatley); Organiser British Society for Cardiovascular Research meeting, Oxford 2017 (Dodd);
Organiser of symposia at Society for Experimental Biology Annual Conference, 2017, 2018, 2019
(James); Lead Organiser of mini-symposium on Photoplethysmography, Engineering in Medicine &
Biology Society Conference, Berlin 2019 (Allen); Invited Scientific Committee Member for
European Conference on Religion, Spirituality and Health (Lycett); Steering Committee
11th Conference on Advances in Diabetes and Insulin Therapy, 2019, (Tapp).

As a consequence of their research outputs and profile, our staff have been invited speakers and
Chairs at conferences. Examples include: speaker at World Cardiology Congress, Hypertension
Symposium, 2014 (Tapp); Co-Chair at Sino-UK Symposium on Physiological Measurement,
Beijing 2017 (Zheng), speaker at International Consensus and Guidelines in Medical
Thermography. Brazil 2015 (Allen); Dynamic Systems in Biology, Institute of Mathematical
Sciences, Kenya, 2016 (Mukandavire); speaker at Joint Canadian and Japanese Safety
Pharmacology Conference, Vancouver, 2016 (Sandhu); speaker at Engineers as Healthcare
Practitioners, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam; Healthcare Technology Innovation Centre, IIT Madras,
India 2018 (Zheng); speaker at Drug Discovery Chemistry, San Diego, 2019 (Reynolds); speaker
at 4th Membrane Proteins Workshop, Taiwan. 2017 (Wheatley).




                                                                                         Page 19
