Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Hertfordshire

 Unit of Assessment: 6 Agriculture, Food and Veterinary Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure
 The Agriculture, Food and Veterinary Sciences (AFVS) Unit was established in 2011 within the
 School of Life and Medical Sciences (LMS). There are 23 staff (18.97 FTE) in the Unit which
 comprises 3 Professors, 4 Readers, 9 Lecturers, 6 independent Research Fellows and 1
 Statistician. AFVS also provides leadership for Food, one of the University’s six interdisciplinary
 research themes.

 Research strategy is developed within the Unit and approved by the LMS Research Executive
 Group (REG). AFVS is led by Fitt, who manages the Unit’s research budget (which includes a
 devolved QR allocation) against an agreed University-level research delivery plan. Research
 deliverables, including targets for external grant applications, research income and high-quality
 research outputs, are monitored by the REG. The School is responsible for staff development
 and institutional infrastructure, while the LMS Associate Dean (Research) ensures that School
 research strategies align with those of the University.

 Unit highlights in comparison with REF2014 during this cycle include:

    •   64% increase in submitted FTE staff
    •   126% increase in average annual doctoral awards
    •   82% overall satisfaction rate in 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey
    •   19% increase in average annual income
    •   Centre for Agriculture, Food and Environmental Management Research established in
        2015
    •   Relocation to new £61.2M Science Building in 2016.


 Strategy
 In REF 2014 the Unit identified the following strategic priorities which have been addressed
 during the current cycle:

 Build a critical mass of research-active staff through investing QR into research groups
 and generating external funding: There has been a 64% increase in the Unit FTE staff since
 REF 2014. This includes 8 new appointments at all levels from independent Research Fellow to
 Professor. The Unit also has recruited 13 Research Fellows, who are not independent
 researchers, attached to specific grant-funded projects.

 Researchers operate within 3 research groups that align to the Unit’s core strengths.

 a) Crop Protection and Climate Change (CPCC): Barrero-Sicilia, Coutts, Davies, Fitt, Garcia-
    Cela, Hall, Huang, Malcolm, Mashanova, Qi, Richard, Stotz. Research focuses on
    sustainable, environmentally benign, strategies for control of crop pests, nematodes and
    diseases, under impacts of climate change, with applications to control some human
    diseases. New appointments in modelling impacts of climate change (Qi, Richard) and to
    support work on mycoviruses, strawberry pests/diseases and agro-ecology (Coutts, Hall,
    Mashanova), were made. CPCC publications during this REF cycle include work on plant
    biochemistry (Barrero-Sicilia), genomics of resistance to crop pathogens to enhance
    productivity (Stotz), and the modelling of impacts of climate change on grassland
    ecosystems (Qi) and willow growth (Richard) to inform adaptation policy. CPCC’s work on
    use of mycoviruses for biocontrol (Coutts), biocontrol of nematodes (Davies), integrated
    control of strawberry pests and diseases (Hall), pathogen fungicide insensitivity (Huang) and
    the genomes of grass leaf blotch pathogens (Fitt) enhances sustainable crop production.

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Research on the spread of the Covid-19 virus in England (Mashanova) and control of
    malarial mosquitos (Malcolm) aims to guide control strategies. The group is strengthened by
    3 post-doctoral Research Fellows.

 b) Agriculture and Environmental Management (AEM): Crook, Lewis, Pearce, Porter,
    Tzilivakis, Warner. AEM specialises in agri-environmental science, water resource
    management and climate change adaptation/mitigation to guide government and industry
    policy in the UK and overseas. Recent outputs include papers on adapting to climate change
    in agricultural ecosystems (Lewis, Tzilivakis and Warner), irrigation systems in India (Crook),
    impacts of climate change on glacial geomorphology (Pearce), and monitoring and modelling
    melting of Arctic and Himalayan ice loss to inform policy decisions (Porter). The group is
    strengthened by one Research Fellow.

 c) Food Policy, Nutrition and Diet (FPND): Barling, Fallaize, Kass, Madden, Vafeiadou. Work
    addresses food intake in relation to diet and its impact on disease, together with policy and
    governance impacts on the food system. FPND was supported with a targeted allocation of
    QR funding for a new research fellow post in nutrition (Fallaize), as well as PhD students in
    nutrition and diet (supervisor Madden). Research has been augmented with a Professorial
    appointment in food policy and security (Barling), generating externally funded research
    projects and further research fellows. FPND outputs include work on the estimation of energy
    expenditure in obese adults (Madden), precision nutrition and diet (Fallaize), food exchange
    modelling in free-living populations (Vafeiadou), dietary magnesium intake in hypertensives
    (Kass) and policy and governance interventions to enhance food sustainability (Barling). The
    group is strengthened by 3 Research Fellows.

 Examples of substantial collaborative research between the groups include linking work on
 nutrition to expertise with primary crop and livestock production, and wider use of
 transcriptomics, genomics, and molecular and computational modelling to support research on
 microbiology and crop protection. There are joint PhD studentships on topics such as reduced
 tillage farming (Warner, AEM; Davies, CPCC).

 All 3 research groups form the Centre for Agriculture, Food and Environmental Management
 Research (CAFEM Research), led by Barling, which facilitates research across the University
 and with external institutional partners. CAFEM Research is institutionally located in LMS, and it
 is one of 13 designated Centres for Research across the University.

 Develop a collaborative partnership with Rothamsted Research (Rothamsted) and the
 Royal Veterinary College (RVU) to make a substantial contribution to the research profile
 of the Unit. CAFEM Research provides the Unit with access to additional experimental facilities
 and new funding streams, along with quarterly meetings for members of all 3 groups to discuss
 research issues. It has significantly strengthened the Unit’s research portfolio, notably through
 the development of successful externally funded research bids. The Centre delivers the
 Memorandum of Agreement between the University, Rothamsted and the RVC, to collaborate on
 research and education, operating since 2015. Collaborations with Rothamsted include a
 Newton-Bhabha project with partners in India and the UK (Stotz, Fitt), a BBSRC KTN PhD
 studentship (Stotz, Fitt) and a PhD project on light leaf spot (Stotz, Fitt). Three staff members
 from Rothamsted are Visiting Professors at the University; all collaborate in research projects
 and teaching. A Senior Research Fellow has been appointed jointly with RVC as part of a four-
 year project on sustainable British beef and sheep production and food systems in a changing
 environment, funded by the Cadogan charity.

 In addition, in the REF period the Unit has partnered with Rothamsted in collaboration with
 several other institutions in three major innovation and research programmes AgRIA: Agri-Tech
 Research Innovation Accelerator funded by European Regional Development Fund
 (https://www.rothamsted.ac.uk/agria); Ceres Agri-Tech Knowledge Exchange Partnership
 funded by a Research England Connecting Capability Fund Award


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (https://www.ceresagritech.org) and Shake: Climate Change, funded by Société Générale UK
 Foundation (http://www.shakeclimate.org).

 Improve facilities and increase PhD awards: Unit research is now based in the new £61.2M
 Science Building which opened in November 2016. It includes bespoke facilities designed and
 equipped specifically for the Unit (see Section 3). Glasshouse facilities at the Bayfordbury Field
 Centre have also been refurbished. Since 2014, 25 new PhD and 5 new MPhil/MSc by research
 students have been enrolled within the Unit in comparison with 19 PhD research students
 enrolled during the REF 2014 research cycle. The number of doctoral awards has risen from 6 in
 the last REF cycle to 19, equating to an increase of 126% in average annual awards.

 Interdisciplinary Research
 AFVS’s position within LMS has also facilitated close collaboration with researchers in other
 groups, notably biosciences staff submitted to Allied Health, with whom they share laboratory
 facilities in the Science Building. Joint projects include comparison of the role of microvesicles in
 plant and mammalian diseases (Stotz with Inal) modelling the interactions between pathogen
 effectors and plant resistance genes (Stotz, Fitt with Kukol), and joint research studentships on
 diet for pain management (Vafeiadou, Fallaize with Baines) and antibiotic resistance (Davies,
 with Baines).

 The University established six interdisciplinary research themes to promote interdisciplinary
 collaborations and develop external funding applications across the University in 2016: Food;
 Global Economy; Health and Wellbeing; Heritage, Culture and Communities; Information and
 Security; Space. Barling is the University’s Research Theme Champion for Food.

 Four centrally funded University Early Career Research Fellowships supporting interdisciplinary
 research partnerships relevant to these themes were awarded to the Unit through an internal
 competitive process in 2016. These were all attached to the University Food Research Theme in
 partnerships with the Information and Security, Space and the Health and Wellbeing themes
 which are undertaken with partners from the Schools of Physics, Engineering and Computer
 Science or Health and Social Work. Two Fellows are also working in collaboration with
 Rothamsted.

 Impact strategy
 The Unit’s strategy to achieve research impact is to deploy a range of mechanisms which
 include:

 Encouraging applied research applications to agencies and funders primarily concerned
 with achieving positive outcomes for populations and communities. For example, Lewis,
 Warner and Tzilivakis were funded by the European Food Standards Agency (EFSA), the Joint
 Research Council (JRC) and European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), to undertake a
 research programme facilitating the impact case study on pesticide risk assessment (see below).

 Ensuring funded applications with industry partners specify key impacts and continued
 liaison with end-users post-completion. This approach means that impact is embedded as a
 priority throughout the project life cycle. Successful grant applications with industry partners to
 Innovate UK, the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC), Agriculture
 and Horticulture Development Board (AHDB) and several charitable foundations include impact
 objectives. For example, during and after two Agri-Tech Innovate UK/BBSRC funded projects on
 phoma stem canker of oilseed rape (2015-20), industry partner Hutchinsons was able to
 disseminate new findings through its network of 200 agronomists to 13,000 farmers per year to
 influence their disease control practices.

 Working with the University’s Enterprise and Business Development Team to develop
 collaborative projects with impact. The Unit has established 6 Hertfordshire Knowledge
 Exchange Partnership (HKEP) 4-year Industrial PhD studentships with industry partners,

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 benefiting from the University’s Hertfordshire Science Partnership scheme (see Institutional
 Statement). These studentships facilitate research that can influence the partners’ business
 methodologies, thereby creating substantial impact. There are two studentships with RSK
 ADAS, and one each with companies, DryGro and Syngenta, and also the Letchworth Heritage
 Foundation. A further HKEP PhD student is hosted by K G Davies Ltd - a company providing
 nematode biocontrol solutions established by a Unit member – in collaboration with the
 Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomic Research (see section 4).

 Requiring impact generation activities to be included in all internal funding applications
 The Unit requires PhD studentships (e.g. QR funded PhDs; HKEP co-funded PhDs with industry
 partners), University early stage researcher grants and Santander research travel awards to
 include impact generation proposals.

 Utilising University funds for impact development. The Unit successfully applied for 6
 University small grants for impact development totalling £13,520 during the cycle. Funds
 supported a research assistant to collect evidence of impact of the pesticide database on
 government and industry policy in different countries (Lewis ); travel to China to collate evidence
 of the impact of Unit research on arable crop diseases on government policy (Huang); a
 research assistant to collect evidence of impact of the Unit’s work with UK industry partners and
 government policy (Fitt, Hall); and travel to India to work with policy-makers and water
 harvesters (Crook).

 Public engagement events to share ideas with the general public through, for example, Café
 Scientifique engagement events organised by Madden that have been held on a regular basis,
 open to the general public at venues outside the University, enabling researchers to explore and
 discuss different themes in science and technology.

 The two submitted case studies are illustrative of the Unit’s approach. The first case study
 ‘Benefits to UK and Chinese agriculture from new crop disease control strategies’ resulted from
 research on crop pests and diseases, mostly carried out in collaborative consortia with end-
 users and industry partners (crop breeders, distributors, farmers, agrochemical companies). It
 has led to global strategies for managing insensitivity to insecticides, and improvements in
 breeding for resistance to extracellular arable crop pathogens (such as those that cause oilseed
 rape phoma stem canker and light leaf spot and barley leaf blotch) and disease management by
 growers. It has also influenced Chinese government quarantine policy and led to capacity-
 building through the development of personnel in UK industry, and also skills development and
 knowledge transfer in China. The second case study ‘Improving worldwide pesticide risk
 assessments for more effective international regulation and stronger protection of human and
 environmental health’ is the result of extensive externally funded research to improve pesticide
 risk assessments. This work has included the development of a database of risk assessment
 procedures which enable global agricultural regulators, policy makers, researchers and industry
 to undertake risk assessments more effectively and easily. The database has substantially
 improved knowledge regarding the safety of pesticides, provided evidence to support policy
 objectives and helped improve the accuracy and comparability of these risk assessment
 procedures.

 Open Research Environment and Research Integrity
 Data underpinning the Unit’s research are published for the purposes of reuse and verification,
 and to maximise their impact and benefit to society. Unit staff make their outputs available in
 electronic formats that support searching, downloading, text and data-mining, and re-use of their
 content, subject to full and correct attribution. These are placed in the on-line University of
 Hertfordshire Research Archive (UHRA). The Unit also follows the University-wide open access
 publishing strategy protocols and operates in accordance with the Budapest Open Access
 Initiative. For example, results obtained in the Unit Newton-Bhabha and Newton-Mosharafa
 projects were openly shared and discussed with collaborators in India and Egypt, respectively.



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Unit staff often take additional steps to share research data effectively. An example is the three
 agricultural-substance (pesticides, biopesticides and veterinary substances) databases. Access
 to these is provided free of all charges via the University website and they are used extensively
 globally, with the pesticide properties data typically receiving 5000+ hits daily. Other examples
 include the use of Mendeley Data for storing data associated with research publications or the
 Protein Model Database (PMDB) for storing specific research results.

 The Unit follows the University policy to publish outputs in green open access (OA) format
 wherever practicable. The University also operates an annual Article Processing Charge (APC)
 Fund to support gold OA publication of research outputs, where this is beneficial for reputational
 enhancement or to facilitate access for specific discipline areas, when other funding is
 unavailable. The Unit has benefitted from University central funds for gold OA publication of
 many papers, including 5 papers in PLOS One (2014-2019), Scientific Reports (2017), Trends in
 Plant Science (2014) and Molecular Plant-Microbe Interactions (2020). In addition, the University
 has recently reached transformative agreements with several publishers facilitating publication
 with gold OA in their journals without individual charges.

 All research carried out by the Unit is fully compliant with University protocols on research ethics
 and integrity. No projects involving human participants or animal subjects may be undertaken
 without prior University senior management and ethics committee approval. The University is a
 signatory to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and provides mandatory training on
 research integrity for all researchers (staff and students) delivered through the Doctoral College
 Researcher Development Programme. Unit staff actively participate in the annual research
 ethics seminar and periodic update workshops organised by the University.

 Future Strategy
 The Unit aims to advance its agricultural, food, environmental and health research in order to
 transform lives, whilst addressing fundamental global and societal challenges, such as climate
 change. Specifically, it plans to:

 a) Develop new sustainable global partnerships and strengthen existing collaborations
    with international/national partners (see Section 4) through joint applications for further
    funding. For example, the Unit will apply for funds to develop international collaborative
    projects on phoma stem canker and to extend current Newton projects with India and Egypt
    together with previous GCRF QR funded work with India on biological control of nematode
    pests. The Unit will apply for funds with national partners (e.g. Rothamsted and RVC through
    CAFEM Research and Oxford University on food policy, Barling) and take advantage of
    funding opportunities, such as those provided by the Agri-Tech programme, Innovate UK,
    and UKRI for joint research projects with countries in sub-Saharan Africa (e.g. climate
    change programme at the University of KwaZulu-Natal South Africa).
 b) Address societal and industrial priorities through research with industry partners on
    projects that address societal challenges (e.g. impacts of climate change on agricultural
    crops). In particular, the Unit will continue to participate in the interdisciplinary research
    opportunities provided through the Food Research Theme, and collaborate with other
    colleagues in the newly designated University-wide Centre for Climate Change Research to
    form interdisciplinary teams to apply for funding for research addressing climate change
    impacts, adaptation and mitigation.
 c) Improve the Unit’s global research profile by expanding the numbers of publications with
    international co-authors with whom Unit researchers have engaged in collaborative projects
    in high profile international journals (e.g. PNAS, Scientific Reports, Plant Physiology), as a
    basis for attracting invitations to give keynote presentations at major international
    conferences (e.g. International Congress of Plant Pathology, Lyon, 2023).
 d) Encourage research outcomes that have external impact outside academia. The Unit
    will expand its engagement in research projects which include end-users as partners -
    farmers, crop breeders, agricultural distributors - through applications to funders such as
    Innovate UK. It will obtain new industrial contacts through involvement in end-user networks
    such as the annual stakeholder meetings of the Oilseed RapE Genetic Improvement

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Network, OREGIN. Furthermore, the Unit will expand participation in public engagement
    activities (e.g. Royal Society soirees, Café Scientifique, lectures to local groups such as
    University of the Third Age) to increase its profile among the general public.
 e) Expand the community of research-engaged staff, by growing the number of staff who
    have significant responsibility for research through the recruitment of new staff, investment of
    Unit QR resources (e.g. for Early Career Researchers (ECRs)) and providing time for
    academic staff (such as those returning from a break from academic life) to develop research
    programmes.
 f) Grow the Unit’s community of research students in line with the University’s target for a
    35% increase in postgraduate research (PGR) students by 2025, taking advantage of the
    interdisciplinary opportunities offered for collaboration through the University Research
    Themes, and cross-disciplinary Research Centres, such as the two new University-
    designated Centres for Climate Change Research and Future Societies Research.


 2. People

 Staffing Strategy
 As part of the strategy to strengthen agri-food research at the University, research in the Unit
 was focused into the 3 groups (CPCC, AEM, FPND), each now led by a professor. Fitt (CPCC)
 was appointed in 2011, Lewis (AEM) was promoted from Reader in 2014, Barling (FPND) was
 recruited as professor and Head of CAFEM in 2015. Eight new staff who have been submitted to
 REF2021 were appointed since 2014 in line with a strategy to build critical mass in these major
 research concentrations. The overall number of staff in the Unit has increased from 15 (11.60
 FTE) in 2014 to 23 (18.97 FTE) in 2021; a 64% increase in FTE staff.

 These new staff have expertise aligned with that of the main research groups and structures.
 Barling (FPND) was recruited to a professorship in Food Policy and Security and appointed
 University Research Theme Champion for Food in 2016. Malcolm (CPCC), Pearce (AEM) and
 Garcia-Cela (CPCC) were recruited to permanent Principal Lecturer, Senior Lecturer and
 Lecturer posts, respectively.

 Four independent Research Fellows - Barrero-Sicilia, Qi, Richard (all CPCC), Fallaize (FPDN) -
 were appointed on initial 5-year contracts with the expectation they will secure research funding
 and establish their own research areas during this period. In 2020, Fallaize and Barrero-Sicilia,
 both ECRs, progressed to permanent Lecturer posts in the Unit.

 Two of these Research Fellows are engaged in interdisciplinary projects working in collaboration
 with other Units across the University. Richard studies the dispersion of airborne pathogens and
 implications for crops with colleagues from Rothamsted and the University’s Centre for
 Atmospheric and Instrumentation Research (CAIR), as well as CAFEM Research. Barrero-Sicilia
 is researching Systems Biology for Food and Disease with support from colleagues in computer
 science. The Unit is also collaborating with two other UOAs in which two further ECRs are
 based: Food and Public Health across the Life Course (UOA3 Allied Health, with Barling);
 Airborne Pathogens and Disease Epidemics (UOA9 Physics, with Fitt).

 Twelve of the thirteen additional Research Fellows noted above have been appointed on
 shorter-term contracts, as a result of successful external grant applications: for example, EU
 H2020 and Cadogan Trust and research consultancy grants to Barling, and Agri-Tech/BBSRC
 grants to Fitt and Huang, and a Newton Bhabha grant to Stotz. These Fellows are not currently
 independent researchers but will be supported to apply for independent research fellowships,
 research funding and academic posts in the future.

 Staff development
 The Unit places great importance on staff development, especially, though not exclusively, for
 ECRs. This is delivered through:

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Provision of bespoke in-house Unit training sessions, such as those on advanced
        statistics (led by Mashanova) and grant application training (delivered in collaboration
        with the University Research Office), to complement the extensive University Researcher
        Development Programme;
    •   Established mentoring and training schemes through which new staff, especially
        Research Fellows, can integrate into specialist areas and benefit from opportunities to
        develop into independent researchers, while maintaining an emphasis on teamwork. A
        Unit research fellow represents all Research Fellows on the LMS Research Executive
        Group and is a member of the University Researcher Development Group that monitors
        delivery of these programmes;
    •   The use of personal development plans (reviewed at annual appraisal and 6 month
        review) and staff development budgets to create time for research through workload
        management and provide financial support to attend conferences and networking events:
        e.g. Fallaize was funded to attend the 23rd European Nutrition Leadership Platform
        seminar, Luxembourg, 2017;
    •   Encouraging and supporting applications to competitive internally funded central
        University schemes. Barrero-Sicilia was awarded an Early Career Researcher Grant of
        £4,000 to study barley tolerance to abiotic stress and a £5,000 Santander Partnership
        Award to work on exploiting the potential of Brachypodium as model grass to improve
        breeding cereal crops in collaboration with Prof. Pilar Catalan, University of Zaragoza;
    •   Supporting staff to join supervisory teams for PhD students, initially alongside a more
        experienced supervisor. Mandatory training in PhD student supervision is delivered by
        the University Doctoral College. All Unit staff have participated in the supervision of one
        or more PhD students during this REF cycle;
    •   Enabling staff to maximise the output potential of their research by providing advice and
        mentoring on publication strategies delivered by staff with experience of publishing in
        high-impact journals;
    •   Supporting and facilitating staff to receive research sabbatical time to further their
        research and also to engage in academic/industrial exchanges both in the UK and
        overseas.

 Appraisal and mentoring processes are designed to facilitate career progression by addressing
 development needs and agreeing on bespoke action plans which, together with performance
 targets, are monitored at annual appraisals with six-monthly reviews. The University has a
 rigorous annual academic promotion round which enables staff to seek elevation to Reader or
 Associate Professor (Research) and, with an appropriate track record, to Professor without the
 requirement for a specific vacancy to be available. There have been three promotions within the
 Unit from Senior Research Fellow to Reader (Tzilivakis, Huang, Stotz), and one from Reader to
 Professor (Lewis) in this REF period.

 The Unit’s research culture has substantially matured during this cycle in response to the
 increase in research staff and post-graduate student numbers. Staff and postdoctoral
 researchers are well integrated into Unit, University and disciplinary research culture through:

    •   Formal and informal AFVS meetings and discussion forums. These include regular bi-
        monthly meetings when staff discuss plans for high quality publications, external impact,
        funding opportunities, collaboration and research environment strategies;
    •   Fortnightly lunchtime research seminars, at which new staff are encouraged to give
        presentations and to which external speakers are also invited;
    •   Participation in networking and other events provided by the Food Research Theme
        which is led by Barling, as Theme Champion;
    •   Internal research conferences. These include large annual conferences specific to
        research in LMS (2014-20) and a series of biennial Researcher Development
        conferences that are University-wide and encourage cross-disciplinary research and
        other development activities;

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Funding attendance at national/international external research conferences (e.g.
        International Plant Pathology Congress, Boston, 2018).

 Postgraduate research students
 The Unit has continued its capacity building strategy of creating a vibrant research community by
 recruiting full-time PGR students with 25 new PhD students enrolled since 2014 (Table 1). There
 has been a 32% increase in enrolments and 217% increase in overall awards with a 126%
 increase in awards per annum over the current cycle.

 Table 1: Comparison of Unit PhD enrolments and awards for REF 2014 and REF 2021 cycles.

                   2008-13       2013-14     2014-16    2016-18   2018-20
                                                                                         Total
                REF2014 Total                          REF2021

  Enrolments          19             4          7          5              9                25

  Awards               6             3          5          6              5                19




 The Unit was awarded 18 PhD studentships by external funding bodies during this REF cycle.
 These include a BBSRC Knowledge Transfer Network PhD studentship (Stotz, Fitt), Agricultural
 trust funded PhD studentships (Huang); and a studentship funded by the Salisbury Trust on
 minimum tillage agriculture (Davies, Warner). In addition, investment of QR funds has supported
 some studentships in strategic partnerships: for example, two dual award PhDs with the
 Hawkesbury Research Institute, University of Western Sydney, Australia on the topics of
 bioprospecting for fungal-based biocontrol agents (Coutts) and investigating pathogen-plant
 signalling during the switch from biotrophy to necrotrophy in hemibiotrophic interactions (Stotz).

 Six industrial PhD studentships have been awarded to the Unit by the Hertfordshire Science
 Partnership (HSP) in the area of agricultural technologies. HSP was established by the
 University in partnership with the Hertfordshire Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP) with £6.0M in
 funding from the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, the Department of
 Community and Local Government and the European Regional Development Fund. This was
 augmented with £0.9M industrial funding to establish Hertfordshire Knowledge Exchange
 Partnerships (HKEP) – innovative four-year PhD with Industry Experience doctoral studentships.

 For the Unit the project partners, studentship grant values, and PhD student supervisors
 respectively are: Syngenta, £125,081 (Lewis); Letchworth Garden City Heritage Foundation,
 £103,631 (Barling); two with RSK ADAS and charitable trusts, £207,274 (Huang); DryGro,
 £109,431 (Barrero-Sicilia); KG Davies Ltd and Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomic Research,
 £143,000 (Davies).

 Kass, a Unit member, gained a PhD through publications in 2018. There is also one part-time
 technician/PhD post in AFVS, where a technician is undertaking a part-time PhD on populations
 of amphibians and reptiles at the University’s Bayfordbury Field Station. Such posts provide
 funded opportunities via technical/LMS budgets to expand the research culture, develop
 technical staff and contribute to research outputs.

 Five successful PhD students have been appointed as Research Fellows in the Unit. Other
 destinations for students awarded PhDs in this cycle include research fellowships/lecturer posts
 at other HEIs or Research Institutes in the UK, Canada, Iran, Malaysia and Taiwan, and
 positions in the agricultural industry, healthcare product industry, environmental management,
 public relations and government.


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGR students are enrolled with the University Doctoral College which oversees their progress
 and progression through the online Research Student Management System with which both
 students and supervisors engage to record meetings, submit progress reports and record
 assessments. Research student training is delivered by the Doctoral College through an
 extensive Researcher Development Programme as well as an annual PGR student conference.

 The University was ranked 4th for research culture, 15th for research supervision and 21st for
 overall student satisfaction from 103 participating HEIs in the 2019 Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey (PRES). The participation rate was 62% compared to the 42% national
 average. The responses of AFVS PGR students reflect this positive outcome – 94% satisfaction
 for supervision, 92% for research skills, 82% overall satisfaction.

 The Unit’s supervisory process, overseen by the Doctoral College, requires an experienced
 team of at least two supervisors, with at least two successful supervisions between them, to be
 appointed for each research student. The outstanding supervision outcomes reported through
 2019 PRES are facilitated by:

    •   quality assurance of the research expertise and experience of the supervisory team;
        potential new supervisors are also required to attend training courses provided by the
        Doctoral College before they can supervise students;
    •   supervisory time workload allocations, with more time given to staff who are principal
        supervisors;
    •   monitoring of the student’s progress at several levels, including a 3-4 monthly
        progression report from each student discussed with supervisors, all meetings recorded
        on the online Research Student Management System, plus an annual monitoring or
        progression report, reviewed by the relevant School Research Tutor, and by the Doctoral
        College;
    •   PGR students participating in teaching undergraduate students through demonstrating in
        practical classes and running tutor groups across different subject areas;
    •   Funding from the Unit to ensure that each student attends at least one international
        scientific conference while they are studying for their doctoral degree. For example, six
        PhD students attended the International Congress of Plant Pathology in Boston, USA, in
        2018.


 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 The Unit fully supports and adopts the University’s equality, diversity and inclusion principles and
 processes. LMS has an Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Team (EDIT), which reviews EDI data,
 formulates action plans, evaluates the impact of Unit-level initiatives and feeds into School
 Research Executive Group meetings. EDIT membership includes diverse perspectives such as
 those of BAME PGR students and staff; staff with different contract types; and a mix of declared
 protected characteristics. There is an increasing emphasis on inter-sectionality and this is
 reflected in the Unit’s support for priorities around charter marks such as Race Equality and
 Stonewall. LMS currently holds an Athena Swan Bronze and is making substantial progress
 towards a Silver application in November 2021.

 Athena Swan principles have been embedded into all recruitment, promotion and leadership
 appointment activities with significant success so that 55% of Unit PhD students, over 80% of
 new Research Fellows and 48% of Unit staff are women. In addition, women have been
 promoted to both Professor (Lewis) and Reader (Huang) during this REF cycle.

 The University's Women in STEMM Network is open to all women in science, technology,
 engineering, mathematics and medicine. It aims to support them in their career development,
 providing discussion forums, networking and mentoring opportunities. There is also an informal
 CoCo (conversations and communications for women researchers) network within LMS that
 offers tailored training and support sessions.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 10.5% of the Unit FTE staff identify as BAME. During this REF cycle a BAME staff member was
 promoted to Reader and 3 BAME staff were appointed to Research Fellow positions. It is
 anticipated that these Research Fellows will progress to independent researcher status forming
 a pipeline for future lecturer appointments.

 All staff are encouraged to engage with the University’s independent staff networks coordinated
 by the Equality Office addressing BAME staff, Carers, Disability and Wellbeing, LGBTQ+,
 Women+ and Professors, Academic Women’s Action Group, Working Parents, Men’s Health,
 and Menopause, providing an opportunity to share experiences, discuss issues and offer peer
 support.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 During the 7-year period from 1 August 2013 to 31 July 2020, the Unit generated £4.7M of
 external research income (Table 2). Annual average income was £666k, a 19.1% increase on
 annual average income in the REF 2014 cycle. The average annual income over the last three
 years of the current cycle has been 65% higher at £860k, reflecting increasing success in
 winning larger funding awards as a consequence of the investment in high performing research
 staff during the cycle. These figures suggest a continuing positive trajectory for Unit external
 research income generation.

 Table 2: External research income 2014-2020.

  Year       2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20                           Total

  £k              666         370          424          624         821      804        954    4,663




 Over the cycle 29% of the Unit’s external research income came from URKI, 37% from other UK
 funders, and 34% from non-UK sources (Table 3).


 Table 3: External research income sources 2014-2020.

  Location   UK         UK          UK           UK         UK       EU      EU         Non-    Non-
                                                                                        EU      EU
  Source     UKRI       Charity     Govt         Industry   Other    Govt    Industry   Govt    Other

  £k         1,339      478         392          541        264      1,132   173        20      264



 Funding Awards
 All three groups within the Unit have won major funding awards during the REF period. These
 include:
      • CPCC: British Council Newton-Mosharafa (£106,136; Fitt, Qi, Richard), various
         charitable trusts for work on biocontrol (£91,500; Coutts), BBSRC Newton-Bhabha
         (£165,699; Stotz, Fitt), AHDB (£119,389; Huang), BBSRC ERA-CAPS (£350,000, Fitt,
         Stotz) and two BBSRC/Innovate UK projects (£491,815, Huang, Fitt).
      • AEM: European Food Safety Authority (£131,280; Lewis, Tzvilivakis, Warner); EU H2020
         (£381,256; Lewis, Tzvilivakis, Warner).
      • FPND: European Commission (£389,658; Barling); Cadogan Charity (£200,000; Barling)


                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff often pursue collaborative funding with industry partners. For example, a BBSRC LINK
 project on understanding resistance to decrease risk of severe phoma stem canker incorporated
 a consortium chaired by the AHDB that included nine oilseed rape breeders and two farmers.
 The project was part supported by industry in kind contributions of over £500,000, plus cash
 contributions from AHDB and agricultural charities of more than £200,000. Industry involvement
 also contributed to MSc research projects, which can then lead to PGR student support: for
 example, Affinity Water has supported water projects (Crook) and Syngenta plc projects on the
 fate of pesticides (Lewis). Other projects with industry partners include a Ceres Agri-Tech
 Knowledge Exchange Partnership on integrated control of strawberry pests and diseases
 (£211,000, Hall) that has resulted in a licence agreement with Agri-Tech Services. The Unit is
 also involved in three AgRia (Agri-Tech Research Innovation Accelerator) projects (value circa
 £150,000) with commercial partners, which are transferring knowledge and expertise from Unit
 staff to benefit SMEs.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 A new £61.2 M science building was opened on the University’s College Lane campus in 2016
 comprising 9000 square metres spread over 4 floors. The facility provides spacious, state of the
 art, naturally lit laboratories, notably Microbiology and Plant Pathology, Molecular, and Analytical
 Chemistry research laboratories, together with PGR student study areas and informal social
 spaces which create an environment conducive to multi-disciplinary research collaborations.

 Equipment purchased for Unit research includes four new Aralab plant growth chambers and
 shared equipment costing £ 2.0M, including safety cabinets, centrifuges, - 80C freezers, plate
 readers, incubators, Western blot equipment and water baths for molecular biology work in crop
 protection and microbiology and animal/human diseases. A Matrix-Assisted Laser
 Desorption/Ionisation time-of-flight analyser, 3 UV Spectrophotometers, 2 qPCR machines, a
 Geldoc System (DNA and RNA), Fourier-Transform Infrared Spectrometer, Gas Chromatograph,
 and 2 High Performance Liquid Chromatography systems are available. In addition, 2 Nuclear
 Magnetic Resonance magnets (400Hz and 600Hz) are located in a separate suite with
 dedicated technician support. There is also a specific microscopy laboratory suite with both
 confocal and Raman facilities available for use by Unit staff.

 Plant growth chambers provide accuracy, reliability and reproducibility with controlled
 environments to assess resistance to pathogens. The new safety cabinets are used for
 microbiology work, such as pathogen isolation and sub-culturing, and molecular work, such as
 PCR and qPCR. New centrifuges are routinely used for DNA extraction. The -80 C freezers are
 employed for long-term storage of fungal and bacterial pathogens. The microtiter plate readers
 are used for in-vitro fungicide sensitivity tests on fungal isolates and for bacterial susceptibility
 testing in multi-disciplinary collaborative research with external partners. The incubators are
 utilised for incubating microbial cultures and the water baths for undertaking molecular biology
 protocols such as DNA extraction.

 The Science Building has a new geographical information systems (GIS) laboratory for aerial
 mapping, land survey, and biodiversity and crop monitoring in both the visible and infrared
 spectrums. Three drones with high specification cameras provide the capability for remote
 sensing, and aerial imaging.

 Unit staff were involved in designing the recent refurbishment of the glasshouse/ controlled
 environment block on the main campus. Work has also commenced on the refurbishment of
 glasshouse facilities at the nearby Bayfordbury Field Station, where field/glasshouse-based
 ecology and plant pathology research is undertaken. Furthermore, an additional glasshouse/
 controlled environment facility adjacent to the Science Building is planned.

 The University Library and Computing Service (LCS) maintains subscriptions to 220 information
 databases of which circa 60 relate to the Unit. From the 50,575 journals held (an 81% increase
 since 2014), approximately 2100 are relevant to the Unit. It contains 543,000 ebooks of which
 circa 1540 are in relevant areas and there is a dedicated LCS Information Manager to support

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Unit. Also new transformative agreements (with Sage, Wiley, PLOS) are in place to facilitate
 gold OA publication without individual charges.

 The Unit also makes use of University support structures to facilitate impact identification,
 administration and evidencing. The Research Impact Team, Research Grants Team, Enterprise
 and Business Development Team as well as the Development Office all offer staff support for
 developing research project proposals, including the identification of impact pathways and
 methods for impact evaluation. The Marketing and Communications Team are responsible for
 press releases and social media channel communications concerning research projects and
 findings to inform both industry and the public (e.g. through The Conversation) and offer
 expertise in producing promotional videos and other material for media dissemination.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research Collaborations and User Partnerships
 Developing strategic research partnerships is a major activity across all 3 groups within the Unit.
 As well as many national and international academic collaborations, the Unit actively
 collaborates with external NGO partners, and increasingly conducts funded research in direct
 collaboration with user partners in industry.

 Examples include:

 Crop Protection and Climate Change: collaborations with specialist centres include Hall’s
 work on integrated pest management for strawberries with NIAB Innovation Farms, now licensed
 commercially; Coutts, Fitt and Stotz with the John Innes Centre, and Davies with the James
 Hutton Institute, now published. Richard, Qi and Fitt research the impacts of climate change on
 crop diseases with Mansoura University and the Agricultural Research Centre in Egypt; Barrero-
 Sicilia collaborates with Polytechnic University, Madrid, Spain on understanding seed
 germination, and Malcolm works on the control of malarial mosquitos with the University of
 Khartoum. Huang collaborates on improving resistance against pathogens with Limagrain and
 other oilseed rape breeding companies.

 Other important partnerships for CPCC work include Cranfield University (Garcia-Cela, joint PhD
 studentship), Imperial College, London (Fitt), and international collaborations with partners in:
 Australia - Hawkesbury Research Institute, Western Sydney University (Coutts, Stotz, joint PhD
 studentships, publications); Brazil, UNESP (Stotz); Canada, Agri-Food Canada, Saskatchewan
 (Stotz), China, CAAS Oil Crops Research Institute, Wuhan (Huang, Stotz), Jiangsu Academy of
 Agricultural Sciences (Hall); France, INRA Rennes and Thiverval-Grignon (Fitt, Huang, Stotz);
 Germany, University of Göttingen (Fitt, Stotz); India, Indian Agricultural Research Institute
 (Davies); Japan, Niigata University (Stotz); Norway, Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy
 Research (Davies), Russia, Institute of Plant and Animal Ecology, Urals, Ekaterinburg
 (Mashanova); South Africa, University of Kwazulu-Natal (Mashanova),

 Agriculture and Environmental Management: in collaboration with the pesticide industry and
 Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC), the group has provided policy
 support to the European Food Safety Authority on exposure of bystanders and residents to
 agriculturally applied pesticides that has led to the revision of regulatory risk models. Lewis has
 led teams undertaking research funded by Premium Crops Ltd to investigate management of
 oilseed rape volunteer plants in subsequent oilseed rape crops and a Waitrose funded project to
 develop a pesticide risk assessment software package to support Waitrose growers worldwide to
 develop more sustainable crop protection strategies. Warner carried out a project in
 collaboration with Western Sugar USA to compare the environmental impacts of sugar beet and
 sugar cane, while Tzvilivakis led an interdisciplinary project in collaboration with Affinity Water
 AECOM Environmental Services and Reading Agricultural Consultants to reduce pesticide
 contamination of surface waters.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Other collaborative partners for the group include University of Aberystwyth (Porter); University
 of Nottingham (Lewis, Warner), University of Reading (Tzilivakis), Natural England (Warner);
 Norway, University Centre of Svalbard (Porter).

 Food Policy, Nutrition and Diet: Madden collaborated with the British Dietetic Association on
 projects on patient’s preferences for diet and nutrition-related outcomes in coeliac disease and a
 further project on weight management in collaboration with, and supported by the Department of
 Health, Health and Social Care Volunteering Fund. Barling leads the work package on policy,
 regulation and governance within the VALUMICS consortium funded by the EU Horizon 2020
 framework, bringing together 19 European partners from 14 countries, plus a further 2 Asian
 partners. A 238-page report on Governance on European Food Value Chains was delivered in
 2019.

 Other collaborations include University of Aberystwyth (Fallaize), Addenbrooke’s Hospital
 (Madden), University of Cambridge (Madden), City University of London (Barling), Oxford
 University (Barling), University of Reading (Fallaize, Vafeiadou). Internationally group members
 work with institutions in Belgium (International Life Sciences Institute Europe (Vafeiadou));
 Iceland (University of Iceland (Barling)); Italy, (University of Pisa (Barling)); New Zealand,
 (University of Waikato (Barling)), Netherlands, (WUR (Barling)).

 Many of these Unit collaborations have resulted in peer reviewed publications in major journals,
 as well as influencing policy and/or practice by end-users.

 Contribution to economy and society
 The Unit’s research has made a substantial contribution to various economies and societies. It
 has both influenced and changed UK and EU government policies on pesticides, climate change
 mitigation and adaptation (Lewis, Qi), nutrition and food policy (Barling, Madden, Fallaize),
 irrigation systems in India (Crook) and preventing spread of the phoma stem canker pathogen
 Leptosphaeria maculans into China (Huang, Fitt).

 Engagement with industry provides an excellent route for delivery of the Unit’s research findings
 to end-users, augmenting its business-facing reputation. For example, outcomes and new
 developments from the 2011-2014 BBSRC LINK project were conveyed through AHDB, National
 Farmers Union, and oilseed rape breeders’ open days, roadshows, workshops, trade events,
 conferences and topic sheets (Fitt, Huang). In addition, the distributor Hutchinsons has used its
 extensive network of agronomists to disseminate information about the outcomes of the two
 BBSRC/Innovate UK projects to more than 13000 farmers per year (Huang, Fitt). Similarly, the
 land carbon management research carried out by Warner for Natural England and the National
 Trust has been presented as best practice guidance and through several workshops.

 Staff strengthened existing relationships with non-academic users/beneficiaries/audiences
 making contributions by:

    •   presenting work at industry meetings (e.g. ‘Cereals’ – the largest annual agricultural
        trade event in the UK - and Hutchinsons’ open days, Huang, Fitt, Hall),
    •   joining professional groups (e.g. NIAB innovation farm platform, Hall),
    •   providing consultancy advice (e.g. to FAO Chile, Fitt)
    •   participating in policy-making groups (e.g. those convened by Defra to improve and
        implement agri-environment stewardship schemes, Lewis, Tzilivakis).

 An important partnership has been formed with the International Union of Pure and Applied
 Chemistry (IUPAC) to facilitate access to the Pesticide Properties Database by a broader
 community, particularly in developing countries (Lewis, Tzilivakis, Warner). The Unit’s
 membership of OREGIN with academic/industry partners also provides a means of
 disseminating research outputs to contribute to the wider agricultural industry.


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Unit’s contributions to research in nutrition have been further developed through well-
 established partnerships with social enterprises, such as BeeZee Bodies, Henry, Hertfordshire
 Community Meals and the charitable sector, including Sustain, Caroline Walker Trust, The
 Salvation Army, Coeliac UK and Diabetes UK.

 Davies has also founded a company for the biological control of nematode pests, K G Davies
 Ltd, building on his research carried out in the Unit, and supported by the University, into
 fecundity enhancing peptides in the mass production of entomopathogenic nematodes with the
 object of developing this technology to control insect pests in India in partnership with the Indian
 Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi.

 The Unit’s commercial and innovation activities also benefit the economy and society, and
 support the Unit’s growth and sustainability, generating £4.4M income over the cycle where
 £3.1M was derived from Biodet, a University company which undertakes microbiological analysis
 and investigation, whose profits are fed back into the Unit’s research.

 Contribution to Sustainability of the Discipline
 Hall was awarded an MBE, made an honorary member of the British Society for Plant Pathology
 in 2016 and an honorary professor of the Inner Mongolia Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
 China, in recognition of her research on diseases of horticultural crops, and her contribution to
 research and teaching at the University. Other Unit members have been given awards and
 fellowships (see Table 4). There are 5 Fellows of the Royal Society of Biology (Coutts, Davies,
 Fitt, Huang, Stotz), 2 Fellows of the Royal Geographical Society (Crook, Porter), one Fellow of
 the Linnaean Society (Davies), one British Science Association Media Fellow (Porter) and one
 Fellow of the British Dietetic Association (Madden). Fallaize received a British Nutrition Society
 Award in 2017; Madden received two prizes from the British Dietetic Association (BDA) in 2018
 and 2019 and delivered the BDA Elsie Widdowson Memorial Lecture in 2019. Davies is an
 honorary professor of the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy Research and Fitt is an honorary
 professor of the Oil Crops Research Institute in Wuhan, China.

 Table: 4 Summary of Unit member contributions to the sustainability of the discipline

            Awards and Fellowships/Honorary positions                                  22

            Member international/ national/ grants committees                          28

            Editor journal etc.                                                        20

            Invited conference keynotes / chairs                                       73

            Collaborative doctoral training                                            32

            Refereeing activities:
                                                           PhD examiner                29
                                    Reviewer, grant proposal/ promotion                47
                                  Reviewer, paper in international journal            946

 Unit staff are editors or editorial board members of journals. These include Archives of Virology
 (Coutts), Frontiers in Nutrition (Fallaize), Frontiers in Fungal Biology (Garcia-Cela), Canadian
 Journal of Plant Pathology (Huang), Journal of Human Nutrition and Dietetics (Madden), Fauna
 of the Urals (Mashanova), Outlooks in Pest Management (Fitt), Journal of Remote Sensing
 (Pearce), Agriculture and Human Values (Barling), Frontiers in Agronomy (Stotz), MDPI
 Agronomy (Qi) and MDPI Toxics and Climate (Lewis, Tzilivakis and Warner). Barling co-edited
 Elsevier’s annual book series Advances in Food Security and Sustainability, Volumes 1-4, 2016-
 2019.

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Unit staff are also members of national/international committees, including grant-awarding
 committees. For example, Coutts is on the International Committee on Virus Taxonomy, Davies
 is on a Norway Association of Applied Biology committee and Fitt is a consultant to the FAO
 and, with Stotz, on the Global Council for Innovation in Rapeseed (GCIRC). Lewis is a
 consultant to the European Food Standards Agency (EFSA), and Pearce is on the Quaternary
 Research Association Committee. Vafeiadou is on the International Life Sciences Institute
 European Expert Group and Warner is on The Arable Group new farming systems committee.

 Several Unit staff are also actively involved with the broader community and with non-academic
 bodies. Lewis serves on the IUPAC’s Advisory Committee of Crop Protection Chemistry, Barling
 is a Trustee of Sustain (UK food and farming NGO alliance) and Fitt is a trustee of the Perry
 Foundation (agricultural charity). Madden is a Member of the British Dietetic Association’s
 Higher Education Sub-Committee and General and Educational Trust and sits on the Steering
 Committee of the James Lind Alliance for Non-alcohol-related liver and gallbladder disorders.

 Unit staff have given invited keynotes or chaired sessions at 73 international conferences in
 Australia (Fitt), Belgium (Davies, Garcia-Cela, Tzilivakis), Brazil (Barrero-Sicilia), Canada (Fitt),
 China (Davies), Chile (Fitt), Czech Republic (Warner), Egypt (Qi, Richard), Germany (Fitt,
 Garcia-Cela), Hungary (Malcolm), Italy (Tzilivakis), Japan (Coutts), Qatar (Malcolm), South
 Korea (Stotz), Thailand (Garcia-Cela), Denmark (Barling) and the USA (Barrero-Sicilia, Davies,
 Garcia-Cela). Unit members have also been actively involved in the public promotion of science
 to the general public; for example, in the local community (Madden) and at the Royal Society,
 London, BBC radio and TV and the National Geographic (Porter).

 Since 2014, Unit staff have examined 29 PhD student theses, from Australia (Fitt, Huang),
 Canada (Fitt), Ireland (Davies), Spain (Barrero-Sicilia) and the UK (Barrero-Sicilia, Fitt, Huang,
 Lewis, Malcolm, Vafeiadou, Barling). They have reviewed more than 47 grant proposals/
 promotion proposals, for Australia (Fitt), Canada (Fitt, Stotz), China (Coutts), Czech Republic
 (Coutts), Israel (Coutts), Kuwait (Lewis), Poland (Coutts), South Africa (Madden), USA (Coutts,
 Davies, Pearce) and the UK, including the Research Councils (BBSRC, NERC, ESRC) and the
 Wellcome Trust (Barling, Crook, Coutts, Fallaize, Fitt, Lewis, Malcolm, Richard, Porter, Qi). They
 have also reviewed more than 946 papers submitted to international journals, including Plant
 Cell Reports, Journal of Experimental Botany, Fungal Genetics and Biology, PLOS One,
 Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the USA, Frontiers in Microbiology,
 American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, Royal Society Journal of Open Science, Philosophical
 Transactions of the Royal Society B, Mycotoxin Journal, Theoretical and Applied Genetics,
 Scientific Reports, Geosciences, Global Environmental Change, BMC Plant Biology, Molecular
 Plant Pathology and Journal of Environmental Management, Food Policy, Food Security and
 Agriculture and Human Values.




                                                                                               Page 15
