Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: D-25 Area Studies


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Unit context

The School of East Asian Studies (SEAS) was established in 1963 in response to the 1961 Hayter
Report’s recommended national expansion of research and teaching in area studies to better
reflect the changing world order. In line with the rising global importance of East Asia, we have
since expanded dramatically beyond our original focus on Japan to cover a variety of disciplines
and languages relating to China, the Korea Peninsula, and the region as a whole. As a result, we
are now one of the biggest East Asian studies departments in Europe. Our vision is to promote a
vibrant intellectual culture through which we communicate and disseminate our passion, expertise
and knowledge of this region internationally, nationally and across Sheffield with the goal of
impacting on the understanding and behaviour of a range of individuals, groups and organisations.

To achieve this vision and our REF2014 objective of addressing ‘grand challenges and societal
problems’, we have focused in this assessment period on both our traditional areas of strength and
important themes that break down boundaries between disciplines and the study of China, Japan
and Korea. Reflecting our historical roots, these areas of strength include Japanese studies and
the social sciences but have been complemented with cross-cutting themes that reflect our
expansion into Chinese and Korean studies, as well as the humanities. These themes include the
ways in which the region represents itself through its oral, written, visual and material cultures, the
impact of migration, economic and social development across East Asia, and the drivers and
outcomes of political change, conflict and cooperation both regionally and globally. Bringing
together researchers from different disciplines around these themes has created a distinct and
sustainable intellectual environment. In order to leverage this momentum, broaden the scope of
these cross-cutting themes and strengthen links with other departments and research centres, we
collectively made the strategic decision in 2019 to move to the Faculty of Arts and Humanities
(FAH), while maintaining our existing links with the Faculty of Social Sciences (FSS).

Notable achievements include:

   •   McAuley’s two-volume The Poetry Contest in Six Hundred Rounds, a ‘tour de force’ in one
       reviewer’s words that inspired a song cycle by New York-based music organisation Kyo-
       Shin-An Arts;

   •   Pendleton, Taylor-Jones and Jennifer Coates’s collaborative work to establish cultural
       festivals including Japan Now North and the British Film Institute’s (BFI) Early Korean
       Cinema series;

   •   Matanle’s conceptualisation of the ‘depopulation dividend’ that results from demographic
       shrinkage and promotes human and environmental sustainability, which led to an invitation
       to address the International Union for the Scientific Study of Population.




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.2 Unit structure

We have delivered on our REF2014 objective of moving ‘beyond the confines of single-country
area studies and create a research community united by its engagement with strategically
important and cross-cutting debates that are interregional, multidisciplinary and theoretically-driven
in their nature’. We have done this by balancing existing collective areas of expertise with
emerging priorities to identify the cross-cutting themes mentioned above in 2014. These themes
were then given greater coherence and purpose through the creation in 2015 of three new
research clusters: 1) Power, Cooperation and Competition; 2) East Asian Texts & Cultures; and 3)
Movement(s), Economy & Development. With sustainability in mind, these clusters include both
staff and postgraduate research (PGR) students within SEAS and across the University, who work
together as supportive communities of scholars. A member of SEAS staff and a PGR coordinate
each cluster, supported by departmental funds and encouraged to organise activities locally,
nationally and internationally to sustain the discipline.

   •   The Power, Cooperation and Competition cluster explores the causes and impact of
       international cooperation and competition in East Asia with reference to international and
       regional structures, agencies, norms and culture. The cluster leverages Sheffield’s
       traditional strength in politics and international relations and provides a focus point for
       researchers across the University with a specific regional interest. It has contributed to our
       research culture by hosting guest speakers including Gideon Rachman of the Financial
       Times on China’s rise. Staff and PGRs have also contributed to the discipline through the
       organisation of joint panels, for example at the 14th Pan-European Conference on
       International Relations on status symbols in East Asian politics postponed from 2020 to
       2021 as a result of COVID-19.

   •   The East Asian Texts and Cultures cluster brings together researchers who share a
       fascination with the use of oral, written, visual and material artefacts by the countries,
       peoples and individuals of East Asia to represent themselves and others. To this end,
       cluster members mine archives, organise film festivals, visit historical and cultural sites,
       engage in translation to explore the content and social uses of these texts. Departmental
       funds have supported the cluster in organising workshops and conference panels, often led
       by PGRs under the guidance of staff. A notable example was the 2019 workshop ‘Of Maps
       and Dead Cats: New Directions in the Study of East Asian Cities’ that brought together
       internal and external speakers in Sheffield to explore how sound recording, map-making,
       and film-making can be used as innovative research methods to understand contemporary
       cities in the region.

   •   The Movement(s), Economy & Development cluster is an interdisciplinary research
       group with a strong interest in migration, economic and social change, and development in
       East Asia that works with researchers across the University in this area of strength. The
       disciplinary backgrounds of its researchers include international relations, economics,
       anthropology, business and law. They have contributed to our research culture by
       organizing workshops in Sheffield on geographical information system mapping software
       and collaborating with the East Asian Texts and Cultures cluster on the theme of
       contemporary cities.

In addition, since 2014 our Executive, Research & Innovation Committee, PGR Affairs Committee
and staff meetings have reviewed our internal structures to bolster research leadership,
governance and professional services support with the objective of realising our vision and creating
a culture based on rigour, transparency, collegiality and support. This has included clarifying


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
committee structures, communication channels and terms of reference, as well as introducing
comprehensive mentoring for all staff regardless of career stage. We have also introduced pre-
submission peer review of outputs, red-lined writing retreats, meaningful research away days
focused on specific and important themes, as well as joined-up and transparent research planning
(see Section 2). Our Research and Innovation Director has led on these initiatives, supported by
an Impact Director and professional services staff (FTE 0.5 within SEAS prior to the establishment
of the Faculty Research Hubs outlined below). Strategic oversight of the PGR experience and
monitoring of milestones is provided by our PGR Director who also provides pastoral care in cases
where they are not supervisor, and they receive excellent professional support from a dedicated
PGR Support Officer.

1.3 Research and impact strategy

Our research strategy has supported our REF2014 objectives of ‘achiev[ing] excellent and high-
impact research through increased critical mass; greater cross-fertilisation between clusters,
departments and disciplines; and a commitment to conceptual and methodological development
within the field of Area Studies’. We engaged with external speakers and research users to identify
a shared understanding of excellence and the state of our field. We also audited developments
within the discipline, regionally and internationally, and identified specific areas of investment and
growth, namely Korean studies, media studies and international relations, to strengthen the
research clusters. We prioritised staff recruitment in these areas and discussed the related benefits
of requesting to move faculties. To increase critical mass as well as promote conceptual and
methodological developments, we established a departmental Research Stimulation Fund (RSF)
that has awarded approximately £100k since 2015 to support excellent and high-impact research.
We have emphasised impact at multiple levels from the local to the global, invested time through
the strategic use of study leave, promoted mentoring through the Impact Director and Faculty
Impact Manager, and allocated departmental, Faculty and Higher Education Innovation Fund
(HEIF) resources. As regards greater cross-fertilisation, we bolstered the clusters by allocating a
budget and developing cluster-specific objectives and annual plans. We also revamped our
webpages and promotional materials to reach out across and beyond Sheffield.

In terms of results, our two impact case studies illustrate the success of our approach. In addition,
we have increased critical mass within SEAS as a result of our recruitment and development
activities (see Section 2). We have achieved greater cross-fertilisation between departments and
disciplines as seen for example in the increased number of co-supervisions (in AY2013-14 we had
one co-supervision between SEAS and another department; in 2019-20 we had nine in
collaboration with the Schools of Architecture and English, as well as the Departments of
Journalism, Politics and International Relations, Sociological Studies and Urban Studies) alongside
collaborative events with departments and research centres across the University mentioned
above and below. In terms of conceptual and methodological development within the discipline, we
have made contributions as seen in the work of SEAS researchers like Matanle’s concept of a
‘depopulation dividend’ in Japan. In addition, Pendleton’s collaborative research has resulted in
interdisciplinary methodologies and approaches to the co-creation of cultural artefacts between
academic and non-academic partners, identifying the conditions in which this can flourish.

The fact that we are making a single-department submission in REF2021, in contrast to the faculty-
wide area studies submission in REF2014, pays testament to our efforts.




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our future strategic objectives build on our current strategy by:

   •   Reinforcing our position as the focal point in the UK for high-quality research, impact, and
       knowledge exchange (KE) in Asian studies targeting strategic areas of growth within our
       clusters including media and the digital humanities, Korean studies, international relations,
       and music and sound cultures.

   •   Sustaining the discipline, training the future generation of researchers and contributing
       concretely to national and international capacity-building in East Asian expertise. We will do
       this by leveraging our unique cross-cutting position between the social sciences and
       humanities, increase in staff numbers and successful postgraduate taught (PGT)
       recruitment, as well as our innovative double degree programmes to recruit high-quality
       postdoctoral researchers and PGRs.

   •   Continuing the cross-fertilisation of our three research clusters with other partners across
       and outside Sheffield in order to mainstream a coherent and consistent East Asian
       perspective and sustain the vitality of our discipline. We will do this by establishing a
       tripartite annual research conference, organising thematic panels at international
       conferences that draw from each cluster, and prioritising engagement with other
       departments within our own institution and across others.

   •   Embedding KE and public engagement activities leading to impact within every
       researcher’s work. We will do this by financially supporting individuals who are already
       accustomed to impact-generation and plugged into networks, while pairing less confident
       colleagues with established impact generators in both faculties in order to provide an Asian
       perspective.

   •   Promoting open research by planning at an early stage for open access (OA) for our
       outputs, working with our dedicated East Asian studies librarian to open more archives and
       datasets that support the activities of our research clusters, and encourage staff to develop
       digitised resources that disseminate their research.

   •   Target larger scale UKRI funding related to East Asia in addition to the bespoke East Asian
       funders by leveraging Faculty and departmental support (such as our RSF), and pooling
       existing successful examples within SEAS (see Section 3).

   •   Minimising the inequalities resulting from COVID-19 on research activities by increasing
       engagement with digital research methods and prioritising Faculty and departmental funds
       on staff with caring duties who have been disproportionately affected.

In measurable terms, our goal is to ensure that the overwhelming majority of our research outputs
and impact is either world-leading or internationally excellent in terms of originality, significance
and rigour. In broad terms, if we can ensure that the region receives the attention it deserves both
in academia and society, and is not treated as ‘exotic’, the ‘other’ or a ‘bolt on’, then we will also
have succeeded.

1.4 Open research

In line with the Concordat on Open Research Data and the FAIR principles, and as an early
adopter of OA, our open research environment is built on the three pillars of transparency,
collaboration, and efficiency. To ensure maximum discoverability of our research, we aim to put all
short-form outputs in White Rose Research Online, our shared repository with Leeds and York
(green route). The 195 outputs deposited over this assessment period were downloaded over

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
20,000 times. This is our preferred route, ensuring equity in publishing opportunities regardless of
available funding; we also publish outputs in fully OA journals, or hybrid where required for funder
compliance. We ensure that staff are provided with the required understanding, training, and
infrastructure. We support Plan S and our staff are engaging with the current debate through their
editorial positions and roles in learned societies. Our departmental Executive and Research &
Innovation Committee have made it an agenda item.

We have encouraged staff to join Publons and secure an ORCiD so that they can share
information effectively and receive recognition for their publications, grants, and peer review work.
Since appointment in 2015, our dedicated marketing officer has worked to make our research
activities and understanding of current affairs open to a wider public through blogs (for example,
The Conversation and our own Spotlight on East Asia@Sheffield) as well as traditional/social
media engagement. We will continue working with our dedicated librarian to make our research
and datasets open, and promote examples of best practice in the development of digitised, online
resources in the dissemination of research, such as McAuley’s site of classical Japanese poetry,
and Dobson’s work with student policy analysts on global summitry.

1.5 Research integrity

SEAS has supported an evolving culture of research integrity in line with institutional policies and
best practices, especially as regards the induction and mentoring of new staff by pairing them with
more experienced staff in SEAS or cognate departments. Staff and students comply wholly with
ethical approval procedures, which are overseen by an Ethics Officer. However, we also face a
number of challenges that are specific to East Asia, such as working in dangerous environments
(post-disaster Japan or North Korea), and navigating cultural differences in approaches to research
integrity and academic freedom. To this end, we have used research away days and cluster
activities to host specific speakers from within the University and across East Asia on a range of
strategically important issues, including dialogues with leading publishers and impact users.
Reaching out across the University, SEAS has taken the lead during the current assessment
period in providing training to staff and students in other departments unfamiliar with different
cultural approaches to research ethics and how to conduct research in dangerous and distant
locations. This has been well received and also led to the development of a revised off-campus
fieldwork policy in SEAS in 2018 that contributed to University-level fieldwork policy.


 2. People


We are a team of 19 academic staff, all employed on open-ended teaching and research contracts,
at different career stages: 2 professors (1 male and 1 female), 4 senior lecturers (2 male and 2
female) and 13 lecturers (6 male and 7 female). All submitted staff (and some PGRs) are fellows of
the Higher Education Academy (HEA) and three are Senior Fellows (Jamie Coates, Pendleton and
Taylor-Jones). Our strategic priorities are to attract, retain and develop outstanding researchers.
Our recruitment strategy is informed by innovative equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI)
processes outlined below and in line with our future objectives has targeted media and the digital
humanities, Korean studies, international relations, and music and sound cultures. As a result, we
are a multi-disciplinary group of researchers across a range of humanities and social science fields
united by a passion for understanding this dynamic region and organised around three research
clusters. In terms of ethnicity, our Category A staff are highly diverse and internationalised coming
from countries including Japan, South Korea, China, Australia, Germany, the US, as well as
various European backgrounds. 60% of these staff members are White and 40% are Asian. We
work to ensure that staff with protected characteristics are treated equally.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.1 EDI

Echoing the faculty-wide commitment, we have placed EDI at the heart of our approach to staff
development and recruitment during this assessment period leading to vitality in the reach and
relevance of our research culture. One of our two professors is female (Taylor-Jones was
promoted). Prior to the census date, two of our three professors were female (Morton recently
moved to China). 50% of senior lecturers and 54% of lecturers are female. SEAS has been a first-
mover in this regard, demonstrated by our engagement with the ‘Narrative Goals’ pilot in
collaboration with leading EDI consultants Simon Fanshawe and Roy Hutchins. In 2015-16, we
undertook a structured and honest self-reflection to identify gaps in our current staffing and
research profile and, once identified, embedded them in the criteria and wording of job adverts, as
well as making them a key point of reference in our shortlisting and interviewing practices. As a
result, during this assessment period we now receive a majority of applications for advertised
positions from women and our staff profile has changed dramatically and positively.

To sustain this achievement, our EDI Directors are now members of our Executive and we have
examined our administrative roles, interview panels, committee membership, advisory panel and
seminar speakers to ensure gender parity. The University also operates a two-ticks scheme that
guarantees an interview to any applicant with a disability that meets the essential criteria. SEAS
has shortlisted several two-ticks applicants.

Staff taking family leave can apply for £10k in financial support under the Women Academic
Returners’ Programme to support a range of research activities. All eligible women in SEAS have
taken advantage of this funding. The results have been positive. Taylor-Jones was able to access
the fund even though her parental leave was taken when employed by another University. The
provision of teaching support, as well as conference and travel funds allowed her to focus on
completion of a monograph, submit a number of grants and conceptualise a new research project
in the first 18 months of her return to work. SEAS has a 100% maternity retention rate over the last
five years. We also support flexible working in line with Faculty and University principles, for
example by arranging teaching in one semester or to facilitate school collection.

Staff have also shaped EDI issues beyond SEAS. Dobson led a task-and-finish group in AY2018-
19 whose recommendations led to changes in the governance of FSS and its departments, for
example by including EDI Directors in departmental executives. Pendleton is an active member of
the Royal Historical Society LGBT+ Working Group, responsible for the 2020 report on equality
and inequality in UK History. This is already beginning to shape policies and practice nationally and
at Sheffield. Taylor-Jones is senior researcher on an ERC project exploring decolonising the
curriculum, which will run until 2024.

In terms of REF2021, we followed the Code of Practice, ensuring internal assessors received
appropriate training and respecting gender parity and disciplinary representation. We chose a
smaller review panel to ensure consistency while rotating membership to provide developmental
opportunities for other staff. Taylor-Jones (humanities, female) and Dobson (social sciences, male)
were the only assessors who took part in every internal audit. The balanced distribution of selected
outputs reflects our positive staff profile in terms of EDI and is a positive development in contrast to
REF2014 when only two females (both Asian) were submitted.

2.2 Staff development

In terms of staff development, the University’s Staff Review and Development Scheme (SRDS)
occupies a central position and SEAS has again been a first-mover. During the assessment period,
we have moved from a system in which a team of reviewers conducted annual staff reviews to a

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
single point of contact to ensure consistency. As a result, the Head of Department conducts all
reviews but liaises before and after with the R&I Director who also meets annually with all staff to
develop five-year research plans and discuss individual progress in terms of outputs, grant capture
and impact. This ensures focused and consistent objectives, in line with academic career
pathways. As regards developmental needs, a number of staff have undertaken bespoke research-
related training as a result of SRDS conversations, whether it be through departmental initiatives
such as specific training in software packages and paper-writing masterclasses, or institutional
initiatives such as the multi-level Sheffield Leader programme or CV+ Scheme that provides
female staff with senior peer review on their CVs.

Workload planning for each member of SEAS is guided by a collectively agreed Work Allocation
Framework, with each member of staff allocated 40% of time for research, grant capture and
impact activities as a baseline regardless of career stage. We use online workload planning
software to ensure transparency and equity. However, we flex this allocation to prioritise impact
with clear potential and early career researchers (ECRs), who have more time allocated for
research and lower-than-average teaching loads to facilitate their production of excellent research
from an early start. Their three-year probationary period is tapered (60% research time in Y1, 55%
in Y2 and 50% in Y3) and based on regular monitoring of research outputs by the Head and R&I
Director as an essential criterion for completion. All probationary staff are allocated an appropriate
mentor either inside or outside SEAS and receive a recently revised and more rigorous induction.
They also undertake the University’s Postgraduate Certificate in Teaching for Learning in Higher
Education that leads to HEA Fellowship as part of the University’s commitment to inculcating an
ethos of research-led teaching. In terms of research supervision, compulsory dual supervision of
doctoral students ensures new academics learn best practice from more experienced staff. As a
result, recent appointments have made considerable progress in their development and
demonstrate the success of mentoring and allocation of time as seen in Chang’s and Son’s AHRC
recent grant applications and a pipeline of publications in high-quality journals.

Our ECRs and PGRs also access the institution's award-winning Think Ahead researcher
development programme. This programme provides a wide range of professional development
opportunities, corresponding to the areas articulated in Vitae's Researcher Development
Framework. A dedicated professional Faculty lead ensures that training and development provision
is tailored to the needs of SEAS researchers and is available to provide individual support to help
them to identify the most appropriate training and development opportunities for their specific
needs. This activity is complemented by a specialist careers consultant for researchers, who offers
a career development programme and one-to-one career consultations for our ECRs. Think Ahead
also offers a mentoring scheme to complement our departmental scheme, and leads a
comprehensive well-being programme.

Study and special leave are available to all staff and used strategically to enable high-quality
outcomes. Expressions of interest for future periods of leave (variable in length) are considered at
any time throughout the academic year and assessed by a committee including the Head, R&I
Director and Learning and Teaching Director on agreed criteria, including the originality and
significance of the project, its fit with SEAS and Faculty priorities, a realistic set of deliverables and
the track record of the applicant. Unsuccessful applicants receive detailed feedback and are
encouraged to reapply. Since 2014, 11 members of staff of different grades, ethnicities and
genders have applied for and completed a semester’s study leave (see Table 1).




                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                          Lecturer               Senior lecturer                   Professor
                  Female             Male     Female          Male         Female          Male
 Asian                2               0           1             1              0               0
 White                1               3           1             1              0               1
Table 1: Diversity in study leave

In addition, two members of staff (one White female professor and one Asian male lecturer) have
been granted special leave during this assessment period. The remaining members of staff are
ECRs and will qualify for study leave after completing probation. Our approach has facilitated
large-scale research projects supported by external funding such as Jennifer Coates, Pendleton
and Taylor-Jones’s impact and KE work with the Japan Now North cultural festival, Morton’s
appointment to the Boeing Chair in International Relations at Schwarzman College at Tsinghua
University established by Presidents Obama and Xi, Watanabe’s appointment as Kiriyama Visiting
Professor in the Centre for Asia Pacific Studies at University of San Francisco, as well as a steady
stream of high-quality publications.

2.3 Recognition and reward

During the assessment period, five members of staff have been promoted (four from lecturer to
senior lecturer and one from senior lecturer to professor), in contrast to one staff member in the
previous REF period (lecturer to senior lecturer and then to professor). As a result, we now have
more members of staff who can contribute to the development and mentoring processes outlined
above. Within these processes, promotion is discussed with the Head and more specific mentoring
is organised with a member of staff within SEAS or from another department who has recently
been promoted to the desired grade. This has meant frank and honest conversations with
members of staff not yet ready for promotion and the provision of clear feedback on what needs to
be done. In any case, formal consideration is given to all cases through the Departmental Reward
and Promotions Panel that is constituted using HR guidelines (a balanced group of appropriate
seniority to the posts under review, including professional services managers) and once again
provides clear feedback on the readiness of cases, while continuing to offer the opportunity of self-
submission.

2.4 PGR students

Our PGR students are a diverse, active, and integral part of our community. At the time of writing,
we have 35 PGR s at different stages, full-time or part-time with caring duties or health conditions
across different programmes including our double degree programmes with Tohoku University in
Japan and Yonsei University in South Korea. We currently have a 43:57 (15 male, 20 female) split
in terms of gender and a 20:23:57 (seven home, eight European, 20 overseas) split in terms of
nationality. We provide bespoke support for overseas students, for example in academic English,
but all PGRs have access to the same support and resources outlined below.

We have demonstrated a steady stream of timely completions (five in AY2014-15 and five in
AY2018-19). To achieve our objective of fostering the next generation of researchers in Asian
studies, we are aiming to increase this number at a sustainable pace without compromising quality.
We have targeted home and international PGRs with EDI in mind through an enhanced and more
research-focused web presence and succeeded in increasing the number of high-quality PGRs in
receipt of funding from a diverse range of national and international funders (the ERC, British
Academy, ESRC, White Rose Doctoral Training Programme (WRDTP), Daiwa Anglo-Japanese
Foundation and GB Sasakawa Foundation) to eight currently. We are also now targeting the White

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Rose College of Arts and Humanities. We have embedded research culture within our
undergraduate student community through the Sheffield Undergraduate Research Experience
scheme and our new undergraduate curriculum implemented from AY2018-19. In the near future,
this should serve as another pipeline of high-quality postgraduate students.

Effective supervision, pastoral care, rigorous training, and community building are also key to this
objective. All PGRs have two supervisors and progress is assessed through a series of formal
milestones: biannual, confirmation, and submission reviews. Biannual reviews take place in
January and May to cover the preceding semester. At the end of their first year, students complete
a confirmation review, which involves submitting a substantial piece of work (literature review and
methodology chapter) and making a 30-minute presentation. At submission review, students and
supervisors meet usually about one year before formal submission to plan a timely submission.
Before their viva examination, all PGRs undergo a mock examination that complements workshops
offered centrally. They also have access to the same institutional sources of financial support as
staff (see Section 3), to support conference attendance, travel, and fieldwork. Fourteen of our
current cohort of PGRs have had the chance to undertake paid teaching and supervisory work
while conducting their PhD, received training in teaching methods and several have achieved
FHEA status.

As regards research training, all staff, PGRs and PGTs receive mandatory research ethics and
integrity training, and our Research Ethics Officer ensures engagement and compliance with the
appropriate frameworks. Our PGRs benefit from the high-quality training and support provided by
the successful WRDTP (Social Science or Arts and Humanities as appropriate). To complement
the DTP and ensure that our PGRs receive specific training in area/Asian studies, we introduced
our own Asia-specific doctoral development programme in 2018. We have also invested in
bespoke training on a case-by-case basis, whether it be NVivo or statistical methods. An iterative
training needs analysis and data management plan underpins this PGR journey.

To further build an integrated community and encourage integration within SEAS, PGRs join at
least one of the three research clusters and present work, plan and organise activities, and chair
meetings. They are integrated further through participation in our Research & Innovation and PGR
Affairs Committees, research away days, departmental seminars, writing retreats, social events,
and recruitment presentations. They also benefit from dedicated profiles on our webpages. In
addition, staff mentor and collaborate with PGRs on a regular basis in terms of impact, KE and
outputs. PGRs supported events like the Japan Now North cultural festivals and the 2018 British
Association for Japanese Studies (BAJS) conference by acting as presenters, co-organisers and
attendees. PGRs also organise their own annual mini-conference and are supported in submitting
panel proposals to international conferences. To further build a community, enhance employability
and celebrate excellence, in 2016 we established the annual Charles Alfred Fisher Prize (named
after the SEAS founder) for the best PhD thesis. Rongrong Lin, the first winner for her thesis on the
role of political elites in reforming China, has already published a number of related articles.

In terms of future careers, during the assessment period several PGRs secured employment as
research-active academics in leading universities in the UK and overseas (Edinburgh, Glasgow,
Iceland, City University of New York, Hiroshima, Hirosaki, Kyoto Women’s, Shenzhen, Tohoku), as
well as in related non-academic fields (Konrad Adenauer Foundation).

The Postgraduate Research Experience Survey highlights areas of improvement but also
highlights future priorities. For example, in the most recent survey of 2019, 100% of students felt
that their understanding of research integrity had developed, that their supervisors had the skills
and subject knowledge, and that they have regular contact with supervisors appropriate for their
needs. We also registered double-digit improvements in responses regarding appropriate

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
workspace and ability to manage projects, which were priority areas as a result of the previous
survey. As a result of our strategic move to the Faculty of Arts & Humanities and physical
relocation, our PGRs have been allocated dedicated space in the Humanities Research Institute,
providing the opportunity for further cross-departmental collaboration and cohort building.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 Income

Our income strategy is based on a shared understanding that funded research provides the
resources and capacity to facilitate ambitious world-leading research and impact. This is made
meaningful to the individual researcher’s planning through discussions with the Head and R&I
Director as part of the SRDS process and annual dialogue that develops and monitors each
researcher’s five-year research plan. Individual staff are then mentored and receive peer review
from the R&I Director, Faculty professional teams and other staff across the University as
appropriate to the funding call. ECRs are encouraged to secure smaller grants before attempting
larger grants often in collaboration with more senior researchers. As a result, in this assessment
period we have secured a number of grants detailed below that have built, or currently are building,
towards high-quality outputs, international networks of scholars and future larger scale projects
across the research clusters’ themes and priority areas mentioned above. For example, Chen’s
collaboration with colleagues in Sheffield and China funded by the Global Challenges Research
Fund has resulted in high-quality publications in some of the discipline’s leading journals, including
Environment and Planning B, Urban Studies, and Annals of the American Association of
Geographers. Similarly, Dobson and Pendleton were both successful in the AHRC-ESRC UK-
Japan Social Science-Arts and Humanities Connections Grants Call to facilitate the creation of
multi-stakeholder UK-Japan networks exploring prime ministerial leadership and coal mining
history respectively. Finally, Pendleton’s visit to Nichibunken (International Research Centre for
Japanese Studies) was funded by the AHRC International Placement Scheme and contributed to
his chapter in the edited collection Tokyo: Memory, Imagination and the City (2017), a co-authored
article in GeoHumanities (2017), and the special issue of Japan Forum co-edited with Jamie
Coates.

We have benefited from several institutional sources of support, including the Worldwide
Universities Network, Erasmus+ Mobility Programme, and Learned Societies Fund, which provides
support to attend national and international conferences and workshops. These funds are devolved
and SEAS prioritises ECRs and PGRs. To support KE, impact generation and our two impact case
studies specifically, our staff and PGRs have secured approximately £40k from the HEIF and the
ESRC Impact Accelerator Account. In addition, we have benefited from the institutional support
provided by Faculty Impact and Knowledge Exchange teams. This has supported the Japan Now
North cultural festival and BFI Early Korean Cinema series, complementing the income-in-kind
from local cinemas and galleries. SEAS is also the only university in the UK to have received
funding from the One Asia Foundation of approximately £80K over two years to support the
dissemination of research related to East Asia community building to staff, students and the public.

To support these various mechanisms and complement existing funding schemes, we established
our own RSF in 2014 with the specific aim of providing the seed funding to support projects that
will result in larger research projects supported by external funds or enhance impact activities. The
RSF is open to all research-active staff and applications are received on a rolling basis. It awarded
£102.7k over this assessment period. The criteria for selection resonate with our School and
Faculty priorities of producing world-class research, increasing our market share of research

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
income in support of that, and in the process raising our profile as well as making a difference in
the world. To enable closer monitoring, staff are required to submit a post-project report
highlighting concrete results. Notable successful examples of how projects have grown as a result
include Conrad’s work with the National University of Singapore. This bilateral collaboration
received £6k of RSF support and expanded into a multi-stakeholder project funded by several
bodies including the Japan Foundation and Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation, which identified
the priorities of Japanese multinationals in their employment of non-Japanese graduates and fed
these priorities into the curricula of a number of centres of Japanese studies across Europe to
enhance student employability. Similarly, the RSF provided £2k to support Taylor-Jones’s initial
networking that developed into a collaborative £127k Horizon 2020 award on Decolonizing Film
and Screen Studies of which Sheffield received £96k. Her project with Dr Wikanda Promkhuntong
of Mahidol University in Bangkok on film tourism received £2k of RSF support and secured £20k
from the British Academy Newton Fund shared between Sheffield and Mahidol Universities. ECRs
are prioritised within the RSF and further supported through the mentoring process by pairing them
with successful income generators in other departments (see Section 2). In 2020, this enabled
Chang and Son to scale their projects up and make larger funding applications to the AHRC.

As a result of these various initiatives, our research grant awards, volume of applications and
success rate have increased from three awards (out of four applications) with an apportioned value
of £12k in AY2013-14 to 11 awards (out of 15 applications) with an apportioned value of £217k in
AY2018-19 (AY2019-20 is unrepresentative because of COVID-19 but see Section 1 for our efforts
to minimise the impact). In line with our REF2014 objective, this is spread across a wider range of
funders that reflect our efforts to bridge disciplines and area studies, including the AHRC, ESRC,
ERC, British Academy, Leverhulme Trust and Arts Council UK, in addition to Asian-focused
funders such as the Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation, Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation,
Japan Foundation, Toshiba International Foundation, Korea Foundation and Academy of Korean
Studies. Our collaborative work with the University of Leeds under the umbrella of the White Rose
East Asia Centre was funded from 2006 to 2012 by the ESRC, AHRC and HEFCE, and from 2012
to 2016 by the AHRC and British Academy. With the end of this funding, we have transitioned to a
self-supporting unit through the increase and diversification of our research income and sources of
PGR funding, as outlined above, to include larger scale UKRI funding related to East Asia in
addition to the bespoke East Asian funders.

3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

We have enhanced our infrastructure and facilities by creating social spaces for both staff and
PGRs alike, and refurbishing a dedicated language lab with technical support as the utilisation of
East Asian languages is central to our research as well as our teaching. Our strategic decision to
request a move in faculties was partly motivated by the goal of improving our estate and we will be
moving to the main arts & humanities building in 2021. This will provide us with a better developed
facility at the heart of the campus, closer proximity to HumLab, the laboratory space for empirical
research in language and music cognition, and allow us to foster face-to-face research
collaborations with fellow departments while still maintaining links to the social science
departments.

In improving our research income, SEAS has benefited from support for research development
provided at the Faculty level that complements our internal review processes and annual research
planning meetings outlined above. Research support received substantial investment from 2019
when a Faculty Research Services team (1.8 FTE) was expanded to a Faculty Research Hub (2.9
FTE; 3.4 FTE from 2020), and Faculty Research Growth Team (1.8 FTE), and academic and
Faculty support for KE, impact and public engagement was expanded from 1 FTE to 6 FTE. The

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
teams work closely together to provide a coordinated service to staff across the Faculty and SEAS,
specifically to provide complementary knowledge and expertise covering the external environment,
faculty research strengths and non-academic collaboration; ensure that support is responsive,
helpful, scalable and priority driven with the focus on adding value through expertise; provide
support where it is most impactful (for example, ECRs, complex and non-standard applications,
and capacity and community development); be responsive to and influential in the academic leads’
steer by providing supporting data, evidence and experience; and build and integrate across the
University and beyond to maximise opportunities.

With our goal of communicating and disseminating our passion, expertise and knowledge of East
Asia across Sheffield, SEAS staff have been active participants in many of the University’s
research institutes and networks, including the Digital Society Network (Jamie Coates, Jennifer
Coates, Taylor-Jones), Crick Centre for Public Understanding of Politics (Dobson, Watanabe,
Zhong), Sheffield Institute for International Development (Chen, Matanle, Taylor-Jones), Centre for
Contemporary and Modern History (Pendleton, Taylor-Jones), Migration Research Group (Chen)
and Sheffield Political Economy Research Institute (Dobson).

We have long benefited from a dedicated East Asian studies librarian who works with researchers
in the three clusters to access bespoke Asian language materials online, in Sheffield and in East
Asian archives. For example, in line with our prioritisation of Korean studies, we were the first and
only library in the world in 2018 to collaborate with the National Assembly Library of Korea to make
their digital resources available. We have also invested in making other archives available
including The Japan Times digital archive (1897-2017), The Korea Times (1956-2016), ProQuest
Historical Chinese Newspapers Collection (1832-1953) and Foreign Office Files for China (1919-
1980). We also cooperate with the European Association of Japanese Resource Specialists and
the European Association of Sinological Librarians to acquire and share up-to-date resources and
information for our academics and students. The collections in Chinese, Japanese and Korean
studies, alongside special collections like Daily Worker journalist Alan Winnington’s archives, are
regarded as national and international resources within the discipline and have enabled leading
scholars to produce world-leading and internationally excellent research. In addition, University
software provision supports research in East Asian languages, for example to support the
discourse analysis of Japanese parliamentary debates.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Our goal is to disseminate our knowledge of East Asia across Sheffield as well as nationally and
internationally and impact on the understanding and behaviour of a range of individuals, groups
and organisations. To achieve this, we have prioritised activities that can articulate clear outcomes
from KE and public engagement, provided the essential time and financial support, and supported
our staff in securing external funds to operate regionally in the Sheffield City Region and the North
of England with a specific focus on cultural industries, as well as nationally and internationally with
a specific focus on international relations. In total, we have engaged with 20 international, eight
national and 11 local partners. Other external partners with whom collaboration is being developed
into tangible future impact as a result of discussions in annual research planning and mentoring
meetings, include the South Korean Ministry of Justice, the Institute for Global Law, the Bophana
Audio-Visual Resource Centre in Cambodia, the Rohingya Human Rights Network Canada and the
Transitional Justice Working Group.




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.1 Local collaborations and contributions

The Japan Now North cultural festival, part of an impact case study, is a high-quality collaboration
that exemplifies our approach. It is based upon the exchange of ideas and approaches to the
curation and celebration of Japanese contemporary culture between SEAS academics and cultural
partners led by Martin Colthorpe, Director of Modern Culture, an agency working with several
partners in the arts sector. This is a mutually beneficial relationship that has evolved since 2016,
when Colthorpe identified SEAS as the leading centre for Japanese Studies in the North of
England, to embrace a number of regional galleries and cinemas. Japan Now North is responsible
for a number of high-profile Japanese cultural icons (for example, Ninagawa Mika, renowned
photographer and director) and commentators (for example, Richard Lloyd Parry, East Asia editor
for The Times) visiting Sheffield and the North of England. As well as providing departmental funds
and support-in-kind, we allocated time to SEAS staff in securing external funding to support this
now annual festival. This sharing of ideas has resulted in a new approach to presenting Japan and
its cultural artefacts shaped by Jennifer Coates, Pendleton and Taylor-Jones.

Similarly, staff and PGRs have given talks and organised exhibitions at the Off the Shelf Festival,
the ESRC Festival of the Mind, Festival of Debate, 2020 BFI Japanese Cinema programmes, the
Japan Foundation Film Programme and the Annual Korean Film Festival. From 2007 to 2018
SEAS also hosted and supported the award-winning Sheffield Confucius Institute (SCI) under
Zhao’s leadership. Her research on language acquisition and Chinese society has shaped the
SCI’s activities in educating children and young adults in the Sheffield City Region about China,
and advising Sheffield City Council and Chamber of Commerce on engaging with China. We also
work with local schools, providing taster sessions on the language and culture of East Asian
countries in collaboration with Faculty outreach programmes. Jamie Coates, Taylor-Jones and
Dobson have regularly visited local schools and presented aspects of their research.

Finally, we have shaped our local environment literally. Informed by our strategic emphasis on
Korean studies, we worked with a leading Korean artist to design and display two Korean totem
poles as a permanent feature of our campus and open to the general public.

4.2 National and international collaborations and contributions

We have allocated time, in-kind contributions and financial resources to support several activities
on a national and international level. For example, we mentored Morton through her appointment
by competitive process as special advisor to the Foreign Affairs Select Committee on China and
the Rules-Based International System that began in November 2017 and reported in April 2019.
During this time, we allocated time and financial resources so that her research on China’s position
in global governance could inform the work and findings of this committee. Her research also
influenced policymakers through her appointment as advisor to Great Britain China Centre training
programmes on ‘China and the World’ held for civil servants across Whitehall in July 2019. In
collaboration with the Japan Local Government Centre, the London office of Japan’s Council of
Local Authorities for International Relations, Matanle has brought together Japanese and UK local
governments to share best practice on his area of research, regional depopulation and rural
decline.

4.3 Supporting and building the research base of our discipline

Our strategy has focused on Japanese studies, where our historical strengths lie, and emphasises
the development of the next generation of scholars. To this end, SEAS hosted Japan Forum, the
journal of BAJS, implementing dramatic changes to the management of the journal in the previous

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
REF period by creating a PhD studentship to support the appointment of a managing editor for a
three-year period. At the beginning of this assessment period, we oversaw the transition of the
journal’s management to another team at the University of London who maintained the same
sustainable structure. SEAS also hosted the 2018 BAJS conference, a three-day major
international event that attracted high-profile keynote speakers in Japanese studies from the US
and Japan. Again, we prioritised the future generation of Japanese studies scholars with several
panels organised by PGRs and staff in our research clusters, and innovated with the first student
research poster competition. Finally, in February 2017, we hosted the Japan Foundation/BAJS
Postgraduate Workshop to demystify impact for postgraduate students through several SEAS-led
panels (Dobson, Matanle, McAuley, Pendleton). We host the University of Sheffield/Routledge
Japanese Studies Series, now totalling 51 monographs. Taylor-Jones edits East Asian Journal of
Popular Culture, the first academic, peer-reviewed journal of its kind, now included in Scopus.
Other staff serve on the editorial/advisory boards of a range of leading disciplinary and Asian
Studies journals most notably Gender & History, History Workshop Journal, Japan Forum,
International Affairs, North Korean Review, Global Society, Asiatische Studien/Études Asiatiques,
Irish Journal of Asian Studies, Political Studies and the University of Tokyo’s Journal of Law and
Politics.

SEAS staff actively participate in the councils of our most relevant academic organisations
including the British and European associations in Chinese, Japanese and Korean Studies, the
Universities’ China Committee in London, and the East Asian Popular Culture Association. Staff
have delivered keynote speeches at academic and non-academic events. Most notably, Matanle
convened, chaired and spoke on depopulation and climate change at the Japanese government
pavilion at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, COP21 Conference,
Paris in December 2015. Morton was keynote speaker on US-China Strategic competition at the
2018 UK/France Strategic Forum and 2019 UK/US Rising Leaders Forum held at the Royal
College of Defence Studies. Our staff also review for leading university presses and commercial
publishers as well as top journals in Asian studies including Journal of Asian Studies, Journal of
Contemporary Asia, and Pacific Review. They have reviewed grant applications for funders
including the AHRC, ESRC, British Academy and Leverhulme Trust, examined PhDs at
universities in the UK, mainland Europe and Australia, and been appointed to research evaluation
exercises in Hong Kong and Ireland.

4.4 Esteem and recognition

Regional, national, and international media regularly approach our staff and PGRs to comment on
a range of East Asian issues related to their research. SEAS researchers are responsible for some
of the most-read articles in The Conversation, including Watanabe on COVID-19 in Japan and Son
on cross-border Korean dialogue. Dobson’s publications in the Journal of Contemporary Asia and
Global Summitry have been the most-read articles in both journals. Mei Zhang’s research on
soundscapes in Chinese temples published in Building and Environment and Applied Acoustics
won first prize in 2019 and third prize in 2017 respectively in Liaoning Provincial Government’s
Natural Science Awards. Matanle was awarded the Ambassador’s Special Commendation for
Distinguished Services to Anglo-Japanese Relations in 2017, Morton was made a Fellow of
Chatham House in 2017, Dobson was made a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences in 2018
and Pendleton a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society in 2019.




                                                                                           Page 14
