Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London South Bank University

 Unit of Assessment: 3 - Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview:
 Our mission is to improve the health and wellbeing of patients, individuals, and the general
 population, to provide critical insights into the delivery of health and social care, and the
 education of its professionals, and address through interdisciplinary approaches, some of the
 grand challenges for health. This is a multi-disciplinary submission and presents the work of an
 integrated programme of applied health research. The 21 staff (19.2 FTE) who have significant
 responsibility for research (SRR) and six former staff who have made an important contribution
 to this Unit are organised into four research groups: Population Health and Prevention; Ageing,
 Acute and Long Term Conditions; Mental Health and Intellectual Disability; Workforce Innovation
 and Professional Education. Our research addresses a wide range of topics that contribute to
 the burden of disease e.g., kidney disease, mental illness and disability and obesity. Alongside
 this, we address some of the major societal challenges that impact on wellbeing e.g., serious
 violence and, as befits one of the leading providers of healthcare education, our research
 investigates new and changing roles and pedagogies.

 1.2 Structure:
 To integrate our strengths in health-related research, we established a single research centre,
 the Centre for Applied Research in Improvement and Innovation (CApRII) which is in the
 Institute of Health and Social Care. This offers a unified research environment for the four
 research groups that are linked through their focus on cross-cutting themes of: i) intervention
 and service development and evaluation; ii) workforce development and professional education;
 and iii) improving the health and wellbeing of patients and the health of the general population:

 Population Health and Prevention is a group that recognises the strength of our work in health
 promotion and social care. This research group led by Sykes and Whittaker has a broad and
 integrated programme of research that is responsive to local needs, addressing issues
 concerned with the health and wellbeing status and behaviour of individuals, communities, and
 populations with clusters of research focusing on women’s health, serious violence and health
 promotion, and health literacy. It comprises 12 staff, six of whom are included in this submission
 (Church, Havard, Moorley, Sykes, Whittaker, Wills), has supported four doctoral students to
 completion and has two current doctoral students. In the REF period this group has secured
 grants totalling £498,195.

 Ageing, Acute and Long Term Conditions: This research group reflects our strength across a
 range of issues and enables us to assist our partner Trusts to improve clinical practice based on
 evidence of effectiveness. The group is driven by the needs of the partner Trusts and has
 research clusters focusing on pain and physical activity (Mansfield, Thacker), kidney disease
 (Thomas), critical illness (Bench), assistive technologies (Atwal, Benwell [retired],
 Sugarhood), and older people with dementia (Baillie [retired]). The group has conducted
 research that has widened understandings of people’s health and social care needs and
 experience e.g. assistive technology to reduce the isolation of older people (Sugarhood);
 developed and evaluated innovative ways of delivering care to enhance service user outcomes
 e.g. person-centred care with frail older people (Baillie); developed and promoted service user

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement and empowerment in health and social care delivery e.g. patient involvement and
 engagement of people with chronic kidney disease (Thomas). This group comprises 23 staff, six
 of whom are in this submission (Atwal, Bench, Mansfield, Sugarhood, Thacker, Thomas). It
 has supported eight doctoral students to completion and has four current doctoral students.
 Research income is £734,083 over this REF period.

 Mental Health and Intellectual Disabilities: This is a new research group which reflects an
 expanding area of clinical and professional focus. Its particular focus is on research which helps
 to improve the lives of people who use mental health and intellectual disability services through
 investigations into changing workforce roles. Examples include learning disability nursing
 (Chaplin, Thomas B.); self- management e.g. peer support for people with aphasia following
 stroke (Flood) and for people with learning disabilities (Chaplin); clinical intervention and
 service model developments including patient safety (Flood); prescribing in mental health
 settings (Brimblecombe); caring for a child with an intellectual disability (Wills); partner
 selection for people with an intellectual disability (Terry); and, cognitive behavioural treatments
 for those with gambling problems (Chaplin). The group has a growing membership of seven
 staff, four of whom are included in this submission (Brimblecombe, Chaplin, Flood, Thomas
 B.) and now includes the Foundation for People with Learning Disabilities, previously part of the
 Mental Health Foundation. It has supported four doctoral students to completion and supports
 three current doctoral students. Research income is £750,000 over the REF period.

 Workforce Innovation and Professional Education (lead Terry). Reflecting the priority given
 to research-informed teaching by LSBU and the role of the Institute of Health and Social Care as
 a major education provider, this research group has 37 staff with interest in this area, five of
 whom have SRR and are in this submission (Francis, Leary, Malby, Stewart Lord, Terry). It
 has research income of £740,897 over the REF period. It has supported 23 doctoral students
 and has eight current doctoral students. This was previously a theme in REF2014 and has
 expanded its work related to values-based behaviour of the workforce e.g., environmental
 awareness (Terry) and work linked to the development of new roles. The area of focus
 encompasses investigations into public health (e.g. Sykes, Wills), specialist roles and advanced
 practice (Leary, Stewart Lord) and work on leadership in health care (Malby) which is outlined
 in an impact case study in UoA 17.

 1.3 Research strategy:

 1.3.1 Achievement of strategic aims for research during the assessment period
 Our aim is to create a vital and sustainable research culture and to do so, we identified that we
 would need to enhance our clinical academic links, appoint new staff to tackle specific strategic
 areas, and “clarify the way in which research is grouped, presented and grown”. Since REF2014
 we have therefore:
      Invested in the professoriate through new appointments and career development leading
         to internal promotions (see section 2.1)
      Encouraged and enabled greater staff engagement with research through the
         establishment of four cross cutting research groups (see section 1.2)
      Created greater opportunities for staff to develop research careers through the
         identification of research active staff and an allocation of dedicated time in workloads
      Encouraged early career researchers through postdoctoral awards for short term funding
         or to promote novel or collaborative research (see section 2.1)
      Developed clinical academic links through joint appointments and a post-doctoral
         bridging programme for clinical academic careers (see section 2.2)

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Supported staff to become more productive and improve the quality of research with a
         targeted development programme (see section 2.3)
        Produced more impactful research with an expectation that all research should have a
         clear pathway to impact (see section 1.3)
        Increased research grant income and from more diverse sources (see section 3.1)
        Increased the amount of research with international networks (see section 4)
        Responded to changing health and social care agendas by appointing new staff (see
         section 2.1)
        Increased our doctoral student programme and the number of studentships (see section
         2.5)
        Increased interdisciplinary research across the university.

 1.3.2 Building a vital and sustainable research culture
 An important commitment of the research strategy presented in REF2014 was to adopt an
 inclusive approach of building research into the activity and expectations of staff. To achieve
 this, we have rigorously identified staff who have significant responsibility for research (SRR)
 and those who might do so in the future. Currently 9.7% of staff are identified as having SRR
 and we expect this to double as we begin to use a workload model to allow for the use of
 dedicated time for research. We have increased the number of research active staff from 14.6
 FTE in REF2014 to 19.2 FTE in this submission, reflecting this developing research culture and
 a larger number of early career researchers able to contribute to this submission (five of those
 submitted are ECRs). In REF2014 our aim was to “strengthen research groups by increasing the
 number of research active staff to 25%” and currently 79 staff are members of a research group
 (40% of all staff). These provide opportunities for staff to develop research interests and abilities,
 develop research-informed teaching and to use their existing clinical links to reach and impact
 on health care service delivery. Alongside this, the research environment has grown with an
 increase in the numbers and achievements of our postgraduate research students (see section
 2.5).

 1.3.3. Improving quality
 Alongside building an active and sustainable group of researchers, we have improved the quality
 of outputs through targeted mentoring and staff development (see section 2.3). In REF2014 the
 GPA for outputs was 2.72. The average field weighted citation (FWSCI) for the group of
 researchers in this submission is 1.31 compared to 1.22 for those in REF2014. According to
 CiteScore, 21.6% of the outputs of this Unit are in the top 10% of journals compared to 16.4% in
 REF2014. There are outstanding papers in prestigious journals e.g., “Arthritis and
 Rheumatology” and “Implementation Science” and highly accessed papers e.g., a paper by
 Wills on obesity in the nursing workforce has been cited 55 times, has a field citation of 13.32
 and is in the top 5% of all papers scored by Altmetric (score 835). A rigorous process of internal
 (by two Professors independently) and external review of all the outputs from this group of 27
 researchers (n=658) found that the average rating of the reviewed outputs since 2014 was
 >2.45*.

 1.3.4 Ensuring there is patient and public involvement and engagement with our research
 In REF 2014 our aim was that “practice partners and service users would be engaged from
 conception, through to design and implementation”. In 2015, the existing well-established
 processes for inviting and rewarding service user engagement were formalised into the
 establishment of the People’s Academy. This group of over 40 patients and citizens have formal
 role descriptions and methods of payment. External regulating bodies e.g., Nursing and


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Midwifery Council have commended the “robust service user voice” in education and co-
 production in shaping research bids, research delivery and dissemination is evident, for
 example: “Pass it On”, a peer learning programme for people with intellectual disabilities funded
 by the Mental Health Foundation (Chaplin); Thomas’ work on developing the Kidney Patient
 Involvement Network; the development of utility scores in mental health (Flood); and the
 “Enhanced Environment” intervention for stroke survivors and carers (Atwal). Patient and Public
 Involvement and Engagement (PPIE) is part of our research training for doctoral students and
 ethical approval processes require individuals to provide details of the involvement of
 participants and partners in the research process.

 1.3.5 Developing interdisciplinarity
 Our research has always been multi-professional with strong professional and clinical links in all
 fields of Nursing, Midwifery and Allied Health. It also includes Social Work and Public Health with
 corresponding research activity in population and community health and wellbeing. With the
 moves towards the integration of health and social care, there is an even greater impetus
 towards cross and interdisciplinary working. As global priorities and challenges increasingly
 recognise the importance of addressing issues related to non-communicable diseases and
 ageing, we look towards other disciplines across the University in joint research projects and
 doctoral supervision, for example: with the Centre for Addictive Behaviours Research in the
 School of Applied Science in examining digital health literacy during the COVID-19 pandemic
 (Sykes, Wills); with the Sports and Exercise Science Research Centre investigating issues
 associated with active communities (Wills) and movement (Mansfield); and with the Centre for
 Global Justice and Social Responsibility in the investigations into domestic violence and
 coercive control (Havard). Two of those in this submission (Malby and Whittaker) have
 produced work that has made a significant impact in other disciplines and have impact case
 studies in other Units (UoA 17 and UoA 20 respectively). One outstanding example of success in
 fostering interdisciplinarity is the £1.5 million award from NIHR in July 2020 to develop a Public
 Health Intervention Responsive Studies (PHIRST) Team that draws from five of the university’s
 research centres. Going forward, our strategy will be to model the example of PHIRST London
 and develop collaborative projects on health issues across the university.

 1.3.6 Developing innovative and applied research solutions to health issues
 Acknowledging our commitment to developing innovative solutions to health care problems and
 reflecting the University’s commitment to entrepreneurship, the university set up SimDH, a
 programme to support health and tech start-ups to deliver and develop new products and
 services with a £3 million investment from the European Regional Development Fund. The
 Institute links innovators with researchers, testing new products and services such as: Virtual
 Reality for teaching health professionals (Francis, Bench); the use of wearables for both fetal
 monitoring (Church); and to affect calmness or focus of young adults living with ADHD using
 vibration technology based on heart rate (Chaplin). Digital apps have been developed to
 support people living with cancer, infertility and after critical illness (Sykes, Wills, Bench).
 Thomas has collaborated with a company to evaluate a home urine test kit and mobile app that
 empowers patients to self-test at home with clinical grade results. Simulation is used as part of
 the Institute's technology assisted learning strategy (Francis G) and the Institute has a joint
 appointment with Guys and St Thomas Trust to support knowledge transfer. Thomas, Leary
 and Flood were awarded in 2021 a £508,475 grant from the Accelerated Access Collaborative
 in partnership with NHSX and NIHR to evaluate the use of an artificial intelligence technology to
 improve hospital appointment attendance.

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.4 Impact:
 Our impact strategy has centred on: (i) developing partnerships such that our research is
 informed by and delivers knowledge and insights that are of relevance and benefit to services
 and service users; (ii) training research staff to identify and document the changes associated
 with their research and use impact plans for each project; (iii) strengthening the capacity of
 research staff through, e.g., media training and the Industry and Parliament Trust to be
 advocates and amplify their research and exert influence on services and policymakers; (iv)
 advancing the understanding of how to facilitate the implementation of research findings into
 practice (e.g. in the joint roles with NHS Trusts of Baillie, Bench and the Facilitating
 Implementation of Research Evidence EU funded FIRE project (Crichton, now retired); (iv)
 embedding public engagement in our research to dialogue with communities and service users
 (see section 1.3.4); and (v) investing in gold access publications.

 Impact is evidenced by research that:

    o   Informs new or amended policy (i) Havard’s work has shown how mobile technology has
        increased surveillance of women experiencing domestic abuse and this has informed the
        Domestic Abuse Bill 2020 and led to her undertaking a Parliamentary Academic
        Fellowship; (ii) Wills and Crichton’s work directly informed the development of Barking
        and Dagenham’s adult obesity strategy; (iii) Whittaker whose work on reducing serious
        youth violence is reported in an impact case study for UoA20, has contributed to the All
        Party Parliamentary Group on Serious Violence and the London Mayor’s Office on how
        to reduce the involvement of youth in gangs. The initial study in Waltham Forest led
        directly to an increase in the funding allocated to gang programmes, the establishment of
        an under-13 service and a financial investigation team to seize criminal assets under the
        Proceeds of Crime Act; and (iv) Research by Wills on the prevalence and attitudes to
        obesity in the nursing workforce was the first study in England to draw attention to
        obesity and its potential impact on an ageing nursing workforce. It led to the Healthy
        Weight Initiative for Nurses and an app “Nursing You” for nurses, the global Healthy
        Nurse Collaborative and the co-production of a social marketing campaign “First
        Impressions Count” which was chosen to be presented at the Global Public Health Film
        awards in Denver. It has been able to inform and influence a wider focus on working
        conditions and a Chief Nursing Officer reference group focussing on hydration and
        access to food and eating environments.

    o   Informs and changes clinical practice Atwal’s work has enabled service users to conduct
        their own Home Environment Falls-Risk Assessment that better meets their needs and
        thereby reduces the number of unused and abandoned occupational therapy devices.

    o   Develops evidence based clinical guidelines (i) the research of Gibson (former member)
        on children’s cancer contributed to the international Pain in Children with Cancer
        Guideline Development Panel; (ii) Another former member (Crichton), was part of a
        large European pragmatic cluster randomised controlled trial across 24 long-term nursing
        care sites. This work has informed how continence recommendations are implemented;
        (iii)The research work of Bench with patients in Intensive Care Units has led to patient
        discharge guidelines for clinical staff and subsequent quality standards for adults with
        rehabilitation needs as a result of critical illness (NICE quality standards QS 158); and(iv)
        Wills and Sykes have conducted several evaluations of the roll out of Making Every
        Contact Count (MECC) and then developed national guidance on the evaluation of
        MECC.

    o   Introduces changes to service delivery based on what works so resources are focused
        where they can be effective, (i) Thomas’ work on the early identification of kidney

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        disease in primary care (impact case study 1 for UoA3) has pioneered new ways of
        educating people with kidney disease in primary care; (ii) Chaplin’s work has developed
        new care pathways between the Criminal Justice system (CJS) through to hospitals and
        onto community services for people with neurodevelopmental disorders (ND). The new
        service model includes court assessments to inform the judiciary and discharge tools to
        improve continuity of support and promote appropriate disposal in line with least secure
        provision; and (iii) The work of Malby (see impact case study for UoA 17) has led to new
        forms of networks such as the London Primary Care Quality Academies (PCQA).

    o   Develops new innovations in service delivery through working with industry (i) Thomas
        has worked with Cievert Ltd to co-develop with patients, a system for triaging out-patient
        appointments for people who have received kidney transplants; (ii) Bench has tested
        the usability and acceptability in peri-operative care of a wearable that monitors core
        body temperature using sensors; (iii) Mansfield and Thacker have developed a reliable
        low cost sensory assessment tool that can help clinicians assess pain experience; and
        (iv) The work of Benwell (now retired) on the ocular ultraviolet radiation experienced by
        airline pilots led to recommendations that aircraft windshields should have a standard for
        optical transmission and that sunglasses should meet international standards.

    o   Works with practice partners to improve patient care Baillie’s work (now retired) which
        highlighted the challenges of recognising and supporting patients with dementia and
        through a grant from Guys and St Thomas’ charity in 2016, an ethnodrama (“Barbara’s
        Story”) is now part of mandatory training for staff at the Trust.

    o   Works with practice partners to improve patient safety Through data mining large data
        sets (see Impact Case Study 2). Leary has developed a detailed understanding of
        nursing roles enabling the building of models around the impact of staffing levels on
        patient outcomes, workload activity in complex areas such as community nursing and the
        contribution of specialist roles. This work has changed service planning, e.g., following
        completion of a determination of optimum caseloads for multiple sclerosis specialist
        nurses, the Multiple Sclerosis Trust launched its FairMSCare campaign in November
        2019 for more MS Specialist Nurses. It has led to staffing guidance in new national
        standards on Inflammatory Bowel Disease and guidelines for the investigation and
        management of pleural mesothelioma.

    o   Works with practice partners to develop new workforces (i) Stewart Lord’s work on
        advanced clinical practice in the Allied Health workforce is contributing to NHS workforce
        transformation plans; (ii) Professional decision-making is vital in health and social care
        and how social workers make decisions in risk situations has been explored by
        Whittaker in a randomised controlled trial with a British Academy/Leverhulme grant. This
        led to Whittaker being invited as an expert witness in a child death inquiry in
        Queensland, Australia which accepted all his recommendations.

    o   Raises awareness of the needs of an underserved group (i) Flood’s work on the
        befriending needs of people with aphasia following stroke; (ii) Moorley’s work on the
        needs of Black stroke survivors; (iii) Sykes and Church’s work on the information needs
        of the involuntarily childless; and (iv) Thomas B. on the premature deaths of people with
        learning disabilities.

    o   Informs the curricula that educate health and social care professionals (i) the inclusion of
        risk and decision making in curricula for those responsible for safeguarding (Whittaker);
        (ii) a new curriculum on reproductive ethics for midwives at Ataturk University, Izmir
        (Church); (iii) Education courses have been developed from our research e.g. renal
        nursing and working with people with autism are made widely available through our
        extensive CPPD portal used by all our partner Trusts; (iv) The Institute has long used
        simulation as part of its strategy for technology assisted learning and Francis G., as a

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Florence Nightingale scholar in 2017, has been exploring how simulation is used in the
        preparation and training of pre-registration nurses. An HEE funded project with Great
        Ormond Street is investigating how simulation activities can support/replace placement
        hours and another project in the Sim DH programme (see section 1.2.5) has tested the
        use of mannikins for neonatal simulation training (Church).

 1.5 Future strategic aims and goals for research:
 The Unit vision is to deliver excellent user-informed research that generates new knowledge and
 improvements and a positive impact on the health and wellbeing of society.

 To achieve this, the five-year strategic plan which reflects the University’s strategy includes:

       Developing established and emergent areas of research excellence within the structure
        of the research centres, groups and themes through strategic appointments and internal
        promotions.
       Increasing the number of staff with significant responsibility for research to 15% of total
        staff and increasing the number of staff who are research-engaged through the research
        centre and groups.
       Increasing collaboration across the University in joint research projects, following the
        PHIRST London model (see section 1.2.4), to draw upon expertise to address national,
        international, industry and health priorities such as ageing and long term conditions and
        mental health which will ensure long-term sustainability.
       Growing our external partnerships with academia, industry and healthcare providers and
        international partnerships and the clinical academy.
       Undertaking collaborative projects which maximise the adoption and diffusion of
        innovation and commercial potential of research findings as in the new artificial
        intelligence accelerator project (see section 1.3.6);
       Strengthening our relationship with patients and the public to ensure their involvement in
        our research activities with a university wide PPIE strategy.
       Targeting investment in staff and infrastructure to support excellent research by
        enhancing the number of externally and internally funded postgraduate research
        students (currently 32 and 4 respectively). We will also make judicious visiting
        appointments at Professorial and Research Fellow levels to support collaborative grant
        applications, PhD supervision and publications. In addition, the research groups intend to
        expand and support the exchange of staff to enhance national and international research
        collaborations through university funded sabbaticals and the seed corn funding for ECRs
        (see section 2.3).
       Building research capacity through staff development and use of seed corn funding and
        sabbaticals to ensure our talented early career researchers are well placed to lead future
        research excellence (see section 2.3).
       Making a positive contribution to our student experience through the integration and
        dissemination of our research findings into undergraduate, postgraduate and
        professional curricula.
       Increasing the income obtained from research grants by 30% and the proportion from
        prestigious funding councils.
       Increasing the amount of quality research outputs so that the average GPA of all of those
        submitted to the next REF is >3*.
       Ensuring that all research projects have an impact plan from the outset.

 2. People

 2.1 Strategic Investment:
 To build a research culture we needed to make research a visible and attractive opportunity.
 Through the strategic use of QR money we have a dedicated research centre, the Centre for
 Applied Research in Improvement and Innovation (CApRII) and four research groups to allow for

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 clear engagement of staff. We have increased the number of staff who are research active by
 using a workload model and appraisal objectives that provide dedicated time for research.

 Our approach is to ensure the vitality and sustainability of our research through the recruitment
 and development of high calibre academic staff. Four staff included in this submission have
 retired since 2017 (Baillie, Benwell, Crichton, Robinson) enabling some strategic decisions to
 be made about new appointments to growing research areas. The Unit has worked to ensure
 succession planning, strengthening our clinical practice links (see section 2.2) and investing in
 joint appointments (Bench, Church) and clinically active staff. In allied health, we appointed
 Mansfield and Sugarhood as clinically active researchers in physiotherapy and occupational
 therapy and Atwal as an Associate Professor in Occupational Therapy from Brunel University
 and Thacker as Professor of Physiotherapy from Kings College, London. To strengthen the area
 of mental health and learning disabilities we appointed Brimblecombe and Thomas B from
 practice and Flood from City University.

 The development of staff as researchers is enabled by a university-wide Academic Framework
 for promotion, a sabbatical scheme, support to gain a doctorate and mentoring for early career
 researchers. All staff can apply for internal staff development and promotion through an annual
 promotions process that recognises and rewards all elements of excellence including research,
 teaching, leadership, and engagement. In the REF period Leary, Thacker, Thomas N., and
 Chaplin have been promoted to professorships which has allowed them to successfully apply
 for, and lead, research projects, building a body of work (see Impact Case Studies in UoA3
 Thomas and Leary). Francis, Sykes, and Whittaker have been promoted to an Associate
 Professorship which has led to major achievements respectively of: a wide number of research
 collaborations with tech start-ups, the establishment of the Public Health Intervention
 Responsive Studies Team (PHIRST London), and the building of a significant body of work and
 reputation on gangs and serious violence. Reflecting our development of ECRs and succession
 planning, six staff who were in the organisation in 2014 are now submitted making a significant
 contribution to this submission (Francis, Havard, Sykes, Stewart-Lord, Terry, Whittaker).
 Retiring staff with research profiles have been appointed to Emeritus positions and continue to
 work with our research active staff and doctoral students to develop a relevant research agenda
 e.g., Robinson who is also a Visiting Professor with Beijing University of Chinese Medicine.

 The University has an annual competitive Sabbatical Scheme which was set up to provide the
 opportunity for staff to carry out research, work towards significant grants, undertake field study
 or consider and develop real-world impacts for one semester and to do so by providing funds for
 their home Schools to pay for replacement hours for their teaching. It has led to an increase in
 outputs e.g., in 2019/20 Whittaker had a sabbatical to write up research resulting in three
 papers. Malby and Whittaker both used sabbaticals to translate work into impact (Malby, see
 UoA 17; Whittaker, see UoA 20) and in 2020/21 Havard successfully bid to be a Parliamentary
 Academic Fellow briefing on the use of mobile phones in surveillance in domestic violence.

 To develop the research culture, we support staff without a PhD to undertake doctoral studies
 with opportunities for support for fees and study leave. Thirteen staff have achieved PhDs,
 Professional Doctorates or EdD at LSBU in the REF period and fifteen staff are currently
 studying for PhD at LSBU, three staff are studying at other universities, four are studying for a
 Professional Doctorate at LSBU, and three are enrolled on an EdD programme at LSBU. The
 support has enabled several staff in the REF period to publish from their thesis and build their

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academic profile, research-informed teaching and bring on postgraduates, apply for significant
 grants and they make a significant contribution to this submission (e.g., Havard, Mansfield,
 Sugarhood, Sykes).

 Growth across the research groups is evidenced by an increase in grant applications, e.g., by
 15% 2018-2019) and an improved capture rate of 64% (in 2019). Productivity has also risen: Our
 aim in REF 2014 was that staff equivalent to 25 FTE would have 4 or more outputs rated 2*. The
 21 staff in this submission and six former members in their time at LSBU produced a total of 658
 outputs in the REF period.

 2.2 Clinical Academy:
 Our aim in REF 2014 was for research that “through academic-practice partnerships addresses
 issues which practice partners prioritise”. The clinical academy provides a formal vehicle for
 linking the unit to NHS Trusts maintaining research dialogue, mentorship, and partnership. Staff
 may hold joint appointments and NHS-employed staff may work as researchers developing their
 clinical academic careers.

 There are several clinically linked Professors or Associate Professors who spend a proportion of
 their time in the Trust working with clinical staff developing research and assisting the
 organisation with research team and wider staff development. The Professor of Kidney Care
 (Thomas) is an honorary nurse consultant at Barts Health NHS Trust and has established a
 research programme in East London on chronic kidney disease; the Professor of Nursing
 (Bench) is a joint appointment with the Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital and is an NIHR
 70@70 nursing research leader; the Professor of Physiotherapy (Thacker) works with Guys and
 St Thomas(GSTT) and Kingston and St Georges in research collaborations; and the research of
 Professor of Mental Health (Chaplin) in intellectual disability and criminal justice has included
 clinical staff from GSTT and South London and Maudsley (SLAM). Having senior researchers
 working closely with clinical organisations ensures alignment between health care and the
 research agendas. It provides excellent opportunities for developing joint research bids (e.g.
 Chaplin and the development of a nursing discharge tool for people with learning disability in
 secure systems is a collaboration with Oxleas NHS Trust) and ensures our research reaches
 and encourages engagement by frontline professionals, e.g. Bench’s research exploring the
 barriers and facilitators associated with nurses’ engagement with research led directly to the
 implementation of a nursing research strategy at Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital.

 The clinical academy encourages NHS staff to engage with teaching as well as research as a
 career development opportunity and offers a chance for our students to benefit from their
 specialist knowledge. NHS-employed active researchers may spend time in the University and
 hold visiting positions or fractional appointments, e.g., McCarthy and Marshall Tate both work
 with SLAM, Tsang is a consultant radiographer with East and North Herts NHS Trust and
 Thomas B. is a learning disability nurse consultant at the Department of Health and Social Care.
 A post-doctoral bridging scheme starts later in 2021 to support early career post-doctoral clinical
 nurse, midwife, or allied health staff to become Clinical Lecturers along the HEE/NIHR
 Integrated Clinical Academic (ICA) pathway.




 2.3 Staff Development:

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to the University’s support through the sabbatical scheme and the Academic
 Framework which identifies those suitable for internal promotion, we are investing in ECRs who
 are researching in original areas but do not yet have SRR in their workload. These staff have the
 opportunity to in relief from teaching through a competitive independent seedcorn research fund
 (up to £5000) to write up publications, seek grant funding or attend conference or network
 events, e.g. in 2019 Sibley’s work on amputees that is informing physiotherapy teaching on
 rehabilitation used these funds to prepare a successful grant application to the Physiological
 Society to investigate cellular mechanisms of long term muscle disuse and Almalkawi won a
 grant to visit the University of Washington, Seattle in June/July 2020 (postponed due to the
 pandemic) to present his doctoral research on practice-based assessment in pre-registration
 nurse education and start developing collaborations in pre-registration nurse education and post-
 registration critical care teaching.

 The principles of the Concordat for the Career Development of Researchers (see institutional
 statement) have been actively implemented by the Unit and we provide increased mentoring and
 support for those in the initial stages of their research career (both doctoral and post-doctoral).
 All ECRs are encouraged to take on the supervision of PhD students in partnership with more
 experienced supervisors and undergo supervisor training or online through Epigeum. A
 university-wide Researcher Development Group provides additional development opportunities
 which has been recognised by the EU HR Excellence in Research Award in 2014,2016,2018
 and 2020.

 A monthly capacity building programme has focused on writing for publication, writing to the REF
 criteria of rigour, originality, significance, preparation of grant applications, identifying a quality
 journal, and how to use a range of metrics that can be used to assess outputs including altmetric
 scores, citations, the quality of the destination journal and its influence using Scival. In
 accordance with LSBU’s REF Code of Practice most outputs are internally and externally
 reviewed with the relaying of ratings to the authors. This has resulted in an increase in
 productivity (149 staff produced1100 peer-reviewed journal articles in the REF period) and
 greater quality as described above in section 2.1. The capability programme and mentoring
 through the research group leads encourages both early career researchers and doctoral
 students to take part in funded research calls and undertake research tasks as part of their
 development.

 2.4 Equality and Diversity:
 We recognise that equality of opportunity and recognition and promotion of diversity provide a
 supportive environment in which all research active staff can develop their careers. We
 encourage staff to apply for career development awards through charities or professional
 associations e.g., Sugarhood received an award in 2017 from the Royal College of
 Occupational Therapists to explore the use of digital care records, Leary received a Winston
 Churchill Trust award to explore the models adopted by other safety critical organisations and
 Bench has a NIHR Programme Development Grant to investigate the use of nursing staff in
 critical care. Half of those submitted in this REF are women reflecting our commitment to gender
 equality and the University’s achievement in obtaining a Bronze Athena Swan award. We
 believe that visible female role models e.g., Leary, Bench are especially important in inspiring
 and guiding younger health and social care professionals towards research and scientific
 careers. We ensure that staff have an equal career trajectory, if through maternity or if they have
 family or caring commitments, with access to funding and development opportunities. Flexible

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 working is available for those with caring responsibilities and there are clear policies on career
 breaks and part-time working.

 Our equality impact assessment reveals that two of those submitted (9.5%) identify as of Black,
 Asian, and Minority Ethnic (BAME) heritage. We recognise that we have been less successful in
 BAME staff becoming research active and into senior positions and we are developing a
 programme of actions, e.g., using a specialist recruitment agency for BAME senior
 appointments, mentoring and reverse mentoring and working with the LSBU Protected
 Characteristics Researcher Working Group to identify and remove barriers to progression for
 under-represented groups.

 We are actively working towards a strategy for decolonising research alongside that for
 decolonising the education curriculum that will scrutinise the cultural appropriateness of the
 research with service users (see section 1.3.4). We will work to give back to the communities we
 study and seek improvement in the health outcomes of marginalised and under-served groups
 including those from BAME communities, e.g., Atwal and the social participation of BAME stroke
 survivors and Chaplin and people with learning disabilities.

 2.5 Research students:
 The recruitment, training, and supervision of postgraduate research (PGR) students is a high
 priority across the University with the London Doctoral Academy providing a supportive
 environment from application through to graduation, including a dedicated study space and a
 suite of research training modules.

 We have a highly active PGR research community and offer opportunities for both full and part-
 time PGR study. Most research students are clinically employed in the NHS and study part-time
 supported by their employer and we use QR funds to offer up to two full time scholarships each
 year. Most students produce a conventional thesis, but there is also the opportunity for PhD
 through publications (two have been completed, both in radiography). A professional doctorate
 programme was established for experienced practitioners to study part-time and a collaboration
 with the Institute of Optometry started in 2008. In addition, in 2021 we will pilot a post-doctoral
 bridging scheme to support early career post-doctoral clinical nurse, midwife or allied health staff
 to become Clinical Lecturers along the HEE/NIHR Integrated Clinical Academic (ICA) pathway.

 During the assessment period, there have been 37 student completions (29 PhD and 8
 Professional Doctorate) with an average of 5.3 completions each year which is a significant
 increase on the previous REF period when there was an average of 1.98 per year. We currently
 have 36 PGRs registered, including 22 PhD, of whom four are on full time scholarships and 14
 Professional Doctorate students.

 We offer an exemplary training, support and learning environment. Every PGR student has a
 supervisory team of a Director of Studies and one or more supervisors. Each student undertakes
 regular progress review panels starting at 6 months to register their proposal which are
 monitored by the Institute and the University so that there can be early intervention if there is any
 student, supervision, or research study issue. All students have a mock viva to help students to
 focus their study and improve both their viva skills and their thesis before submission. Students
 formally record actions arising during regular supervision sessions and report these
 electronically on the University’s student administration system (HAPLO), with comments from

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the supervisors. Students present a “three-minute thesis” presentation and poster at an annual
 graduate summer school so they become accustomed to sharing and showcasing their research
 with the university PGR community. Full time PGRs who are not in clinical practice receive an
 annual contribution of £750 towards conference attendance, production of posters or external
 training or development. A monthly support programme focuses on issues of methodology,
 design and dissemination and peer review. Full time PGRs participate in one of the research
 groups and develop team working and other skills through an involvement in the development of
 research projects and receive support in the publication of literature reviews and data chapters.

 Many research students have achieved significant promotions since the completion of their
 doctorate: e.g., Parker who completed her PhD on children’s cancer pain in 2019 is now the
 NIHR Network Support Fellow the Musculoskeletal Oral Skin and Sensory Network. Barratt who
 completed his PhD on nurse practitioner consultation in primary care in 2016 is now Regional
 Faculty Lead for Advancing Practice, HEE Midlands. Lesley Haig who completed a Professional
 Doctorate in 2017 on motivational interviewing in physiotherapy is now head of the AECC
 university college and Groene who completed her PhD on health literacy education for GPs is
 now at the University of Hamburg as a scientific advisor and was a research associate on the
 German national health literacy action plan. Our programme of support has led to considerable
 success in student publications during and/or in the two years following thesis completion e.g.,
 Kelly eleven publications 2015-2020; Newton 2014, 2016; Parker twelve publications 2015-
 2020; Bichard 2020.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income:
 Over the period of assessment, total research income through UoA3 has been £2,750,000 with
 £143,229 per FTE in this submission and an annual average income of £392,857 representing
 an increase compared to the period for REF 2014 when average annual research income was
 £276,000. Going forward, the PHIRST Centre (not included here) is funded to 1.5 million over
 three years and we expect to increase our overall research income as we increase our academic
 collaborations. We have been awarded 84 research grants from over 50 different funders of
 which 33.20% is from NHS and other bodies, 61.89% from UK charities through open
 competitive process, 4.44% from government and local government and 0.47% from research
 councils and professional bodies.

 The size of awards varies with £700,000 awarded by Guys and St. Thomas charity to investigate
 the criminal justice system’s response to people with an intellectual disability to much smaller
 awards (the average grant size in 2019 is £37,000). The diversity of funding sources reflects our
 close links with NHS practice partners and research end users, for example: £50,000 from
 Kidney Care UK awarded to Thomas to investigate peer support for people with chronic kidney
 disease; several awards from the Burdett Trust for Nursing including £175,000 to Wills to
 investigate obesity in the nursing workforce; and international collaborative links, e.g., mental
 health nursing workforce development in Mongolia (Brimblecombe).

 3.2 Research Infrastructure:
 The Institute of Health and Social Care is on three sites enabling close links with NHS partner
 Trusts: in Southwark, South East London, Havering in North East London; and a new campus in
 Croydon, South London. State of the art skills laboratories at the Southwark and the new


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Croydon campuses provide the opportunity to develop new forms of simulated learning and a
 human movement lab at Croydon.

 The Unit is led by the Director of Research and Enterprise (Wills) and the Director of
 Postgraduate Research (Stewart Lord). The annual budget allocation is based on the in-year
 QR income for the research area, overhead allocation and an allocation derived from new
 awards submitted for research funding in the previous year. This ensures that excellent
 resources support research activity.

 We benefit from a shared research infrastructure, of which the central Research, Enterprise, and
 Innovation (REI) unit provides research co-ordination across the University, some administrative
 support, funding opportunity advice, assists with costing research bids, agrees research
 contracts, and assists with research governance issues. The Research Office supports staff and
 student researcher development, ensures we fulfil LSBU’s commitments to the Researcher
 Development Concordat and drives the Impact agenda.

 Research governance:
 Staff can access well established policies and structures for ethical review of research.
 Researchers working in the health service can obtain advice on NHS sponsorship, honorary
 contracts, and NHS research approval from the Director of Postgraduate Research. The
 Research Ethics Panel scrutinises applications from staff and doctoral students in this UoA to
 ensure standards are maintained and reports to the University ethics committee. The Director of
 Postgraduate Research is the sponsor contact for all NHS ethics and governance applications
 from the Institute. These high standards for research conduct are upheld in the university’s
 Research Integrity policy and policy on Safeguarding Good Scientific Practice.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our research strategy is to build collaborations to enable us to develop bigger programmes of
 work and address issues of major international importance by establishing enabling structures:

       drawing across the disciplines of the university as in the PHIRST London Centre,
       using an established network of visiting fellows whose skills can be drawn upon,
       setting up Memorandum of Understanding with international universities to conduct
        research e.g., University of West Indies and Southeast University, Nanjing.

 4.1 International Collaborations:
 The Population Health and Prevention research group has established international
 collaborations in health promotion including the establishment of a Sino-British Public Health
 Research Centre with Southeast University (SEU), Nanjing which is translating the expertise of
 LSBU in health literacy (Wills, Sykes) by research into the digital health information needs and
 usage in China. A collaboration with the University of the West Indies is progressing the policy
 priority of men’s health in Trinidad and Tobago (Moorley, Sykes, Wills) and stroke rehabilitation
 in Jamaica (Atwal, Moorley, Wills). Sykes and Wills are part of several global health literacy
 consortia and led the England arm of the Global Health Literacy and COVID-19 Consortium
 investigating the information needs of university students. Church is part of a European
 Cooperation in Science and Technology (COST) project in maternity care for migrant women
 and professional bodies and charities. Members of the Mental Health and Intellectual Disabilities
 group are part of several international collaborations, e.g., with Mongolia, investigating nursing

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff development (Brimblecombe) and with several universities on suicide and perceptions of
 suicide among students (Flood) and Chaplin is Secretary of the European Association of
 Mental Health in Intellectual Disability. In the Ageing, Acute and Long Term Conditions research
 group, Thacker works with the University of South Australia Body in Mind international
 collaboration on the understanding, management, and prevention of persistent pain. Robinson
 [retired] led work on integrative health and complementary therapies reflecting the relationship of
 the university with its Confucius Institute of Traditional Chinese Medicine and has a collaboration
 with Beijing University of Chinese Medicine. A PhD student has obtained a prestigious China
 Scholarship for the final year of her doctoral study in the treatment of dysphagia following stroke.
 This wide range of international university collaborations is evidenced for example, in our
 publications of which 19.2% have joint authorship with one or more international partners.

 4.2 National academic collaborations:
 Staff are very well linked and work with national colleagues in networks and projects, e.g., the
 intensive care national audit and research centre (ICNARC)(Bench), and the ASSIST-CKD
 national kidney project (Thomas). In the Ageing, Acute and Long Term Conditions research
 group, several staff are part of national or international collaborations progressing research in
 specialised areas, e.g., Sugarhood was part of the Athene project (Queen Mary, London;
 Warwick University and Barts NHS Trust) funded by the Technology Strategy Board, (now
 Innovate UK), exploring older people’s experience of assisted living technologies and developing
 new user-centred principles for design and delivery. Our collaborations are evidenced in 55.5%
 of outputs having joint authorship with a national HEI.

 4.3 Visiting appointments:
 Leary, Terry, and Wills held visiting appointments during this REF period at prestigious
 international institutions (Wills is visiting Professor in Public Health at Southeast University,
 Nanjing, China; Leary is Visiting Professor at University of South Eastern Norway and Terry is a
 visiting Fellow at University of Washington). Robinson, Emeritus Professor, has an appointment
 at the Centre for Evidence Based Chinese Medicine at Beijing Normal University. We also
 support international scholarship visits, e.g., a Fulbright scholar from Long Island University
 (Brian Gilchrist) worked with Havard, Whittaker and Wills during 2019 to develop work on girls
 in gangs, including a review of evidence.

 4.4. Professional and civic engagement:
 In keeping with the focus on applied research and engagement of LSBU, many of the staff
 submitted here have leading roles in advisory bodies and provide expertise to guide the
 development of policy or practice. For example, Brimblecombe is a non-executive director of an
 NHS Trust; Baillie and Thomas B. advise the Royal College of Nursing on dignity and mental
 health respectively; and Leary is on the RCN (Royal College of Nursing) professional nursing
 committee. Bench, Chaplin, and Robinson are on the executive committees of professional
 associations (UK Critical Care Nursing Association, European Association of Mental Health and
 Disability, British Acupuncture Council respectively). Thomas N. is a member of the NICE group
 setting quality standards and indicators for chronic kidney disease and Wills is on the national
 advisory group of Making Every Contact Count.

 4.5. Measures of esteem and leadership:
 Several staff are leaders in their field and have received personal indicators of esteem: Thomas
 won the Donna Lamping award from British Renal Society; Leary has been recognised as one


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the most influential people in nursing by the Nursing Times and received an MBE for services
 to sport safety; Bench has been recognised as one of the 70@70 NIHR Senior Nurse and
 Midwife Research Leaders; Moorley held a Mary Seacole award for leadership in nursing.

 4.6. Contribution to academic field:
 Many staff are journal editors or participate in editorial boards: Editor of European Journal of
 Integrated Medicine (Robinson); Editor of Journal of Renal Care (Thomas); Editor of Evidence
 Based Nursing (Twycross); Chinese Journal of Integrative Medicine (Robinson), Journal of
 Clinical Nursing (Twycross), Journal of Social Work Practice (Whittaker), Critical Public Health
 (Wills). Several also contribute their specialist expertise through widely adopted books: Wills
 (Foundations for Health Promotion, Elsevier 4e translated into German, Swedish, Korean and
 being prepared in Portuguese and Mandarin Chinese), Twycross (Managing Pain in Children,
 Wiley 2e), Thomas (Renal Nursing Care, Wiley, 5th e). This active involvement with the
 development and dissemination of research findings provides an “inside knowledge” to ECRs
 about how to publish.




                                                                                         Page 15
