Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Liverpool


 Unit of Assessment: UOA4 Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience




                                                                    Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy


 1.1 Structure and Contributing Departments
 UoA4 comprises 60.0FTE staff from four institutes and seven academic departments within the
 Faculty of Health and Life Sciences (FHLS). FHLS is the largest of the three faculties at the
 University of Liverpool (UoL). Four cross cutting directorates coordinate academic strategy,
 investment, education, clinical interface, regulatory compliance, and PGR (Figure 1.1; Section
 3.3).




 Figure 1.1 UoA4 Structure: Faculty and contributing departments (highlighted in red)

 1.2 Research Groups
 UoA4 research activity is organised into five interdisciplinary research groups (RG) defined
 around core areas of specialisation (Table 1.1).




                                                                                         Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 1.1 UoA4 Research Groups and Core Areas of Specialisation


                    Research Group                  Core Areas of Specialisation

  Psychology      Appetite, Obesity        RG1   • Psychobiological and environmental
                  & Addiction                      determinants of eating and addictive
                                                   behaviours.
                                                 • Development and evaluation of
                                                   interventions to tackle obesity and
                                                   addiction.
                  Perception, Cognition    RG2   • Neuropsychological bases of human
                  & Language                       sensory, perceptual, and cognitive
                                                   systems.
                                                 • Cognitive impairment and treatment
                                                   interventions in neurological populations.
                                                 • Language acquisition and development in
                                                   typical and atypical populations.
                  Forensic,                RG3   • Decision making in high risk/high
                  Investigative                    uncertainty environments/critical and major
                  & Conflict                       incidents.
                                                 • Interventions to prevent violence and
                                                   sexual reoffending.
  Psychiatry      Mental Health            RG4   • Genomic/environmental determinants of
                                                   mental health: Perinatal, child and
                                                   adolescent mental health.
                                                 • Global mental health interventions in low-
                                                   and middle-income countries and
                                                   humanitarian contexts.
  Neuroscience Basic and Clinical          RG5   • Molecular, cellular, and genomic bases of
               Neuroscience                        central nervous system (CNS) function.
                                                 • Neurodegeneration,
                                                   neuropharmacology/epilepsy,
                                                   neuropathy/pain, neuroinflammation/brain
                                                   infection, genomics/psychiatric disorders.

 1.3 Research Objectives and Achievements
 1.3.1 Vitality and Sustainability: Review of Achievements against REF2014 Objectives
 The 2014-2020 REF period has been transformational for our UoA4 submission.

 Our main objectives in REF2014 were to:

    1. Implement new initiatives to increase research income, build a diverse and sustainable
       funding base, and drive-up output quality.
    2. Concentrate infrastructure investment, and staff recruitment, to build capacity and
       expertise in our core areas of research excellence.
    3. Maximise opportunities for large-scale collaboration in health and security.
    4. Establish centres-of-excellence around our internationally leading work in language
       development and mental health.
    5. Ensure sustainability through investment in PGRs, ECRs and support for career
       development.



                                                                                         Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our success in achieving these objectives is evidenced below ([#] refers to REF2014 objectives
 above):

    • Research Funding [#1]: New initiatives for pump-priming, peer review and mentoring have
      helped drive up grant awards and income. 373 grants involving UoA4 staff have been
      awarded with a total of £60.2M (equivalent to £1M per returned FTE), including 17 major
      awards >£1M and 151 awards >£100k. Accrued income over the period has increased
      substantially by 147% to £37.3M (cf. REF2014 £15.1M). We have achieved 48% overall
      UKRI grant application success rate compared to 26% national sector average (Section 3).

    • Outputs [#1]: UoA4 staff have published 1551 peer reviewed outputs (data source: Scopus)
      with a total of 21,224 accumulated citations, ~13.7 citations per output (cf. REF2014 600
      outputs; 4000 citations across all eligible Cat A staff, ~ 6.7 citations per output).

    • Staff Recruitment [#2,5]: 24 (42% female) appointments across our 5 research groups,
      including 11 ECRs (64% female) since 2014 (total net staff increase of 17 vs leavers).
      Implementation of new initiatives to support ECR career development (Section 2).

    • Infrastructure Investment [#2]: UoA4 has directly benefitted from ~£11.4M of investment
      in buildings, laboratory space and equipment (including installation of a new 3T Siemens
      Prisma MRI scanner; Section 3).

    • New large-scale projects in health and security [#3]: including coordination of the €9M,
      29 partner, EU H2020 SWEET project; industry-funded £3.2M SWITCH trial; and lead roles
      in the N8-Agrifood programme and Liverpool Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Food
      Systems (Section 1.3.2) - facilitated by new structures to support clinical-academic
      collaboration including establishment of the FHLS Clinical Directorate and Liverpool Health
      Partners (LHP) (Section 4).

    • Establishment of Leading Centres of Excellence [#4]: (i) Centre for Language and
      Communicative Development (LuCiD; ESRC, £3.9M – language development); (ii) Applied
      Research Centre North West Coast (ARC NWC; NIHR, £9M – mental and physical health);
      (iii) Centre of Excellence in Infectious Diseases (CEIDR) – interlinking with UoA1, brain
      infection, neuroinflammation (Section 3).

    • PGR awards [#5]: increasing ~150% from 1.6 to 3.9 per returned FTE driven by increased
      external and internally funded studentships, and new PGR support initiatives (Section 2.3).

 1.3.2 Vitality and Sustainability: Research Group Activity and Key Achievements
 RG1: Appetite, Obesity & Addiction – 11.0FTE, Awards £10.4M (£945k/FTE)
 Vitality and sustainability: (i) Six ECR staff appointments expanding our base of methodological
 expertise, including behaviour change, psychiatric epidemiology, and psychopharmacology. (ii)
 Major awards to support ongoing multicentre trials of appetite control and weight management
 (e.g., EU H2020 SWEET project and industry-funded SWITCH trial; population level interventions
 on obesity ERC £1.7M). (iii) Lead role in the N8-Agrifood programme and Liverpool Centre of
 Excellence for Sustainable Food Systems - a multidisciplinary initiative using food system science
 to improve health and the environment. Methods: Qualitative and quantitative, RCTs, behaviour
 change, epidemiology, psychopharmacology, brain imaging. Key Achievements: (i)
 Development of novel digital behaviour change interventions for alcohol use (Jones, J Consult
 Clinical Psychol, Goodwin, JMIR Health). (ii) Leading evidence-based UK Government policy
 initiatives on foods and drink marketing (invited Select Committee appearances/WHO, UNICEF).
 (iii) High impact epidemiological studies evidencing the complex links between trauma, alcohol,
 and mental health (Goodwin, Br J Psychiatry), substance use (Gage, Psychological Medicine)
 and obesity (Hardman, JAMA Psychiatry).



                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
RG2: Perception, Cognition and Language – 14.0FTE, Awards £12.5M (£893k/FTE)
Vitality and sustainability: (i) £12.5M in grant awards and >£4M of new infrastructure investment
in brain imaging (MRI), high density (128 channel) EEG, VR, eye tracking and upgrades to lab
spaces. (ii) Establishment of the LuCiD Centre of Excellence - a multi-partner project on child
language acquisition, and the development and evaluation of interventions in early years
education and healthcare (ESRC, £3.9M). (iii) €1.6M Cross-Linguistic Acquisition of Sentence
Structure Programme (ERC Consolidator Grant). Methods: Psychophysics, EEG, eye tracking,
brain imaging (e.g., fMRI, DTI, fNIRS), brain stimulation, auditory/acoustic analyses, VR, clinical
neuropsychology; computational modelling. Key Achievements: (i) Novel multi-methods work
combining high-density ERPs, fMRI, and eye movement patterns to elucidate high-level human
vision (Leek; JEP: HPP; QJEP). (ii) Establishment of key components of core vision assessments
for stroke patients (Rowe; BMJ Open; Plos One) and rehabilitation techniques based on brain
plasticity demonstrated using structural and functional neuroimaging (Meyer, Rowe; NeuroImage)
(iii) Novel insights using corpus analytic, elicitation and computational modelling techniques into
morphological and grammatical development (Ambridge, Pine, Cognitive Psychology;
Pine, Cognition). (iv) Discovery of key links between statistical learning, lexical processing
efficiency and word learning in infants and toddlers (Lany, Developmental Science).

 RG3: Forensic, Investigative and Conflict Psychology – 4.0FTE (Psychology core staff),
 Awards £4.4M (£1.1M/FTE)
 Vitality and sustainability: (i) An applied group within psychology including the National Unit for
 Critical Incident Decision Making and research arm of the HYDRA Foundation coordinating 85
 critical incident immersive scenario training sites globally. RG3 links psychology with staff across
 engineering, computer science and the humanities through the UoL Institute for Risk and
 Uncertainty. (ii) £4.4M in grant awards and diverse portfolio of ongoing projects including:
 Wellcome Trust and ESRC (£315k, Interventions to prevent violence and sexual reoffending); EU,
 Home Office, College of Policing, National Crime Agency, and Europol (£650k, Development of
 risk management tools for law enforcement agencies); DSTL, US Army Research Laboratory, and
 FBI (£1.44M, Tools for decision making, communication and rapport-based interrogation).
 Methods: Qualitative and quantitative, working in partnership with agencies nationally and
 internationally and drawing on unique access to complex field data in extreme environments to
 identify what works in practice. Key Achievements: (i) Development of a risk management tool
 supporting the prioritisation of offenders accessing indecent images of children, now used in 24
 countries (Alison; Psychology, Public Policy and Law). (ii) Development of rapport-based
 interviewing techniques to assist in securing vital intelligence to counter terrorism threats, and
 tools to improve multi-agency emergency responses (Alison, Waring, Cole; Org Psy Rev). (iii)
 Project ARES providing resilience training to frontline NHS staff during the COVID-19 pandemic
 (Alison).

 RG4: Mental Health – 14.0FTE, Awards £13.7M (£979k/FTE)
 Vitality and sustainability: (i) £13.7M of grant awards including extension of the Wirral Child
 Health Programme (MRC GCRF 2019-2024; £2.59M), C-GULL longitudinal birth cohort project
 (£5.2M, Wellcome Trust 2020-2025 – see Section 3), new 5-year programme to develop and
 evaluate mental health interventions in Pakistan and South East Asia (NIH, $2.5M; ENHANCE,
 NIHR £3M), RE-DEFINE and COSTAR programmes to develop and implement interventions for
 mental health in refugees and asylum seekers (ERC H2020 €2.9M; ESRC/GCRF £1.1M). (ii)
 Launch of the new Department of Primary Care and Mental Health to heighten visibility and provide
 a platform for future investment to support our strategic priorities in mental health (Figure 1.2). (iii)
 Collaborative interface with NHS enhanced by the launch of ARC NWC (NIHR, £9M), and newly
 established North West Coast Mental Health Research Network (Sections 3-4). Methods: RCTs,
 qualitative and quantitative. Key Achievements: (i) Discovery of key sex differentiated pathways
 to specific mental health outcomes in childhood (e.g., Sharp, Dev & Psychopath). (ii) Major RCT
 showing that self‐help strategies in antenatal provision without professional support are insufficient
 and should not be routinely introduced (Slade, BJOG). (iii) Novel intervention RCTs for depression
 and anxiety in women in post-conflict settings, and lay health worker intervention in India
 (Rahman, Lancet, JAMA). (iv) Novel intervention RCT to reduce distress in South Sudanese
 refugees in Northern Uganda (White, Lancet Global Health).

                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 RG5: Basic and Clinical Neuroscience – 17.0FTE, Awards £19.1M (£1.1M/FTE) Vitality and
 sustainability: (i) £19.1M in grant income including Core support for UK based Cochrane
 Collaborative Review Groups:         Epilepsy (£1.18M, Marson); Protein Homeostasis and the
 Ubiquitination pathway in Parkinson's disease (£830k, Clague); Covid-Clinical Neuroscience Study
 (£2.3M, Michael, Solomon, Leek). (ii) Core expertise across sub-groups in neurodegeneration,
 neuropharmacology/epilepsy (Liverpool Epilepsy Research Group), neuroinflammation and
 neurological consequences of viral brain infection (Liverpool Brain Infections Group/CEIDR),
 pain/neuropathy (Walton Pain Research Institute) and Genomic x Environmental determinants of
 psychiatric illness. Methods: ‘Omics’ approaches, animal models (e.g., mice, Drosophila, C.
 elegans), cell signaling, neuropharmacology, neuroimaging, RCTs. Key Achievements: (i)
 Identification of gene targets and pathways mediating neurodegeneration in PD and MND (Quinn,
 Nature Genetics, Lancet Neurology), and characterisation of the MIR137 gene in schizophrenia
 (Quinn, Schizophr Bull). (ii) High impact work across UoA1/UoA4 on neurological sequalae of viral
 brain infection; Liverpool/KCL lead on COVID-CNS consortia; COVID-Neuro Global Programme
 (NIHR £800k); UoL coordination of the NIHR Global Health Research Group on Brain Infections.
 (iii) Discovery of novel forms of therapeutic intervention for neurodegenerative illness including
 preclinical models of TMEM106B in mice (Stagi, Neuron), ethosuximide in C. elegans (Morgan,
 Mol Neurodegen), mitophagy and Tau in Drosophila (Clague, JCB), mechanism of ebselen action
 on the MND target SOD1 (Hasnain, Nature Comm). (iv) Breakthrough studies elucidating the
 causes of sensory hypersensitivity in fibromyalgia (Goebel, Nature). (v) RCTs in antiepileptic drug
 prescribing, examining the clinical, quality of life and cost-effectiveness of current and new
 antiepileptic drugs (Marson, Epilepsia).


 1.4 Future Plans: Objectives and Strategic Priorities
 Our objectives over the next REF period are to:

  1.   Support the University of Liverpool research and impact strategy (REF5a), and maximise
       our contribution to regional, national, and global priorities.
  2.   Ensure that staff recruitment and infrastructure investment is strategically driven and
       underpinned by clearly defined research and impact priorities.
  3.   Promote interdisciplinary working on cross-cutting grand challenges that link research
       groups, staff across UoAs, and facilitate unit cohesion around shared objectives.
  4.   Foster a fair, inclusive, and supportive academic environment for all staff at every career
       stage, and to ensure that equality, diversity, and inclusivity remain at the heart of our culture.

 Achievement of these objectives is underpinned by our five-year research and impact strategy
 which has been developed by UoA4 staff around six cross-cutting strategic priorities (Figure 1.2)
 to (i) align with our core areas of expertise; (ii) address regional, national, and global priorities; (iii)
 maximise opportunities to bring about step changes in knowledge and impact from collaborative
 working across research groups and UoAs. Our strategy aligns with UoL interdisciplinary themes
 in: Starting Well, Living Well and Ageing Well - addressing grand challenges in health and
 security through our work in obesity, addiction, mental health, child development, public
 safety/critical incident management and clinical neuroscience; and Digital - maximising
 opportunities to deliver societal, health and economic benefits through technological innovation
 and impact (REF5a).




                                                                                                      Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1.2 Summary of UoA4 forward strategic priorities, research groups and UoA4
 interdisciplinary cross-links.

 1.5 Impact Strategy
 Impact is embedded in our research priorities (Section 1.4) and lies at the heart of the Faculty
 and University mission (REF5a). Our strategy is based around provision of a fully supported
 impact pipeline from concept formation to development and delivery (Figure 1.3). This pipeline is
 coordinated by the Faculty Research and Impact Directorate at each stage through a range of
 initiatives and support services, that provide guidance on partnerships, PPI, funding, IP, legal
 governance, outreach, and public engagement. UoA4 directly benefits from a range of initiatives
 including:

    • Provision of internally funded awards to support impact development: (i) Knowledge
      Exchange and Impact Vouchers (FHLS funded; UoA4 £45k). (ii) Enterprise Investment
      Fund (FHLS funded; UoA4 £15k). (iii) Translational Research Access Programme (TRAP)
      – promotes collaborative translational research across UoL and its associated healthcare
      community to address health inequality across the Liverpool City region (FHLS funded
      £600k pa; UoA4 £162k; jointly funded by the Wellcome Trust from 2021).
    • Externally funded Impact Accelerator Awards (UKRI funded; UoA4 £45k) supporting impact
      delivery to external organisations and the wider economy including charities, industry, and
      regional development agencies.
    • Raising awareness and offering case development feedback and guidance through the
      FHLS monthly ‘Impact Matters’ seminar series and UoL ‘Making an Impact’ workshops.
    • Appointment of academic impact leads to coordinate, and support, impact development at
      departmental level.
    • Dedicated Faculty Impact Officers (4.0FTE) supporting impact development across the
      pipeline.
    • Recognition of impact-related activity in our workload allocation model, annual personal
      development reviews (PDR), and promotion structures.




                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1.3 Impact pipeline from concept and development to delivery. UoL support schemes
 shown in red.

 UoA4 impact development was directly supported by 15 months of Impact Officer time and £56k
 of pump-priming invested in our five cases (Table 1.2). The success of our impact strategy is
 evidenced by our broad portfolio of submitted impact case studies spanning four out of five
 research groups, the broad base of external partnerships, and by our strong and diverse portfolio
 of ongoing translational projects at different stages of development.



 Table 1.2 Impact Cases and their associated internal support 2014-2020. PP: Pump-priming. IO:
 Impact Officer Time (months). RG = Research Group (Table 1.1)

  Research               Impact Case                PP      IO     Examples of Partnership
   Group
    RG1        Unhealthy food advertising to        £9k     3    UK Government, Obesity
               children (Boyland;                                Health Alliance, Cancer
               UoL52Foodadvertising)                             Research UK
     RG2       Post stroke visual impairment      £11.9k    4    NHS, NICE, Royal College of
               (Rowe; UoL81StrokeVision)                         Physicians, British and Irish
                                                                 Orthoptic Society, Scottish
                                                                 Intercollegiate Guidelines
                                                                 Network
     RG3       Prioritising Indecent Image         £7.7k     2   National Crime Agency, Home
               Offenders to Prevent the Sexual                   Office, College of Policing,
               Abuse of Children (Alison;                        Europol
               UoL61Indecent images)
     RG3       Decision making and                £14.8k     3   FBI, CIA, Department of
               communication in critical and                     Defence, Joint Forces
               major incidents (Alison and                       Intelligence Group, Home
               Waring; UoL62Decisionmaking)                      Office, Public Health England,
                                                                 Metropolitan Police Service,
                                                                 National Fire Chiefs Council
     RG4       Overcoming the treatment gap in     £13k      3   WHO, Ministry of National
               perinatal depression in LMI                       Health Services (Pakistan)
               (Rahman;
               UoL51DepressionLMIC)




                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.6 Support for Interdisciplinary Research
 UoA4 is strongly interdisciplinary:
    (i)     Interdisciplinarity is embedded in our strategic priorities (Section 1.4) and reflected in
            the wide diversity of interdisciplinary collaborations on outputs (Section 4.1).
    (ii)    Collaboration across groups is facilitated by a broad base of methodological expertise,
            access to state-of-the-art research facilities, technical support, and internal pump-
            priming schemes (Section 3.4; Section 4.1.2)
    (iii)   A strongly embedded regional environment for clinical-academic collaboration is
            facilitated both by the Faculty Directorates and Liverpool Health Partners (Section
            4.1.2; and Figure 4.5).
    (iv)    Our interdisciplinary strategic priorities in digital technology (Figure 1.2, Strategic
            Priorities 1, 5-6) are supported by close links with the Liverpool Institute for Risk and
            Uncertainty (LIRU), Virtual Engineering Centre (VEC), Digital Innovation Facility (DIF),
            and the cross-Faculty Liverpool Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Food Systems
            (Section 4.1.3).
    (v)     Unit cohesion and vitality is supported by regular seminars and technical workshops
            publicised across departments, and broad staff involvement in local collaborative
            networks including the North West Coast Mental Health Research Network and the
            Liverpool Neuroscience Network (Sections 3-4).
 1.7 Open Research Environment
 We are committed to an Open Access (OA) environment. UoA4 delivers on the UoL OA
 Publication Policy (REF5a, Section 2.5) - author accepted manuscripts and gold OA papers are
 deposited to the UoL repository within 3 months of acceptance. OA costs are supported by a
 UKRI Block Grant (UoA4 £229k for 156 articles since 2014). Staff are encouraged to place pre-
 prints and underpinning data in appropriate repositories (eg., bioRxiv) and an Institutional
 Repository is provided to facilitate open access to articles, databases, and other outputs. UoA4
 subscribes to the University Research Data Management policy, showing our commitment to
 maintaining the highest standards of rigour and integrity in research. All UoA4 Principal
 Investigators with UKRI grants complete data management plans (DMP) prior to the
 commencement of research projects.
 1.8 Research Governance and Integrity
 We maintain exceptional standards of rigour and integrity in research. UoL follows the Concordat
 to Research Integrity and is one of the first members of the UK Reproducibility Network (UKRN).
 All research is subject to the UoL Research Data Management Policy that requires that data
 storage meets GDPR, governance and ethical standards. FHLS has a robust system of ethics
 governance overseen by the Faculty Research and Impact Directorate. UoL provides online
 research ethics and integrity training by the Epigeum Consortium, and this is mandatory for all
 academics, research staff, and PGR students. All projects involving clinical populations are
 subject to NHS REC approval. Research involving human participants must confirm to the ethical
 guidelines of the British Psychological Society and Declaration of Helsinki.




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People
 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 2.1.1 Staffing Strategy Overview
 We recognise that people are our most important asset, which is reflected in our strategy to foster
 a fair, inclusive, and supportive research environment for all staff and students at every career
 stage, underpinned by core values of transparency, diversity, and equality (for UoA4 staff
 demographic profiles (Section 2.4.1).
 2.1.2 Recruitment, Retention and Succession Planning
 Our approach to recruitment is guided by our research and impact strategy (Section 1) which is
 used to target appointments to priority areas. Equality, Diversity, and Inclusivity are embedded at
 all stages in our planning, recruitment, and staff development structures (Section 2.4), and we
 are committed to supporting ECR appointment (Section 2.1.3), and staff career development
 across all academic grades (Section 2.2). To support vitality and sustainability we appointed 24
 new academic staff over the REF period (42% female), including 11 ECRs and 2 strategic
 Professorial appointments (Leek - Cognitive Neuroscience, Poptani - Pre-Clinical Imaging). New
 appointees comprise 40% of the total Cat1A staff FTE, and represent a net staff increase of 17
 new staff vs leavers since 2014. Retention is underpinned by state-of-the-art research facilities
 (Section 3.4), an inclusive and supportive working environment, staff development structures
 (Section 2.2.1), and transparent criterion-based processes for promotion (Section 2.2.2).
 Succession planning is achieved by ensuring that staff are provided with opportunities to acquire
 research, administrative and leadership skills, through a range of mechanisms including senior
 academic mentoring within research groups, the PDR process, and professional development
 training provided by the University of Liverpool Staff Development Academy (Section 2.2.3;
 REF5a).
 2.1.3 Support for New Staff and Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
 We recognise the importance of ECRs to the vitality and sustainability of the discipline. Our staffing
 policy is fully aligned with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 (Section 2.2.3). Its success is evidenced by the upward career trajectory of our 13 returned ECRs
 who have gained external grant awards totalling £4.5M (~£350k/FTE), and generated ~300
 outputs. We recognise fellowships as an important route of support for our most promising
 ECRs and have adopted the Tenure Track Fellowship (TTF) Scheme. TTFs are five-year
 appointments (3+2) with formal review in Year 3 to assess progress. A further two years of salary
 funding is available to provide further development opportunities towards tenure post Year 5.
 During the REF period UoA4 has appointed six ECRs under the TTF scheme, three of whom have
 already progressed to tenure. Two examples are presented below. Other strategies to retain and
 recruit promising ECRs include career development and mentoring schemes, preferential
 allocation of PGR students and travel funds, as well as pump-priming.


                   UoA4 ECR Case Study 1: Eric Robinson (PhD 2011)
                   Eric was appointed on a Wellcome Trust ISSF Tenure Track Research
                   Fellowship. He quickly established a successful research programme
                   investigating psychological influences on eating behaviour (>100 papers). He
                   was awarded a prestigious ESRC Future Leaders Award (£260k), and MRC
                   New Investigator Grant Award (£537k), and several accolades including the
                   Outstanding New Faculty Award (World Obesity Federation). Eric secured
                   tenure and was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2016. In 2019, Eric was
                   awarded an ERC Starter Grant (£1.7M) and promoted to Reader.




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                  UoA4 ECR Case Study 2: Suzi Gage (PhD 2015)
                  Appointed in 2017, Suzi developed a successful research programme on drug
                  use and addiction including >40 papers and a book (‘Say Why to Drugs’, 2020).
                  Following major grant awards (e.g., Cancer Research UK, £174k) Suzi was
                  awarded a Wellcome Trust Engagement Fellowship in 2019. She has an
                  outstanding track record of wider engagement, including public events on drug
                  use (e.g., Royal Institution, London; Bristol March for Science), and her own
                  science blog ‘Sifting the Evidence’ (>3.6M views between 2014-2018). Suzi
                  received the University Staff Award for ‘Outstanding Contribution to Public
                  Engagement’ (2018), and the AAAS ECR Award for Public Engagement
                  (2017). She was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2019.


 Other specific schemes to support ECRs (including PDRAs) include:
    • ECR leadership network: a community forum offered by each department, where ECRs
        and senior academics come together.
    • ECRs, PDRAs and new staff are embedded in a core research group coordinated by a
        senior member of staff to provide mentorship, support, advice on grant funding and
        publication strategies: 25% of research staff (in FHLS) are currently engaging with the UoL
        Mentoring Scheme of which 72% are ECRs; 615 outputs with PDRAs have been published
        over the REF period in UoA4, 24.5% with a PDRA first author.
    • ECRs benefit from reduced teaching and administrative workloads in the 1st year of
        appointment.
    • Internal funding support (£2k/pa x 3 years) for ECRs and new staff to facilitate lab set-up,
        travel, and networking (other internal pump-priming schemes are also available (Section
        3).
    • Development of a Professional Development Plan with their mentors.
    • PDRA career development is supported by PROSPER, a unique UoL initiative (£4.4M
        UKRI RED Fund, see REF5a).
    • One-day Annual Research Conference in FHLS (44% increase in attendance in 2019
        compared to 2018).

 2.2 Staff Development, Promotion and Recognition
 2.2.1 Academic Staff Development
 We recognise the importance of supporting staff development across all academic grades. All staff
 complete an annual Professional Development Review (PDR), which is undertaken with a senior
 colleague. All PDR reviewers undergo formal training, and work with mentees to develop an
 annual development plan, and to identify support requirements. Its success is evidenced by the
 high level of staff engagement: PDR completion rates for UoA4 staff are >90% across all staff
 groups. Support can take a variety of forms including ensuring an appropriate workload balance
 is maintained (which allows for a 70:30 split between research and teaching for T&R staff),
 allowing for temporary reductions in normal teaching and administrative loads to provide additional
 time for preparing grant applications or completing major projects, and access to internal funds to
 support training, development, and networking events. Staff development is also supported
 centrally through the Academy (REF5a) who provide a broad range of academic development
 training programmes to support career progression.




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.2.2 Clinical-Academic Staff Development
 The Clinical Directorate coordinates training and career development for clinical academic and
 research staff (UoA4 = 8FTE). Delivery is facilitated by the Liverpool Integrated Clinical Academic
 Training (ICAT) team overseen by the recently appointed Director: Paul May. ICAT is based on a
 joint strategy developed by the University and key stakeholders including NIHR, Health Education
 England Northwest and NHS Teaching Trusts and focuses on academic foundation training,
 academic clinical fellows (ACFs), clinical PhDs and academic clinical lecturers (ACLs, who must
 hold a PhD on appointment). Specific support and mentoring are provided for each stage and
 progress is reviewed annually via academic and subsequent formal Annual Review of
 Competency Progression (ARCP). The academic ARCP that we have developed is considered an
 exemplar by Health Education England and is now being trialled in other locations. Clinical
 lecturers receive specific support through protected academic time and association with a
 successful research group that is overseen by the ICAT programme. Having identified the
 retention of talented ACLs to senior clinical academic posts as a priority, we have established a
 new post-CCT clinical fellowship scheme where the University and NHS co-fund fixed term (three-
 year) senior clinical fellowships. These fellowships are competitively offered at Consultant level to
 ACLs who are nearing completion of clinical training, and aim to support the development of
 externally funded, intermediate-level clinical fellowships that are precursors to applying for tenure.
 2.2.3 Technical Staff Development
 UoL is a signatory to the Science Council’s Technician Commitment that ensures greater visibility,
 recognition, career development and sustainability for technicians across all disciplines. The
 University has secured £25K for professional registration and training/development costs to
 support career development of UoL technicians and formal professional accreditation with the
 Science Council (Concordat Principles 3, 4, 5). This has been matched with a further £15K from
 FHLS. We are introducing a Research Scientist and Technologist Pathway to support the
 development of academic-related staff that manage our specialised research infrastructure and
 provide the data science capabilities that contribute to UoA4 activity, as well as providing a
 recognised pathway for career advancement. We have also developed a technical skills matrix
 that defines roles and drives training and development, upskilling our technical workforce and
 future proofing by identifying potential imminent skills gaps.
 2.2.4 Promotion and Recognition
 Promotion is criterion-based, accounting for contributions to research, teaching, and
 administration. To ensure fairness, consistency and transparency, applications are considered
 initially by an Institute senior academic management group comprising the Deans and Heads of
 Department. Supported applications up to Grade 9 are assessed internally at Faculty level. Grade
 10 (Reader/Professor) applications are assessed at the University Promotion Panel chaired by the
 VC. External evaluations are obtained in all cases from three independent referees. 48% of
 successful promotions (21 out of 44 in total) during the REF period were awarded to female staff,
 with some staff receiving more than one promotion (39% of UoA4 staff overall are female).
 Recognition of staff contributions is also achieved by the Annual University Staff Awards which
 includes specific categories for ‘Outstanding Contribution to Public Engagement’, ‘Research
 Impact of the Year’, and ‘Early Career Researcher of the Year’. Awards are presented by the VC
 at an annual all-staff formal dinner event funded by UoL. Staff contributions are also acknowledged
 in weekly departmental and institute-level newsletters and bulletins, and via departmental, and
 University news and social media platforms.
 2.2.5 Implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 UoL was awarded an HR Excellence in Research Award (2020) which reflects our commitment to
 the Concordat for supporting researchers, improving working conditions and career development
 opportunities. Strong leadership is key to the success of our strategy, which we obtain through the
 validated University Leadership Framework Programme undertaken by all Department and
 Institute Heads, helping them to manage effective teaching and research, mentorship, and staff
 appraisal, and to ensure equality in workload allocation (Concordat Principles 2-4, 6). Additional
 mentoring is available to all staff via the University Mentoring Network, comprising 457 FHLS staff.

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Targeted support for junior and fixed-term staff is provided via the Career Coaching Scheme which
 gives access to mentors with subject-specific experience (Concordat Principles 3-5).
 2.2.6 Research Leaves and Sabbaticals
 Staff applications for sabbaticals to support research activity are accommodated where possible,
 in line with University’s Academic Research and Leave of Absence policy. As part of which staff
 benefit from flexible employment arrangements for research engagement activities.
 2.2.7 Exchanges between academia and business, industry, or public sector bodies.
 Exchanges with non-academic partners are supported by the Knowledge Exchange and Impact
 Voucher Scheme (KE&I), Impact Acceleration Funds (IAA), and Knowledge Transfer Projects
 (KTP) that fund a postgraduate academic research associate to work in a company for a short
 period. Two of our TTFs were co-funded by industry (Section 4.2.2.).
 2.2.8 Recognition and Reward for Impact
 Our strategy for impact development support is described in Section 1.5. In addition, the value of
 impact contributions is formally acknowledged and rewarded in a variety of ways including through
 explicit recognition of impact contribution in staff promotion criteria, workload allocation, and
 events such as the Impact Matters Series (Section 1.3.1) and Annual UoL Staff Awards (Section
 2.2.2)

 2.3 Research Students
 2.3.1 Recruitment
 Over the current REF period, UoA4 registered 169.8FTE PGR students (167.2FTE PhD, 0.25FTE
 MD, 2.35FTE MPhil), comprising 63% female, 6% identifying as having a disability, and 36
 nationalities. 60% of our current PGR cohort are externally funded. Funders include: Wellcome
 Trust (11.25FTE), BBSRC (3.75 FTE), ESRC (18.45FTE), MRC (8.4FTE), EPSRC (2.3FTE), NHS
 (1.55FTE), charities (16.55FTE), Horizon 2020 Marie Slodowska-Curie Innovative Training
 Network (0.5FTE). 12.35FTE high-quality students have been recruited via the ESRC North West
 Doctoral Training Centre (NWDTC). Internally funded studentships are also awarded (e.g., via
 0.5FTE demonstrator posts, 28FTE - Section 2.2.5). To sustain and grow our research groups
 IPH provides match-funding of studentships. In the REF Period, we have provided £707k in PGR
 fees (85 students), and £893k in stipends (35 students).
 2.3.2 PGR Research Environment and Culture
 PGR students are integrated into a vibrant and supportive research environment. We foster a
 strong and integrated PGR culture by embedding all students within a research group (Table 1.1).
 Students are given diverse opportunities to participate in academic life including: the annual PGR
 conference, Institute PGR research and poster days, presentations at journal clubs and research
 group lab meetings. Presentations at national and international conferences are encouraged and
 funded through bench fees and competitive bursaries. Over the current REF period 1027 outputs
 have been published with a PGR author (~3 per registered student; 32% as first author). PGRs
 are involved in outreach activities including “Meet the Scientist” and “The Green Man Festival”
 (Section 4). These events provide networking opportunities with other researchers and help
 students develop communication skills.

 The Liverpool Doctoral College (LDC - see REF5a; Section 3.5) coordinates University doctoral
 training and development. Student progress is monitored through the PGR Development
 Programme, with all students attending at least one supervision meeting per month - overseen by
 the departmental PGR leads and Director of Postgraduate studies. Further progress monitoring
 and feedback is provided through the annual Independent Progress Assessment Panel (IPAP),
 comprising two senior academic staff. All supervisors have been trained through the Academy.
 We also offer a Buddy Scheme, which matches new students with those in the second year of
 their research degree, providing additional support and guidance from the student perspective.
 PGR students are also supported by a comprehensive training package of both generic and
 subject specific skills provided by the PGR development team, host department and the DTCs.

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our ESRC NWDTC pools expertise across three north west Universities in relevant disciplines,
 and students have access to a range of specialist modules and receive ‘hands-on’ methods
 training. Career guidance is delivered via the LDC, the host department EDI teams, and the
 student’s research group.
 2.3.3 Successful Completion
 Within UoA4 the vitality of our environment and PGR support is evidenced by the PGR completion
 rate, which has increased ~150% from 1.6 (REF2014) to 3.9 per returned staff FTE. During the
 current REF period 243.6FTE (264 students) PhDs have been awarded, a substantial increase in
 numbers since 2014 (Figure 1.4) which partly reflects the unit’s access to a wider range of doctoral
 training centres compared to 2014.This sustained growth also demonstrates the success of our
 PGR strategy, especially our increased success with UKRI doctoral training partnerships (DTPs)
 and reflects the strength of our recruitment strategy, our focus on PhD student development and
 wellbeing, and our progress monitoring process.

                                       60


                                       50
                PGR Completion (FTE)




                                       40


                                       30


                                       20


                                       10


                                       0
                                            2013/14   2014/15   2015/16   2016/17   2017/18   2018/19   2019/20


 Figure 1.4 Sustained growth in PGR awards in UoA4 from 2013/14 to 2019/20

 The 2017 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey showed 79% overall satisfaction for UoA4,
 comparable to the UoL average score of 78%. Across FHLS, 90% of PhD and MDs are employed,
 or in further study, after completion of their PGR programme.


 2.4 Equality, Diversity, Inclusion (EDI)
 2.4.1 Staff Profile
 UoA4 has 60FTEs comprised of 18 Professors, 7 Readers, 19 Senior Lecturers, 16 Lecturers, 1
 Research Fellow, including 13 ECRs. The unit is 39% female (33% REF2014), 8% BAME (no
 change), has 26% non-UK nationals (11% REF2014), and 8% part-time (3% REF2014). Table 2.1
 shows the distribution of Cat1A staff by gender and academic grade. Notable is the increase in
 the proportion of female staff across all senior grades.




                                                                                                                  Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                                                 Job Title Category
                Research                               Senior
                                   Lecturer                             Reader         Professor
                 Fellow                               Lecturer
              Male   Female     Male    Female     Male     Female    Male   Female   Male   Female
  REF2014
               <5      <5       13%       13%      11%          11%   <5      <5      36%      <5
  REF2021
              0%       2%       16%       10%      13%          18%   11%     2%      21%      8%
 Table 2.1 E&D data comparing UoA4 REF2014 to REF2021 across academic grade.


 2.4.2 EDI and Preparation of the REF Submission
 The UoL REF Code of Practice has been incorporated into every stage of UoA4’s submission. To
 ensure an inclusive process for output selection we ensure that EDI considerations transparently
 underpin our processes including diversity of the reading panel, involving all staff (including ECRs)
 in output rating; continuous monitoring for any bias in proposed returns; feedback to staff; and
 mandatory EDI and bias training (94% of UoA4 Cat1A staff have completed an ‘Introduction to
 Diversity and Equality’ training).

 2.5 Engagement and Delivery
 2.5.1 Athena SWAN
 UoL is a signatory to the Athena SWAN Charter, obtaining a Silver Award in 2016. UoA4 staff are
 drawn from 4 institutes with Athena SWAN Awards: 1 x GOLD, 2 x SILVER and 1 x BRONZE.
 Strategies and programmes have been put in place to support the recruitment and development
 of female research leaders, including gender neutrality in recruitment and staff development.
 Focussed support is provided by the Springboard Programme and the Aurora Women in
 Leadership Programme to facilitate the transition of fixed-term staff to more senior roles
 (Concordat Principles 3,4,5,6). The University supports several networks which promote and
 celebrate women in STEM subjects, including a female ECR Network and the Liverpool Women
 in Science and Engineering Society. FHLS has also financially supported national organisations
 such as the Women-in-Vision-UK network. We continually monitor equality in the context of staff
 promotion outcomes (Table 2.1).
 2.5.2 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusivity (EDI) Initiatives
 UoL has formalised its commitment to EDI through membership of the following charters: Athena
 SWAN Charter; Bambis Breastfeeding Mayoral Charter; Disability Confident; Stonewall Diversity
 Champion, Time to Change and moving to Level 2 Disability Confident. UoL also support various
 networks to address EDI issues: Black & Minority Ethnic Staff Network (8% of UoA4 staff have
 self-identified), the Disabled Staff network, the Female Early Career Researcher Network,
 Liverpool Women in Science and Engineering Society (LivWiSE) and the LGBT Network (REF5a,
 Section 3.2). During the current REF period, UoA4 has established EDI Teams (EDIT) at
 department level, comprising academic, professional services staff and students, including both
 permanent and fixed-term staff. The Departmental EDI leads also sit on Institute-level EDI
 Committees - which report directly to the Institute Leadership Teams. EDI leads are also
 embedded in academic recruitment panels and the EDI team also oversees the professional and
 personal development of staff and Wellbeing Initiatives (Section 2.5.5). Project RISE (Research
 in an Inclusive and Sustainable Environment) is another new UoL initiative to understand and
 mitigate the effects of the COVID pandemic, and other factors (Brexit, UK R&D policy) on equality,
 inclusivity, and diversity for research staff (REF5a, Section 3.3.3).




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.5.3 Accessibility
 During the REF period, UoL has undertaken major programmes of investment in building
 accessibility. A disability access guide to campus is available on the UoL website, in addition to a
 list of accessible toilets, showers, parking bays and gender-neutral facilities. Departments appoint
 an academic disability lead to advise on accessibility and disability issues. The Computer Services
 Department provides a range of accessibility software and hardware for staff and students with
 disability issues.
 2.5.4 Employment Flexibility and Support
 To support return-to-work after long-term leave (e.g. maternity, sickness), UoL has introduced a
 range of family-friendly options including (see also REF5a): (i) A flexible working policy allowing
 individuals to vary or adjust their working pattern based on personal circumstances, including
 opportunities to work from home (5 UoA4 staff have temporarily or permanently adjusted their
 work patterns due to personal reasons); (ii) £5K of flexible funding is available on application to
 support research following return to work; (iii) Family Friendly Advisors (10 in FHLS) and support
 networks including the Carer’s Network, Parent’s Network and ECR Network provide information,
 guidance and mentoring for staff. The success of these initiatives is supported by our 100% return-
 to-work rate after maternity leave (N=7 UoA4 staff).
 2.5.5 Wellbeing
 The UoL annual Wellbeing Week provides an opportunity for staff and students to take part in a
 variety of activities aimed at boosting health and wellbeing. UoL offers a range of services to
 support wellbeing (e.g., the Mentoring Scheme, Wellbeing Advisors, and the Employee Assistance
 Programme) all of which are underpinned by a network of resources available on the Wellbeing
 Hub, including the Student Counselling Service, Mental Health Advisory Service, daily Wellbeing
 Drop-in sessions, Disability Advice and Guidance, and the Liverpool Guild of Students Advice
 Service. The Liverpool Doctoral College (LDC) supports all PGR, providing a dedicated team of
 supervisors, professional services staff, and student peers.

 New initiatives developed from the OfS funded PGR Mental Health and Wellbeing Catalyst Project
 (2018-20), with support from the FHLS’ PGR Hub and the LDC, have now been rolled out across
 the University. The project aimed to better understand the prevalence of poor PGR mental health
 and wellbeing and in response developed new interventions including a Peer Wellbeing
 Ambassador programme, of which there are now 19 ambassadors within FHLS and an online
 training module for supervisors on PGR mental health which is now compulsory for all supervisors.




                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities
 3.1 Research funding
 During the current REF period UoA4 staff have contributed towards 373 grants with a total award
 value of £60.2M (equivalent to £1M per returned FTE; average annual grant expenditure of £143k
 per eligible FTE). Income has increased 22% from the start of the REF period totalling ~£37.3M
 of accrued income (cf. £15M REF2014).

  Source of Funds                   Total
  Research Councils               £11,975,598
  Health research funding          £5,293,855
  bodies
  UK govt/LAs/health               £4,574,753
  UK charities (competitive)       £4,426,725
  Non-EU other                     £3,998,954
  EU govt bodies                   £2,481,092
  UK industry                      £1,819,576
  UK charities (other)               £976,223
  UK other                           £708,759
  EU industry                        £508,231
  Non-EU industry                    £473,574
  EU other                           £124,101
                                  £37,361,441

 Figure 3.1 UoA4 distribution of accrued grant income by funder type

 PI UKRI grant application success rate is 46%, exceeding the national average of 26%. The
 vitality and sustainability of our income base is evidenced by the diversity of the funding portfolio
 (Figure 3.1) with UoA4 grant awards from over 100 different funders. This includes 17 awards
 with a total award value exceeding £1M (Figure 3.2).




 Figure 3.2 UoA4 distribution of grant awards by value




                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 3.1 Examples of large grant awards for UoA4

 Project              Description                                     Funder      Award
                                                                                  Value
 Children Growing     Birth cohort involving over 10,000 new-         Wellcome    £5.2M
 Up in Liverpool      borns across the Liverpool region. C-GULL       Trust
 (C-GULL)             underpins our strategic programme of
                      interdisciplinary longitudinal research
                      investigating determinants of health and
                      wellbeing in children and their families, and
                      the development/evaluation of public
                      health interventions.
 Applied              61 regional HEI, NHS, charity, government,      NIHR        £9M
 Research             and social care partner consortium
 Collaboration        supporting UoA4 work in physical and
 North West Coast     mental health.
 Centre for           A collaborative centre-of-excellence            ESRC        £3.9M
 Language and         involving Liverpool, Manchester and
 Communicative        Lancaster, LuCiD aims to understand child
 Development          language acquisition and to design and
 (LuCiD)              evaluate effective interventions in
                      education and healthcare.
 Sweeteners and       SWEET - leading a consortium of 29 pan-         EU/H2020    €9M
 sweetness            European research, consumer, and
 enhancers:           industry partners. SWITCH - (renewed until      Industry    £3.2M
 Impact on health,    2023 with additional industry funding) to
 obesity, safety      develop/evaluate benefits and risks of
 and                  sweeteners and sweetness enhancers for
 sustainability’      public health and obesity.
 (SWEET/SWITCH)
 The Refugee          RE-DEFINE (ERC) development/                    EU/H2020    €2.9M
 Emergency:           evaluation of interventions for mental
 DEFining and         health in refugees and asylum seekers           ESRC/GCRF   £1.1M
 implementing         resettled in middle and high-income
 novel evidence-      countries. COSTAR - community-based
 based                interventions for depression in Ugandan
 psychosocial         and Rwandan refugees.
 interventions
 (RE-DEFINE) and
 COSTAR
 ENHANCE: NIHR        Development/evaluation of the WHO               NIHR        £3M
 Research and         adopted CBT-based ‘Thinking Healthy
 Innovation for       Programme’. Digital application for lay
 Global Health        therapists in South Asia.
 Transformation
 Programme
 COVID-CNS            National cohort study of the neurological,      MRC/UKRI-   £2.3M
 (Clinical            neuropsychiatric, and cognitive sequelae of     DHSC
 Neuroscience         SARS-COV-2 (COVID-19). Multi-site
 Study)               consortium jointly led by UoL and KCL.




                                                                                    Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Strategies for Generating Income
 Our successful strategy for generating and sustaining income is based on:
    (i)    Strategically driven investment in high-calibre staff appointments into core areas of
           research strength (Section 2).
    (ii)   Thematic priorities defined by an interdisciplinary UoA4 Research and Impact
           Strategy that aligns with regional, national, and international funding priorities
           (Section 1.4).
    (iii)  Major investment in state-of-the-art research infrastructure (Section 3.3.2), and
           provision of internal pump-priming and technical support (e.g., Translational Research
           Access Programme (TRAP: UoA4 £162k), Shared Research Facility (SRF) access
           awards (TD Vouchers: UoA4 £49k; Sections 3.3 & 3.4); Wellcome Trust ISSF (Non-
           Clinical Fellow Support, Equality and Diversity Fund, Public Engagement Award:
           UoA4 ~£91k), MRC (Confidence in Concept Awards: UoA4 £77.5k; Proximity to
           Discovery Awards: UoA4 £1.3k).
    (iv)   Provision of internal support for grant development at departmental level by
           embedding staff within strong research groups to provide mentoring and peer review,
           and access to grant writing support and training through the Faculty Peer Review
           College/FHLS Research and Impact Directorate.
    (v)    Well-established regional research networks (e.g., N8, ARCNWC, NHSA, Liverpool
           Health Partners, North West Coast Mental Health Research Network, Liverpool
           Neuroscience Group) (Section 4) providing a platform for collaborative large multi-
           centre grant bids, engagement, and knowledge exchange.
    (vi)   Clinical-academic collaboration facilitated by Liverpool Health Partners and SPARK
           (‘Single Point of Access to Research and Knowledge’) (Section 4.1.2).
    (vii) Ensuring support for grant development on return-to-work through our EDI Strategy
           (e.g., reduced teaching and administrative workload, mentoring and preferential
           access to pump-priming/PGR studentships) (Section 2).

 3.3 Infrastructure and Facilities
 3.3.1 Organisational Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact
 Support is coordinated at Faculty-level via four cross-cutting directorates (Figure 1.1). Three
 directorates directly support research and impact activity: (i) Research and Impact Directorate:
 Coordinates Faculty research and impact strategy, including PGR support, ethics, internal and
 external funding schemes, and the Research Support Office (pre- and post-award finance) and
 specialist professional support for peer review; demand management; contracts, and legal
 guidance; (ii) Clinical Directorate: Coordinates clinical-academic research activity and NHS
 partnerships (Section 1.3.1), including career development, progression and job planning for
 clinical-academic researchers; (iii) The Infrastructure and Environment Directorate, which
 oversees the Technology Directorate (TD) comprising state-of-the-art specialist bioscience
 Liverpool Shared Research Facilities (LIV-SRF) (Section 3.4.1). Access to TD facilities is
 facilitated by the TD Voucher Scheme which provides pump-prime funding for early-stage projects,
 and access to dedicated in-house technical support. Over the current REF period, UoA4 staff have
 benefitted from 13 TD Voucher awards (£49k). (iv) FHLS also coordinates provision of 10.5FTE
 of dedicated pre- and post-award support staff who are embedded in each Institute, and work to
 assist grant applicants and award holders. Pre-award activities include horizon scanning, peer
 review, supporting bid development and providing specialist funder knowledge. Post-award
 activities include project management support, and health checks on live awards. FHLS also has
 4.0FTE Impact Officers providing specialist support to PIs to maximise research impact.
 3.3.2 Infrastructure Investment
 Over the current REF period, UoA4 has directly benefitted from £11.4M of investment in buildings,
 laboratory space and equipment. Highlights include:
     • £1M investment in the Brain and Behaviour Laboratory in Psychology - including
        installation of a state-of-the-art high density (128-channel) open access EEG facility.


                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Ongoing University funded £1.6M refurbishment of the main Psychology building and
        laboratory spaces.
    •   £1.8M upgrades and refurbishment to Liverpool Magnetic Resonance Imaging Centre
        (LiMRIC) including the acquisition of a new Siemens Prisma 3T MRI scanner.
    •   Refurbishment of the Sherrington Building (£7M) to provide a modern hub for laboratory-
        based biomedical research including our neuroinflammation/brain infection,
        neuropharmacology, and neurodegeneration research groups (Nuffield Wing).

 Vitality and sustainability have also benefitted indirectly from ~£1.2bn in research and clinical-
 academic infrastructure investment across the University and city region, including:
     • ‘Institute in the Park’ (£260M) at the new Alder Hey Children’s Hospital to create a
          multidisciplinary environment for child health clinical researchers, child healthcare
          professionals and biotechnology companies (RG4, RG5).
     • £12.7M for the new Digital Innovation Facility (DIF) which includes Robotics and Virtual
          Reality labs supporting collaborations between Engineering, Computer Science and
          Human/Life/Perception sciences and our strategic priorities in digital innovation.
     • New £335M Royal Liverpool University Hospital (RG4), £25M Life Sciences Accelerator
          to support industry collaborations, and the £600M Liverpool City Council development of
          the Liverpool Knowledge Quarter – bringing together key stakeholders (HEIs, NHS,
          industry) across the region to foster new collaborative partnerships and innovation
          including themes in Health and Life Sciences, Digital Technology, Infection and Disease,
          and funding of the Liverpool Science Park, Bio-Innovation Hub and Paddington Village.

 Together, this investment will result in co-location of clinically focused activity comprising
 academics, NHS partners and biotechnology companies to produce one of Europe’s largest
 biomedical campuses.

 3.4 Research Facilities
 3.4.1 Research Labs and Infrastructure
 UoA4 is also supported by a wide range of state-of-the-art facilities and research infrastructure
 (see Tables 3.2-3.4):


 Table 3.2 UoA4 Psychology Labs

 Facility                     Description                                              Research
                                                                                       Group
 Brain and Behaviour Lab Incorporates state-of-the-art facilities, flexible testing    1,2,4,5
                         spaces and a fully shielded high-density 128-channel
                         EEG system.
 Eating and Drinking Lab Purpose built facility incorporating onsite kitchen for        1
                         food preparation and drinking laboratory with a mock
                         bar/pub interior.
 Child Development Lab        Specialist facilities for behavioural and language        2,3,4
                              research with children including child-friendly labs and
                              carer areas.
 Clinical Testing Facility    On-site facilities for research with clinical populations 1,2,4,5
                              (e.g., clinical neuropsychology, mental health, obesity,
                              addiction).
 Psychophysics Labs           Virtual reality (VR), desktop and portable eye            2,3,4,5
                              tracking, acoustic analysis suite, HDR displays,
                              motion tracking and haptic sensing.




                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 3.3 Shared Research Facilities (SRFs)
 Facility                   Description                                                  Research
                                                                                         Group
 Imaging and Brain        3T Siemens Prisma scanner and 2.0FTE of dedicated              1,2,4,5
 Stimulation – Liverpool  in-house radiography and technical support, near infra-
 Magnetic Resonance       red spectroscopy (NIRS), brain stimulation (TMS/tDCS
 Imaging Centre (LiMRIC)  -Walton Imaging Centre)
 Centre for Genomics      Next-generation gene sequencing and informatics           2,5
 Research                 infrastructure including Illumina NovaSeq 6000, PacBio
                          Sequel II, and 10X Genomics Chromium.
 Centre for Pre-Clinical Bruker 9.4T MRI scanner provides access to state-of-      5
 Imaging                  the-art MR imaging. Offers one of the most
                          comprehensive and sensitive ranges of small animal
                          imaging modalities available nationally (ultrasound,
                          PET/SPECT/CT, opto-acoustic MSOT, and IVIS
                          fluorescence and bioluminescence imaging).
 Liverpool/Walton         16 NHS REC approved Research Tissue Banks and            5
 Biobanks                 ~400 biological collections of human samples totaling
                          ~1 million stored samples. Walton Neurology Research
                          Tissue Bank (~2,500 brain-derived samples).
 Centre for Cell Imaging  State-of-the-art cell and tissue imaging and cytometry   5
                          facilities. Centre for Cell Imaging provides a focal
                          point for advice, training, and imaging provision with 7
                          confocal microscopes including Light-sheet, AFM, and
                          Photothermal microscopes. Cell Sorting Facility offers
                          up to 15 parameter fluorescence-activated cell sorting
                          (FACS) and the first Helios Mass Cytometer to be
                          installed in the UK.
 Centre for Computational Offers specialized computing and statistical expertise   5
 Biology                  to provide bespoke bioinformatics solutions and
                          training for integrating and analyzing all types of data
                          generated by our omics platforms.
 Centre for Proteome      Operates 12 state-of-the-art mass spectrometry           5
 Research                 platforms that support identification and quantification
                          of proteins and their modifications from a wide range of
                          biological samples.



 Table 3.4 UoA4 Clinical and Technology Research Facilities
 Facility                  Description                                                   Research
                                                                                         Group
 Liverpool Clinical        A fully integrated trials unit that collaborates with local   1,2,3,5
 Trials Centre (LCTC)      and national investigators in all aspects of RCT design.
                           Links to the MRC-funded North West Hub for Trial
                           Methodology Research (NWHTMR) and its successor,
                           the MRC/NIHR Trials Methodology Research
                           Partnership.

 Single Point of Access    Newly established to facilitate clinical-academic             1,2,3,5
 to Research and           research, providing pre- and post-award support,
 Knowledge (SPARK)         clinical-academic contracts/collaboration, joint access to
                           HEI/NHS Trust research infrastructure, research ethics
                           and governance support.



                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Facility                   Description                                                  Research
                                                                                         Group
 Virtual Engineering        Delivers solutions to industry, the public sector and        1, 2
 Centre (VEC)               healthcare partners by innovative digital designs. The
                            VEC’s multidisciplinary team has expertise across
                            engineering, computer science, perception, data
                            analytics, immersive visualisation, and manufacturing
                            technology.
 Digital Innovation         A new £12.7M inter-disciplinary facility bringing together   1,2
 Facility (DIF)             expertise in computer science, robotics, engineering,
                            and immersive visualisation, to enable collaborative
                            R&D and support businesses linked to digital
                            technologies.

 3.5 Library and Research Computing Infrastructure
 UoL provides access to journals via the JISC Collections Journal Agreements. UoA4 is supported
 by subject-specific specialist access to a comprehensive range of academic journals, books,
 periodicals, and databases. Liverpool Elements software, the Library Research Data Management
 service, and its Research Support Officers, coordinate long-term research data management and
 support staff with OA and regulatory compliance. UoL has recently invested £10M in a new primary
 state-of-the-art campus data centre providing centrally managed space to house project-specific
 hardware and works closely with Net North West which manages our wide area network
 connections and our high-speed resilient links to JANET. Our researchers have free access to the
 High Throughput Computing service (HTC), and High-Performance Computing (HPC) capabilities
 via a central computing cluster. Our recently appointed, inaugural Head of Research Computing
 for FHLS (Gannon) is now building a Faculty-wide Research Computing strategy, investment plan
 and service delivery roadmap to enhance provision in the coming years and thus support our
 strategic objective of growing our data science capabilities.




                                                                                               Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society
 4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 UoA4 staff have extensive collaborative networks and partnerships. This is evidenced in several
 ways, including:

    •   High proportions of national (38.7%) and international (41.4%) collaborations on multi-
        author research outputs.
    •   Broad range of subject diversity of UoA4 interdisciplinary projects (Figure 4.1), and both
        international (Table 4.1; Figure 4.2) and national (Figure 4.3) collaborations on outputs.
    •   Diversity of PGR training partnerships including: 5 national doctoral training networks, EU
        Horizon training network, and 14 international networks including our partners in India
        (NIMHANS) and Japan (Riken) (Section 2.3).




 Figure 4.1 Topic analysis for all UoL UoA4 publications in the REF period (Source: SciVal). Each
 dot represents a distinct Scival topic in which we have published; dot size indicates our number of
 publications in that topic.


 Table 4.1 Global distribution of international research collaborations on UoA4 outputs by continent
 (% of co-authorship on all outputs 2014-2020).


                           Continent               % Co-authorship

                           Europe                         48%
                           North America                  19%
                           Asia                           18%
                           Australia                      9%
                           Africa                         4%
                           South America                  3%




                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 4.2 Global distribution of international research collaborations on UoA4 outputs (% of co-
 authorship on all outputs 2014-2020).




 Figure 4.3. National distribution of UK research collaborations on UoA4 outputs (% of co-
 authorship on all outputs 2014-2020). The size of spots reflects the percentage of papers affiliated
 with a town/city. Red spots are the top 20 collaborating locations (excluding Liverpool).


                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.1.1 Enabling and facilitating collaborations
 Strategies to promote collaboration with external HEIs, clinical and industrial partners are
 coordinated by the UoL Research, Partnerships, and Innovation Directorate (RPI). RPI provides
 expertise in knowledge exchange, governance, and Intellectual Property. Support covers project
 management for large bids, peer review, expertise on impact and knowledge exchange, scoping
 events, and pump-priming. Available collaborative pump-priming schemes include: Overseas
 Development Agency Seed Fund (ODA) providing up to £10K for research in low-to-middle income
 countries); the Enterprise Investment Fund, the Industrial Strategy Fund and Knowledge
 Exchange and Impact Vouchers (Section 1.5). UoL recently led a successful £3.5M grant from
 UKRI (worth £4.4m in total with partner institutions in Lancaster and Manchester) for a major
 strategic project, PROSPER to develop and enhance ECR career development, networks, and
 collaborative opportunities.
 4.1.2 Facilitating clinical-academic collaborations
 Clinical-academic collaborations are supported by a well-developed environment for engagement
 with NHS partners coordinated regionally by Liverpool Health Partners (a regional consortium
 with 9 local NHS Trusts and 4 regional HEIs (Figure 4.5).
 Figure 4.5 Liverpool Health Partners. Collaborations with UoA4 research groups (RGs - see
 Table 1.1) are highlighted.




 Our region has the most specialist NHS trusts outside London. RGs in UoA4 work closely with
 trusts spanning specialist NHS services in mental health, eating disorders, child health and
 neurology (Figure 4.5): Mersey Care, Cheshire and Wirral Partnership, Liverpool University
 Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (Aintree University Hospital, Broadgreen Hospital, Royal
 Liverpool University), Alder Hey and Walton (the largest specialist neurology service outside of
 London). In addition, clinical-academic collaboration in UoA4 benefits from direct involvement
 with:
    •   Northern Health Science Alliance (NHSA) - facilitating clinical-academic collaboration
        across the north of England involving 10 NHS Trusts, 10 HEIs and four Academic Health
        Science Networks (UoA4: Appetite, Obesity & Addiction, Mental Health, Neuroscience).
    •   North West Coast Mental Health Research Network bringing together academic and
        clinical expertise in mental health across regional HEIs and NHS trusts. This network
        facilitates new collaboration and serves as a platform for major regional bids for mental
        health research in our key priority areas (Section 1.4).
    •   Applied Research Collaboration North West Coast (ARCNW, NIHR, £9M, 2019-2024)
        - bringing together 61 health and social care partners (CCGs, borough councils, NHS
        Trusts, charities and third sector organisations) across the region to foster research
        collaboration and improve service delivery.
    •   North West Coast Clinical Research Network – NIHR funded network comprising 41
        NHS partners (22 NHS Trust and 19 CCGs) facilitating NHS/academic collaboration on

                                                                                          Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        treatments and care pathways in speciality therapy areas supporting UoA4 work in mental
        health, addiction, and neurological disorders.
    •   Cross-cutting expertise in UoA4 spanning seven academic departments (Section 1.1),
        and further collaborative expertise in Health Data Science and Biostatistics, Public Health
        Systems & Policy.
    •   Liverpool Clinical Trials Centre - a single, fully integrated CTU (Section 3.4.1).
    •   Liverpool Centre for Alcohol Research (LCAR) – supporting addiction research in RG1
    •   Centre of Excellence in Infectious Disease Research (CEIDR) – an interdisciplinary
        centre that coordinates work on infectious disease across UoL, Liverpool School of
        Tropical Medicine (LSTM), NHS Trusts and industry partners (UoA4 Neuroscience - brain
        infection and neuroinflammation).

 4.1.3 Facilitating non-clinical research collaborations
 Non-clinical collaborations underpin our interdisciplinary strategic priorities in translating discovery
 science to innovations in digital technology, engineering, security, and public safety (Figure 1.2,
 Strategic Priorities (SP) 1, 5 & 6). Key partner organisations include:

     • Liverpool Institute for Risk and Uncertainty (LIRU) – located within the Faculty of
       Science and Engineering (FSE), the LIRU brings together interdisciplinary expertise to
       understand, and develop techniques to improve, psychological processes involved in
       responding to critical and major incidents (UoA4: Alison, Waring)
    • Virtual Engineering Centre (VEC) – located at Sci-Tech Daresbury, the VEC collaborated
       with UoA4 (Meyer) on STRIVE – an innovative £3.3M government (BEIS) funded project
       to development new training processes for vehicle manufacturing, using multi-sensory
       virtual reality environments. This project resulted in a successful ESRC CASE studentship
       with Bentley/Jaguar and an Impact Case in Engineering (UoA12).
    • Digital Innovation Facility (DIF) – located within the FSE, the DIF will play a vital role in
       supporting UoA4 strategic priorities around digital technology (Figure 1.2, SPs 1 & 5).
 4.2 Engagement and Impact
 4.2.1 Strategic National and International Networks Supporting Impact
 UoA4 staff are involved in several major national and international collaborative networks that
 support our impact case studies. These include:

    •   National Institute for Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) - a major national
        institution located in Bangalore, India. We benefit from a joint UoL-NIHMANS PhD
        Programme. Our collaboration with NIMHANS has supported grant funding via GCRF and
        the Newton Fund, and our work on mental health interventions in low- and middle-income
        countries (impact case UoL51DepressionLMIC).
    •   N8 Research Partnership plays a key strategic role supporting our work in Appetite,
        Obesity & Addiction. Its mission is to integrate universities, industry, and society to
        maximise the impact of research, promote collaboration and deliver innovative research
        capabilities. It is funded by HEFCE (£8M) with a further £1M investment being provided by
        each partner (impact case UoL52Foodadvertising).
    •   Better Policing Collaborative (Liverpool, Nottingham, Birmingham, Derby, Manchester,
        Suffolk; Skills for Justice; 13 police forces) directly supports our research and impact work
        in preventing child sexual exploitation and improving critical incident decision making and
        communication. Jointly funded by HEFCE and College of Policing (£1.1M), its mission is
        to build a sustainable system for understanding, critiquing, and using evidence to inform
        police practice and improve public safety (impact cases UoL61Indecent images and
        UoL62Decisionmaking).
    •   NIHR North West Stroke Research Network (Liverpool, Lancaster, Central Lancashire,
        Manchester), (impact case UoL81StrokeVision).



                                                                                                 Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.2.2 Engagement with Industry
 The total UoA4 consultancy income for the REF period amounted to £399k. 58% of UoA4 staff
 have undertaken industry engagement roles (e.g., advisory, consulting), and we have developed
 several major industrial partnerships generating £4.2M industry-related grant funding since 2014.
 Examples include: (i) a longstanding strategic partnership with Unilever supporting translational
 research in the field of sensory and cognitive neuroscience, including projects on the neural
 correlates of consumer behaviour and reward mechanisms. This partnership has generated
 inward investment from Unilever of ~£650K, including two TTFs (Roberts and Fallon, now
 appointed as lecturers in UoA4), an EPSRC case studentship and has contributed to the
 establishment of the new Brain and Behaviour Laboratory (Section 3); (ii) The Virtual
 Engineering Centre (VEC –Section 3.4.1 and 4.1.3) provides an interface between UoL (UoA4:
 Meyer) and industry (iii) the partnership with Genuity supports clinical genetics research in our
 neuroscience group in Parkinson’s Disease (Quinn); (iv) understanding behavioural aspects of
 skin appearance, body image, and appetite & obesity for product development (Unilever, PZ
 Cussons, Californian Prune Board, Coca-Cola, Danone, Heinz, Sony, Tate & Lyle, Weight
 Watchers).
 4.2.3 Research Consortia and Networks
 UoA4 staff are actively involved in a wide range of national and international networks and
 consortia. Examples include: Rurban Revolution (Hardman); UK Centre for Tobacco and Alcohol
 Studies (AKTAS, Rose); CALIBRATE – network for alcohol research (Cooke); International
 Multisensory Research Forum (Meyer, Bertamini); Visual Image Interpretation in Humans and
 Machines (VIIHM), an EPSRC research network to foster interdisciplinary research between
 biological and machine vision researchers and industry (Leek, Wuerger); British and Irish
 Orthoptic Society Research Network, Council for Allied Health Professions Research, Norway
 Vision in Stroke Network (Rowe); N8 Policing Partnership, Better Policing Collaborative (Alison,
 Waring); UKRI-CLOSER Network for UK’s longitudinal studies (Sharp); National Network for
 Developing Healthcare Technologies for Mental Health (Brown); Mental Health Innovations
 Network (White); North West Coast Mental Health Research Network. EPi25 (Marson) - epilepsy
 genetics; ENIGMA - Epilepsy Consortium (Keller, Marson); International Parkinson Disease
 Genomics Consortium (Quinn); Motor Neuron Disease Genomic consortia (ProjectMinE)
 (Quinn); Liverpool Neuroscience Group (Quinn, Leek, Marson, Meyer); International League
 Against Epilepsy Consortium on Complex Epilepsies (Marson, Mirza); Epi4k (Marson); EPiPGX
 (Marson); Cochrane Epilepsy Group (Marson Coordinating Editor); COVID-CNS (Clinical
 Neuroscience Science) Consortia (Leek).
 4.2.4 Impact on Health, Society and Security
 Our research has wide regional, national, and international impact on health, society, and
 security. Key highlights include: (i) development of evidence-based guidelines for TV food
 advertisement (Impact Case: Boyland); (ii) impact on policy and practice is achieved through
 National and International clinical advisory, training and guidance development roles and
 activities, e.g. contract with Health Education England to deliver specialist National Perinatal
 Continuing Professional Development program for qualified Clinical Psychologists (Sharp and
 Slade); (iii) Management of post-stroke visual impairment (Impact Case: Rowe); (iv)
 engagement with Alcohol Research UK and LCAR to improve the dissemination of alcohol-
 related research to the public (Rose); (v) VR exposure therapy for phobias (Alder Hey; TRAP;
 Meyer); (vi) work with national and international criminal justice systems (Impact Cases: Alison,
 Waring); (vi) mental health interventions in low- and middle-income countries (Impact Case:
 Rahman); and pharmacological interventions for epilepsy (Marson).
 4.3 Wider Contributions to Society
 FHLS coordinates and supports Public Engagement training events for staff and students
 including designing hands-on activities and communication workshops. The FHLS Public
 Engagement Grant Scheme (max £2k) is open to all staff and PGR students and each year FHLS
 awards between £10-14K. UoA4’s prior grant success includes a two-day workshop open to the
 public: "How to create visual illusions" (Bertamini) and working with an artist to present parenting

                                                                                              Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 challenges in storybook form (Centifanti). Gage was recipient of the University Award for
 Outstanding Contribution to Public Engagement in 2018 and the American Association for the
 Advancement of Science ECR Award for Public Engagement in 2017 – see ECR Case Study #2
 (Section 2.1.3).

 UoA4 staff are regular contributors to a range of public engagement events including:
    • ‘Meet the Scientists’ events at the World Museum, Liverpool; a Faculty-run programme
       with several weekend drop-in events each year where researchers run hands-on
       activities related to their work. Engages over 6,000 visitors annually and aims to share
       our research with the local community, to inspire the next generation of scientists and to
       give researchers an opportunity to gain experience of public engagement.
    • Liverpool Neuroscience Group WinterFest – held annually in Liverpool to promote
       public engagement in neuroscience with keynote talks from leading scientists in the field.
    • Festivals: Bluedot Festival; Green Man Festival and York Festival of Ideas; Pint of
       Science Liverpool
    • Open house events, lab visits for schools, organisations, and members of the public, and
       guest classes by members of staff and students.
    • Sixth Form Summer Lab Placements Programme (Nuffield Research Placements)
 4.4 Contribution to the Discipline
 4.4.1 Sustainability
 UoA4 contributes to sustainability through training future leaders and its commitment to impact.
 Examples include: (i) PGRs are trained through our national and international training programmes
 and >90% of PhDs/MDs go on to employment or further study (Section 2.3.3). The NWSS DTP
 actively encourages research across disciplines and engagement with industry via CASE
 studentships. As future leaders, PDRAs and ECRs are supported by a range of initiatives
 (Section 2.2). (ii) We also place a strong focus on disseminating research impact to multiple
 beneficiaries, stakeholder groups, businesses, industry, and the public. Impact lies firmly at the
 heart of our strategy, and resources allocated to impact have grown year-on-year throughout the
 REF period. Several new initiatives - e.g., impact leads, local impact officers, Knowledge
 Exchange, and Impact Vouchers), Faculty led impact seminars and workshops, have been put in
 place over the last few years to support sustainability (Section 1.5).
 4.4.2 Response to National and International Priorities and Initiatives
 Our work over the current REF period, and forward strategic plan, reflects our response to national
 and international priorities in key areas spanning physical (e.g., obesity, addiction, neurological
 illness) and mental health in children and adults (UK, humanitarian contexts and in low-and-middle
 income countries), health inequality, public safety and critical incident management - underpinned
 by the development and evaluation of new interventions, and technologies, to enhance individual
 and population health outcomes (Section 1.4). Most recently, we have been at the forefront of the
 national response to the COVID-19 pandemic through our work in the clinical characterisation of
 neurological, neuropsychiatric, and cognitive complications of COVID-19 (Michael, Solomon –
 UoA1, Leek – UoA4) and Project ARES - providing resilience training to frontline NHS staff
 adapted from techniques developed at UoL from our ground-breaking work in critical incident
 response management (Alison) (Section 1.3.2).
 4.5 Indicators of Wider Influence
 UoA4 academics serve regularly as members and reviewers for research council committees and
 peer-reviewed journals and as advisors, as shown in Table 4.1.




                                                                                            Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 4.1. Number and percentage of UoA4 staff involved in advisory and engagement activities
 (responses from staff surveyed in 2020).

                                                                   N         %
               Served on National or International Grant           16       36%
               Committees (Research Council or similar)
               Served on Learned Societies                         13       29%
               Served on Scientific Advisory Boards                10       22%
               Served on Professional Bodies                       16       36%
               Served on Journal Editorial Boards                  22       49%
               Industry Advisory Roles                             19       42%
               Government Advisory        Board/Parliamentary       7       16%
               Expert


 4.5.1 Major Research Prizes and Awards
 UoA4 staff have been awarded >15 major national and international excellence awards
 Examples include: MBE (Alison) - For services to critical incident handling and the NHS during
 COVID-19); American Association for the Advancement of Science, Early Career Award for Public
 Engagement with Science, 2017 (Gage); UK Society for Behavioural Medicine Early Career
 Award, 2013 (Robinson); UKISCRS Silver achievement Award for Recognition of Outstanding
 Contribution to Society, 2013 (Rowe); Wellcome/AHRC Health Humanities Best International
 Research Award, 2018 (White); Geoffrey-Burton Award (AVA) for contributions to Vision Science,
 2019 (Wuerger); Fred Yates Award (Society for the Study of Addiction, 2017), Cambridge
 Cognition Award (British Association for Psychopharmacology, 2014) (Jones); Channi Kumar
 Lecture Award (International Marce Society for Perinatal Mental Health, 2018 (Rahman).
 4.5.2 Fellowships
 Wellcome Trust Non-Clinical fellowships (Gage, 2018; Robinson, 2015; Stagi, 2013, 2019);
 Unilever Fellowship (Stancak, 2015, 2016, 2017).
 4.5.3 Contributions to Major Advisory Boards
 Examples include: Brain Tumor Charity (Jenkinson); Member of NICE Medical Technology
 Advisory Committee (Knox); MMU Centre for Bioscience External Advisory Board (Quinn); 1001
 days parliamentary working group relating to perinatal mental health (Slade); Evidence Group for
 the Scottish Government's second New Scots refugee integration strategy, 2018 to present
 (White); Advisor, WHO, Maternal and Child Mental Health Policy for the EMRO Region and School
 Mental Health (Rahman); British Psychological Society: Perinatal Psychology (Sharp, Chair)
 Lancet Commission on Global Mental Health (2016-2018); (Rahman); Global Agenda Council on
 Mental Health, World Economic Forum 2015-16 (Rahman).
 4.5.4 Government Advisory Boards
 Examples include: Expert witness for House of Commons Health and Social Care Select
 Committee Inquiry into childhood obesity, 2015, 2018 (Boyland); Community Engagement
 Strategy Committee (Evidence submitted to House of Lords Select Committee, 2017 (Corcoran);
 Member of the Ministry of Justice Academic Expert Network, 2018 (Gillespie); Advisor to the
 Government of Pakistan, Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation and Coordination &
 Lead Expert for the President's National Plan to Promote Mental Health (Rahman).




                                                                                         Page 29
