Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Oxford

 Unit of Assessment: 23 – Education

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 A context for growth
 The University of Oxford’s Department of Education celebrated its 100th anniversary in 2019. It
 has developed from a teacher education institution into a centre of excellence for research in
 education. The department has a long-standing record of influential research, including on
 teachers’ professional practice. Our distinctive research profile now reaches from the early
 years, through schooling, higher education and into the labour market. Hallmarks of our
 research culture are collaboration and a social science entrepreneurialism. We maintain a focus
 on core research interests, whilst creating opportunities to forge connections with other relevant
 agendas to generate inter-disciplinary research programmes, funding and impact.

 Our view of research excellence incorporates impact and a variety of models of knowledge
 exchange. Our research strategy is to support innovative theory, methodology and practice with
 all of the resources at our disposal – financial, material, intellectual, and through our extensive
 local, national, and international networks. Our strategy is in keeping with HEFCE’s
 characteristics of high-performing research units, in which we prioritise recruiting and retaining
 the best researchers, provide training and mentorship programmes to develop staff, have a
 distinct ethos of social and ethical values, leaders have earned ‘accountable autonomy’, our
 strategy is living and owned and our researchers are enabled and encouraged to initiate
 collaborations organically. Whilst our focus is education, our disciplinary boundaries are
 permeable due to the nature of our research questions and strengths. We value academic
 freedom and know that intellectual curiosity and research confidence are important ingredients
 to scholarship at the highest levels. We foster an environment that allows individuals and
 groups to pursue research excellence rather than driving a top-down strategy. There are no
 staff targets for income generation or publications. Our first question when any new endeavour
 is raised is whether it will further the research agenda being pursued and have significant impact
 on the research field, policy or practice.

 Our strategy has been informed by Furlong’s work on the anatomy of the field of education; we
 maintain a recruitment strategy that is multi-disciplinary. It has also been influenced by
 Edward’s work on relational expertise, which has driven our approach to knowledge exchange
 and working across disciplines. Current strengths are in anthropology, applied linguistics,
 economics, history, philosophy, psychology, social policy, statistics and sociology. This nexus
 has pushed our methodological practices, including mixed methods research and research
 synthesis techniques. Our overarching strategic aim, to continue to be world-leading in research
 and pedagogy, is underpinned by impact and knowledge exchange activities which maintain a
 close connection with policy and practice, including teaching. Our aims involve intellectual
 growth, which generates staffing and financial growth. Whilst recognising the problems with
 metrics, we were pleased to be recognised as number one in the UK for degrees in education
 and second in the world by the Times Higher Education subject league tables in 2020. We
 believe that our research-based approach to pedagogy has been key to attaining this ranking.

 Academic indicators of esteem include 13 academy fellowships, 15 leadership roles in learned
 societies, 12 prizes for books or outstanding papers, 6 prestigious awards (e.g. Hans
 Freundenthal Award 2017 – Nunes), editorial board roles for over 100 international journals and
 over 30 significant policy roles (e.g. Standing Specialist Adviser on Education to the UK House
 of Commons Select Committee - Baird: see Section 4). As will be seen throughout this
 statement, we seek to provide opportunities for research leadership at all levels within the
 Department and recognised research leaders in the field are required to contribute significantly
 to the research culture. According to SciVal, 27% of our journal publications are in the top 10%


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the most cited publications in education worldwide; 13% are published in psychology journals,
 7% in medical journals and 2% in computer science, evidencing our inter-disciplinarity.

 The Department has an inclusive culture, with all staff and research students being members of
 our research themes, groups and centres. We gained an Athena Swan Bronze award and our
 action plan for inclusion goes beyond gendered issues, to incorporate race, LGBT+, physical
 and mental wellbeing. Our environment is highly collaborative, with many projects involving
 colleagues across themes, as well as across the University and externally. Research excellence
 is core to our strategic planning and operational practices, such as staffing strategy, recruitment
 procedures, staff development and career planning, succession planning, higher degree
 admissions and our teaching programmes. All of our academic staff are supported to be, and
 are, research active.

 Oxford’s collegiate structure gives rise to interaction across the disciplines in formal and informal
 spaces. The Department is a valued source of research expertise within the University and the
 Social Sciences Division (in which we are positioned), as well as within the Colleges in which our
 staff hold Fellowships. Collaborative grants have been fostered by this environment (such as
 the ESRC Excluded Lives project), research seminar series held across the University (e.g. the
 Global Centre for Higher Education’s Student Access to University series), and our expertise is
 frequently sought on University and College policies, such as on admissions, widening
 participation, assessment and pedagogy. An example collaborative project with the University is
 the CPD programme for The Challenge Academy Trust, which supports schools that have a high
 proportion of disadvantaged students.

 Developments since REF2014
 Our Category A REF FTE has grown from 39.2 to 55.3 due to growth in external funding over
 the period, particularly through the success of our research centres. Our REF4b income was
 £20.8million; double the £9.3million in our REF2014 submission. Together with the absence of
 financial targets, this financial growth speaks to the vibrancy of our research culture.

 Since REF2014, the research agendas of the three research centres established at that time
 have continued (SKOPE, OUCEA, Rees). We have also established the Deanery (as planned in
 REF2014), an ESRC-funded research centre has joined the Department (Centre for Global
 Higher Education) and a new Research Group has been introduced (English as a Medium of
 Instruction).

 Since 2014, we have been awarded 102 grants (£34.2million; £11.1million to Oxford) with a
 focus upon educational disadvantage. Research on social justice and disadvantage remains
 integrated in department activities, rather than a separate research centre as envisaged in 2014.

 Structures to facilitate research excellence
 Our research theme structure (Figure 1) has created valuable collegial spaces for peer
 feedback, stimulus for collaboration, consultative mechanisms for research strategy, fora for
 participative decision-making and capacity-building activities. Staff and students are initially
 allocated to themes based upon their research areas but are free to move and/or attend
 meetings and events of the other themes and their sub-groups. Staff and students are formal
 members of only one theme but are typically members of multiple research groups. Themes
 regularly set agendas involving department-wide activities such as training (e.g. journal editors
 advising on how to get published or a panel of research leaders explaining how they developed
 their careers) or events (e.g. writing groups or seminar programmes). Our methodological hubs
 also facilitate research excellence and collaboration.

 Within each theme are Research Groups and Research Centres, in which the intellectual energy
 of the department thrives. Research Groups generate collaborative projects (such as the
 production of research outputs, research proposals and so on). There are formal requirements
 for the setting up of Research Centres. Each of the Research Centres began their project

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 lifecycle with substantial external funding and three of them have subsequently become
 sustainable on a project-funded basis, with the fourth having ESRC core funding currently
 (Global Centre for Higher Education). This is testament to the strength of the research in the
 Centres, which attracts competitive funding, including from the research councils.

 Figure 1 Research structures




 Methodological expertise across the department is brought together in two hubs –
 the Quantitative Methods Hub (led by Strand), and the Qualitative Methods Hub (led by
 Puttick and Elliott). The methodological hubs lead seminar series, workshops, promote
 networking and broker connections in support of research grant production or other research
 activities. Several methodology textbooks and instruments produced by departmental members
 are now bestsellers, highly cited and used (e.g. by Caro, Mills, Oancea, Sammons, Sylva) and
 the department contributes substantially to research methods provision via the Social Sciences
 Doctoral Training Partnership (directed by Mills 2014 – 2019 and previously by Lunt) with the
 Advanced Quantitative Methods summer school also nationally and internationally
 recognised. Mixed methods techniques are embraced across the two hubs, with strong
 contributions to this field being generated within the department (Sammons) and applied in our
 research. Malmberg’s ESRC-funded seminar series, Network on Intrapersonal Research in
 Education, is one example of the way in which the hubs have furthered the pursuit of
 methodological agendas on advanced techniques in their own right.

 Total grant figures are given below in this section (not figures to Oxford). Staff figures include all
 departmental staff (not only REF-eligible staff).



                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                      Convened by Iram Siraj (139 staff and doctoral student members).
      Language,
                      This research theme focuses on the development of children and their
     Cognition &
                      social care, language, literacy and numeracy skills and the implementation
     Development      and evaluation of educational interventions to develop these skills. Two
                      research centres (OUCEA, Rees) and three research groups compose this
 theme.

 1. The Oxford University Centre for Educational Assessment (OUCEA), established in 2007, is
    directed by Therese Hopfenbeck. OUCEA has 5 members of staff and 12 doctoral
    students. Since 2014, OUCEA has gained £11.8million in external funding (£2million to
    Oxford). Recent projects have investigated teacher capacity building on assessment for
    learning in Tanzania and South Africa (PI Hopfenbeck - AFLA, £635,000,ESRC), the effects
    of modular examination structure on GCSE outcomes (PI Baird - £227,000, Ofqual),
    international large-scale assessments (PIs Hopfenbeck, McGrane - £1million, DfE), standard
    setting in national examinations and the philosophy of assessment (PI Baird - £436,000,
    AQA), classroom based practices and assessment (PIs Hopfenbeck, McGrane - £161,000
    IB). OUCEA has been particularly influential upon national assessment policies in England,
    Scotland and Ireland (see Improving the Quality of Educational Assessments impact case
    study).

 2. The Rees Centre established in 2012, is focused on the development and education of
    children and young people who are, or have been supported by children’s social care
    services. It is directed by Lisa Holmes. The Rees Centre has grown rapidly, currently with
    21 members of staff, 6 doctoral students and 41 grants since 2014, totalling £7.7million
    (£3.5million to Oxford). Senior researchers in this field have been attracted to the Centre to
    expand the research agenda to the cost basis for children’s services (Feinstein, L. Holmes,
    Ward), adoption and subjective wellbeing (Selwyn) and care-experienced transition to higher
    education (Harrison). The research report on the educational progress of looked after
    children published in 2015 changed the policy narrative (see Changing policy and practice on
    the Education of Children Looked After (CLA) impact case study), revised the DfE national
    data collection in 2016 and led to major policy changes in service providers in England and
    Australia including children not changing schools when they change placement and changes
    to the composition of inspection teams and the focus of inspections.

 3. Child Development and Learning Research Group (convenor: Iram Siraj - 39 staff and
    students). The Group focuses on how learning environments and child factors shape child
    development from birth to twelve years of age. Use of quantitative, qualitative and mixed-
    methods research techniques including longitudinal studies, RCTs and the design,
    implementation and evaluation of interventions characterise its research. Some examples of
    their research projects which have led to influential publications are:
     Effective Pre-school, Primary and Secondary Education (EPPSE - various funders
        (subject of Transforming Early Education Policy and Practice impact case study), ECEC:
        PI Melhuish - £2.1million, EC; SEED – PI Melhuish - £884,000, DfE);
     Inclusive Education and Social Support to Tackle Inequalities in Society (ISOTIS: PI
        Melhuish - £4.3million, EU);
     Language learning (Talk-Together: PI Nag - £1.8million, ESRC; Nursery Language
        Intervention: PI Hulme - £601,000, Nuffield);
     Development of quantitative reasoning (PI Nunes – 4 grants totalling £1.29million, EEF).

 4. Applied Linguistics Research Group (convenor: Victoria Murphy - 34 staff and students).
    This Group focuses on understanding processes underpinning successful learning and
    effective teaching of second/foreign/additional languages. The Group is known internationally
    for its work on English as an Additional Language (EAL) and Modern Foreign Language
    (MFL) learning in primary and secondary schools, and for its work exploring input-driven
    learning mechanisms and the type of input that is most effective in input-limited contexts.
    Significant projects include:

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        LiFT (PI Murphy - £741,000, Ferrero International) encompasses two main research
         projects: 1) EAL children’s learning of vocabulary and 2) promoting parental engagement
         using digital technology to support children’s language and communication skills in the
         early years;
        Language learning as expectation (PI Wonnacott - £320,000, Leverhulme) - investigates
         extent to which learning of grammatical structures may be understood in terms of
         discriminative learning.
        Foreign language education: Unlocking Reading (FLEUR), comparing explicit phonics
         against strategy instruction in MFL reading (PI Woore - £167,000, Nuffield).

 5. English Medium Instruction (EMI Oxford) Research Group (convenor: Heath Rose - 20
    staff and students). The Group explores the growth of EMI as an educational model in
    universities, secondary and primary schools. Research on the educational implications of
    learning content via a second language, is the focus of this Group. Macaro’s
    monograph, English Medium Instruction (Oxford University Press, 2018), is the leading text
    in the research field of EMI. The group has led on numerous research projects in regions as
    diverse as Japan, India, South America, Italy and China and the Group’s research has been
    supported by external funders including the British Council UK, British Council China and
    Oxford University Press.


                       Convened by Steve Strand (109 staff and student members)
         Policy,       This research theme explores the interface and interaction between
        Economy &      education, wider society, the economy and the labour market. Major policy
         Society       developments confronting education have received attention. Three research
                       groups and two research centres sit within this theme.

 1. The Centre for Global Higher Education (CGHE) is an ESRC-funded (£6million)
    international research centre funded from 2015-2023 that is focused upon higher education
    and its future development. It is composed of 21 staff and doctoral students at Oxford and
    researchers from ten partner universities: UCL, Bath, Lancaster, Surrey in UK and
    Hiroshima, Lingnan, Shanghai Jiao Tong, Virginia Tech and Dublin Institute of Technology.
    Its Director, Simon Marginson, joined the Department in 2018. CGHE’s ten projects on local,
    national and global aspects of HE include the public good contribution of higher education
    research, graduate employment, student debt and its effects on graduate decision-making,
    digital delivery of courses and the formative effects of student learning.

 2. SKOPE (Skills Knowledge and Organisational Performance) has been part of Oxford’s
    Department of Education since 2008 and is directed by Susan James Relly. Since 2014,
    SKOPE has gained £3.2million in external funding. SKOPE has a core research team of six
    with 15 doctoral students and a network of over 100 Fellows and Associates. SKOPE has
    continued to work with governments and organisations on skills agendas, apprenticeships,
    improving training in the workplace, education policy in Further Education, world skills
    competitions and the impact of digital innovation on employment and skills. Significant
    projects include:
     Exploring the impact of artificial intelligence on English Law (UKRI, £1.2million) – SKOPE
        investigated the impact of AI on the legal labour market, skill requirements and
        educational provision;
     A three-year project on young people Not in Employment, Education or Training (NEET)
        across the four UK nations (PI Keep - £481,000, ESRC). The study substantiated
        arguments in favour of extending definitions of the NEET population to encompass
        people in their mid-to-late 20s.

 3. Comparative and International Education Research Group (convenor: David Johnson - 29
    staff and students). This group has interests in understanding systemic changes in
    education policy and practice, and how these changes influence individual opportunities and


                                                                                           Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    shape the development of educational institutions around the world, with a focus on low- and
    middle-income countries. Research projects include:
     Human Flourishing in Uncertain Times (Templeton World Charities Foundation;
       USD234,000; PI – Johnson);
     Providing the programme leadership (£326,000; PI - Johnson) for the ESRC-DFID
       Programme on Raising Learning Outcomes in Education Systems, that coordinated the
       activities of 31 world-class projects, and constructed synergies of their scientific,
       conceptual and methodological contributions;
     Research into Systems of Education (RISE) programme (Co-PI for Nigeria Country
       Team Johnson - DFID, Gates, USD3million).
    The particular strengths are in comparative work in Africa (Johnson – as evidenced in the
    Improving national literacy levels in the Republic of Sudan impact case study) and post-
    Soviet societies (Chankseliani).

 4. Philosophy, religion and education Research Group (convened by Liam Gearon - 15 staff
    and students). This Group forges theoretical and empirical interconnections between the
    arts, humanities, philosophy and the social sciences through the common focus of education.
    Contributions of this research group have been made to matters such as the cultural value of
    research in the arts and humanities, the relationships between religion, security, intelligence
    and education and the intersection between epistemological and ethical domains in research
    in schools. Major projects have included the Oxford Argumentation in Religion and Science
    project (OARS; £354,000 PI – Erduran), funded by the Templeton World Charity Foundation.
    The OARS project addresses the structure and explanatory basis for arguments in religion
    and science, examining how they relate to the school curriculum and investigating how the
    teaching and learning of argumentation can be supported in science and religious education.


                         Convened by Diane Mayer (113 staff and doctoral student members)
        Pedagogy,
                         This research theme advances interdisciplinary research on learning,
                         practice, development and equity. Explorations of the relationships
        Learning &
                         between knowledge and pedagogic policy and practice as well as with
       Knowledge
                         how knowledge and pedagogy interact with the ways learning activities
                         are designed have been explored. Four research groups and the Oxford
                         Education Deanery sit within this theme.

 1. The Oxford Education Deanery, directed by Trevor Mutton, is a home for research, impact
    and research-based knowledge exchange activities related to schooling and teachers’
    professional development. A research programme on Reforming Teacher Education has
    included projects and events seeking to build upon international research on developing
    quality teaching and teacher education. Research partnerships with schools have formed a
    central component of its operation, with 31 Research Champions being supported in the
    Department’s network of 26 partner schools since 2014 to conduct research on topics
    identified as important to each school.
    Research focuses upon two main activities: 42 Action Research Fellowships (small-scale
    projects carried out by individual teachers with support from academic researchers within the
    Oxford Education Deanery) and Deanery Collaborations (research projects conducted by
    academic researchers working in collaboration with partner schools, shaped by schools’
    concerns and supported by their Research Champions). Significant international projects
    include teacher CPD programmes for the Bhutan Royal Academy and Dubai College. Ofsted
    in its most recent inspection (2019) recognised that, through the Deanery, the University’s
    partnership with schools extended well beyond initial teacher education, writing that it “has the
    potential to inform future developments across the sector.”

 2. Learning and New Technologies Research Group (convenor: Niall Winters - 26 staff and
    students). This Group brings together colleagues researching the uses and effects of
    technology in education and learning. Interests include the measurement and development
    of digital literacies, links between digital inequalities and academic success, the ethics of

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    technology's impact on marginalised communities, the capture and analysis of learners’
    online digital trace data, the design and evaluation of technology and systems effects in
    healthcare training in low and middle-income countries. This group collaborates extensively
    with:
     The medical sciences (e.g. on the Gates Foundation £2.3million project on virtual reality
        technology to improve newborn healthcare delivery in low and middle income countries);
     The Oxford Internet Institute (e.g. Google Inc £129,000 project on AI and lifelong
        learning);
    and has led projects for a number of funders (including UKRI, Wellcome Trust, EC).

 3. Subject Pedagogy Research Group (convenor: Gabriel Stylianides - 24 staff and students).
    This Group engages with the important commonalities and differences in subject pedagogy
    across the curriculum. Developing, understanding and evaluating the effectiveness of
    research-informed ways to promote powerful pedagogical practices in different subject areas
    and across levels of education forms a common interest of group members. Two books
    have been generated directly from the activities of the Group: Classroom-based
    interventions across subject areas: research to understand what works in education
    (Stylianides & Childs, 2018 - Routledge) and Designing tasks in secondary education
    (Thompson, 2015 - Routledge). Major projects include:
     OECD TALIS Video Study 2018 (PI Ingram - £418,000; DfE);
     Centre of Excellence in Modern Foreign Languages (Co-I Woore - £2.2million, DfE).

 4. Oxford Sociocultural and Activity Theory Research Group (convenor: Ian Thompson - 23
    staff and students). This Group contributes to current developments in the field of cultural-
    historical theory, is recognised as the UK centre of excellence in this area (attracting
    international visiting scholars) and informs the theoretical basis of other research groups in
    this theme. Key research areas with international impact have included the connections
    between Bernstein and Vygotsky (Daniels) and on relational concepts (Edwards). Significant
    projects include:
     Building upon an inter-disciplinary network on the topic (criminology, education, law,
        psychiatry, psychology, social work), the 2019-2022 ESRC large grant on Excluded Lives
        (Co-PIs Daniels & Thompson - £2million) aims to investigate the political economies of
        exclusion and how more equitable outcomes can be achieved for pupils, their families
        and professionals.
     The Design Matters project (PI Daniels - £423,000; AHRC) investigated post-occupancy
        experiences in five newly built schools, with a view to understanding the impact of design
        on students’, teachers’ and parents’ engagement in the educational process.

 5. Teacher Education and Professional Learning research group (convenor: Katharine Burn
    - 40 staff and students). This Group continues the strong tradition within the department on
    the structure of teacher education, international and historical comparisons of policy
    development, the capacity of teachers to adapt to changing school contexts, curricula and
    policy demands and evaluation of teacher education quality (as evidenced by the Reforming
    Initial Teacher Education in Wales impact case study). A large number of grants have
    supported the work of this Group (e.g. EEF ESRC, Oxford City Council, Teacher
    Development Agency, US Department of Education, Royal Society) in its production of
    influential research outputs on issues such as teacher education policy, teachers’ knowledge
    of the effects of poverty on pupils and the Global Education Summit. Important projects in
    this research group include:
     Project Calibrate on the teaching and assessment of science practicals (PI Erduran -
         £285,000; Wellcome Trust, Gatsby Foundation and Royal Society).
     Learning progression through tricky topic teacher training (PIs Childs and Hillier -
         £50,000; ESRC).




                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research strategy
 Research excellence is our focus and our main strategic questions for proposed activities relate
 to whether they will further the research programme being pursued and have significant impact
 on the research field, policy or practice. Our strategy is set though departmental Strategy Days
 and agreed through our Research Strategy Group and ultimately the Departmental Board.
 Priorities for academic appointments and revisions to our research mentoring scheme are just
 some examples of the initiatives that have arisen from our Strategy Days.

 Our environment is typified by intensified competition (within the HE sector and from non-HE
 providers) for scarcer resources nationally, an increasingly market-based approach from
 research providers, diminishing willingness to commit public resources to sustaining research-
 led teacher education, and various uncertainties at international level, not least in relation to the
 potential implications of Brexit for research funding and collaboration. The department is an
 important source of intelligence and commentary on these trends, for example by providing
 consultancy and advice on the current state and the future of education research to BERA,
 UCET, HEFCE, RSA and an inquiry into the future of education research by the British Academy
 and Royal Society (Burn, Harrison, Keep, Oancea, Mills, Marginson, Menter, Mutton, Robson,
 Sebba, Xu).

 One strategic response to this environment has been to sustain leadership at senior levels, as
 the expertise needed to develop a community of researchers is significant. We have done this
 through appointments and supporting career progression. Research funding calls are now
 typically large-scale, with meta-level themes that require formation of research teams and
 significant intellectual leadership in formulating connections between research agendas that
 build a useful contribution to the challenges posed. Striking the right balance between agility in
 bringing together the critical mass required in response to external calls and coherence of the
 department’s own intellectual agenda has been an important aspect of our strategy.

 The department hosts over 150 academic events annually, including our Oxford Education
 Society Annual Lecture, our flagship public seminar series, seminar series for each of the
 research groups and centres, symposia, conferences and colloquia. The department’s flagship
 public seminar series offers Monday evening seminars during term-time (22 per year) with
 international and national leaders in their fields, such as Marilyn Cochran-Smith, Art Graesser,
 Leonidas Kyriakides and Anna Vignoles. The seminars attract audiences from across the
 University and from non-University settings and are podcasted. Additionally, we have annual
 departmental research poster conferences, annual doctoral research conferences, and annual
 research half-days.

 Strategic direction
 We are committed to contributing new knowledge in the areas in which we have existing
 strengths and to impacting educational policy and practice. Our strategic aims are intentionally
 bottom-up, as research excellence is driven by researchers who are close to their fields. For the
 next five years they include:
      continually deepening our expertise in the field of teacher professional practice research;
      broadening our subject-specific focus to medical education;
      extending our work on inclusive education;
      augmenting our policy research;
      investing in extending even further our methodological expertise in quantitative methods,
         intervention designs, and in research synthesis techniques;
      seeking new ways to support our impact agendas.
 These aims, which have been set through our Staff Meetings, Strategy Away Days, and
 Departmental Board, generate our personnel and financial strategies.




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact strategy
 We view policy makers and practitioners as active partners in the research process. Some
 policy makers and practitioners, for example, hold Fellowships in the Department, have been
 members of research advisory groups, or been research collaborators (e.g. the OUP-funded
 Pathways to School Improvement project). Our objective is the co-design and co-production of
 research activity with potential users including funders which engages them interactively in the
 research from the outset, maximising impact. Our Norham Fellowships form part of our
 knowledge exchange strategy and recognise the expertise that colleagues offer from practice.
 We have had 21 Norham Fellowships over the period, representing expertise in areas such as
 government policy (e.g. Meadows, Shostak), assessment practice (e.g. Gray, Pinot de Moira),
 publishing (e.g. Woolf) and teacher professional practice (e.g. Mulholland, Ogilvy-Stuart, Robb-
 Webb).

 Following consultation through a staff survey in 2013, a set of strategic priorities for impact,
 engagement and knowledge exchange were identified, including: sustaining capacity for impact
 practice and a research culture that embeds creative impact activity and professional learning;
 nurturing long-term partnerships with users and beneficiaries of research; and ensuring
 continued capacity and infrastructure to support impact-related activity. A Knowledge Exchange
 and Impact Committee was created in 2014. The knowledge exchange and impact strategy is
 being refreshed by a new Chair of the Committee. This review will be completed in 2021.

 We work with research users at all levels - with teachers on classroom practice, and with policy
 makers on some of the most challenging issues and dilemmas that the education system faces.
 Our submitted impact case studies showcase a range of impacts. All 5 case studies have had
 policy impact, and children feature as the ultimate beneficiaries in all cases. Impacts range from
 the local, and national (Baird, Sebba, Sammons and Furlong) to the international (Baird, Sebba,
 Sammons and Johnson), touching on the education of Children Looked After, teacher training,
 literacy assessment and examination mechanisms.

 Additional examples of impact include:
     ESRC-funded Excluded Lives project, which seeks to better understand school exclusion
        – a topic that has gone from affecting a concerning minority to over 1.5billion children
        worldwide due to the pandemic (according to UNESCO figures).
     Strand and Murphy’s work on English as an additional language, which was quoted
        extensively in a House of Commons debate and covered widely in the national media.
     Keep’s advice to the Welsh Government on its national skills policy.
     Winters’ work on mobile-based training interventions for healthcare workers in the Global
        South.
     Geniet’s work on introducing young women from non-traditional educational backgrounds
        into website and app design (GoGirl), computer game design and coding.
     James Relly’s work on improving vocational skills (WorldSkills).

 Commitment to impact and knowledge exchange is also evident in the successful award of
 competitive grants that have been awarded to the Department over the period (Section 3).
 Although each of these grants has been small in size, they have supported valuable projects,
 including three knowledge exchange fellowships in our research centres. For example, they
 have helped to develop evidence-informed practice in children in care which led to the
 Handbook for Virtual School Heads (published by DfE) and extended the findings of the Design
 Matters project into school building planning and use.

 Besides communicating our research outcomes via seminars, conferences, workshops,
 webinars (e.g. Hulmes’ for The Association for Child and Adolescent Mental Health, which was
 their most watched webinar), and a wide range of academic, policy and practitioner publications
 (including Emotional and Behavioural Difficulties, English in Education, Impact, Mathematics
 Teaching, School Science Review, Science Teacher Education, Teaching Geography, Teaching
 History, TES, THES and FE Week); our staff exchange knowledge via expert and advisory

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 inputs, covering the Department for Education, Education Endowment Fund, the Education
 Select Committee, HEFCW, the National Audit Office, the Norwegian Agency for Quality in
 Higher Education, Ofqual, the OECD, Royal Irish Academy, the Scottish Government, the
 Standards and Testing Agency, and the Wellcome Trust.

 A departmental communications strategy was agreed in 2015, aiming to raise and consolidate
 the profile and reputation of the department locally, nationally and internationally; to enable the
 promotion of departmental identity; and to enhance connections across the University, locally,
 nationally and internationally. The department’s Annual Report is distributed widely and is a key
 means of communicating with the wider world. The departmental website has been redesigned
 to incorporate updated technologies in a fresher and more dynamic interface. A social media
 policy is in place and there is wide engagement of staff with social media. A full-time
 Communications Officer was appointed to support this important area of work. Two of the
 research centres (CGHE and Rees) also employ communications staff. A Social Sciences
 Division communications service is currently under development. Evidence of the impact of our
 communications strategy is in the increased level of collaboration within the University, nationally
 and internationally.

 We lead knowledge exchange activities across the discipline. Sebba was a user member of the
 REF2014 education panel, Keep served as a member of HEFCE’s Research and Knowledge
 Exchange Strategic Advisory Committee, Edwards and Sebba publish influential work on user
 engagement and coproduction of knowledge and Oancea publishes on research impact and
 cultural value. Burn is an Impact Assessor for the 2021 REF History Panel (UOA28) and Strand
 is a member of the UOA23 panel. Within Oxford, a cross-disciplinary seminar series on
 research impact was held and an online resource on knowledge exchange, impact and
 engagement in the social sciences was launched (Oancea and Goodman).

 Research Integrity and Open Access
 The Department's Research Ethics Committee comprises a panel of academics, led by Gearon.
 They ensure all research projects abide by the University’s Academic Integrity in Research:
 Code of Practice and Procedure, and work with the Central University Research Ethics
 Committee (CUREC) on particularly complex projects. The Department offers training for
 researchers going through the ethics process, and researchers have access to the SSD’s online
 research integrity course. Additionally, the Division hosts a thrice-termly discussion group
 engaging with live matters of practical ethics.

 A commitment to open and responsible research is a core element of our research culture.
 Within the department, open access, research integrity and replicability are part of the training of
 all researchers, from PGR students’ training through to dedicated staff development. The
 Department contributed to yearly Open Access Week events across the University, for example
 by convening, together with the Bodleian Libraries, a multi-disciplinary workshop on open
 research and responsible publishing (2018, Scutt, Oancea); convening, with JISC, a workshop in
 the department on responsible research (2019), aimed at ECRs, academic and professional staff
 and research management; and contributing to panels on implementing the San Francisco
 Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) (2019, Oancea) and on learned societies and the
 transition to open access (2019, Mills).

 Provision of advice and expert commentary over the REF period has included high-level
 meetings with the Minister for Science, Research England, and representatives of major
 publishers; as well as direct input to the drafting of principles for the responsible use of research
 metrics, coordinated by JISC on behalf of the UK Forum for Responsible Research Metrics
 (2019). Internationally, members of the department have contributed directly to shaping debate
 and policy for open research; for example, Oancea was a member of the European Commission
 working group on “Indicator Frameworks for Fostering Open Knowledge Practices in Science
 and Scholarship”, which was set up to contribute to the European vision for open science
 (European Commission, 2016) and published its report and recommendations in 2019 (Indicator


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 frameworks for fostering open knowledge practices in science and scholarship - Publications
 Office of the EU (europa.eu)).


 2. People
 Staffing strategy
 Excellence in research is a selection criterion for all academic posts and people are at the
 forefront of our departmental research strategy. Our appointments’ strategy seeks to build on
 areas of current strength, complement existing skills and disciplinary perspectives, and to extend
 into new areas where there is a convincing intellectual agenda and rationale. An example of this
 would be the appointment of Marginson to the HE area, which has strengthened and
 consolidated our strengths in this domain.

 An ongoing overarching strategic priority is support for the development of research careers, at
 all stages. Given the age demographic profile of education as a field, a strategic decision was
 made in the department to support early career researchers. Co-creating plans for research
 careers through mentoring and the performance review (PDR) processes has been important to
 both understanding the research interests and trajectories of colleagues and for extending
 horizons in terms of substantive and methodological connections. We carefully nurture the
 careers of individuals, taking into account their academic administration and leadership
 contributions.

 Following a Strategy Day decision, a new workload model was developed by a staff group,
 introduced in 2016 and is updated on an annual basis. Its main purpose is to support all staff to
 have time for their research, whilst also aiming to address equity issues in workload across the
 department. More strategically, the workload model helps to identify areas where appointments
 are needed.

 Counter to the casualisation of the workforce trends in HE, the departmental strategy has been
 to review contracts and make them permanent whenever feasible. Additionally, we have
 constructed a career pathway involving the creation of departmental lectureship positions such
 that individuals can progress from gaining a doctorate to Research Assistant (RA) positions,
 postdoctoral fellowships, departmental lectureships and onto Associate Professor posts. The
 Department’s innovative creation of Teaching Excellence Research Fellowships (now Doctoral
 Teaching Fellowships) enabled teachers to make the transition into academia through gaining a
 doctorate, higher education teaching experience, working with colleagues on research grants
 and publishing (Dingwall, Molway, Todd, Woore).

 Reflecting the age profile of the field, there have been a number of retirements since 2014:
 Daniels, Davies, Edwards, Firth, Furlong, Keep, Lunt, Macaro, Mayhew, McNicholl, Menter,
 Nunes, Philips, Ozga, Sylva, Walter and Watson. Replacements in the same research areas
 were Briggs, Chankseliani, Erduran, Hulme, Ingram, Puttick, Mathers, Mayer, Nag, Rose and
 Winters. Evangelou left to lead an educational institution in Greece and Ertl is now Director of
 Research at the German Federal Institute for Vocational Education and Training (BiBB) in
 Germany. Both appointments show the development of our mid-career researchers since 2014.
 They were replaced in similar research areas by Siraj and Marginson.

 Oxford UOA23 (Table 1) is essentially commensurate with the Department of Education, with
 four members of education-focused research staff from other Departments included (C. Holmes
 a previous member of Department staff). One Professor from the Department was entered
 under the Unit for Social Work and Social Policy. The field of education is quantitatively female-
 dominated, but like many other fields has a higher number of males at senior levels. As
 indicated here and through our Athena Swan Bronze award, we have a number of strategies in
 place to ensure equality in terms of colleagues’ research careers.



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 1 Oxford UOA23 Staff (31 July 2020)


                                            Female            Male             Total
                                            (eligible FTE)    (eligible FTE)   (eligible FTE)


               Professor                           10 (7.4)       8 (7.4)              18 (14.8)
               Associate Professor                  8 (8.0)       9 (9.0)              17 (17,0)
               Departmental Lecturer                9 (7.5)       4 (4.0)              13 (11.5)
               Research Fellow                      5 (1.8)       2 (2.0)               7 (3.8)
               Research Officer/Assistant          25 (6.2)       8 (2.0)              33 (8.2)
               Total                              57 (30.9)     31 (24.4)              88 (55.3)




 Staff development
 The department has invested in a range of mechanisms to support high-quality research from its
 preparatory stages. Dedicated research weeks have been used to carve out sustained periods
 of time during which academic staff concentrated on research only and writing groups have been
 set up within research groups and themes. Research and associated outreach is also supported
 through the judicious use of sabbatical leave. For every six terms’ service, staff are entitled to
 apply for one term’s sabbatical leave (as per University guidance). We consider applications for
 sabbaticals in terms of the quality of the research plan and equity issues in relation to the pattern
 of sabbaticals across staffing groups. Guidance and sign-off procedures have been revised in
 this period to render the sabbatical process even more equitable. Individuals are encouraged to
 plan for their sabbatical leave as part of the PDR and mentoring processes and produce a report
 on their activities for the Research Strategy Group on completion. In this period, 26 academics
 have benefited from sabbatical leave (totalling 41 terms), enabling colleagues to submit 86
 journal articles, complete 7 books and submit 23 grant proposals. These numbers, while
 important, do not capture the diversity of impact focused activities that these academics
 engaged in from presentations and talks at universities, to opinion pieces and commentaries in
 the media.

 Internal peer grant proposal review mechanisms have been consolidated, with guidance offered
 by peer reviewers and light-touch paperwork. The external grant application process has been
 streamlined with the help of the Research Facilitator, who supports grant preparation. A
 flowchart of the grant application process has been developed and circulated; regular
 intelligence is provided by the Research Facilitator and the annual research half-day and
 compilation of the Annual Report provide opportunities to review grant activity across the
 Department. PDR and mentoring arrangements have been reviewed and re-invigorated, such
 that the range of areas that colleagues wish to develop is taken into account when mutually-
 agreed mentoring relationships are established.

 Evidencing our supportive environment is the number of promotions since 2014 to a personal
 chair (Eynon, Hopfenbeck, V. Murphy, Oancea, Malmberg, Stylianides, Winters) or Associate
 Professor title (Briggs, Fancourt, Harrison, James Relly, McGrane, Woore). Additionally, eight
 appointments to Departmental Lecturer have been made (Cullinane, Dingwall, Lindorff, Molway,
 E. Murphy, Robson, Todd, Woore), some of whom were/are doctoral students in the department
 (Dingwall, Lindorff, Molway, E. Murphy, Robson, Todd) or Research Officer (Cullinane). Two
 Teacher Education Research Fellows (Todd, Woore) were promoted to departmental
 lectureships on completion of their doctorates and one of these (Woore) has since been
 promoted to Associate Professor.

 Early Career Staff Support
 The Research Staff Forum enables the participation of research staff on fixed-term contracts in
 the setting of the research strategy of the department, while offering peer support and

                                                                                                   Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 opportunities for developmental reviews involving senior members of academic staff. The Chair
 of the Research Staff Forum is a member of the Research Strategy Group and the Departmental
 Board. Academic leadership for the implementation of the University’s Code of Practice for the
 employment and career development of research staff is currently provided by the Director and
 Deputy Director of Research, together with the Chair of the Research Staff Forum and the Head
 of Administration and Finance.

 Training events are held regularly in the department on matters such as applying for research
 grants, writing for academic publications, research with impact, developing a research career,
 open access and project management. The Social Sciences Division has a full programme of
 workshops, especially but not solely, designed to support early career researchers on matters
 such as applying for specific funding streams, academic communication, research ethics,
 conducting fieldwork, career development, media training, public engagement, impact and
 knowledge exchange and entrepreneurship and innovation. The University (Centre for Teaching
 and Learning, IT services) also offers a range of training and development courses, including
 networking opportunities for researchers, careers guidance, academic leadership courses and
 the Springboard Programme, which have been taken up within the department. Staff are able to
 attend any of the courses provided for students and uptake of this facility is a regular
 occurrence, especially for advanced methods courses, which are often offered by the
 department across the Social Sciences Division through the Doctoral Training Partnership.
 Training opportunities are advertised online and are sent to staff by email on a regular basis.
 Academic leadership sessions have been particularly transformative for confidence-building
 among early career researchers. Discussions regarding training are part of the PDR process
 and staff often approach the department to discuss training needs as they arise. We do not
 have consolidated training figures, but from the figures we do have, there have been hundreds
 of occurrences of staff attending training within the department and wider University. Figures on
 staff attendance at national and international training events and workshops are not monitored,
 but are also strongly encouraged and supported. Staff have also delivered workshops at
 national and international conferences (Caro, Erduran, Geniets, Guilfoyle, Kahn, Harrison,
 Hillier, Holmes, Hopfenbeck, Ingram, Ioannidou, Oancea, Robinson, Sebba, Selwyn, Skilling,
 Siraj, Strand, Todd, Winters).

 The result of these approaches is a group (representing approximately 80% of the academic
 staff) of early- and mid-career colleagues whose creativity, dynamism and leadership abilities
 are long-term resources for the department and for the field more broadly.

 Research students
 Since 2014, a number of indicators demonstrate the excellent profile of our research student
 admissions, success rates and destinations. We currently have 104 registered doctoral students
 (no professional doctoral student programme) and 130.5 (FTE) students have completed their
 doctorate successfully in the period (Table 2). The department was the first in the Social
 Sciences Division to accept part-time DPhil students and currently we have 12. Student number
 caps across the University prevent growth in student numbers. We seek to recruit doctoral
 students with outstanding proposals whose work fits with the research agendas of current staff,
 to bring about research excellence.

 Table 2 Number of doctorates awarded

            2013/14   2014/15   2015/16   2016/17   2017/18   2018/19   2019/20   Total
                 16       18        19        15        19      26.5        17    130.5



 Over the period, our students gained 62 competitive scholarships. The number of fully-funded
 students between years 2014 to 2019 was 47 (29 ESRC-funded, 12 Clarendon, 3 Rhodes
 Scholars, and 3 Swire Scholarships) and many students have partial funding from a range of
 sources such as their own government schemes. Evidence of the increased quality of doctoral

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers’ work is in the form of prizes from learned societies: AEA-Europe, AERA, BERA,
 CIES SIG, Emerald/HETL, IAEA.

 Students are encouraged and supported to publish their own research as well as publishing in
 collaboration with academics in the department during their doctorate. A protocol for staff-
 student collaborative publications has been implemented during the period. Currently registered
 doctoral students for whom we have data published over 120 outputs: books (3), edited books
 (1), journal articles (48), book chapters (34) and reports (33). Additionally, to support students’
 careers, an Integrated Thesis doctorate route has been launched, which will allow students to
 gain a doctorate by including work that has been written for publication. No professional
 doctorate route is available.

 Students run an annual conference (STORIES), which attracts around 30 doctoral student
 presenters and 50-60 attendees from the Department and other UK and international
 universities. The Department offers a regular series of career development seminars and
 workshops for doctoral students, coordinated by the Student Liaison Coordinator (SLC). They
 take place every week during term time, a total of 24 workshops per year. Each workshop is one
 hour long and topics vary but tend to deal with research issues (e.g. fieldwork) and career-
 planning (e.g. CV preparation). In the past three years, 107 students have taken up a course
 offered by the University’s Careers Service.

 Equality and diversity
 Structural inequalities and social justice issues permeate the department’s research and its
 strategic thinking. One of our strategic objectives is ‘To maintain an intellectually rich work
 culture that is inclusive and equitable.’ The diversity of our academic staff and research
 students is testament to our close regard to legislation and University policy with respect to
 admissions, appointments, the working environment and career advancement. As far as
 possible, we monitor equality and diversity issues in formal and informal ways, as the lived
 realities of equality and diversity issues are just as important as quantitative data.

 In 2020, we gained an Athena SWAN Bronze Award and through this process identified areas of
 success and a detailed action plan for the next four years. We have established a permanent
 Inclusion Committee which offers guidance to our Departmental Board and monitors and
 implements our strategy to provide an inclusive and equitable environment for all staff and
 students. As part of this work we are undergoing curricula reviews, we have reviewed and
 improved our induction, PDR, mentoring and promotion processes, improved our process for
 monitoring admissions and completion rates for students, taken part in the University’s nursery
 scheme, supported staff to train for and join the University’s LGBT+ Allies Network, promoted
 inclusion via our website and in all course handbook materials and have worked on developing
 an agenda of events throughout the department that reinforces a culture of inclusion from
 different perspectives (e.g. gender equality, LGBTQ+, race, physical and mental wellbeing). We
 demonstrate leadership in this area across the University through our contribution to relevant
 research on matters such as University access and Professor Murphy chaired the Social
 Sciences Division’s Equality and Diversity Steering Group, also being a member of the
 University’s Equality and Diversity Committee.

 One example of our thinking in this area is our estates policy. The Department’s Victorian
 buildings had significant access problems and can be isolating for staff, affecting their wellbeing
 and the inclusive culture. To counteract this, the University agreed to invest a budget of
 £410,000 and we created a new social learning space with a café (Pring’s), thereby increasing
 communication and circulation between staff, students and visitors. Better access to the
 department has been constructed, including improved mobility impaired access to key areas,
 lighting and signage have been improved, guide dog facilities were created, lectures have been
 digitised, hearing loops and/or sign language translators have been provided and academic
 support workers have been employed. Our offices and public spaces were refurbished. Mental
 health issues continue to be identified by line managers and supervisors addressed in a range of
 ways, including counselling, occupational health appointments and plans. These initiatives led

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to creative, bespoke solutions for staff and students such as working remotely or part-time,
 compressed hours and other flexible working arrangements.

 In response to the pandemic, the Department carefully considered the needs of all students and
 staff. Regular on-line, open meetings were held with different groups, a weekly newsletter was
 established, emails were invited and surveys were conducted to ensure that views could be
 expressed through different media. Our risk management planning balanced the health needs
 of all, including mental health needs. In doing so, we were able to provide a Covid-secure
 environment that suited our teaching needs in line with Government guidance. We provided
 those most in need with access to their offices at times whenever possible. Staff workload,
 furlough and requirements for working at home have been actively tackled through the line
 management structure, with a particular focus upon equality and mental health. More broadly,
 the University introduced on-campus testing sites for students and staff, materials to support the
 construction of online teaching (underpinned by support from our Department), personnel
 policies to support staff (such as reducing workload expectations and furlough uptake), mental
 health and wellbeing support (including online meditation and exercise classes) and frequently
 updated Health and Safety guidance and communications.

 The University has several initiatives to improve equality and diversity. Specifically aimed
 toward women are two career progression schemes: Oxford Senior Women’s Mentoring
 Network (mentoring intended to encourage women to explore their leadership potential within
 academic life, or within an administrative career); and the Academic Leadership Development
 Programme (ALDP: an introduction to academic leadership, offering staff an insight into the
 possible development of their careers, and underpinning succession planning in departments
 and faculties and in the Divisions). Since 2014 three (all female) academic staff members have
 attended the ALDP.

 The University offers one of the most generous family leave packages in the sector; we make
 efforts to reduce workload on return to work and staff are encouraged to make use of flexible or
 compressed hours working arrangements. Part-time options are discussed with staff and plans
 are made for sabbaticals following parental leave. Staff have successfully made applications to
 the University’s Returning Carers’ Fund, which has supported their research by providing
 conference attendance support, RA funding, equipment etc. Staff have regularly taken parental
 leave since 2014, including shared parental leave and adoption leave. All but two of the
 academic staff who took parental leave have returned to work in the department. The
 department budgets for parental leave and pays for staff cover, as necessary, alleviating the
 pressure on Principal Investigators’ budgets. One member of staff commented,
          The environment of the department has meant that I have had no concerns about taking
          two periods of maternity leave; the University Returning Carers’ Fund also provided me
          with a grant to springboard my return to research following my maternity leave,
          particularly into the English Education community, which has enabled the completion of
          my book … published at the end of 2020.

 Academics employed in the period come from a wide range of countries of origin: Australia,
 Belgium, Brazil, China, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Ireland, India, Israel, Lebanon,
 Malaysia, Norway, Pakistan, Peru, Romania, Russia, Turkey, UK and the US.

 57 of our submitted outputs have female and 58 have male authors and 22 have both. While our
 impact case studies were led by senior members of the Department, importantly most include
 the research and impact of more junior colleagues. Three of the five impact cases were led by
 female Professors (Baird, Sebba, Siraj) and two are led by authors from ethnic minorities
 (Johnson, Siraj).




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 External funding
 Since 2014, the department has continued to diversify its sources of funding and ways of
 working with funders (Figure 2), including more collaboration, knowledge exchange and funding-
 in-kind through provision of staff, services or equipment. Our total externally awarded
 research funding was £66.3million over the period (£20.8million to Oxford). The department
 has won 162 competitively-awarded grants in the period, 104 led by department colleagues.
 Our competitive grant success rate of 48% (338 proposals) also demonstrates the effectiveness
 of our research strategy.

 Figure 2 Income comparison across REF periods (REF-able income only)




                Total £9.3million                           Total £20.8million




 Another measure of success is that the department has proven to be very attractive to
 postdoctoral researchers and has attracted postdoctoral funding for 10 individuals from a range
 of funders:

       ESRC Post-Doctoral Fellowships – Awal, Xu;
       AQA Fellowship – McGrane;
       British Academy Post-Doctoral Fellowship – Tholen;
       Leverhulme Post-Doctoral Fellowship – Collins;
       ESRC GCRF Post-Doctoral Fellowship – El Masri;
       EC Marie Curie fellowship – Mertova;
       OECD Thomas J. Alexander Fellowship – Caro;
       Royal Society and Ogden Trust Education Research Fellowship – Hillier;
       Haruv Institute - Melkman.

 Internal funding
 Additional funding, internal to the University, from a range of schemes, has been important for
 piloting and building research agendas, in advance of external grant applications (Table 3). The

                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Social Sciences Division successfully bid for a total pot of £2.5million to Research England’s
 Higher Education Innovation Fund, which supported a Business Engagement team, a Senior
 Research Impact Facilitator, two Policy Engagement Officers and IAA and KE competitive grant
 schemes. The John Fell Fund is funded by OUP and is run in competition across Social
 Sciences Division. The Department has an 80% success rate with this scheme, one of the
 highest in the Division.

 The Small Grants and Conferences Committee in the Department offers support for participation
 in conferences, with priority given to early career researchers (178 awards) and small start-up
 grants (34). A Doctoral Training Fund was introduced in 2016 to offer financial support for fees
 to the small number of staff studying for a doctorate (4 under this scheme). This strategy has
 been particularly beneficial in supporting teachers in their transition to a research career.

 Table 3 Internal research funding




 Donor, industry and consultancy funding

 The Department has received a number of generous philanthropic donations in this REF period
 (excluded from REF4b), most notably support for the first Endowed Chair in the department –
 the Professor of Education and Children’s Social Care (Feinstein). Additionally, the Alex
 Timpson Attachment and Trauma Awareness in Schools Programme and the Hadley Research
 Programme are funded philanthropically. Research support has also come from industry
 research commissioners, including AQA, Core Assets and OUP. In total, donor and industry
 funding has amounted to over £6.5million. Since 2014, 65 Department academics have
 engaged with 106 local, national and international consultancy projects with a total income of
 £1.4million, which gives an indication of the volume of paid activities, though there are of course
 a large number of unpaid exchanges and contributions. Although none of these sources of
 funding are included in the REF exercise, they add to the research environment.

 Investment in infrastructure
 Since 2014, we have invested in the administration of our research, by augmenting the full-time
 Research Facilitator role with a Research Finance Officer and an Administrative Assistant
 (.5FTE). A Communications Officer was appointed to improve the impact of the research. Each
 Research Centre has an administrator and the Rees Centre and GCHE also employ
 Communications Officers.

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our academics benefit from the Bodleian Education Library, a subject-focused collection of
 c.35,000 items, located at the Department (annual book budget £80,000). 4.75 FTE library staff
 offer assistance from the central help desk which also serves as the Department’s reception.
 We have access to the wider Bodleian Libraries – the largest library system in Europe, which
 includes use of other libraries’ spaces and print collections (including 11 million in offsite
 storage), and also an online library including over a billion articles, 1.4 million e-books, 118,000
 e-journals and 1,500 databases.

 Library staff work with tutors to create online reading lists for courses, digitising chapters under
 the terms of the University’ copyright licence and providing direct links to online items. Librarians
 teach students on every course, welcoming them to the libraries and sharing advice on more
 advanced literature searching, reference management and avoiding plagiarism. Further, our
 senior librarian (Scutt) contributes her expertise directly to research projects, such as Education
 Research Findings- understanding the landscape (PI- Oancea, £39,000, British Academy).


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Contribution to the economy and society
 Departmental research influences policy and practice in education and related sectors, through
 collaborative work and knowledge exchange, partnerships, dissemination and engagement, and
 through key appointments. Much of our impact is not captured by the impact cases. Examples
 of impact in this category include Hulme’s research on phonics, and Marginson’s work on the
 worldwide trend to high participation in tertiary education (used by OECD) and on the education
 export sector in UK (leading to an influential report by the parliament-based Higher Education
 Commission, which in turn helped to trigger a new post-study work visa for international student
 graduates). The Department’s first spin-off, OxEd and Assessment Ltd., was founded in 2019.
 Department academics have played a significant part in policy circles nationally and
 internationally by taking on key roles in government, NGOs, charities and in industry, including:

       Baird – Standing Specialist Adviser on Education for the UK Parliamentary Education
        Select Committee, Ofqual’s Standards Advisory Group, AQA Research Committee Chair,
        SQA Qualifications Committee, Welsh Government Curriculum and Assessment Expert
        Group;
       Erduran – OECD Expert Group for PISA 2024 Science framework
       Feinstein – Commissioner at Social Metrics Commission, NSPCC Research Advisory
        Group, DfE Data Improvement across Government
       Holmes – ONS and DfE Data Sharing Approval Panel Data User Advisory Group, DfE
        extended Star Chamber Scrutiny Panel
       Hopfenbeck – OECD Expert Group for PISA questionnaire 2014-2023, Ofqual’s
        Research Advisory Group;
       Ingram – OECD Mathematics Expert Group for PISA 2021;
       Keep – Ofqual’s Vocational Advisory Group, Scottish Funding Council Board, Quality and
        Qualifications Committee – Ireland, Student Opportunity and Achievement Committee –
        Wales;
       Sylva – Specialist Adviser to the House of Lords Enquiry into ‘Affordable Childcare’;
       Sebba – Research Strategy Group Member for the NSPCC;
       Strand – DfE Steering Group for the National Pupil Database, Specialist Adviser to the
        House of Commons Education Select Committee Enquiry in the underachievement of
        white working class children, DfE Expert Advisory Group for the Second Longitudinal
        Study of Young People in England.

 Learned societies play a crucial part in the shaping and functioning of the social sciences. Our
 staff have been awarded academy fellowships by:



                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
             Academy of Social Sciences - Baird, Edwards, Furlong, Hulme, Lunt, Marginson,
              Melhuish, Menter, Ozga, Sebba;
             British Academy: Feinstein, Hulme, Lunt, Ozga, Sylva;
             Learned Society of Wales – Edwards.

    Additionally, our academic staff have consistently held leadership roles in learned societies
    nationally and internationally (over 80), including acting as:

     President                              Association for Educational Assessment-Europe         Baird
                                            Australian College of Educators                       Mayer
                                            BERA                                                  Menter
                                            European Science Education Research Association       Erduran
                                            NALDIC (National subject Association for English as   Murphy
                                            an Additional Language)
     Vice-President                         Association for Educational Assessment-Europe         Hopfenbeck
                                            Historical Association                                Burn
                                            International Union of Psychological Science          Lunt
     Council/Board                          Academy of Social Sciences                            Marginson
     Member/Trustee                         British Educational Research Association, European    Oancea
                                            Educational Research Association
                                            National Network for the Education of Care Leavers    Harrison
                                            Society for Research into Higher Education            Harrison
                                            Universities’ Council for the Education of Teachers   Mutton
                                            What Works Centre for Social Care                     Feinstein
     SIG Convener                           European Association for Research on Learning and     Sammons
                                            Instruction
     Treasurer                              Society for Educational Studies                       Gearon
     Secretary                              Irish Association of Applied Linguistics              Rose
                                            Philosophy of Education Society of Great Britain      Oancea

    In social science, our research is, in itself, a contribution to public thought leadership. Since
    2014, Departmental research attracted book prizes and recognition for landmark1 and
    outstanding papers (Elliott, Furlong, Gearon, Harrison, Ingram, Keep, Melhuish, Oancea, Strand,
    Sammons, Sylva). Our staff have been honoured with the following prestigious awards in this
    period:
         Hans Freundenthal Award 2107 (Nunes),
         William T Davis Award 2018 (Sammons),
         Distinguished Scientific Contributions Award 2018 (Hulme),
         BERA John Nisbet Fellowships 2014, 2020 (Sylva, Menter).

    Contributions to society have been recognised in the Queen’s Honours. Professor Judy Sebba
    was awarded an OBE for services to Higher Education and disadvantaged youth (2018). Her
    work has influenced government policy on special educational needs, assessment and children
    in care. Professor John Furlong was awarded an OBE for services to research in education and
    government (2017). His work has influenced the structure and future of the teaching profession,
    particularly in Wales. Professor Edward Melhuish was awarded an OBE for services to social
    science (2016). His research has influenced the 1989 and 2009 Children’s Acts, the 2006
    Childcare Bill and the government’s decision in 2013 to give free part-time education to all of the
    40% most disadvantaged children in the country from the age of two.

    Contribution to Journal Editorship
    Since REF2104, academics in the Department have been the Lead Editor or Co-Editor of 22
    academic journals (Figure 3), with the Lead Editorship of 10 journals currently. We are either

1
    https://www.bera.ac.uk/project/40at40

                                                                                                       Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on the Editorial Board of or have acted as Guest Editor for over 100 national and international
 journals during the period, including Applied Psycholinguistics, British Educational Journal, Child
 Development, Journal of Child Language, Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, Journal
 of Educational Change, Residential Treatment for Children and Youth and School Effectiveness
 and School Improvement. Colleagues also contribute to the field by conducting voluminous
 reviews for journals. Strand received a Publons Peer Review Award 2018, rating him as the 5th
 highest ranked reviewer for education in the world.

 Figure 3 Lead Editorships in the period (*current)




 Baird          Marginson*   Nag*           Malmberg*      Furlong, Lunt*, Ingram*,        Hulme*      Mayer & Thompson*
 Hopfenbeck*                                               Oancea*         Stylianides




 Harrison*          Burn*    Winters      Phillips         Ertl, Phillips   Daniels      Erduran




 Daniels, Edwards    Eynon      Hillier   Mentor, Oancea     Erduran*         Erduran*         Mills


 Our collaborations
 Our collaborations within the University include the following departments: English, Law,
 Languages, Medicine, Oxford Internet Institute, Oxford University Press, Social policy and
 Intervention, Psychiatry, Experimental Psychology and the Blavatnik School of Government.
 Our external networks with users and beneficiaries include our work with local schools, the
 Oxfordshire Local Authority, the Virtual Schools Network, OECD, examination boards
 internationally, the Royal Society, the History Society and other subject associations. Our
 extensive academic networks have been built through our contributions to learned societies and
 international journal editing as well as through our projects and they are leveraged to produce
 research excellence and to foster opportunities for early career researchers. 25 Special Issues
 were Guest Edited during the period, with 63% of the authors coming from outside the UK. 16%
 of our externally funded projects involved international collaborations. Our publications
 demonstrate the range of our collaborations with other academic institutions (Figure 4).




                                                                                                                      Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Figure 4 Publication collaborations




 Honorary Positions
 In recognition of the outstanding nature of external colleagues’ work and of our collaborations
 with them, the Department has Visiting Professorships, Honorary Research Fellowships,
 Norham Fellows and Research Associates of the Research Centres. Emeritus Professors
 continue to contribute to the intellectual environment of the Department, including through
 contributing to our research environment by collaborating on research projects, outputs, giving
 seminars, supporting research students (Edwards, Furlong, Keep, Lunt, Macaro, Menter,
 Mayhew, Nunes, Ozga, Phillips, Pring, Sylva, Walford, Watson).

 The University has awarded (or renewed) three Visiting Professorships in the Department since
 REF2014. This is the highest honour that the University has awarded any Professor of
 Education:
     Professor David Andrich (2010 - 2018) is Chapple Professor at the University of
        Western Australia. His research on psychometrics is world-renowned and he was
        recently named as the top researcher in education by The Australian and one of the top
        30 researchers in the social sciences in Australia on the basis of the citations of his work
        over the past five years.
     Professor Jenny Gore (2018 - ) is Laureate Professor of Education at the University of
        Newcastle, Australia. She was the first female to be given the title of Laureate Professor
        at the institution. Her work includes randomised control trials of teaching rounds. She
        was one of only 12 scholars to be selected as a Fellow of the American Educational



                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Research Association in 2020 and was the only academic from outside the US to be
        given the award.
       Professor Nancy Perry (2020 - ) holds the Dorothy Lam Chair in Special Education and
        Professor of Educational and Counselling Psychology and Special Education at the
        University of British Columbia. Professor Perry’s work on self-regulation in schools is
        internationally recognised. She has been President of the Canadian Association for
        Educational Psychology and the Educational Psychology Division of the American
        Psychological Association.

 Since REF2014, we have had 72 Honorary Research Fellowships, including a large number of
 distinguished colleagues such as Professor Marilyn Fleer (children’s play and development,
 Monash University), Professor Art Graesser (language and AI, University of Memphis),
 Professor Mariane Hedegaard (developmental psychology, University of Copenhagen) and
 Professor David Kaplan (quantitative methods, University of Wisconsin-Madison).

 Since 2014, five academics have been recognised by other universities for their scholarship with
 Honorary Doctorates (Baird – Bergen; Hulme – Oslo; Oancea – West University Timisoara;
 Sebba – Sussex; Sylva – Gothenburg).

 Visiting research positions have been held by us in countries across the world (Baird –
 Bergen and Queen’s, Belfast; Daniels – Brisbane, Osaka, Moscow and Singapore; Edwards -
 Oslo; Ertl - Nanjing; Gearon – Newcastle, Australia and Helsinki; Hulme – Australian Catholic
 University and Oslo; Johnson – Harvard; Hopfenbeck – Bergen; James Relly - Johannesburg;
 Macaro - Hidalgo, Mexico; Marginson - National Research University Higher School of
 Economics, Moscow; Mathers – University College of Northern Denmark, Plymouth; Melhuish –
 Wollongong; Nunes - Porto Allegre, Brazil; Siraj – Stavanger, UCL, Wollongong; Sammons -
 Cyprus and Hong Kong; Winters – Paris School of International Affairs).

 Programme of Visiting Researchers
 Due to the extensive reach of our research partnerships, the Department offers an exciting
 space for researchers and students alike to connect with a wide range of contexts, methods,
 theoretical positions and research priorities. In addition to the short-term visits, we have a
 programme of Visiting Researchers whose time in the Department extends for more than a week
 and is usually for a term. Since REF2014, we have had 61 academic visits of this kind,
 representing research connections with colleagues from 31 countries. These arrangements
 have led to research events, grants (e.g. Xavier Dumay ERC collaboration with Burn), books
 (e.g. Maria Tatto with Burn, Mutton and Thompson), journal articles (e.g. Andrew Martin with
 Malmberg) and journal Special Issue proposals (e.g. Christian Ydesen with Daniels).

 Public engagement
 Regular public engagements across the range of our research activities have been featured in
 print, radio and TV media, including:
      Writing directly for print media through regular columns (e.g. Keep, FE News, 2020;
          Marginson, Times Higher Education, 2020) or individual articles (e.g. Baird, TES, 2020).
      Sylva’s 2018 interview on BBC Radio 4’ Women’s Hour on research findings on the
          closure of Children’s Centres (also covered in Guardian, The Independent).
      Strand’s research on equity gaps in educational outcomes (Guardian, 2015, 2014; The
          Independent, 2015; Daily Telegraph, 2014).
      Sebba’s research on children’s care and education (Guardian, 2017; Times, 2015).
      Melhuish’s research showing the benefits of early years’ education (Daily Telegraph,
          2017, 2014; Irish Times, 2015; Observer, 2015).
      Siraj’s research on the quality of early years’ provision (Herald, 2019; Western Mail,
          2017).
      Research on teacher education by Burn, Furlong and Mutton (Irish Times, 2019; Western
          Mail, 2015 - 2019; Oxford Mail, 2014).


                                                                                          Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 During the pandemic, the Department was involved in several public engagement activities,
 including producing home-schooling resources for parents, documenting the likely effects of
 Covid-19 on school exclusions (Observer) and public discourse around the exam results in
 Scotland and England (BBC News, BBC Radio 4’s The World at One, Time’s Radio, School’s
 Week).




                                                                                        Page 23
