Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bath Spa University

 Unit of assessment: UoA 4: Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Context and structure
 The Psychology unit at Bath Spa University (BSU) is underscored by international excellence
 and successes in applied Health and Cognition research. This success is demonstrated
 through major funding awards, research which impacts upon individual, organisational, political,
 and societal spaces, cross-disciplinary networking and research, and dissemination through
 strategic and impactful public engagement. The portfolio of work within the unit is driven by
 applied Health and Cognition themes, which are housed within the Psychology Centre for
 Health and Cognition (PCHC).
 Significant and strategic investments have meant that Psychology at BSU moved from a non-
 submitting, teaching-focused unit in 2014, to one which not only has research excellence, but
 also supports staff development and Early Career Researcher (ECR) growth, has an ever-
 increasing Postgraduate Research (PGR) profile, and has made significant investment in
 physical estates infrastructure and equipment. We have also significantly increased research
 funding from GBP0 in the REF period to 2014, to Principal Investigator in over GBP400,000
 worth of research awards, and have two internationally leading Impact Case Studies which
 include impactful public engagement.
 The PCHC comprises two separate but interrelated clusters. The applied Health cluster, run by
 Ravalier and Wainwright, has a focus on applied health and wellbeing research. Most work
 done here therefore seeks to provide support to important stakeholders such as for employee
 stress, mental health and wellbeing (Ravalier, Wainwright, Walsh, Vitale), return to work
 following periods of sickness absence (Wainwright, Walsh, Thomas), mental health and
 wellbeing in vulnerable populations (Vitale, Bengry, Yousaf, McGuire-Snieckus, Wadeley,
 Sutton), and those experiencing chronic pain (Walsh, Wainwright). The Cognition cluster, run
 by Jones and Etchells, aims to investigate the mechanisms behind a range of human
 behaviours from basic learning processes and our understanding of memory (Markopoulos,
 Kinloch, Janik-McErlean, de Sousa, Jones), as well as the impact video games (Etchells)
 and other social processes (de Sousa) on cognition. The interests of many researchers also
 span the two clusters, with senior researchers such as Thomas, and ECRs such as Paulo and
 Pike, regularly engaging in this cross-disciplinary work. In particular, this work focuses on
 forensic psychology and real-world applications of cognitive neuroscience.
 The PCHC sits firmly within university-wide research strategies. The unit delivers impactful
 research and public engagement at a local, national, and global level (Institutional Environment
 Statement, IES 2.1 - 2.5) - through social engagement, collaborative, and/or interdisciplinary
 research (IES 2.3). The remit of the PCHC fits within two university-wide Research Centres
 due to involvement in interdisciplinary projects and public engagement (Centre for Cultural and
 Creative Industries), and transpersonal and co-creative approaches to study (TRACE).


 Research Strategy
 Following the 2014 non-submission, a series of strategic decisions were made to ensure that
 Psychology was returned in 2021 as a Centre for Excellence in applied Health and Cognition
 research. The Psychological Research Group was established in 2014, and this upgraded to
 the PCHC in 2018, in order to reflect the growing excellence of research and critical mass of
 research-active staff. The aims set out for REF 2021 therefore focused on improving staffing,
 infrastructure, and environment to support the researchers currently within the unit, and recruit
 new members who can contribute to this environment. As such, our aims for growth were:



Page 1
 Expand Staff Base
 We grew the staff base by recruiting research-active ECRs who had the potential to become
 international leaders in the fields of health and/or cognition (based on research projects, grant
 awards, and publication history), and supporting their development by surrounding them with
 the people and infrastructure needed to fulfil this potential. Caulfield (until 2017) as research
 lead of the Psychological Research Group acted as mentor for ECRs such as Etchells (joined
 in 2013, now Prof), Ravalier (joined 2014, now Reader), and Wainwright (joined 2014, now
 Reader), each of whom have developed from ECRs upon joining into internationally recognised
 research leaders (see Section 2). This all worked alongside the institutional researcher
 development events and training, which are held throughout the academic year (see also
 Section 2). The unit also currently houses two Research Fellows, and had a third (Director of
 the Trauma Foundation South West) from 2015 to 2017, whose role was to support research,
 staff development, and community integration.
 Focus on Applied and Impactful Health Research
 A key aim of the strategy was to develop a programme of research which was both high quality
 and directly impactful on individuals, groups, and/or organisations. These projects therefore not
 only sought to add to academic evidence, but had tangible and evaluatively-informed lasting
 benefits for stakeholders. By providing a tailored approach to mentoring, peer review, QR
 funding allocation, staff recruitment and development (see Section 2), and research
 promotion/public engagement, members of the unit were equipped with the skills and tools to
 ensure projects were applied and impactful. Examples of successes in this area include
 Ravalier and Wainwright’s work being used as an example of ‘best practice’ in supporting
 social worker wellbeing by the UK government (GOV.UK published guidance) Vitale has
 developed a number of interventions alongside international and industrial partners which have
 been implemented for vulnerable asylum seeker populations (online post) Other examples
 include Thomas’ work with the Royal National Lifeboat Institute, Paulo’s work with police
 forces from across the UK and more widely, among others.
 Increase Research Income
 In the 2014 reporting period, GBP0 was awarded in external research funding as principal
 investigator to any researchers within the unit (with just GBP22,000 awarded between 1996
 and 2014). Between 2014 and 2016 we took a targeted approach to focusing research funding
 applications around applied Health and Cognition-based research. Support was offered
 through internal QR funding of small pump-prime research projects (the cumulative QR funds
 provided to Psychology in the previous REF reporting period was GBP0, compared to
 GBP22,504 in this), teaching relief for promising ECRs for one year upon first joining the
 University and established researchers through an internally funded teaching relief scheme,
 mentoring and peer support, writing retreats, and other infrastructure. Achieving our aim is
 reflected in the amount of successful external research funds the unit has been awarded. Since
 2014, GBP406,486 has been awarded to researchers in Psychology as PI, in addition to
 Euros216,760 for research, teaching and University governance through Erasmus+, and
 researchers have been involved as co-investigators in awards totalling GBP2,615,492.
 Develop Interdisciplinary Research Collaborations
 Research leaders within the unit, in addition to wider University mechanisms, have supported
 academics in fostering interdisciplinary research collaborations with both academic and
 industrial partners. For example, members have been supported in running conferences
 (Vitale, Ravalier, McGuire-Snieckus) and funded to attend external meetings (since Covid the
 University has invested in advanced Google suite functionality to support these meetings). A
 dedicated Pro-Vice Chancellor (External) supports researchers in developing and maintaining
 these external relationships. The unit also houses an Industrial Research Fellow to support the
 team’s community-based research (such as that by Vitale). Much of the research that is
 undertaken within the unit, therefore, builds on these collaborative networks with projects
 running with external partners such as Local Authorities and NHS Trusts, British Association of
 Social Work (BASW), International Federation of Social Workers, Trauma Foundation South


Page 2
 West, Health Education England, Bank of England, and the Royal Automobile Club (Jones),
 among many others (see Section 4).
 Improve Research Infrastructure
 Following a review of available space and equipment available to researchers in 2014, the
 University invested into estates spaces and research equipment for researchers within the unit.
 This includes significant investment in lab spaces such as the video games lab (managed by
 Etchells), Eye Tracking lab (Jones), Pain Research Lab (Walsh) (see Section 3 for more).
 Attract and Develop PGR Students
 A further strategic approach was taken to attract postgraduate research students into the unit
 while improving the PGR environment (see also Section 2). In addition to three internal PhD
 studentship awards and one fee waiver, we sought to attract PGR students by undertaking
 impactful research by working with organisational partners, and building a nationwide
 reputation in applied Health research. Among our 10 current PhD students, therefore, we have
 two Health and Social Care professionals, and five PGR researchers focusing on Health and
 Wellbeing of Health and Social Care professionals. In addition to university-wide PGR-specific
 training and development opportunities, the PCHC also extended all support and training
 available to ECR lecturers, to PGR students (see Section 2).


 Impact Strategy
 Following the 2014 non-submission, key decisions were made to focus upon health research
 which sought to develop and work with key stakeholders of the research via co-production
 (such as NHS or care staff), and through meaningful public engagement which would lead to
 changes in public opinion, policy, and policy makers. This strategy has seen success through a
 number of those returned to the unit, ultimately culminating in two Impact Case Studies (ICS
 UoA4-2 VGE Etchells; ICS UoA401 PHW Wainwright and Ravalier) returned within this unit.
 Co-production with stakeholders
 Co-production of research alongside beneficiaries means that stakeholders play an important
 part in the research process. In 2014, research leadership took the strategic decision to ensure
 that some of the Health-related research in particular had a co-produced element to facilitate
 the development of impact. Success in this area includes separate but related projects by
 colleagues such as Ravalier and Wainwright (for example, see Ravalier et al., 2020; ICS
 UoA4-2 PHW (Wainwright, Ravalier), who co-created mental health and wellbeing
 interventions for stakeholders in a variety of job roles and occupations.
 Meaningful and Impactful Public Engagement
 Public engagement was an important impact approach because it not only disseminates the
 findings of our research to non-academic audiences, but also aims to change public and
 policymaker perspectives on important health and well-being matters. For example, Etchells’
 (see ICS UoA4-1 VGE) concerted and impactful public engagement has led to documented
 changes in public opinion of both individuals (e.g. the psychologist article) and groups on the
 impact of video games and social media on young people through his British Academy Rising
 Star Engagement award.
 Political and Policy Implications
 Related to the above, the unit’s research also sought to impact upon political bodies and policy
 makers through public engagement and offering evidence to inquiries. As such, public
 engagement by each of Ravalier (UK Parliament), Wainwright ICS UoA4-2 PHW), and
 Etchells (House of Commons report), each led to policy and political impacts including being
 quoted in both Houses in Westminster, as well as Scottish and Welsh governments (e.g. The
 Scottish Parliament).




Page 3
 Interdisciplinary Approaches to Research
 Interdisciplinary research with external network organisations developed as a consequence of
 targeted QR funding to initiate meetings, attend conferences, etc. A subsequent emerging
 research profile has led to tangible impact on organisations such as BASW and Social Workers
 Union (SWU; Ravalier, 2019), NHS Trusts and Local Authorities (Ravalier, 2020), refugee
 organisations (Vitale, 2019), and health organisation work such as MECC (Wainwright; ICS
 UoA4-2 PHW). The strategy therefore has led to the development of significant impacts both
 across each of the ICSs, as well as across the work of other staff in the unit.


 Open Research Strategy
 The unit’s strategy for open research is guided by the institutional approach (IES 2.8.1). All
 staff are offered annual refreshers to maintain understanding of open research requirements.
 The UoA’s REF lead (Ravalier) has responsibility for ensuring colleagues register their outputs
 on ResearchSPAce, enabling library staff to undertake open publication and compliance
 actions.
 Going ‘above-and-beyond’ the REF2021 open research requirements, the unit has published
 open access book chapters to extend reach, e.g. Markopoulos’ chapter on contextual
 information in memory in the Psychology Press’ The Preservation of Memory’ (ed. Bruno,
 2016). The Library has also pledged funds to the ‘Knowledge Unlatched’ project, a consortial
 initiative to ‘unlock’ monographs for open access publication, including a collection of
 Psychology titles.


 Future Strategy
 The unit has made significant steps in the last 5 years, and we will continue this by expanding
 upon the strategic decisions made over the current period of assessment. In addition to
 increasing research funding and continued impactful work in the Health cluster, the four
 priorities for growth expand in terms of scope and breadth upon the work we have most
 recently undertaken as well as ongoing political, social, and organisational impacts. The future
 strategy, therefore, is to:
 Develop partnerships to respond to international priorities
 Through the PCHC, we will work with partner institutions in the Global Academy of Liberal Arts
 (GALA, an international community consisting of 24 institutions founded by BSU in 2014 to
 develop new kinds of research collaboration IES 4.2.4) and director (McGuire-Snieckus) to
 develop sustainable strategic networks in response to priorities emerging through the GCRF,
 UKRI, BA and others. Over the first 12 months of 2021, African partner universities will be
 invited to present to the Brain and Behaviour seminar series and the ongoing Black History:
 Black Futures commemorations and research talks (run by Ravalier). This will mean
 colleagues within the unit begin to develop research relationships, and from 2022 onwards will
 seek work on co-funded projects together.
 Develop the new Educational Psychology research initiatives
 In October 2021, a new undergraduate course in Educational Psychology will begin to recruit
 students. Alongside this, the team will recruit two new Educational Psychology academics to
 join the team. Ravalier and Etchells are leading this recruitment, selecting only those whose
 research is applied in nature, and allied to the work currently conducted (e.g. Ravalier and
 Walsh, 2018; McMahon, Yeh, & Etchells, 2019). This Educational Psychology-related work
 will be developed into a new cluster of the PCHC to reflect its importance, and researchers
 associated with this new cluster will be provided the same developmental opportunities as all
 others.
 Expand the Cognition Cluster
 We also seek to further build upon the existing excellence in applied Health research and
 expand that to ensure that research in cognition is applied in nature also. Therefore, over the

Page 4
 first two and a half years of the next REF period we will work toward developing an Applied
 Cognition Research group (led by Walsh and Jones). To do so, a percentage of QR funds
 available to the unit will be ring fenced only for applied cognition research and to support the
 development of research relationships with external academic and institutional partners. The
 University’s Pro-Vice Chancellor (External) will support researchers in developing external
 partnerships through the development of BSU as a Civic University, and thus developing
 relationships and networks with local community organisations.
 Expand the PGR Community of Researchers
 We will continue to grow the PGR community through the continued use of fee waivers and
 PGR fully-funded scholarships. We also have a new PGT MSc in ‘Psychology in Practice
 (Work, Health and Wellbeing) which begins in October 2021, and thus we expect organic
 growth and progression from this MSc through to PGR. Furthermore, continued public
 engagement and demonstrations of the work undertaken in the unit will lead to an expanded
 PGR community.


 Promoting Research in the Unit
 Public engagement and promoting the excellence of research within the unit are key
 considerations of the PCHC. Firstly, we have a monthly seminar series (the Brain and
 Behaviour series) in which internal and external speakers alternate in monthly talks as well as
 a regular Psychology podcast series (In Conversation With...). The talks are funded by the
 School of Sciences and QR funding, with attendance continually good from BSU staff, students
 from Undergraduate to PGR, and external attendees. The seminar series is developed and led
 by Jones and de Sousa, with a key component of the B&B series being diversity, and
 speakers discussing how to make research (and researchers) more diverse and inclusive.
 Etchells (Professor in Psychology and Science Communication) is a leading academic in the
 Open Access and Open Science initiatives (e.g. see Morey, Chambers, Etchells et al., 2016),
 and all pre-print accepted manuscripts are published on the University ResearchSPAce
 repository. Furthermore, Etchells supports colleagues in developing public engagement
 profiles. Therefore, alongside his own excellent public engagement (for example, invited
 addresses to the Cheltenham Science Festival, a best-selling book on the psychology of video
 games, conference key notes, and hundreds of media interviews), Etchells supports and
 mentors others in their public engagement. Examples of such include hundreds of media
 interviews across the unit in all major print and online newspapers (for example Ravalier,
 Janik McErlean, de Sousa), invited keynotes to academic and industry conferences (Section
 4), and speeches in parliament (Ravalier), amongst many other public engagement activities.
 Etchells was also science blog co-ordinator for The Guardian, with a monthly readership of up
 to 1.6 million, and led the paper’s psychology blog ‘Head Quarters’, from 2014 to 2018.
 Engaging and working in collaboration with diverse populations (for example Healthcare, Social
 Care, Social Work, other public and private organisations) in the research undertaken across
 the Unit are also key to the real-world dissemination of our work. Such engagement has
 allowed researchers to promote research to frontline workers as well as organisational
 decision-makers, professional organisations and unions, and political/policy makers (for
 example, see the work by McGuire-Snieckus, Ravalier, Wainwright, Etchells and others).


 Section 2. People
 Staffing strategy
 The unit comprises 19 staff (18.5FTE), 12 of whom have been recruited since 2014, and 2 in
 the months before the 2014 census date. This represents a significant investment from the
 2014 period when Psychology comprised just 8 members of predominantly teaching-focused
 staff. Of those who have joined since 2014, 7 were ECRs (i.e. within 5 years of becoming an
 independent researcher) when they joined, with 2 current ECRs.


Page 5
 Not only has the unit grown significantly in size, it has grown in research areas (into a focus on
 applied Health and Cognition), collaborations (see Section 1), international reach and
 expertise (e.g. see ICS UoA4-1 VGE [Etchells]), funding and income generation (see Section
 2), world-leading public engagement (see Section 1 and ICS UoA4-1 VGE [Etchells]), and
 development of leadership amongst colleagues (see Section 2). All staff returned within the
 unit are employed on permanent contracts allowing continuous and sustainable development
 and growth. Few staff have left the unit (just 1 since 2014), with that senior researcher
 (Caulfield) replaced by another (Thomas) who has worked to support the development and
 growth of more junior members. New recruits therefore have mostly been ECRs with
 demonstrable research, publication, grant award, and/or public engagement expertise.

 Staff Development
 The unit has sought to appoint promising ECRs and provide them with the necessary
 mentorship, guidance, and developmental opportunities to turn them into leaders in their own
 research fields while also providing specific, targeted, and strategic personal and career
 developmental opportunities to more experienced personnel. Therefore all new staff appointed
 within the unit have distinct research requirements within their job descriptions, and each have
 been appointed at least in part because their research fits the aims and remit of the PCHC.
 Research and researcher development is formally monitored through the annual Staff
 Development Review process.

 In 2020, the University retained its European Commission HR Excellence in Research award,
 after the 10 year external review process, demonstrating the University’s commitment to staff
 and research environment development, while “building on areas of strength and fostering new
 research areas”. As such, we have put together a comprehensive development programme for
 ECRs, PGR students, and more experienced staff, available through the PCHC, in addition to
 the University staff development programmes operating in congruence with Vitae RDF
 guidelines. Staff development opportunities include:

 ECR Development
 Upon joining the University, ECRs are assigned two mentors: one through the official University
 mentoring scheme which follows the Vitae RDF programme, and a second through the PCHC.
 The mentors within the PCHC (Ravalier and Wainwright are research mentors, Etchells is
 public engagement mentor) each joined the University in 2014 and 2013 respectively as ECRs
 and have since moved onto appointments as Readers and Professor. Mentors have all
 completed university-wide mentoring and supervision training, and are assigned to ECRs
 based on career aspiration. As such, Ravalier mentors those for whom seeking research
 funding is a priority; Wainwright for those seeking to build greater external networks with
 potential academic and non-academic partnerships; and Etchells for those seeking to develop
 a public engagement profile. All ECRs with potential to develop as internationally recognised
 researchers (for example Muir, Paulo and others), based on existing publication and grant
 records, are given a specific development budget for conference attendance and similar
 activities, and are also given teaching relief and thus a reduced teaching load in their first year
 of employment. This is in addition to the SRR research tariff of 180 hours (11.4% workload
 allocation). Additionally, in 2018, Thomas, Wainwright, and Vitale were all recipients of
 university-wide competitive teaching relief support schemes.

 A seed fund has been established to support PhD researchers and ECRs to develop their own
 training events for their peers with the support of the Research Development Manager. This
 series - 'Journeys in Research' - has been very successful at building a supportive research
 environment. In line with the Vitae RDF, the Researcher Development programme includes
 sessions on career development, and the Research Development Manager works actively with
 our Careers and Employability team to offer appropriate training to FTC Researchers and ECR
 staff. Careers staff are able to offer one-to-one consultations with PhD students, and offer
 surgeries at our research site in Corsham Court on a regular basis. ECRs also have access to
 dedicated QR SEED funding for research and public engagement.

Page 6
 However, through the University Research Support Office, and our Research Development
 Manager, researchers in all stages of their career are offered training to support them and their
 development. All new research staff are invited to a Research Induction with the Research
 Support Office (RSO) and Library Services to ensure that they are aware of the support
 available to them and the University policies and procedures pertaining to research. Our
 Researcher Development Manager engages regularly with research staff from these
 communities, as well as our PhD student community, and has worked with them to develop
 bespoke researcher development programmes and events.

 Leadership Development
 More experienced academics are also given the opportunity to take on research management
 responsibilities which will support both their development and possibility for promotion.
 Ravalier and Wainwright were offered the opportunity to create and lead the PCHC in order to
 bring together the already aligned research by academics in the Psychology UoA. Etchells
 leads research ethics for Psychology and the School of Sciences more widely, Ravalier is REF
 lead for the unit, and de Sousa and Jones co-lead the Brain and Behaviour seminar series
 (see also Section 3).

 Income Generation Support
 The PCHC also runs a bid coaching and peer review group. In the bid coaching group,
 Readers in the unit (Ravalier, Wainwright) and Professors (McGuire-Snieckus, Etchells)
 provide advice and guidance on research grant submission processes. There are also early
 career and more experienced researchers who peer-review grant applications before they are
 submitted to the University Peer Review College, and to funders. There are therefore examples
 of success among more recently appointed ECRs with Paulo, Jones and Muir each having
 recent grant award successes and a significant research output portfolio. All researchers also
 have access to research bidding and funding support training run by the RSO, including bid
 development. The success of these development opportunities can be seen in the breadth of
 research success that members of the Psychology unit have had across the most recent REF
 period (see Section 3).

 Since 2014, the unit’s focus of income generation has been on supporting staff in development
 of bids based around our two areas of expertise. This focus, and working to foster
 interdisciplinary collaborations with public, private, and third sector organisations, has been
 integral to funding successes, high quality research and public engagement outputs, and the
 development of high-quality Impact Case Studies. Examples include Ravalier’s work with NHS
 Trusts and Local Authorities, Wainwright’s work with Public Health England (ICS UoA4-2
 PHW), Paulo’s collaborations with police constabularies, and Thomas’ work with the Royal
 National Lifeboat Institute. This work has all directly led to significant research funding and
 high-quality research outputs in interdisciplinary journals in education, social work, healthcare,
 and more traditional psychology journals. It has also led to world-leading public engagement
 such as at the BAFTAs, Cheltenham Literary and Science Festivals, articles in all major
 newspapers across the UK, interviews on national and international radio and TV, and much
 more.

 Postgraduate Research Students
 The unit has a thriving postgraduate research community. PGR students are integrated into the
 PCHC from the very beginning of their studies. The University runs institution-wide annual ECR
 conferences for PhD students and early career academics, with senior academics invited to
 give keynote talks and advice sessions as well as an annual 3 Minute Thesis competition for
 PhD students at any stage of their studies. Within Psychology, PhD students are invited to give
 talks to the Brain and Behaviour series. Ravalier manages annual QR funds of which a
 proportion are allocated specifically to PhD students for training and travel bursaries. This is in
 addition to university-wide PGR support schemes which are available to all PGR students at
 each year of their study. Finally, Ravalier, Wainwright, and Etchells act as mentors for PhD

Page 7
 students who are due to complete their PhD within the next 12 months, in order to prepare for
 work in academia. This mentoring includes career positioning, job applications, and interview
 preparation and work. Indeed, one of three graduates has subsequently received a full time,
 temporary lectureship. Those not aiming for a role in academia are paired with our Industrial
 Research Fellow, to support them in moving forward toward work outside of the academy.

 In the reporting period to 2014, the unit had had 0 PhD completions. The unit currently has 10
 PhD researchers based in the PCHC, with another 2 co-supervised with external institutions,
 and 3 PhD completions in this reporting period. Current doctoral students are a mix of internally
 funded (1 student), externally funded via research grants (1 student), a mix of external and
 private funding (4 students), and 4 self-fund. Importantly, every student’s research is led by a
 member of the PCHC, with each of those students choosing psychology at BSU due to the
 emerging and continuing excellence in Health and Cognition research.

 We have three distinct approaches to recruiting PhD students to study within the unit. Firstly,
 we have an active PhD fee and stipend studentship, a competitive scheme open to any
 Psychology graduate which is made available upon each student’s completion of their studies
 (one completion, with a second currently studying). Within these studentships, funding is also
 available should any candidate seek maternity or paternity leave (indeed, one student who has
 subsequently completed has used this). Following completion of the first year progression
 assessment, PhD students can also undertake up to 6 hours’ teaching per week. Secondly,
 PhD students are encouraged to join the unit due to the success, high-profile media
 appearances of supervisors, and the professional networks that members have. For example,
 Ravalier’s work with social work and education professional organisations led to the
 recruitment of a social work manager as PhD student within the unit, and Wainwright’s work
 on MECC healthcare practitioners as PGR researchers. Finally, we have an active and well-
 recruited MSc course, through which two PhD students have been recruited.

 Institutionally, PhD supervisors (or those interested in supervising) must undertake two day-
 long training sessions every three years to maintain the most up to date supervisory skills, and
 have the opportunity to undertake modules (or a full master’s) in supporting researcher
 development. Following induction there are regular opportunities available to postgraduate
 researchers in the unit. Training is therefore offered for each part of the research process and
 beyond, including: developing as an independent researcher and project planning; practical
 research skills such as statistics training and qualitative approaches to research; writing
 support; preparing for progression and VIVA; and life following the PhD. The training offerings
 therefore support postgraduate researchers from conception to completion of the research
 process.

 Supervision and robust monitoring of not only research progress but also the health and
 wellbeing of PhD students is the role of the PGR tutor and PGR management group, which in
 turn reports to the University Research and Ethics Committee (REC). Each school within the
 University has one PGR tutor who oversees the progression assessment and annual
 monitoring processes, and alongside Student’s Union and PhD student representatives, also
 oversees student wellbeing and experience.

 Equality and Diversity
 Equality and diversity are important considerations within the research workforce in the unit,
 with this focus clear in representation. Data related to protected characteristics can be found in
 the Equality & Diversity section of Institutional Environment Statement (IES 3.5).

 Leadership responsibilities are also diverse in nature. For example, McGuire-Snieckus is
 Head of School and Wainwright co-director of the PCHC with Ravalier (male, dual heritage),
 who is also REF lead. There are therefore clear opportunities for a diverse workforce to lead
 and be promoted within the unit, and University more widely.


Page 8
 At a University level, the Equalities and Diversity Steering Group (EDSG) is responsible for
 developing institutional Equality and Diversity policies. The EDSG works with unions,
 colleagues from across the University, and other diversity groups (for example, the Global
 Inclusivity Network, of which Ravalier is Chair) to develop and set institutional policies for all
 staff across the University. The EDSG has implemented the equal pay review, which is tasked
 to ensure fair pay across gender and ethnicity. Similarly, Human Resource-led unconscious
 bias training for those with any REF responsibility is held regularly. Developing Leaders training
 and Research and Enterprise Leadership Programmes each also aim to empower researchers
 from a diverse range of backgrounds to develop into research leaders. Further institutional
 approaches to support diversity and inclusion include compulsory training modules on
 Unconscious Bias and Diversity in the Workplace, with optional sessions on Mentoring,
 Shadowing, and opportunities to become Diversity and Inclusion Champions.

 The Psychology unit more specifically has been responsible for various Equality and Diversity
 initiatives. Ravalier leads the Black History: Black Futures monthly events, tied to Black History
 Month (UK and USA), with an institutional focus on Black successes within and around the
 unit’s focus on science communication and Public Engagement. Similarly, allyship and
 unconscious bias training has been initiated by Ravalier.

 Even prior to Covid-19, arrangements were in place for flexible working with staff encouraged
 to work in the way which best fits around their personal circumstances. They are given a
 University laptop and necessary research software and access to VOIP. When awarding
 internal funds, extra funding is available for those with caring responsibilities and/or ill health to
 support their research careers. We have also employed two Postdoctoral Research Assistants
 and fixed term lectureships to work on externally funded projects. These individuals had access
 to the same development opportunities as permanent staff, and given ongoing career and
 research mentorship by senior members of the PCHC beyond their contracts of employment.


 Section 3: Income, Infrastructure, and Facilities
 Income
 Since the Unit was last submitted in RAE2001, income has grown from GBP22,000 to
 GBP404,000 in REF2021. External research funding of GBP746,866 has been awarded to staff
 in the UoA across the REF2021 period, with colleagues acting as Co-Is on external awards
 worth GBP2,615,492. An additional Euros216,760 has been awarded for research, teaching
 and University governance through Erasmus+ funding.

 Of awards led by Bath Spa, 53% (GBP216,598) was received from Research Councils such as
 the Economic and Social Research Council, Wellcome Trust, and British Academy, 38%
 (GBP152,981) from government departments (Department of Work and Pensions/Department
 of Health and Social Care and Department for Education), and the remaining 8% (GBP33,907)
 from other charitable and research organisations such as the Association of Anaesthetists of
 Great Britain, the Experimental Psychology Society, and Bristol Health Research Charity, and
 through consultancy work.

 Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact
 Since REF 2014 there has been significant investment in the research infrastructure and
 equipment available to researchers in psychology. GBP33,176 was invested through capital
 investment for the development of physical spaces into usable and productive research labs,
 and GBP22,504 in QR funds to further support the PCHC’s software and hardware
 infrastructure. Therefore, dedicated research spaces, laboratories, equipment, and software,
 have all been significantly improved since 2014. The unit and wider University also support
 researchers based in the PCHC in developing international networks. Furthermore, McGuire-
 Snieckus’ Erasmus+ award supports the international development of research collaborations.
 This has been used, for example, to develop reciprocal relationships with SWPS in Poland with

Page 9
 both SWPS and BSU each sending researchers to the other University to ‘bed in’ and develop
 international collaborations.

 Due to this investment, we have a number of cognitive and experimental labs managed by
 senior psychologists to support research. Jones (Senior Lecturer) manages the Eye Tracking
 and Neurostimulation lab, which consists of eye trackers, a Transcranial Electrical Stimulation
 (tES) device, recording and data analysis equipment, and an auto mirror tracer (for mirror
 tracer tasks). The unit also has two bespoke qualitative research studios managed by Vitale
 (senior lecturer) and Wainwright (Reader) which includes audio and video recording
 equipment and software, transcription and recording devices, and comfort decorations to build
 rapport with participants. Psychology technicians maintain and provide support with the use of
 BIOPACs, which have the ability to record EEG, polygraphs, biofeedback, and spinal cord
 reflexes amongst others, and Walsh (Senior Lecturer) maintains and supports the use of Pain
 Test Algometers, Fitbits, and iPod shuffles used for research. The unit also has access to
 experimental and statistical software (and associated training) SPSS, r, onlinesurveys.ac.uk,
 Survey Monkey, e-prime and PsychoPy. Further available equipment includes: a suite of
 iPADs, and memory, attention, and intelligence psychometric tests; and access to further
 Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation equipment through collaborations with the University of
 Bath.

 The scholarly infrastructure for the UoA includes Library subscriptions to seven out of ten of the
 highest impact, internationally excellent journals for Psychology (2019 SCImago international
 journal rankings):- Annual Review of Psychology, Psychological Bulletin, Trends in Cognitive
 Sciences, Annual Review of Clinical Psychology , Personnel Psychology, Psychological
 Methods, Journal of Applied Psychology. Library collections directly relevant to the UoA include
 more than 700 journal subscriptions, 7000 books and 2,000 e-books. The Library’s extensive
 digital collections include the APA's world-class PsycINFO / PsycARTICLES databases and
 Elsevier’s ScienceDirect.

 Library resources for the UoA are underpinned by a team of Subject Librarians, who provide
 subject-specific support and a defined point of contact for research enquiries. The University
 has heavily invested in its infrastructure for open research, with both an institutional repository,
 ResearchSPAce, and a research data repository, BathSPAdata. The repositories are
 supported by two Research Publications Librarians, who work proactively with the UoA to
 develop its open research profile. The Library’s Writing and Learning Centre supports an
 inclusive research culture through one-to-one writing support, social media workshops (within
 the Researcher Developer Programme), 'Journal Club' workshops in scholarly writing (for early
 stage PG researchers), and research methods training with software such as Nvivo, R, and
 SPSS.


 Section 4: Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy, and Society
 Academic Contributions
 Over the census period, academics in the Psychology unit have published over 135 peer-
 reviewed journal articles (not including brief reviews or conference proceedings), 29 books or
 book chapters, and 7 commissioned reports. Of the 46 journal articles submitted to REF for
 consideration, 42 involved collaboration with academic and/or industry partners and
 collaborators from outside of the University, demonstrating the strength of collaboration
 throughout the unit (although the majority [27] of those papers are led by staff returned to the
 unit).

 Relationships with Research Users, Beneficiaries, and Organisations
 As per the strategic aims of the unit across this reporting period, developing and maintaining
 inter- and intra-disciplinary collaborations with other HEIs and other external collaborators was
 key to conducting internationally-excellent research. Collaborations have particularly focused

Page 10
 on working with different types of organisation. Collaborations with public sector bodies, such
 as NHS Trusts, Local Authorities and Public Health England, have affected organisational
 workings and continue to improve employee mental health and wellbeing. Private sector and
 professional organisational collaborations have led to national and international political and
 policy impacts. Work with the third sector supports some of the most vulnerable people in the
 UK and beyond, and collaborations with other departments and HEIs have further supported
 this. Therefore, these collaborations have been key to the development of research projects,
 research bids, impact, and public engagement. This mirrors the strategic approach of the wider
 University, which seeks to collaborate with local, national, and international communities in
 impactful research while working on socially engaged and practice-based projects.

 An important element of the research undertaken by academics in the unit is the involvement
 and collaboration with end-users, such as staff and patients, in the design, delivery and
 evaluation of research. For example, Ravalier is PI for two externally funded, multi-institution
 projects which have designed, delivered, and evaluated a series of mental health and wellbeing
 interventions for public sector employees (Ravalier et al., 2020). Similarly, in 2019 Ravalier
 ran a Mental Health and Wellbeing conference, hosted at BSU, for Health and Social Care
 employers, employees, and academics.

 Within the Cognition cluster of the unit, colleagues also have a number of external
 collaborations with non-academic organisations which support their work. Thomas works with
 the RNLI, Parkinson’s UK, the Dyspraxia Foundation, and has input to NICE guidelines to
 provide impactful outcomes to her research. McGuire-Snieckus’ funded research works with
 the South West Adoption Consortium and Department for Education in her research which
 matches children in care to prospective adoptive families. Yousaf has also contributed to a
 national deradicalisation programme, and thus collaborated with and impacted schools across
 the UK.

 Paulo’s research focuses on testing and developing new procedures to enhance eyewitness
 memory for crime events. This has a strong impact for police forces and other legal
 professionals worldwide, often leading to the development of effective interviewing protocols
 and better police investigations. This led to many collaborations with other universities in the
 UK (e.g. University of Portsmouth) and Worldwide (e.g. University of Minho) and collaborations
 with other professionals, particularly police detectives (e.g. from the Portuguese National
 Republican Guard).

 Other Contributions and Recognition
 In addition to the above influences upon individuals, groups, and organisations, all members of
 the unit make other significant local, national, and international contributions.

 Parliamentary and Policy Influences
 The work of researchers in the Health cluster of the unit also has significant impact on
 government and policy across the UK and more widely. Ravalier, Etchells, and Wainwright
 have each had significant impact on national and international policy and policymakers.
 Etchells has given written evidence and been quoted in two House of Commons parliamentary
 inquiries in 2019 on video games, and Ravalier has given written evidence and verbally quoted
 in a parliamentary inquiry into the Funding of Local Authorities’ Children’s Services. Ravalier’s
 work on teacher wellbeing also formed the basis of the Scottish Education and Skills
 Committee inquiry His work on social worker wellbeing directly led to a debate held in the
 House of Lords on the issue, and oral evidence to the Housing, Communities and Local
 Government Children’s Services inquiry in 2019 . Ravalier’s work has also been quoted in
 direct questions of ministers in the House of Commons a number of times. Wainwright was
 invited to contribute to the Welsh government review of healthy working lives and is an invited
 member of the Government's Health and Work Unit advising on the Fit note. Public Health
 England also added pain and work vignettes, written by Wainwright and one external
 colleague, to the Wessex model of the nationally-adopted Making Every Contact Count

Page 11
 intervention. McGuire-Snieckus’ development of the Strengths and Risks Matching Tool for
 adopters and adoptees has been presented to the Department for Education.

 Grant and Research Council Reviews; Editorial Boards
 Ravalier, Wainwright, and Etchells are all invited reviewers for the MRC, UKRI general and
 Future Leaders calls, and the ESRC. Similarly, de Sousa is a reviewer for the BBSRC and
 UKRI Future Leaders award, and Wainwright for ESRC (Gap). Ravalier and Wainwright are
 invited reviewers for the Swiss National Science Foundation and Janik-McErlean for the
 National Science Centre (Poland). Thomas has reviewed final reports for NIHR awards, and
 Muir for CREST (Centre for Research and Evidence Security Threats) awards.

 Ravalier is on the editorial board for the journal Occupational Medicine and both he and
 Wainwright are guest editors for the International Journal of Environmental Research and
 Public Health, with Thomas a topic editor on the same journal. Etchells is on the editorial
 board for the Registered Reports Section of Scientific Reports and International Journal of
 Esports, and Associate Editor at BMC Psychology and AIMS Neuroscience. Paulo was Guest
 Associate Editor at Frontiers in Psychology on a special issue on False Memories and member
 of the editorial board on Avances en Psicología Latinoamericana. Albertson is Chair to the
 International Relations Committee for the American Psychological Association (Division 2), and
 Markopoulos is an editor for the Kyiv Journal of Modern Psychology and Psychotherapy.

 Professional Organisations
 As mentioned above, members have worked with and impacted upon professional
 organisations which represent important employers, employees, and other organisations.
 Wainwright has worked with the Department for Work and Pensions as an expert and thus
 worked to set the agenda for healthcare professionals in supporting individuals to return to
 work following sickness absence. Wainwright’s research expertise along with Health
 Education England led to adoption of her work into the national MECC training package.
 Ravalier’s work with BASW and SWU specifically led to their joint ‘Campaign for Professional
 Working Conditions’, and the two organisations adopted Ravalier’s national social work
 wellbeing toolkit which has been implemented into a number of Local Authorities (see here).

 Ravalier has also facilitated a series of workshops at a number of social work employing local
 authorities alongside BASW and SWU in order to reduce stress and improve working
 conditions. Furthermore, Ravalier’s work on the global social work workforce alongside the
 International Federation of Social Work has led to the global reporting of working conditions.
 Similarly, Ravalier and Walsh’s work with the EIS influenced the Scottish Parliament
 Education Committee’s teacher workforce planning inquiry. Ravalier and Wainwright are both
 members of the Bath and North East Somerset Health and Wellbeing board, which sets the
 wellbeing agenda for citizens of the county. Walsh and Wadeley both conduct research which
 has influenced patient care at the Royal United Hospital (Bath) and Royal National Hospital for
 Rheumatic Diseases (Bath) respectively. Finally, Irwin conducts monthly consultancy for NHS
 sexual health advisors, and Pike has presented and worked with the Home Office on her
 doctoral work.

 Public, Private, and Third Sector Organisations
 Colleagues from across the unit work with various charitable organisations. Vitale’s key work
 with the Trauma Foundation (supporting refugees with HIV living in Bristol), and Unseen
 (supporting human trafficking victims) developed Tree of Life interventions for these vulnerable
 populations. Bengry works in collaboration with the Network Evaluating and Researching
 University Participation Interventions evaluation framework with colleagues from the University
 of Bath and other HEIs through the NERUPI network to develop support mechanisms for
 widening participation students, working with the Western Widening Participation Research
 Cluster collaborating with the University of Bath and the University of the West of England.
 Ravalier has worked closely with the Psychophysiology and Stress Research Group
 (University of Westminster) and colleagues at Ulster University, which has led to stress
 management interventions for social workers. Since 2018, Wainwright has also been on the
Page 12
 steering committee for the Centre for Musculoskeletal Health and Work based at the University
 of Southampton. Thomas has conducted research with and written reports for Parkinson’s UK
 about Fatigue in Parkinson’s sufferers and is working with the Long Covid Group to assess the
 impact of long Covid on cognitive functioning. Etchells was an invited member of the
 Department for Digital, Culture, Media, and Sport’s roundtable in 2020 which was tied to their
 call for evidence on the same subject. He also works with UNICEF on their work on child
 protection risks for online gaming through a series of roundtable discussions and an action plan
 paper, as well as BAFTA on video games. Muir’s work on linguistics is also conducted with a
 Central Government organisation. Yousaf worked as a consultant on a number of projects
 such as a nationalised deradicalisation programme and BBC programmes such as The Truth
 (About Looking Good). These collaborations have been key to the development of research
 projects, research bids, public engagement, and so on.

 Keynotes and Awards
 Etchells’ high-standing in the world of video game research and Science communication has
 led to him being a juror at the BAFTA video games and part of a BAFTA video games live
 panel. In 2019 and 2020 alone he has also given invited and keynote talks to New Scientist
 Live, Waterstones, EGX Rezzed, Tobacco Factory London, Swindon Literary Festival,
 Sidmouth Science Festival, and the Parentzone Digital Families event, amongst others.
 Wadeley was awarded ‘best poster’ at the BPS general conference in 2014, and various
 members of the unit (for example de Sousa, Wainwright, Ravalier, Etchells, Thomas, and
 Paulo) have all given keynote talks at international conferences and public/private sector
 organisation conferences such as the Royal National Lifeboat Institute (Thomas), and BASW
 (Ravalier). Muir won the ’Best Paper’ award at the 2016 International Communication
 Association annual conference, was an invited speaker at PeepSec 2019, and gave a keynote
 at the White Rose consortium PGR conference at the University of Leeds (2016). Jones has
 given a number of workshops, key notes and invited talks such as to the Universities of Exeter
 and Bath, the Federal Reserve (Washington DC), and the RAC (London). In 2016, Paulo was
 given a conference award by the Psychonomics society and in 2018 Fumagalli was given a
 Santander conference award. de Sousa has given invited talks to Wits University (South
 Africa) and Science Talks in Radstock.

 Journal Reviews
 All members of the unit are regular reviewers for a number of journals. Indeed, the team review
 for over 40 separate journals and have peer-reviewed 10 separate textbooks. These include
 publishers such as Frontiers Media (e.g. Frontiers in Psychology, Frontiers in Human
 Neuroscience); Oxford Journals (British Journal of Social Work, Occupational Medicine), MDPI
 (International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health); Nature Research
 (Scientific Reports); Sage (Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, PeerJ, i-Perception);
 Springer (Attention, Perception and Psychophysics); Hogrefe Publishing (Journal of Individual
 Differences); Elsevier (Memory, Consciousness and Cognition, Journal of Human Evolution);
 Wiley (British Journal of Health Psychology, Applied Cognitive Psychology, American Journal
 of Physical Anthropology, Counselling & Psychotherapy Research); Taylor and Francis
 (American Journal of Primatology, Architectural Science Review); Emerald (Journal of
 Migration Health and Social Care), the Royal Society (Proceedings of the Royal Society B), the
 APA (Journal of Experimental Psychology); PLoS (PLoS One); and others.

 Fellowships and Charterships
 McGuire-Snieckus is a Chartered Psychologist with the BPS and on the Register of
 Qualifications in Test Use (RQTU), as well as a Fellow of the Royal Society. Paulo is a
 Chartered member of the Cognitive Psychology division of the BPS and Vitale is a Chartered
 member of the Clinical Psychology division of the BPS. Wainwright, Jones, and Muir are all
 Chartered Psychologists with the BPS, Muir a Chartered Scientist, and Etchells a Lifetime
 Member of the Applied Vision Association. Markopoulos was also the Secretary of the Maths,
 Statistics, and Computing section of the BPS. All members either have or are working toward
 Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy. Vitale is a nominated Trustee of Art and


Page 13
 Wellbeing South West, Muir was selected for the GW4 Future Leadership Crucible Scheme,
 and Etchells on the General Committee for the British Science Association.

 Other
 Irwin provides a counselling consultancy supervision service to senior Psychosexual NHS
 therapists as well as supervision for sexual health advisors. Wainwright is external PhD
 supervisor for a candidate based at the University of Bath and de Sousa external supervisor
 for two candidates. Wainwright is also doctoral advisor for two external PGR candidates.
 Ravalier and Etchells have each acted as an external examiner for PhD candidates at the
 Universities of Westminster, Bath, and Cardiff. McGuire-Snieckus’ scale to assess the
 therapeutic relationship in community mental health care (STAR) has been translated into 5
 different languages. A number of colleagues (e.g. Ravalier, Thomas, Etchells) have written
 invited articles for The Psychologist and The Conversation.




Page 14
