Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Keele University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA19 Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Politics and International Studies at Keele is a close-knit, supportive unit, in which colleagues are
 enabled to produce high-quality research. Since 2014, members have published excellent
 empirical, conceptual and theoretical work on a range of topics, including war, global economic
 power, state-building, nationalism and radicalism, protest and resistance, climate change, political
 leadership, deliberative democracy, and human rights and recognition. Much of this research is
 highly original and has had a significant influence on the field. It has also had an impact beyond
 the discipline, including through meaningful engagement activities with a variety of audiences.
 This reflects the unit’s continuing commitment to making a significant contribution in the public
 sphere.

 Unit context and structure

 Keele’s overall research strategy is delivered by the PVC Research & Enterprise and the
 Directorate of Research, Innovation and Engagement (DRIE) and overseen by the University
 Research Committee. Research strategy and performance at the local level are the responsibilities
 of Heads of School, supported by the Faculty Dean of Research and the Faculty Executive Dean,
 and are coordinated through the Faculty’s Research Committee. At School level, research is
 managed by the Head of School and the School Research Director, supported by the School’s
 Research Committee, which includes UoA Leads, the postgraduate research (PGR) student Lead,
 and the School Manager. Support for funding, impact, and public engagement, and expertise in
 research integrity and financial matters are provided by DRIE (see Section 3).

 Researchers in Politics and International Studies are located within the School of Social, Political
 and Global Studies. The School was formed in 2019 through the merger of the School of Politics,
 Philosophy, International Relations and Environment, and the School of Social Science and Public
 Policy, which housed researchers in sociology, criminology and education. A key motivation for
 this merger was to extend cross- and interdisciplinary collaboration in research, PGR supervision
 and teaching.

 Research in Politics and International Relations is embedded in four research centres or clusters:
 • The Centre for Research on Environmental Action and Thought (CREATe)
 • The Centre for Comparative Politics and Policy
 • The Centre for Global Studies
 • The Centre for Political Theory and Political Philosophy

 These clusters bring like-minded scholars together to share ideas, support individual and collective
 research agendas, and offer informal mentoring, especially for early career colleagues and PGR
 students. This is achieved through workshops, work-in-progress seminars, and peer-review of
 draft publications and grant applications. The clusters also cultivate cross-cutting and
 interdisciplinary research because many colleagues are members of multiple clusters, and
 because researchers from other disciplines (including History, Sociology, Geography, Media, and
 Philosophy) join us in collaborative work.

 Achieving our REF 2014 aims

 In 2014 we outlined four aims: to i) build on our areas of research strength; ii) facilitate further
 cross-cutting and interdisciplinary research; iii) increase PGR numbers; and iv) sustain
 relationships with partner groups and continue to contribute to public knowledge.

 i) Building on our areas of strength


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research clusters have operated continuously since RAE 2008. They reflect our commitment
 to sustaining our areas of expertise and allow us to expand our focus in new directions.

 •   CREATe brings together researchers of environmental politics. Previous work on activism,
     actions of governments, and green political thought has been extended with new research into
     climate change (Bailey, Ladrech, Vogler), transnational and Chinese environmentalism
     (Doherty, Wang-Kaeding), urban regeneration policy (Catney), environmental organizations
     (Catney, Doherty), direct action protest (Doherty), and ecological democracy (Hammond).
 •   The Centre for Comparative Politics and Policy’s established strengths in party research
     have been maintained and enhanced, with new work into radical and extremist ideology
     (Carter), parties and climate change (Ladrech), and parties and trade unions (Luther).
     Research has continued on the US Presidency (Herbert) and on Europeanization (Ladrech).
     This is complemented by more work on policy, including policy entrepreneurship (Catney),
     environmental policy (Bailey), law and order policies (Herbert), and planning policy (Catney).
 •   The Centre for Global Studies (the renamed ‘Emerging Securities Unit’) retains its strong
     focus on critical security studies. Recent work has explored the biopolitics of security (Ryan),
     security and nationalisms (Mandelbaum), state military violence (Parr), violence and gender
     relations (Åhäll), and controls of maritime space (Ryan). New research includes innovative
     approaches to diplomacy, both practical (Richards, Vogler) and theoretical (Wang-Kaeding),
     and studies into state-building and development (Richards), and geopolitical economic power
     (Gökay, Wang-Kaeding).
 •   The Centre for Political Theory and Political Philosophy provides a platform for theoretical,
     analytical and normative research on political questions. Work has continued in theories of
     multiculturalism, recognition and global justice (Mookherjee, O’Neill, as well as Baiasu,
     submitted to Philosophy), and feminist political theory (Mookherjee). New research focuses on
     normative democratic theory and deliberative democracy (Hammond), national identity
     (Mandelbaum), and protest and resistance (Ryan).

 Key achievements since 2014, in and across clusters, include: Vogler’s influential monograph
 Climate Change in World Politics; Bailey’s ground-breaking book US Climate Change Policy; the
 important impact of Ladrech’s research on climate change policy (see Sections 3 and 4; cf. REF3);
 Herbert’s well-received volume on the Trump presidency; Parr’s outstanding account of the
 Falklands War, Our Boys, which attracted widespread plaudits and made significant impact (see
 Section 4; cf. REF3); and Mandelbaum’s highly original monograph The Nation/State Fantasy.
 There have been collective achievements too. Our critical mass in environmental politics research
 saw CREATe colleagues join the £5.9 million ESRC-funded ‘Centre for the Understanding of
 Sustainable Prosperity’ (see Section 3), while expertise in the Centre for Global Studies has
 brought significant PGR recruitment.

 ii) Facilitating cross-cutting and interdisciplinary research

 Sub-disciplinary and disciplinary boundaries are bridged through our research clusters, wider
 institutional innovations, and collaborations beyond Keele. Cross-fertilization between clusters
 includes links between the environmental and comparative politics clusters through Bailey’s US
 climate change policy research, Ladrech’s study of parties and climate change, and Catney’s work
 on urban regeneration policy. Hammond’s research on ecological democracy connects CREATe
 and the political theory/philosophy cluster; Vogler’s work on international responses to climate
 change and Wang-Kaeding’s study on Chinese environmentalism bridge CREATe and the Centre
 for Global Studies; and Mandelbaum’s work into national identity and Ryan’s research on protest
 and resistance crosscut the Centre for Global Studies and the political theory/philosophy grouping.
 Interdisciplinary work within the clusters has included collaboration with peers in Criminology on
 questions of war and violence, joint seminars with philosophers, and research with geographers
 and chemists, including on the ESRC/EPSRC-funded ‘Reducing Energy Consumption through
 Community Knowledge Networks’ project (see Section 3).




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Interdisciplinary collaboration also occurs through Keele’s pan-institutional institutes (see Section
 3; cf. REF5a). Through workshops of the Keele Institute for Social Inclusion (KISI) on topics such
 as ‘Democracy and Populism’ and ‘Tackling Inequalities’, colleagues have worked with peers from
 Business and Management, Education, History, Law, Media, Philosophy, Psychology, and
 Sociology. Similarly, colleagues and PGR students have joined seminars in the Institute for
 Sustainable Futures (ISF), alongside engineers, chemists, geographers, and geophysicists.
 These links are strengthened by Catney’s membership of the ISF’s executive committee, and his
 work on the HyDeploy and ‘Zero Carbon Rugeley’ projects (see Sections 3 and 4). Interdisciplinary
 research is also fostered through Keele’s Institute for Liberal Arts and Sciences, and its visiting
 fellows scheme, which, for example, enabled O’Neill to host a philosopher from Macquarie to work
 on a project on the fabric of social justice.

 Colleagues also pursue interdisciplinary research with peers beyond Keele, both in the UK and
 overseas. This includes work with sociologists, psychologists and economists, as well as
 colleagues in Philosophy, Cultural Studies, Law, Marketing, and Urban Studies and Planning (see
 Section 4).

 iii) Increasing PGR numbers

 Early in this cycle, we decided upon a strategy of 'sustaining' our PGR population rather than trying
 to increase it. This decision was motivated by our desire to maintain our high-quality supervision
 and extensive support, and to continue to deliver a first-class PGR student experience. Our ratio
 of PGR students to staff has remained steady over the cycle, and our completion rates in this cycle
 are in line with the 2014 sector median.

 iv) Relationships with partners and contribution to public knowledge

 Reflecting Keele’s longstanding commitment to contributing to the public sphere, we continue to
 work with a range of research users. We maintain relationships with community groups
 (particularly on our carbon reduction projects), local authorities and policy makers, and have
 developed new partnerships with businesses, charities and NGOs. We also continue to promote
 public understanding through briefings to government, a variety of activities with non-academic
 audiences, and media work, both domestic and international.

 Strategic aims to 2025

 We have five objectives over the next cycle:

 1. To continue to build our areas of research strength, while encouraging nascent agendas.
    We will do this through our research clusters, which provide the unit with an effective structure
    and an environment in which PGR students can flourish.

 2. To consolidate and expand collaborative research with academics beyond Keele, both
    in Politics and International Studies and other disciplines. This will further strengthen our
    research, invite new approaches, and increase internationalization to ensure our work remains
    globally relevant, especially post Brexit. This will also allow us to pursue interdisciplinary
    opportunities and diversify our sources of research income. We will do this by encouraging
    and supporting colleagues to further develop their networks.

 3. To increase our collaboration with non-academic partners. This will foster further public
    engagement, impact, and societal relevance, and will bring new opportunities for income
    generation. We will do this by further increasing colleagues’ understanding of possible
    pathways to impact, strengthening our networks, and drawing on the institutional infrastructure
    dedicated to this.

 4. To aim to diversify our sources of research income to enable a wider range of colleagues
    to secure external funding and boost our collective income. We will continue to apply to

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    traditional funders, but will also target smaller ones, specific calls, and opportunities in which
    expertise in political and international matters is relevant to other areas of research.
    Colleagues will be encouraged and supported to further develop their plans for income
    generation.

 5. To enhance our research mentoring mechanisms. We will develop our research
    management structures by extending the effective mentoring arrangements we have for early
    career colleagues to other staff, at all career stages. This represents enhanced individual-level
    support, but it will also enable us to fulfil our collective strategic objectives. We will explore a
    range of models and draw on guidance from the Organisational Development team and
    expertise of our research leaders.

 These objectives are interlinked and together they build our future research strategy. Focusing on
 our research strengths and enhancing our support systems will ensure the continued production
 of excellent outputs and underscore our reputation for high-quality research. This will foster further
 collaborations with academic and non-academic partners, which will then provide further
 opportunities for income generation and extend the impact of our research.

 Enabling and sustaining impact

 We have enabled the achievement of impact in two main ways. Firstly, we have enhanced
 colleagues’ understanding of impact and the ways it can be achieved through training and via
 School and unit-level activities, including our research away-days that have explored strategies
 for public engagement and impact development, and our workshops on co-production initiatives
 with community groups. Secondly, we have supported colleagues to embed pathways to impact
 into the initial stages of project development. This has been achieved through resources dedicated
 to this task and tailored advice from DRIE’s Partnerships and Engagement team, by support from
 senior colleagues with impact experience, and through peer-review of grant applications.

 Our approach to achieving impact has served the selected case studies well. Both ICSs benefited
 from the expertise and tailored support of our Engagement, Partnerships and Impact Development
 officers on diversifying pathways to impact, increasing the reach and significance of impact, and
 gathering evidence of impact. Both authors were also financially supported to develop their ICSs
 (cf. REF5a) and received bespoke training.

 Our approach has been effective. There is now greater understanding of impact amongst
 colleagues; pathways to achieving impact are integral to all research projects; and we have been
 able to completely refresh our ICSs since REF 2014. This approach will ensure that we continue
 to build impact that is sustainable for the future.

 Open research

 Our unit is at the forefront of developing an open research environment. We work with partners to
 seek external funding for open research, and where this is not possible, pre-proof versions of
 journal articles are made openly available via Keele’s Research Repository. We have a 100%
 open access compliance rate. This practice began before the current REF policy, and we go
 beyond existing policy by also making book chapters openly available.

 Research integrity and ethics

 As reflected by our compliance with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, Keele is
 committed to upholding high standards of research integrity and ensuring work is conducted
 according to appropriate ethical, legal and professional frameworks and obligations. This is made
 effective and meaningful by embracing and applying the principles of the Concordat at Faculty
 level, in a manner appropriate to the disciplines and methodologies of the Humanities and Social
 Sciences. We have a specific research integrity policy for the Faculty, a dedicated research
 integrity champion, and tailored training and events. There have been seminars on informed

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 consent and protecting participants’ safety, research with vulnerable participants, and working with
 community partners; workshops on applying for ethical approval; and training on data protection.
 There is also specific training for PGR students.

 Colleagues in the unit engage fully with these opportunities. In addition, within the unit we share
 good practice, provide peer support for ethical approval applications, and peer-review grant
 applications, including sections on ethical information and data management. These
 arrangements have enabled colleagues and PGR students to develop their understanding of
 research integrity, and our approach has fostered a research culture that is underpinned by good
 practice and integrity.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and unit profile

 Our approach to staffing is underpinned by the principles of Keele’s People Strategy. Our strategy
 is to recruit individuals with internationally recognized excellence in research and impact, or clear
 potential to develop it, in our areas of research strength. We are committed to long-
 term/permanent contracts wherever possible. Since 2014 four appointments have been made:
 Mandelbaum (2014, initially short-term but permanent since 2017); Hammond and Richards (both
 2015, permanent); and Wang-Kaeding (2019, permanent). Our strategy has proved effective:
 these colleagues have produced high-quality research, consolidated and expanded our areas of
 strength (see Section 1), and made rich contributions to our research environment and culture.

 The unit is well balanced in terms of seniority: currently, it consists of five lecturers, six senior
 lecturers, and six professors (two at 0.5 FTE). It is internationally and ethnically diverse: ten
 members are citizens of states other than the UK, and six are from ethnic minority groups. It is
 less well balanced as regards gender, with eleven male and six female colleagues. However,
 recent recruitment has improved this: three of the four colleagues recruited since REF 2014 are
 female. There are also more female than male colleagues in the School in which the unit is located,
 and women hold several senior research-related roles.

 Research management and staff development

 As colleagues have different needs depending on career stage and research interests, our
 approach to research management is tailored to the individual. Performance and development
 discussions are conducted on a one-to-one basis, targets are relevant to each individual, and
 there are appropriate support and development opportunities for all. This personalized approach
 is supportive and robust. It enables all colleagues to progress and achieve their ambitions, and
 makes for successful succession planning – e.g., in this period Ryan was promoted to Senior
 Lecturer (2016), and Parr to Professor (2018).

 Appraisals take place annually, with the Head of School. They are guided by colleagues’ annual
 research plans, which detail recent activities and future objectives, and they include a wider
 conversation about career progression. Appraisals are conducted in a supportive way, and
 feedback demonstrates colleagues find them very valuable. Between appraisals the Head of
 School and School Research Director are available for further discussions.

 Early career colleagues are mentored on an individual basis by senior staff and have regular
 informal meetings with the School Research Director. They are supported via our workload
 system, with additional time for teaching new modules and undertaking the Higher Education
 Practice programme (which brings HEA accreditation). This, in effect, protects their research time.
 Further support comes from targeted training and development opportunities (see below).
 Probation is three years (unless staff have significant prior HE experience) with progress reviewed
 annually and successful completion signed off by the Head of School and the Executive Dean.



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Early career colleagues, including post-doctoral researchers, are fully integrated into our research
 culture and play an active role in clusters and School-wide research events, including presenting
 their own research and contributing to the planning of cluster activities. This reflects one of our
 unit’s most striking features: it is supportive and inclusive, and all colleagues, at all career stages,
 are valued. Along with fair and transparent role and progression expectations and high-quality
 development opportunities, this explains how we successfully implement the principles of the
 VITAE Researcher Development Concordat, reflecting Keele’s Excellence in Research Award.

 Training exists on a range of subjects, including dissemination strategies, research funding, public
 engagement and impact development (see Section 3), and PGR supervision and examining (see
 below). There are development and promotion programmes for different career stages, including
 workshops for post-docs and early career staff, small-group coaching for mid-career colleagues,
 and research leadership programmes for mid-career and senior colleagues. The latter generated
 the creation of Keele’s Research Leaders’ Network.

 Recognizing and rewarding research and impact

 Alongside promotion, the unit recognizes contributions in research and impact in three ways.
 Firstly, colleagues with significant responsibility for research have 20 percent of their time ring-
 fenced for research. Additional time is awarded for substantial public engagement and impact
 work (including ICSs), and large research grant applications. Secondly, these colleagues may
 draw on funds for research and impact activities (see Section 3). Thirdly, colleagues who
 demonstrate excellence in research and impact can apply for research leave.

 Research leaves enable individuals to undertake sizeable projects, produce high-quality outputs
 (most of our monographs were completed thanks to research leaves), and apply for large grants.
 Colleagues with significant responsibility for research, on permanent contracts, and who have
 completed probation may apply for a semester of leave every eight semesters. Any previous fixed-
 term employment at Keele is counted towards this, and pro-rata arrangements exist for part-time
 staff. In applying, colleagues evidence their research track record and outline plans for their leave.
 Applications are considered by the Head of School and the Dean of Research. A mid-leave review
 meeting takes place, and a post-leave report is required.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)

 The unit values diversity and is committed to equality of opportunity. Our championing of equality
 and diversity is evidenced in our explicit messaging in job adverts, and colleagues involved in staff
 and PGR recruitment undertake mandatory EDI training. EDI training (including ‘bullying and
 harassment’ procedures, supported by awareness-raising and training) is part of our induction
 processes for new staff and PGR supervisors. Senior colleagues receive additional training,
 including unconscious bias training (now being rolled out to all). Our commitment to EDI is also
 embedded in our structures: the School has an EDI Committee (with an EDI Lead), which
 considers the EDI implications of decisions and procedures. The Chair of the Faculty Research
 Committee is one of our LGBTI role models; the School received an Athena SWAN Bronze award
 in 2018; and the University received a Race Equality Charter Bronze award in 2019 (one of only
 14 UK universities to do so) and is now working towards its Race Equality Action Plan. It is also
 recognized as a Level 2 Disability Confident Employer.

 Personal circumstances, periods of absence, and part-time working are considered in evaluating
 performance, research plans, research leaves, and promotion applications and workloads are
 adjusted as required. To support EDI and the wellbeing of staff, the School accommodates flexible
 working following maternity or adoption leave, for caring responsibilities, or in cases of prolonged
 illness or bereavement. The unit has also supported female colleagues resuming research after
 maternity leave by drawing on the University ‘Returners Fund’ to buy in teaching and marking
 cover, and fund childcare on research trips. School funds have also been used to cover specific
 research travel or accommodation requirements arising from disability and childcare needs.


                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The unit further promotes gender equality by encouraging colleagues to engage with the relevant
 development opportunities offered by the University. Female colleagues have taken part in the
 Springboard programme and Aurora leadership development initiative and have benefited from
 women-focused promotion workshops and the female-only promotion mentoring scheme.

 Close attention was paid to equality and diversity in the unit’s REF submission, and all those in
 decision-making roles undertook specific REF EDI training. Outputs were selected on the basis of
 quality, ascertained through internal assessment by senior colleagues (overseen by the UoA
 Lead). Thorough external evaluation also took place. A review of the process found the evaluation
 criteria were applied consistently across all outputs and by all reviewers. There was no evidence
 that outputs by females were evaluated differently from those by males, and no indication that
 male assessors scored outputs differently from female ones. Moreover, our strongest outputs are
 distributed across colleagues in a way that reflects the unit’s profile and include items from female
 colleagues returning from maternity leave, part-time staff, colleagues with caring responsibilities,
 and researchers from all career stages. This demonstrates the effectiveness of our approach to
 supporting equality and diversity.

 Research students

 We recruit high-calibre PGR students, nationally and internationally. We accept students on
 academic performance, quality of research proposal, and fit with our expertise. External funding
 has been secured from the AHRC (CDP with the Imperial War Museum), overseas governments,
 charities, and other sources (e.g., Stoke-on-Trent City Council). Keele has also made contributions
 in-kind to the ESRC-funded ‘Centre for the Understanding of Sustainable Prosperity’ by funding
 several studentships. In addition, the Faculty runs its own studentship competition, in which we
 have been particularly successful and through which we have recruited strong students. Over two-
 thirds of our students have been funded from external and internal sources since 2013.

 Students have a lead and a second supervisor, both with subject and/or methodological expertise.
 Colleagues with no supervisory experience undertake a training programme, and those with
 limited experience are mentored by senior staff. Student progress is monitored through six-
 monthly graded reports, a progression review (a substantial report presented to an independent
 panel) at the end of the first year, an interview at the end of the second, and a pre-submission
 review. (Timings are adjusted for part-time students). These milestones allow for any problems to
 be identified and addressed. Progress is overseen by the Faculty Postgraduate Research
 Committee, and the recently created Keele Doctoral Academy provides an institution-wide
 platform for PGR governance. All procedures are underpinned by the Code of Practice on
 Research Degrees.

 New students receive an induction to acquaint them with the facilities, support systems and
 monitoring and progression requirements. Thereafter, they meet frequently with their supervisors.
 Student representation on the Faculty’s PGR Committee provides another avenue through which
 to respond to student concerns. Students benefit from well-equipped offices and funds for
 conference attendance, training and fieldwork. They are also assisted in applying for external
 funding – e.g., one student won a Santander Research Scholarship to conduct fieldwork in
 Argentina. Away from work, the Keele Postgraduate Association serves as a students’ union,
 acting as a focal point for social life, representing students in the University, and responding to
 welfare needs. To further support the wellbeing of our students, there is a Postgraduate Student
 Mental Health Project Officer.

 Our PGR community is diverse, and we provide the support to reflect this. There is tailored training
 for international students, including courses in academic English and research writing; our degrees
 can be taken part time; flexible working is possible for those with caring responsibilities; additional
 time and support are available to students with disabilities; students with long-term health issues
 can take periods of leave; and there is paid maternity leave for internally funded students.




                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Students must accrue 200 hours of generic, specialized, or professional development training.
 Their needs are identified early and reviewed regularly through their Personal Development and
 Learning Plans. They can draw on the comprehensive range of internally delivered courses, on
 the annual researcher summer school, and on external training, including that delivered by
 ‘Methods North West’ (the ESRC North West DTP hub, of which Keele is a member) and specific
 summer schools. Our students have attended European Consortium for Political Research
 (ECPR) summer schools in Methods and Techniques, Political Participation, and Environmental
 Politics. There is also training (with mentorship) for students who teach, and the possibility to then
 take the Higher Education Practice programme, which brings HEA accreditation.

 Students also develop their skills through attending conferences, organizing their own events,
 providing research assistance, and publishing. Our students run their own work-in-progress forum
 and an interdisciplinary peer-reviewed journal. The University holds an annual PGR conference
 and the Faculty a yearly symposium; the School runs a PGR seminar series; and the unit has
 organized PGR residential weekends, with a mix of academic and social activities.

 Our research students are integrated into the unit and its culture by being in the same physical
 space as academic colleagues, teaching on the same modules, being valued and active members
 of our clusters, and contributing to our research away-days. These arrangements, our high-quality
 supervision, and our support structures serve our students well, as is evident from their responses
 in PRES surveys, in which Keele has performed well. These systems and processes also ensure
 our students progress successfully, and complete to a high standard, on time.

 Through their training and skills development, experience of teaching, and immersion into our
 research culture, our students are well prepared for their future careers, in HE or beyond. We
 further assist them with our postdoctoral fellowship scheme, which enables them to retain their
 institutional affiliation and access resources for a period after completion. Most of our students
 who completed since 2013 now hold lectureships and postdoctoral posts in the UK and overseas.
 Others are employed in senior research positions outside academia (e.g., in think tanks, digital
 tech, and public relations). All our students pursued PhDs rather than professional doctorates
 (hence the absence of a table here).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding

 Major awards include the unit’s participation in the prestigious £5.9 million ESRC-funded ‘Centre
 for the Understanding of Sustainable Prosperity’, which brings together an international,
 interdisciplinary team of academics and partners from business, government, and civil society,
 and in which Keele colleagues lead on analysing the political dimensions of sustainable prosperity
 (2016-2021; £372,600 to Keele). In 2017 colleagues also took part in a spin-off project, ‘An
 Economy that works for Everyone: Understanding Brexit through a Local Lens’, which explored
 motivations and expectations in socially deprived areas (ESRC, £33,250). More recently,
 colleagues have been instrumental in securing £1.4 million from Innovate UK (as part of an
 Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund programme) for the ‘Zero Carbon Rugeley’ project. A
 consortium, led by ENGIE, and involving other energy companies, SMEs, not-for-profits and local
 authorities, will design a Smart Local Energy System as part of a regeneration strategy for the
 town. As part of this project, a cross-faculty team from Keele (the only university in the project) will
 apply innovative coproduction approaches to capture inputs of local communities (2020-2022;
 £199,300 to Keele). Another ESRC grant was awarded to the ‘Climate Change and Political
 Parties’ project, which explored how parties (across six countries) develop policies on climate
 change mitigation (2013-2015; £244,700). The ‘Reducing Energy Consumption through
 Community Knowledge Networks’ project, involving political scientists, chemists and geographers
 and jointly funded by the ESRC and EPSRC, was also completed in this cycle (£370,900). Non-
 UKRI income has also been secured, including through an esteemed Fellowship at the
 interdisciplinary Rachel Carson Center for Environment and Society (MacGregor (now
 Manchester), 2014, £32,000).

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Colleagues have secured smaller funds from external sources, including the European
 International Studies Association for academic symposiums; a Brussels-based think tank for
 workshops on climate change politics (aimed at non-academic partners); the Chinese Foreign
 Office for collaboration with academics at Tongji University on a project on political parties and
 EU-Sino relations; and the Taiwan Foundation for Democracy for a film on mass protests in Hong
 Kong.

 Colleagues have also won internal funding from the University, the Faculty and KISI (all on a
 competitive basis) for developing networks and partnerships, public engagement and impact
 activities, and pump-priming projects. Parr secured KISI funds for workshops with academics and
 veterans from the UK and Argentina on the legacy of the Falklands War; Richards was awarded
 institutional QR GCRF funding for fieldwork on the role of the state in Somaliland; and Carter and
 Catney won support from the University’s Industrial Strategy fund for partnership development on
 a project on civic capacity building.

 School-level funds (from devolved QR income) are available for colleagues to attend conferences,
 undertake small-scale fieldwork, invite collaborators to Keele, hold research clusters workshops,
 and organize other unit or School-wide research activities. These funds supported a symposium
 on climate change in the wake of COP21, an interdisciplinary workshop on gender and violence,
 and a workshop with local community art groups to explore co-production initiatives. In reflection
 of our commitment to equality, these funds are available to all colleagues with significant
 responsibility for research, including those on part-time or temporary contracts, and priority is
 given to early career researchers. Female colleagues needing childcare support on research trips
 are encouraged to apply to the University-level fund dedicated to this purpose. A separate fund
 exists for PGR students (see Section 2).

 Funding has enabled the production of strong outputs, including several by Ladrech based on the
 ‘Climate Change and Political Parties’ project, and others by Catney, Doherty and Hammond as
 a result of their involvement in the ‘Centre for the Understanding of Sustainable Prosperity’.
 Likewise, funding has assisted the achievement of strong impact: the ESRC-funded project
 allowed Ladrech to build meaningful collaborative links with, and provide expertise to, an influential
 think tank and to inform political parties’ policy on climate change; and Parr’s funded workshops
 enabled her to further develop impact from her research (cf. REF3). External and internal funding
 has also allowed colleagues to undertake considerable public engagement, including with
 politicians, trades unions, and civil society organizations.

 Strategies for generating research income

 We foster the generation of ideas for grant applications and the mobilization of research teams
 through brainstorming and events at cluster, unit, School, Faculty and cross-Faculty level, and
 through KISI. Plans are then developed, often with internal funding, to strengthen collaboration
 with academics beyond Keele and partnerships with non-academic groups. Alongside this,
 supported by the Faculty’s Research Development team, we have held School research away-
 days to assist colleagues to develop their plans for research income generation, keep them
 attuned to different schemes and funders, and facilitate the sharing of good practice. The School
 Research Director has a strong understanding of the research interests of staff and steers
 colleagues to relevant schemes and calls. At grant development stage, we draw on the support
 and expertise of the Research Development team and applications undergo rigorous internal peer
 review. Colleagues are expected to apply for research income on a regular basis, as outlined in
 the University’s Academic Role Expectations and are rewarded for large grant submissions in the
 School’s workload system and promotion criteria.

 These strategies have positioned us well and we will continue to embrace them. We will also work
 to increase the diversity of our income sources by encouraging colleagues to consider not only
 traditional funders, but to also target smaller or less familiar ones, specific calls, and opportunities
 for applying expertise in political and international matters to other areas of research – e.g., GCRF,

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund, and other Research Councils. We will also further develop
 collaboration with academic and non-academic partners beyond Keele (see our strategic aims in
 Section 1).

 Infrastructure supporting research and impact

 Substantial support for research and impact is provided through DRIE. This includes expertise
 from the Research Development team (for developing funding applications) and the Partnerships
 and Engagement team (for creating and strengthening links with non-academic partners,
 promoting public engagement, and cultivating impact), and support in project management and
 research integrity.

 Significant financial support is available from institutional-level sources. This includes QR GCRF
 funding, funding for research aligned with the Industrial Strategy, and resources to support impact
 development, arising both from ICSs and other research. This is accompanied by the Faculty’s
 ‘Strategic Fund’, dedicated to pump-priming large grant applications, furthering public
 engagement, and facilitating impact, and funding from KISI, for building collaborations with non-
 academic partners to further interdisciplinary research.

 There has been considerable investment in training and personal development programmes
 related to research and impact. Examples include DRIE-organized workshops (often with external
 experts) on grant applications to specific funders or schemes, GCRF funding, and European
 funding opportunities after Brexit. Similarly, there have been workshops on public engagement,
 collaborating effectively with policy makers, and developing links with charities, as well as the
 annual ‘Impact and Engagement Festival’ where colleagues showcase impact arising from their
 research and share best practice. Visiting speakers have included experts from Research
 England, Fast Track Impact, the National Council for Voluntary Organisations, and the National
 Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement. There has also been media and communications
 training with external coaches. All this training is accompanied by opportunities for personal
 development around research for staff at all career stages, and for PGR students.

 The cross-University, interdisciplinary research institutes are another integral part of Keele’s
 research and impact infrastructure, with colleagues from this unit engaged in KISI in particular.
 KISI offers a space for ideas-sharing between academics and non-academics and provides an
 effective platform to build partnerships with civil society, governmental organizations, and
 businesses to develop coproduced projects, thereby increasing public engagement and cultivating
 impact from research. As above, this is underpinned by financial support. Public engagement with
 research is further fostered through a cross-faculty network of ‘PER champions’, a legacy of
 Keele’s involvement in UKRI’s ‘Strategic Support to Expedite Embedding Public Engagement with
 Research’.

 At School and unit level, research and impact are supported through formal mechanisms, including
 in discussions around outputs, impact development and income generation in staff appraisals and
 in meetings with the School Research Director, through the workload system, and via research
 leaves. Our research clusters and School research away-days provide further, more informal,
 support. As above, the School also provides financial support for individual and collective research
 and impact.

 Using our infrastructure for impact activities

 We have made effective use of the infrastructure and resources dedicated to the development of
 impact. Through engaging with training opportunities, colleagues have increased their
 understanding of impact and the pathways through which it can be achieved and have developed
 their skills in this area. We have also drawn, to good effect, on the expertise of DRIE’s Partnerships
 and Engagement team. Colleagues have received tailored support to plan and develop their public
 engagement and impact strategies, increase the reach of their activities, and design tools for


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 gathering evidence of impact. As above, the cultivation of impact has also been facilitated through
 KISI, School away-days, and cluster events, and has been supported by dedicated funding.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations

 Effective support exists to foster collaborations with colleagues from other academic institutions
 and non-academic partners. There are funds to attend conferences and workshops, or for
 colleagues to organize their own, to visit collaborators, and for scoping work in advance of funding
 applications. There is administrative support for activities held at Keele and good meeting facilities.
 Colleagues can also draw on KISI’s large network of non-academic partners to develop
 collaborations.

 All colleagues collaborate regularly with peers from other institutions in the UK and overseas.
 Some partnerships take the form of ongoing writing collaborations; others are the result of specific
 projects, including interdisciplinary ones. They include Doherty’s work with colleagues in Sociology
 at Aston and Law at Leicester on protests, and his research on climate change activists with peers
 at Exeter; Luther’s contribution to a project on Social Democratic parties and trade unions, led by
 colleagues at Oslo and QMUL; Mookherjee’s work with Philosophers at Salzburg on recognition
 and global poverty; and O’Neill’s research with peers at Macquarie on the role of higher education
 in enhancing social freedom. These collaborations have led to high-quality outputs, special issues,
 edited collections, and external funding. Ladrech’s links with colleagues at York led to the ‘Climate
 Change and Political Parties’ project; Doherty and Catney’s work with sociologists and economists
 at Surrey gave rise to their involvement in the ‘Centre for the Understanding of Sustainable
 Prosperity’; and ongoing collaboration with natural scientists at Keele facilitated the ‘Zero Carbon
 Rugeley’ and ‘Reducing Energy Consumption through Community Knowledge Networks’ projects.

 Engagement with research users

 Colleagues have engaged with a range of users to develop impact. On the ‘Reducing Energy
 Consumption through Community Knowledge Networks’ project Catney worked with the Marches
 Energy Agency (a leading regional charity) and community groups to explore how information on
 energy use is understood and used. Recommendations were then made to government
 departments and energy providers on how to disseminate this information. Catney has also been
 involved in ‘HyDeploy’, a venture led by Cadent to reduce CO2 emissions by blending hydrogen
 with natural gas in domestic supplies. Keele was the site of the UK’s first trial, and the team
 evaluated users’ perceptions of the initiative. Similar engagement with the public will take place
 on the ‘Zero Carbon Rugeley’ project, led by ENGIE.

 Other collaborations with users include Doherty’s work with NGOs and human rights organizations
 (including Amnesty International, Friends of the Earth, and Netpol) that has led to the creation of
 a network to share information on threats to the right to protest; a recent partnership between
 Keele (including Catney) and the Local Authority, Police, charities and community groups to
 explore regeneration and recovery in North Staffordshire after Covid (UKRI-funded, £40,000);
 Hammond’s involvement in a multinational, interdisciplinary consortium which includes research
 institutes (e.g., Wellcome Genome Campus), public bodies, and NGOs (e.g., Involve, a leading
 public participation charity) to explore the creation of citizens’ assemblies to consider the ethical
 impacts of genome editing; as well as Ladrech’s work with the Brussels-based think tank FEPS
 and the Party of European Socialists, and Parr’s research with former soldiers and her
 engagement with British Army commanders (cf. REF3). These collaborations have enriched our
 research environment by enhancing our expertise in impact development, widening our
 partnerships with non-academic groups, and raising our profile.

 Colleagues also give expert advice to specific users. Ladrech has repeatedly engaged with
 national and EU politicians, trade unions, NGOs, and representatives from the World Bank and
 United Nations on climate change policy. He was invited to the French National Assembly by the

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 foreign minister (10/04/15) and addressed the UN General Assembly Climate Action summit (19-
 20/09/19). Vogler shared his expertise with the United Nations Environmental Programme,
 speaking in the ‘EU-Asia Dialogue’, and reviewing the sixth Global Environment Outlook (the UN’s
 flagship report). Others have provided expertise to government roundtables: Hammond to the UK
 Home Office, on sustainable development (19/07/16); Drezov (now retired) to the UK Cabinet
 Office, on Russia and the Western Balkans (02/05/18); Wang-Kaeding to the Irish Department of
 Foreign Affairs and Trade, on the Chinese Belt and Road initiative (09/04/19); Catney at County
 Hall, London, on urban sustainability (16/03/17); and Wang-Kaeding to Dublin City Council, on
 Chinese investment in renewable energy (26/02/18).

 Contributions to public understanding and debate

 The unit contributes to society by disseminating research results to the public. Having observed
 the trial of the ‘Stanstead 15’ anti-deportation activists and interviewed them and other involved
 parties (e.g., Amnesty; Liberty), Doherty wrote pieces in the New Statesman (10/12/18) and Metro
 (06/02/18) on anti-terror laws. His research on the Extinction Rebellion protests was also
 disseminated in Open Democracy (27/11/18), by coverage in The Times, Daily Mail, New Scientist
 and Le Monde, and in an interview with DW News (07/10/19). Parr wrote for the Daily Telegraph
 (27/08/18) on the legacy of the Falklands conflict, and was Dan Snow’s guest on his History Hit
 podcast, discussing the Parachute Regiment (15/10/18).

 Colleagues also contribute to public understanding by providing general expertise via the media.
 Ladrech and Parr are members of the ESRC-funded ‘The UK in a Changing Europe’ programme
 and regularly write on Brexit; and Carter assisted the Guardian in its ‘New Populism’ investigation
 (09/18). More direct media work includes Parr’s participation in BBC Radio 4’s Start the Week
 programme on the realities of war (10/09/18); Richards’ coverage of independence referendums
 and unrecognized states for many outlets (BBC World Service 03/08/17; Radio 4’s the Briefing
 Room 05/10/17; 5Live 01/10/17; France 24 01/10/17; The Atlantic 23/10/17) and her article in the
 Independent (21/09/17); Gökay’s commentary on BBC World Service on the centenary of the
 Russian Revolution (08/11/17); Parker’s contributions on Sky News (06/11/18) and BBC World
 Service (18/04/19; 02/04/19) on US politics; Luther’s appraisal of the Austrian government crisis
 on Euronews (20-27/05/19); and Catney’s numerous appearances on international and domestic
 radio and television (including China TV, TV2 Denmark, Al Jazeera English, France 24)
 commenting on UK politics, and his regular writing for the Spanish daily La Razón. Most
 colleagues also write articles for The Conversation, reflecting Keele’s strong engagement with this
 publication – Keele was one of the top 10 contributing institutions between June 2019 and June
 2020.

 Public understanding is also fostered through engagement activities. These include Parr’s talks
 on the Falklands War and its consequences at the Hay Winter Literary Festival (23/11/18),
 National Army Museum (19/01/19), Chalke Valley and Chelsea History Festivals (28/06/19;
 12/10/19), University of the Third Age (20/06/17; 07/06/18) and British Legion (09/05/16), and her
 membership of the Army Records Society and History of Parliament Trust; Wang-Kaeding’s
 documentary, Black Bauhinia (www.blackbauhinia.co.uk), on the mass protests in Hong Kong,
 which was screened at the Hong Kong Independent Film Festival (18/01/20) and the AAS Film
 Expo in Boston (20/03/20); Gökay’s involvement in the Easdale Foundation for Labour Research;
 and Richards’ engagement with Somaliland diaspora civil society groups. The unit also contributes
 to ‘Keele World Affairs’, a long-running public lecture series hosted at Keele (with over 600
 members), which attracts high-profile speakers from politics and public affairs (including Lord
 David Owen, Baroness Shami Chakrabarti, and John Simpson among others in this period).

 Responsiveness to research priorities and initiatives

 Our responsiveness to national research agendas is evident in our strong commitment to
 interdisciplinary research. We have considerable support in place to advance it (see Section 1),
 and a good track record, as reflected by our collaborations with natural scientists and non-


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academic partners in the carbon reduction projects, work in the ‘Centre for the Understanding of
 Sustainable Prosperity’, and research on political protest and citizens’ assemblies (see above).

 Colleagues also contribute to the priorities of the professional associations. Catney was a member
 of the PSA’s ‘Adding Depth’ Commission, which explored how the association could increase
 benefits to members and the wider politics community; and Carter is a member of the PSA/BISA
 REF working group, which responded to government consultations and advised the associations’
 chairs in selecting UoA19 panel members.

 Contribution to, influence on, and recognition by the discipline

 The unit makes significant contributions to capacity-building in the discipline through leadership in
 national and international networks. In this period, Luther convened the ECPR Standing Group on
 Political Parties (500+ members); Doherty co-chaired the ECPR Standing Group on
 Environmental Politics (330 members); and Hammond co-convened the PSA Environmental
 Politics Specialist Group (140 members). They organized sections, approved panels, and
 convened workshops at ECPR and PSA events, and in so doing, have worked with numerous
 academics from around the globe. In addition, colleagues are on the executive committees of the
 UK Association for Social and Political Philosophy (Mookherjee); the University Association for
 Contemporary European Studies (Ladrech, until 2016); the British International History Group and
 the Society for the History of War (Parr); and the Council of the Institute of Commonwealth Studies
 (Lloyd, now retired).

 The unit also contributes to the sustainability of the discipline through doctoral summer schools.
 The ECPR Summer School on Methods in Normative Political Theory/Philosophy took place at
 Keele in 2014 and 2015, and colleagues remained actively involved when it moved to Limerick
 and Siegen. Similarly, colleagues remain involved in organizing and teaching at the ECPR
 Environmental Politics and Policy Summer School following its move from Keele to Lille in 2016.
 These summer schools, and others, constitute collaborative training opportunities (with ECTS
 credits), and we encourage our PGR students to participate in them (see Section 2). The unit has
 also hosted a number of early career academics (from Spain, Denmark and China) as visiting
 researchers for several months and provided each with a mentor during their stay.

 Colleagues are active in organizing conferences. Parr and Lloyd hosted the 2017 British
 International History Group annual conference (with over 60 presentations, and workshops for
 PGRs); Ryan led a section at the 2018 EISA annual conference (with 10 panels, and roundtables
 with policymakers and NGOs); Åhäll and Mandelbaum convened panels and roundtables at the
 2017, 2018 and 2019 ISA conventions; and Luther co-organized large conferences in Shanghai
 in 2015 and 2017 on the future of political parties.

 Staff also contribute to the discipline through editorial work. Journal editorships include Politics,
 Ideology and Religion (Sheikh); Social Movement Studies (Doherty, consulting editor);
 Environmental Politics (Catney and Hammond, book reviews editors); and the Journal of Global
 Faultlines (Gökay and Mandelbaum). Catney is also co-editor of the Routledge book series
 Transforming Environmental Politics and Policy. Colleagues are on the editorial boards of a further
 15 journals (including high-ranking ones like Party Politics, Carter until 2019) and book series, and
 all regularly review for journals and publishers.

 Colleagues also influence the discipline by regularly reviewing for domestic and international
 funders. Catney, Doherty, Hammond, Ladrech and Luther have been members of the ESRC Peer
 Review College in this period; Ladrech was on the commissioning panel of the ESRC Brexit
 Priority grants (2017); Vogler was on the committee for the ‘Europe and Global Challenges’
 programme, funded by the Swedish Riksbankens Jubileumsfond, Volkswagen Foundation and
 Wellcome Trust; O’Neill is on the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships Peer Review College; and
 Doherty was an expert for the Swedish Research Council for Sustainable Development
 (FORMAS).


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In recognition of their influence, several colleagues hold prestigious visiting positions. Luther is a
 ‘distinguished research professor’ at the German Studies Center, Tongji University, and was a
 guest professor on the Chinese government’s Global Experts Plan; O’Neill is a visiting professor
 at the Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice at Queen’s University Belfast; Doherty was
 a visiting Research Fellow at Sciences Po, Lille (2014-16); and Ryan was a visiting researcher at
 the University of Adelaide (2014).

 The standing of colleagues has been recognized through invitations to deliver keynote lectures.
 Parr delivered the annual lectures at the Sir Michael Howard Centre for the Study of War (KCL,
 03/12/18) and the Society for Army Historical Research (16/11/19); O’Neill opened the plenary at
 an international conference on global justice at Queen’s University Belfast (31/05/18); Gökay gave
 the keynote at the Second World Congress of Marxism at Peking University (05-06/05/18); and
 Luther was the guest speaker at an event hosted by the UK Ambassador at the Diplomatic
 Academy in Vienna (29/04/18).

 Other esteem indicators include a conference focused on O’Neill’s arguments on universities as
 instruments of social freedom (Keele, 03/04/19); and Parr winning the Templer Medal for Military
 History in 2018-19 (the Society for Army Historical Research’s annual book prize), the Duke of
 Wellington Medal for Military History in 2019 (the Royal United Services Institute’s book prize),
 and the Longman/History Today 2019 book prize. She was also longlisted for the 2019 Orwell
 Prize for Political Writing.




                                                                                               Page 14
