Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London South Bank University

 Unit of Assessment: 34 - Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and
 Information Management

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 In our submission to REF2014, we set out four key strategic goals: (1) to enhance our national
 and international reputation as a centre for innovative work, particularly around the area of
 convergent networked media; (2) to maintain and extend a shared culture of research and
 scholarship, consolidating existing areas and developing emerging themes and practices in the
 areas of performance and curation; (3) to build the financial sustainability of the centre; and (4) to
 ensure a vibrant research degree cohort in the centre.

 We aimed to address these objectives by: (1) increasing the number of active researchers with
 REF-ready outputs by 50%; (2) supporting research-active staff in organising both internal and
 externally-facing conferences and other events, to build academic and professional networks; (3)
 increasing the number of researchers achieving external funding and increasing our total research
 income by 50%; and (4) working to increase the number of doctoral students by 50% and to
 enhance effective PhD training.

 We have met or exceeded all of these goals. This submission returns 20 staff, or 16.4 FTE – an
 increase of more than 50% on the 10.2 FTE in our 2014 submission. This growth reflects both
 new appointments and our on-going efforts to support the organic growth of the School’s research
 culture via funding, training and other initiatives as discussed in Section 2 below. As part of this
 growth, we have also supported staff in network-building and engagement activities, as described
 further in Section 4. Grant income has grown nearly threefold, from the £324,368 reported in
 REF2014 to £934,000. We have also exceeded our objectives in terms of growth in the number
 of postgraduate research students: from a low base of 3.6 PhD completions for REF2014, we can
 now report 10 completions in the current REF period, and 26 currently-enrolled doctoral students.
 This growth has been supported by significant investment at university and school level, and an
 on-going commitment to establishing collaborative PhD scholarships with arts organisations.
 Taken together, these are not merely incremental gains but represent a step-change in the vitality
 and sustainability of the School’s research culture.

 1.1 background and context
 The overall mission that underlay the goals described above was to secure and nurture the
 research culture of the UoA and our wider staff group. We sought to use REF2014 as a
 springboard for growing this research culture in order to: support staff development and build
 capacity; to strengthen research-informed pedagogy, including via postgraduate research; to
 increase our visibility by forging links with potential collaborators and partners; and to support the
 sustainability of our research area by increasing our external income.

 This mission was a bottom-up one, driven by the scholarly interests of staff and our ambition to
 carve out a space for intellectual development and growth. The progress we have made in
 realising these objectives during the current REF period, though, also owes much to a change of
 senior leadership at LSBU soon after REF2014. Since then, the university has undergone a major
 reorganisation, restructuring from faculties into schools, and our UoA now sits in the School of
 Arts & Creative Industries (ACI), established in 2014. This reorganisation has encouraged a move
 away from former, faculty-based models of research organisation in favour of a more focused and
 dynamic model, and also one that makes our work more visible within the university.

 The change in senior leadership also entailed renewed commitment to research, introducing a
 university-wide model for establishing a new structure of research centres and groups. We have
 responded enthusiastically to this initiative and have embraced the opportunity to establish two
 research centres: the Centre for the Study of the Networked Image, and the Centre for Research
 in Digital Storymaking. Around two-thirds of our QR funding and internal university/school support

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 is now largely directed to supporting these centres, subject to annual auditing and progress-
 reporting. In addition, around a third of our funding goes to support a number of more informal and
 flexible research groups, designed to foster collaborative work which can either feed-into the work
 of centres or develop emerging areas of interest in a more dynamic and responsive way. As part
 of the same reorganisation, the university has also invested substantially in research support,
 including infrastructural improvements such as a Centre for Research Informed Teaching and a
 Doctoral Academy for postgraduate researchers, and direct support via an annual sabbatical
 scheme.

 The strategic orientation of the university’s overall research strategy — emphasising applied
 research and encouraging engagement with business and enterprise — has been a very good fit
 for us, since part of our own strategy was to seek to establish collaborations and work with external
 partners. This was a model pioneered, for our UoA, in Dewdney’s 2007–2010 AHRC-funded Tate
 Encounters project, which worked collaboratively with Tate Britain; and in our long-standing
 partnership with The Photographers’ Gallery, driven by a former member of staff (Sluis, now at the
 Australian National University) who also worked half-time as the gallery’s first curator of digital
 programmes. As detailed further below, we have been able to build on these early achievements
 in ways that have allowed us to address the university’s strategic orientation and to benefit from
 its targeted funding initiatives, particularly through fully- and part-funded PhD scholarships.

 1.2 research centres and groups
 The Centre for the Study of the Networked Image (CSNI) brings together a group of researchers
 seeking new knowledge and understanding of how network and computational culture is changing
 the production and reception of art and photography. Initially inspired by a seminal 2008 article on
 the ‘networked image’ by then-LSBU researchers Sluis and Rubinstein, the centre was established
 and led by Dewdney, who now co-directs the centre with Cox (appointed in 2019) and Dekker (a
 former postdoctoral researcher in the centre, and now at the University of Amsterdam but also
 working as a researcher on a number of funded CSNI projects).

 Current research specialisms in CSNI include art theory, art practice, art history, curation,
 photography, the sociology of culture, software studies, and cultural and media studies. Projects
 include Dewdney’s theoretical work on post-critical museology, developing new perspectives on
 museums in networked cultures; Cox’s research in software studies and contemporary aesthetics,
 including on ways of machine seeing; Dekker's work on digital curation and the philosophical,
 aesthetic and cultural implications of computation-based media technologies; Alexander’s
 practice-based work on visually communicating scientific information to the public; Roush’s
 research on artist photobooks and experimental archival practices; Brown’s work on the digital
 representation of architectural space; and Terrill's work on the relationship between urban
 architectural spaces and those who inhabit them, along with the creative ‘reanimation’ of archived
 material.

 CSNI collaborations:
  Co-funded PhDs                                  Visiting Researchers
  Ben Uri Gallery                                 Cayo Honorato, University of Brasilia
  FotoMuseum Winterthur (Switzerland)             Jacob Lund, Aarhus University
  Gasworks Gallery / Royal College of Art         Juan Martín Prada, University of Cadiz
  Hammersmith United Charities                    Daniel Rubinstein, University of the Arts
  The Photographers’ Gallery                      Katrina Sluis, ANU, Canberra
  Rhizome (New York)                              Nayia Yiakoumaki, Whitechapel Gallery
  Serpentine Galleries                            Remedios Zafra, University of Seville
  Tate                                            Ioanna Zouli, University of Thessaly

 CSNI places a strong emphasis on embedded, collaborative and co-creation approaches to
 research, and seeks methodologies to connect policy, practice and theory. The centre has active
 collaborative partnerships with several arts organisations, and, through Cox’s on-going projects,
 works in collaboration with the transmediale festival for art and digital culture in Berlin. The centre


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 also includes active members based at other universities, who collaborate as visiting professors
 and researchers.

 CSNI is developing a new three-year programme focused on the automation of culture, involving
 two related areas of investigation. Firstly, research on ways of machine seeing, which will involve
 exploring visual and algorithmic literacy, the implications of machine learning on imageability,
 massified image production, machine curation and planetary-scale image-circulation. Secondly,
 investigation of the automation of knowledge and cultural value, focused on the condition of
 cultural value in public cultural institutions, alternative knowledge production through experimental
 publishing, curation and online art practices. In honing these new research interests, CSNI will
 identify and develop a specific networked methodology with current and new partners as a means
 of furthering collaborative and embedded research as a contribution to transdisciplinarity. The
 emphasis on articulating reflexive methodology will allow CSNI to make a wider contribution to
 research models and pedagogy.

 The Centre for Research in Digital Storymaking (CRDS) focuses on how stories are constructed,
 remediated, and hybridised in contemporary digital culture. Established by Chatzichristodoulou
 (now Associate Dean for Research & Enterprise at Kingston University) and Marchevska, since
 2019 the centre has been led by Jackson, who has continued CRDS’s emphasis on practice-
 based, applied and creative work as expressed in the notion of ‘storymaking’. CRDS investigates
 the impact of digital technologies in disrupting and remaking established narrative media, such as
 film, broadcasting and literature; and seeks to explore the potential of the digital for enabling the
 emergence of new forms of imaginative, immersive, and often socially-engaged, narrative media
 and story events, such as interactive and mobile fiction, games, sonic environments, XR
 (expanded reality) experiences, branding events, performance and live art practices.

 CRDS is designed as an interdisciplinary research hub that brings together researchers from
 theatre and performance, sound and music, film, advertising, fashion, games, journalism, design,
 English and creative writing in order to foster cross-fertilisation of ideas. The centre’s projects
 include Tarrant’s work on experimental documentary, which creates a dialogue between digital
 and analogue filmmaking technologies to explore the pastness of people and place; Jackson’s
 funded international research on innovations in the non-linear dissemination and reception of
 public service media, which demand new modes of collaborative production and governance;
 Powell’s analysis of the shifting relationships between promotional culture and the social, cultural
 and digital contexts in which it is received; Van Den Beukel’s work on games and interactive
 fiction; Betsworth’s research on the spaces and places of modernist art and literature; and
 Marchevska’s Marie Curie fellowship grant on displacement and gentrification, exploring socially
 engaged art and housing issues, and her Creative Europe-funded practice-based work on
 displacement and live art practices in hostile political environments.

 CRDS has close working relationships with researchers from the Schools of Business,
 Engineering, Law & Social Sciences, and Health at LSBU, and regularly hosts visiting professors
 and researchers from other universities. It also provides a home for independent scholars: CRDS
 is the UK base, for example, for The S Word: Stanislavsky and Contemporary Theatre, an
 international research project co-founded in 2015 by CRDS visiting professor Paul Fryer to explore
 the influence and legacy of Konstantin Stanislavsky’s work and teaching. We will be hosting the
 next The S Word conference, on the theme of Stanislavsky and the Media (originally scheduled
 for 2020, but now postponed to 2021).

 CRDS collaborations:
  Research bid partners                             Visiting Researchers
  BBC R&D                                           Sean Albiez, Bloomsbury Academic
  California State University, Northridge           Thomas John Bacon, Middlesex University
  Canterbury Christ Church University
  Creative Folkestone                               Marco Benoît Carbone, University College
  Furtherfield                                      London
  Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta          Elinor Carmi, Goldsmiths

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Globe Theatre                                    Stephen Colwell, institute of Education,
  Goldsmiths College                               University College London
  LASALLE College of the Arts, Singapore           Gonzalo Parrilla Gallego, University of
  Maidstone Television Studios                     Madrid
  National Theatre                                 Hyojung Kim, South Korean Ministry of
  National Theatre of Wales                        Culture, Sports and Tourism
  Pinewood Studios                                 Alessio Kolioulis, University College London
  Royal Shakespeare Company                        Iñigo Guerrero Martín, University of
  Ryerson University, Toronto                      Salamanca
  Screen South
  Technical University of Cologne                  Lina Srivastava, Creative Impact and
  UK Screen Alliance                               Experience Lab
  University of Huddersfield                       Ana Vilenica, Marie Curie Fellowship
  University of Warwick                            researcher
  Victoria & Albert Museum

 CRDS foregrounds public and industry engagement through delivering applied research working
 with Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs), arts and media organisations and other
 institutions, both at the centre level and in terms of specific projects. In January 2018 CRDS
 established a partnership with the Victoria & Albert Museum’s digital programmes department,
 and launched this on-going collaboration with a performance by the Chicago-based ATOM-r
 collective (Anatomical Theatres of Mixed Reality).

 In 2019 the centre established a knowledge-transfer partnership, funded by the AHRC and
 Innovate UK, with Footprint Scenery. The project centred on enabling the business to prototype
 interactive spaces and immersive experiences through a process of co-design and co-creation
 with clients. Outcomes included an immersive installation using 360 filming and projection
 mapping, set up at Footprint’s studio for an audience of clients and prospective clients; and an
 exhibit for the Victoria & Albert Museum’s exhibition Opera: Passion, Power and Politics, which
 was then displayed at the Opera House of Muscat.

 Also in 2019, CRDS embarked on a co-funded three-year initiative with Lambeth Council,
 ELEVATE, as an evaluation partner to address diversity in the creative workplace with a focus on
 BAME representation and access to the cultural economy. The centre works closely with Lambeth
 Council in an iterative evaluation process that shapes the long term goals of the programme
 designed to address barriers to engagement for underrepresented groups (low-income, disabled,
 BAME and women) accessing employment and training within the creative and cultural industries.

 In addition to the two research centres, our research groups provide a way to encourage (though
 not to require) colleagues to move beyond a ‘lone scholar’ approach where possible, via informal
 collaboration with like-minded colleagues. The centres-plus-groups model was introduced as part
 of the university-wide reorganisation of research, but also fits with our own longstanding
 recognition that collaborative working is important for growth. At the same time, the more flexible
 and informal idea of research groups (some of which may be only temporary, while others may
 grow into future research centres) accepts that not every researcher needs or wishes to join larger
 consortia or to scale-up their individual research ambitions.

 The work of many of our research groups aligns with the concerns of CRDS, while others pursue
 themes that cut across both centres or develop independent areas of interest. The Digital
 Performance Research Group includes Marchevska’s research on creativity, the maternal and
 intergenerational practice in art and performance; Foster’s practice-based research into bilingual
 theatre adaptation as both process and performance; and Barnard’s experimental work on how
 using digital technology to facilitate an interactive performance in the absence of live performers
 can prompt different understandings of audience agency. The Games Research Group
 encompasses Hammond’s AHRC-funded research network on war and videogames; Van Den
 Beukel’s work on narrative games; and Rietveld’s research on the gender politics of music
 production in the games industry. The Journalism Futures Research Group includes Hammond’s

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 work on data journalism and on post-political communication; and Jackson’s work on new models
 of public media management. The Practice as Research Group incorporates Tarrant’s
 investigation of the portrait film genre alongside his materially-minded investigations of montage
 and memory; and Hawkins’s experimental documentary work exploring affect-as-practice. The
 Sonic Research Group includes Parkinson’s work on participation, artifice and authenticity in
 computer music; Milburn’s work on music and urban cultures of modernity; and Rietveld’s
 research on musical responses to technoculture.

 1.3 future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
 This UoA’s research outputs embrace a diverse range of research traditions at the intersections
 of humanities and social sciences research, reflecting the historical development of the School.
 Having grown out of a social sciences faculty in the 1990s, our expansion in the 2000s and 2010s
 was largely imagined on an art-school model of theoretically-informed creative practice, while our
 consolidation as a School of Arts & Creative industries since 2014 has emphasised industry
 collaboration and innovation, Knowledge Exchange and applied research, alongside practice-
 based research. This orientation aligns with the university’s overall vision of promoting research
 that addresses global and civic challenges, that generates critical insights and sustainable
 solutions, that aims to transform the lives of individuals, communities, businesses and society, and
 that enhances teaching.

 Looking forward, the key concerns which emerge across the work of both our research centres
 are in the areas of policy and cultural value. Our research addresses questions about how the
 creative use of technology is changing the arts and creative industries; how arts and cultural
 organisations cope with migration to digital networks; about how to measure and evaluate the
 social value and impact of arts and cultural practices; and about the broader implications and
 impacts of online culture for the creative industries and public policy.

 As indicated above, CSNI’s future programme will revolve around two related aspects of the
 growing automation of culture: machine ways of seeing and alternative cultural knowledge
 production. In achieving this new programme CSNI is extending its collaborations with The
 Photographers’ Gallery and Fotomuseum Winterthur, as well as with the Digital Humanities
 network at the University of Cambridge and the recently formed Max Planck Center for Digital
 Visual Studies at the University of Zurich. Developing our work on machine vision is underpinned
 by the Unthinking Photography initiative at The Photographers Gallery and the special issue Ways
 of Machine Seeing, for AI & Society (Springer 2021). These collaborations will lead to a major
 national collaborative funding initiative and further postgraduate opportunities. The second key
 theme, the automation of knowledge and value, is based on our extensive cultural partnerships,
 including our most recent addition, the Whitechapel Gallery, and our on-going editorial work on
 APRJA open access journal (with Aarhus University and transmediale), The Contemporary
 Condition book series (Sternberg Press), and the DATA Browser book series (Open Humanities
 Press). In collaboration with the University of Amsterdam, Aarhus University, Open Humanities
 Press and transmediale, we will build a funded research network focused on the practices of
 alternative publishing, and the forms and boundaries of academic online and print publishing, with
 particular emphasis on the re-combinations of knowledge produced in human-computer networks.
 Over the next period CSNI will develop its collaborative research networks further, especially
 internationally, to extend its influence and grow its external research income.

 The research impact strategy of CRDS is developing along two main strands. Firstly, the centre is
 undertaking research around public policy and regeneration, examining existing methods for the
 evaluation of cultural impact and developing original methodologies for data collection and
 evaluation. A joint PhD with Lyric Hammersmith, for example, pioneers performance-based
 evaluative methodologies for Lyric’s extensive community and educational offering. Other
 examples of this type of work include Marchevska’s on-going advisory role with the Live Art
 Development Agency, Counterpoint Arts, Lambeth Council and Lyric Hammersmith, which entails
 organising workshops with arts organisations and charities and developing research-practice
 toolkits (for example, for practitioners working with migrants and refugees); and Van Den Beukel’s
 role in 2018–19 as poetry advisor on the Tideway Project, consulting on the public engagement

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 aspect of this major London infrastructure development. Jackson has advised the Greater London
 Authority (GLA) and the Thames Estuary Production Corridor Policy Group on the development
 of high technology clusters for the creative industries in the south east of England. She is also
 founding President of the International Association of Public Media Researchers (IAPMR), which
 represents almost 400 researchers from academia and industry, and is supported by the European
 Broadcasting Union. IAPMR provides a formal structure to aggregate and support the evolution of
 public service media worldwide. The Association supports over 20 years of scholarship on public
 service media located in the bi-annual RIPE conference and Reader, and CRDS supported the
 publication of the last Reader in the series (RIPE@2019). Jackson’s work with IAPMR has led to
 joint bids for funding with BBC R&D and to colleagues being invited to join eleven other
 organisations to form the proposed BBC Centre for Public Values, Technology, and Society. It has
 also, from 2019, led to the launch of the Youth Media and Culture Network with Ryerson University,
 the Applied University of Cologne, and international industry collaborators.

 Another key example here is ELEVATE, the co-funded three-year initiative with Lambeth Council
 described above. The partnership will last beyond the duration of the project (2019–22) through a
 continuing Research Assistant post. The aim is to transform the cultural landscape of Lambeth
 through systemic change and multi-layered intervention in areas such as education, access to
 space, resources and opportunity, support networks, and changing the way employers work in the
 creative industries sector. Beyond the local level, we aim to impact central Government agendas
 through improved working practices and policy development. CRDS supports Lambeth Council to
 make the case for change – especially in employment practices and the representation of BAME
 practitioners at senior level – through telling an impactful story.

 Secondly, CRDS will undertake research into emerging technologies for the creative industries
 that is then made actionable through innovation and enterprise. Working with a range of diverse
 start-ups and SMEs in the creative industries and beyond (e.g. Footprint Scenery, Stories Evolved,
 Aures), CRDS is encouraging technological innovation. It is also seeking to drive industry
 innovation through developing new applications for off-the-shelf technologies; developing new
 immersive tech products, processes and services; and stimulating the creative economy. The
 overall framework for this aspect of our work is Accelerating the Creative Economy through
 Immersive Technologies (ACE IT), a project supported by the European Regional Development
 Fund (ERDF) and undertaken in collaboration with the London College of Communication (LCC).

 ACE IT aims to accelerate investment in research and development by SMEs operating in the
 creative and technology sectors in London. Launched in October 2019, the ultimate goal of this
 three-year project is to enable beneficiary SMEs to grow by enabling them to explore the
 development and commercialisation of innovative products, processes and services in immersive
 technologies. One example of an ACE IT project is ‘Bodyswaps’, an immersive learning platform
 that lets employees practice their soft skills by acting out, with their own voice and body language,
 a range of realistic workplace simulations in VR. Each start-up receives an individual pathway
 based on their stage and ambitions, allowing the time and space to build key business skills,
 develop and fine-tune ground-breaking products, and to future-proof their businesses. Start-ups
 gain access to specialist workshops and one-to-one consultations with experts through long-term
 research collaborations with academic staff from LSBU and LCC.

 The approach of working with SMEs that CRDS is currently establishing through the ACE IT
 project is likely to remain a core component of our strategy going forward. In July 2020 we
 secured further funding from the ERDF of £6.1m to lead R&D-4-SMEs: a 3.5 year project with
 Screen South, Creative Folkestone, Canterbury Christ Church University and Maidstone
 Television Studios. This project actions Jackson’s funded study with Michal Glowacki,
 Organisational Culture of Public Service Media: People, Values and Processes in the Digital
 Mediascapes (2015–2019), which focused on the organisational culture of high technology
 clusters and co-working spaces. The overall aim of R&D-4-SMEs is to create a network across
 the South East Local Enterprise Partnership region based around three editing and post-
 production hubs (at Folkestone’s Glassworks Centre, the new Creative Arts Building at
 Canterbury Christ Church University, and Maidstone Television and Film Studios). The three

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 hubs and their facilities will draw together SMEs and university researchers at postgraduate and
 postdoctoral levels. The hubs will provide three studios, six edit suites, three co-working spaces,
 cloud-based production for SMEs and researchers to exchange knowledge in virtual production,
 and a series of emerging workflows that aggregate gaming technologies and datafication with
 cloud-based production and e-commerce for the moving image. These centres of production in
 the south east of the UK and the associated cloud-based production network will remain for the
 use of researchers and SMEs after the project closes.

 2. People

 LSBU obtained the EU HR Excellence in Research Award in 2014 (reconfirmed in 2016, 2018 and
 2020), in recognition of the university’s long-term commitment to the principles underpinning the
 UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. In line with this, the university’s
 Research, Enterprise and Innovation office and Staff Development Unit provide a programme built
 around the Vitae Researcher Development Framework offering training and events for all research
 staff on a regular basis.

 LSBU values diversity across all the dimensions of difference, and has a robust Equality, Diversity
 and Inclusion Policy. ACI colleagues are active members of staff networks supporting the
 university’s EDI mission, including the sexual orientation and gender identity network (SONET),
 the network for black and minority ethnic staff (Equinet) and the staff gender identity equality
 network (GenderNet). Foster represents ACI on the Racial Awarding Gap committee and its sub-
 group on decolonising the curriculum. Equality and diversity issues are embedded in teaching,
 including in the work of postgraduate researchers focusing on themes of inclusion. Elonka Soros’s
 doctoral research comparing British and Dutch public service media, for example, examines how
 newsrooms become more diverse; and PhD student D'bi.Young Anitafrika is helping the School
 to pilot an action-research project investigating barriers to achievement and how students of colour
 experience university. We have funded two practice-as-research projects employing BAME
 professional theatre directors to work with our students of colour to produce two externally-facing
 productions at Southwark Playhouse: The Bogus Woman, by Kay Adshead, and a new devised
 series of monologues streamed on the Southwark Playhouse website in response to the Covid
 pandemic. All our funded and non-funded research meets the Research Concordat’s EDI
 guidelines, as reviewed by our research committee.

 Since 2014, the university has enlarged and enhanced central research support services,
 reformed research governance mechanisms in response to the new structure of schools, and
 established a London Doctoral Academy to support postgraduate researchers. The School
 benefits from dedicated points of contact in the central research support team for both
 postgraduate research student administration and for funding bids.

 As part of the restructuring into schools, the university instituted a new management structure at
 local level, with each school having a Director of Research and Enterprise as part of the senior
 executive team. In ACI, Jackson is Director of Research and Enterprise, responsible for overall
 research strategy and the planning of the annual research budget, as well as overseeing the work
 of the two research centres and chairing the School’s research committee. In addition to ensuring
 there is an on-going focus on research as part of the day-to-day management of the School,
 Jackson also represents ACI on the university-level research committee. The School also has its
 own full-time administrator supporting the research centre directors, the research group leads, and
 Jackson as director of research.

 The School runs four annual bidding rounds for researchers to apply for teaching buy-out to
 support the completion of research outputs. Since 2014, we have allocated around £120,000 to
 the research centres to support research-active staff in this way. Researchers from the School
 have also successfully applied to the university-wide sabbatical scheme in 2016, 2017, 2018 and
 2020. Jackson chairs the ACI research committee, where school-level funding decisions are
 made. The committee is comprised of the leads for the two research centres, and representatives
 of the research groups, representatives for postgraduate studies and the ethics committee, a

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 representative from the central LSBU research office, and the dean of the School. It meets bi-
 monthly and offers flexible and responsive support for both research centre / group initiatives and
 for individuals, in addition to regular funding for conference attendance or other items of research
 expenditure via four annual application rounds, disbursing around £40,000 annually.

 The university runs a centrally-managed promotions round every October. Staff are able to access
 workshops that help them identify strengths and potential training needs. At School level, we have
 a recruitment and promotions policy that takes into account research track record, research fit and
 research potential, including the potential to win funding and establish/lead research. We run
 regular training workshops for researchers in the School, ranging from how to identify relevant
 research funding opportunities to writing bids and disseminating work to academia, policy-makers,
 and industry.

 We have established a mentoring scheme within the School, aimed primarily at Early Career
 Researchers (ECRs). All active ECRs, and staff who wish to become research-active, have access
 to a mentor — professors / associate professors who can advise on goal-setting and the
 formulation of a three-year research plan, covering potential publications and research funding
 bids. The mentoring scheme draws on LSBU’s central training for researchers, and also on the
 national Vitae training for junior scholars. The university’s central research support services have
 offered specialist training sessions for ACI researchers on peer-reviewing, writing abstracts,
 identifying calls for funding, and bid-writing. We have also organised our own targeted training
 workshops with external facilitators, including one specifically for ECRs, with Professor Janis
 Jeffries in 2019, and three for practice-based researchers, with Professor Roberta Mock (in 2016),
 Professor Paul Fryer (2019), and Professor Stephen Boyd-Davies (2019). We hold an annual
 Research and Enterprise Conference in July which offers a platform for showcasing internal and
 external work. Keynotes have included speakers from other universities and the London Mayor’s
 creative industries team. We also provide an annual induction for new research-active staff run by
 the School’s Director of Research and Enterprise.

 A key initiative in research development made by the School during the REF period has been our
 on-going partnership with the Faculty of Communication and Design at Ryerson University in
 Toronto. Established in 2016 with an investment of more than £10,000 from each of the partners,
 the partnership has enabled numerous staff to travel between the two institutions in order to
 explore potential areas for collaboration and project development. One project to emerge from the
 partnership is the collaboration between Alexander (LSBU) and Sara Knelman (Ryerson), which
 began with working on a curatorial strategy for developing Alexander’s photographic work on war
 commemoration from a book publication into an exhibition. Over the course of three visits between
 March 2017 and June 2018, Alexander initiated new work based on research into the displacement
 of Canadian Soldiers during WWI and WWII, which in turn led to further connections with two other
 Ryerson colleagues, Blake Fitzpatrick and Vid Ingelevic, whose work also investigates
 commemoration. Alexander and Knelman curated an exhibition of the work as part of the 2018
 Scotiabank Contact Photography Festival, together with a symposium on Conflict,
 Commemoration and Displacement, which contextualised the exhibition and featured
 contributions from Fitzpatrick and Ingelevic. Knelman subsequently published an article about the
 work in Prefix Photo Magazine, and the exhibition toured to the Alliance Francaise in Toronto in
 December 2018.

 Another highly successful LSBU–Ryerson collaboration was initiated by Marchevska (LSBU) and
 Marusya Bociurkiw (Ryerson). Exchange visits to explore areas of mutual interest resulted in a
 successful funding bid with a third collaborator, Caroline Lenette (University of New South Wales),
 for a two-year project, Finding Home: Housing, Migration and Research Creation. Funded by an
 Insight Development grant from the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada
 and an Immigrant, Diversity and Inclusion grant from the Royal Bank of Canada, the project uses
 creative research to understand the complex intersection between forced migration and new
 place-making strategies. The research involves working with visual and performance artists as co-
 creators (including the Psychedelight theatre company, Phosporos theatre company, D'bi.Young
 Anitafrika, Mojisola Elufowoju, Khaled Barakeh and Ice&Fire), and the project has recruited

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 filmmaker Winstan Wittan as a co-researcher. The project will culminate in a symposium at
 Ryerson (planned for 2021), and will be archived through an open-access online repository.

 We see the research partnership with Ryerson as experimental and developmental, and therefore
 support trips by ECRs as well as more established researchers. Pastor (not submitted), for
 example, initiated a collaboration with Michael F. Bergmann (Ryerson) in 2019 focusing on the
 exploration of intimacy in one-on-one performance mediated through lo-fi VR. Having undertaken
 a practical exploration of the potential of VR technology, conducted a literature review, and run a
 one-day development workshop with student participants on the implications of lo-fi VR, Pastor
 and Bergmann are now looking for funding and future development opportunities and plan a
 second exchange visit in 2021.

 Jackson (LSBU), Charles Davis (Ryerson), Christine Horz (Technical University of Cologne) and
 partners at the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, the BBC, and the German public service
 broadcaster ZDF have formed the Youth Media and Culture Network to bid for funding and host
 events. Since 2019 the consortium has bid for funding to the international ORF funding
 programme, the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, and the AHRC.
 The network hosts online seminars on their core focus: ensuring public service media better
 orientates to Generation Z, specifically 14–16 year olds, who are often understood as a difficult
 group to reach, engage, and retain. The network also provides an on-going, novel, knowledge
 exchange mechanism to draw together young people, public service broadcasters, and
 independent media producers.

 2.1 Research Students
 At university level, the Research Board of Study (RBOS) is responsible for strategy, capacity-
 building and research degrees provision, including monitoring and progression. The RBOS meets
 monthly to consider relevant issues, review the progress of every student, and review research
 policy. This is mirrored at school level, where Marchevska, the Director of Postgraduate
 Research, monitors student progress, reports any issues to the ACI research committee, and
 organises training workshops and research seminars for postgraduate students – including, for
 example, sessions on Social Media Data Analysis Training run by Professor Mike Thelwall
 (University of Wolverhampton); on Decolonial Auto-ethnographic Practice led by D'bi.Young
 Anitafrika; and on The Art and Craft of Editing, led by Royal Literary Fund fellow Katie Grant.

 The university uses the online management system HAPLO to monitor postgraduate research
 progress. Students are registered on this system on enrolment, and both students and supervisors
 receive automated messages alerting them when to submit reports on progress, as well as
 attending review and assessment meetings with independent assessor from the School. Rietveld
 convenes ACI’s research ethics panel each semester, to review research ethics applications from
 both staff and postgraduate students, and also sits on the University ethics panel, which is
 available to deal with complex issues of research integrity and ethics.

 The university’s London Doctoral Academy, established in 2016, supports postgraduate research
 students from across the university. The Academy provides an annual university-wide PGR
 training programme, culminating in its annual week-long Summer School, which offers workshops
 on research methodologies, a research poster competition and a PGR conference. The university
 also offers a wide range of training and development opportunities for staff undertaking
 postgraduate research supervision. These include a range of specialist workshops delivered by
 LSBU’s staff development team, covering subjects such as intellectual property, and advising
 doctoral students on teaching; the Missenden Centre’s one-day course on supervision; and an
 online training programme, developed jointly with Epigeum, which covers topics such as pastoral
 care and quality assurance.

 Like other universities, we find ourselves in a challenging environment for growing postgraduate
 research. Our strategy for growth, likely to continue in the years ahead, has centred on a
 partnership model, co-funding collaborative PhDs with arts organisations. Most projects to date
 are focussed on two key themes: the value and impact of arts and cultural organisations (Kristina

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nilles’s work with the Young Lyric educational team; Carolyn Defrin’s work with Hammersmith
 United Charities); and the frameworks used to research and evaluate the social impact of art
 participation (Viktoria Ivanova’s work with Serpentine Galleries; Lozana Rossenova’s work with
 Rhizome). These are all practiced-based projects that address real-world problems and seek long-
 term solutions to enhance and diversify the host organisation’s structures and practices.

 In several cases we have been successful in drawing on the networks established via these
 collaborative PhD projects to facilitate postdoctoral opportunities for completing students. Ioanna
 Zouli, for example, who successfully completed an AHRC collaborative doctorate with Tate in
 2018, was subsequently employed by our partner, The Photographers' Gallery, as the editor of its
 Unthinking Photography blog, and has subsequently been commissioning writing on Machine
 Ways of Seeing, financially supported by CSNI. Gaia Tedone, who graduated in 2019 having
 undertaken a practice-based thesis on online curating, secured a postdoctoral research position
 with the Post Photography research project, funded by the Swiss National Science Foundation,
 working with Sluis and Dewdney. Wherever possible, we have also been keen to create temporary
 postdoctoral positions at LSBU: this is how Dekker’s connection with the School was first
 established, for example; and a current PhD student, Nicolas Malevé, undertaking a collaborative
 PhD with The Photographers’ Gallery, will be offered a contract to work for CSNI on the
 preparation of a new research funding proposal focused on his area of specialisation, Machine
 Vision.

 A taught module, Research Methods and Methodologies in Arts, Design and Humanities, is
 available for research students in the School. The module introduces a range of qualitative and
 quantitative research methods including different types of interview ethnography (narrative,
 biographical, in-depth, semi-structured, structured), focus groups, surveys and questionnaires,
 experimental and quasi-experimental research, auto-ethnography and (auto)biographical
 research, documentary and textual analysis, practice-as-research in arts, and approaches that
 involve mixing methods. More informally, CSNI runs a regular reading group for doctoral students
 (also open to other scholars interested in the themes explored by the research centre), with a
 particular focus on contemporary theory.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 As noted above, we have managed to grow our research income and have exceeded the targets
 we set ourselves after REF2014. Our strategy for doing so, likely to continue in the coming period,
 has three strands: first, to seek to make the growth of postgraduate student numbers sustainable
 via co-funding with partners and collaborators; second, to increase the amount of bidding activity
 in the School (supported by training where necessary), both in terms of the total number of grant
 bids, and the number of staff engaged in bidding; and third, to seek to develop a smaller number
 of larger bids by dedicating staff time to this and by cultivating strong relationships with potential
 bid partners. Earlier sections have already described the success we have had with postgraduate
 funding. We have also succeeded in increasing the number of small to medium bids of around
 £10—50K, including two AHRC research networks over the REF period, for example. This type of
 bidding has still involved a minority of staff, but we continue to invest time and training to enable
 a larger pool of staff to engage with such activity. The success we have had with large (£100K+)
 bids has been led by a few individuals, including Marchevska (a successful Marie Curie
 Fellowship bid) and Jackson (the ACE IT and R&D-4-SMEs grants from the ERDF).

 Two major rounds of investment by the university during the REF period have established and
 upgraded state-of-the-art media production facilities for practice-based teaching and research.
 Our Elephant Studios media production centre incorporates a film studio, photography studio,
 sound studio, games studio, and a multimedia newsroom. LSBU’s Edric Theatre incorporates a
 90-seat main auditorium fitted with industry-standard lighting, sound and AV technologies, plus a
 30-seat studio theatre, a fully equipped workshop for making props and sets, and rehearsal and
 backstage spaces. Our postgraduate and postdoctoral researchers will also begin to use our new
 studios run in collaboration with Maidstone Television Studios from April 2021. These will comprise
 a state-of-the-art studio for virtual production (studio and cloud-based production blending

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 techniques from film, television, gaming, and post-production), edit suites, and a co-working space
 to encourage collaborative research and innovation partnerships with industry. This production
 centre will be networked with two companion centres in Folkestone (with Screen South) and
 Canterbury (with Canterbury Christ Church University). The shared network and cloud facilities
 will enable the testing of remote and international workflows across geographical and national
 boundaries.

 The School has a Dolby Atmos Immersive Media studio, the first in higher education, presented
 by the company for experimentation into surround sound, immersive sound, and object-oriented
 sound. The Sonic Research Group is associated with the Acoustics Research Group (School of
 Built Environment and Architecture), which provides research expertise and research facilities in
 acoustic architecture, and our recording studio is employed in work with the ACE IT project for
 innovation and experimentation sessions between researchers and SMEs.

 All of the School’s facilities, meeting rooms and equipment are available to postgraduate
 researchers, who also have a dedicated workspace equipped with computers, a small library, and
 refreshment facilities. Doctoral researchers are also able to apply to the ACI research committee
 for funds to cover conference attendance and research expenses. Our aim is to make
 postgraduate researchers and junior scholars and practitioners a full part of the School, since we
 recognise their vital importance to the sustainability and vitality of the research culture.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 We have several important institutional memberships and are particularly pleased to have hosted
 the annual conference of the Media, Communications and Cultural Studies Association (MeCCSA)
 at LSBU in 2018. We also support individual researchers in joining academic associations and
 other organisations that are important to their research interests, enabling them to connect with
 and contribute to relevant networks. A number of colleagues have also held leadership roles in
 these organisations during the REF period.

  Institutional memberships
  British Interactive Media Association
  Creative Industries Federation
  D&AD Global Association for Creative Advertising & Design
  Digital Games Research Association
  Digital Production Partnership
  European Communication Research & Education Association (ECREA)
  Media, Communications & Cultural Studies Association (MeCCSA)
  Standing Conference of University Drama Departments
  The Culture Capital Exchange (TCCE)
  The Independent Game Developers’ Association (TIGA)
  Theatre and Performance Research Association
  Individual memberships
  Association of British Stage Designers
  British Academy of Film and Television Arts
  Cultural Studies Association (US)
  International Federation of Theatre Research
  International Game Developers Association (IGDA)
  Royal Society of Arts
  Society for Artistic Research
  War and Media Network
  Leadership roles
  Association of Continuing Education for Esports
  Digital Research in Humanities and the Arts
  International Association for the Study of Popular Music


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  International Association of Public Media Researchers (formerly Re-envisioning
  the Public Service Media Enterprise)
  Live Interfaces International Conference
  Live Music Exchange
  Mercury Prize for UK/Ireland Album of the Year
  Oxford & London Interactive Fiction Group
  Theatre and Performance Research Association
  Youth Media, and Culture Network

 We have hosted a number of important conferences and other events at LSBU over the REF
 period, including:

  Motherhood and Creative Practice conference hosted at LSBU, June 2015 (with a follow-up
  conference, Gender Generation, co-organised at the Royal College of Art in September 2016)
  No Way Out: Theatre as a Mediatised Practice: a two-day international symposium of the
  Theatre and Performance Research Association’s performance and new technologies working
  group, hosted at LSBU and Birkbeck (April 2017)
  MeCCSA Practice Network annual conference hosted at LSBU, June 2016 (Post-Screen
  Cultures/Practices)
  TCCE Inside Out Festival hosted at LSBU, March 2017
  Sound & Vision Symposium, in collaboration with the 21st Century Music Practice Research
  Network, hosted by the Sonic Research Group and supported by the Creative and Digital
  Economy Institute at LSBU, March 2017.
  The City as Modernist Ephemera conference hosted at LSBU, June 2017
  MeCCSA annual conference (Creativity and Agency) hosted at LSBU, January 2018
  Critical Care: Audience in Immersive, Interactive and One-on-One Performance: one-day
  symposium organised at LSBU, March 2018
  Art and Housing Struggles conference hosted at LSBU, May 2018
  Automatic Cinema two-day experimental workshop led by London Fieldworks, June 2018
  The Working-Class Avant-Garde conference, June 2018 (led to the launch of a new Open
  Library of Humanities journal (The Journal of Wyndham Lewis Studies) and an Arts Council-
  funded series of artist residencies at the Set Space gallery)
  TCCE Blockchain for the Arts and Creative Industries forum launch at LSBU, September 2018
  The Personal is Political: How Polish Women Negotiate the Price of Migration, organised by
  the Practice as Research group in collaboration with the London Migration Film Festival,
  December 2018
  Beyond the Console: Gender & Narrative Games two-day conference organised in
  collaboration with the Victoria & Albert Museum, February 2019
  TCCE Feminisms and Technology symposium hosted at LSBU, March 2019
  Performance and Digital Technology Gathering annual meeting co-organised by hosted at
  LSBU, October 2019
  TCCE Creative Entrepreneurship Forum hosted at LSBU, November 2019
  Performing Border Crossing, research seminar with curator Alessandra Cianetti and Jill
  Daniels (University of East London), December 2019
  Filmmaking as Resistance, seminar series in response to Black Lives Matter, 2020

 We also host the monthly meetings of the Oxford and London Interactive Fiction Group, organised
 by Van Den Beukel in collaboration with leading interactive fiction author Emily Short, which
 include industry talks, development workshops, game-jams and play sessions, by and for
 independent game-makers and interactive fiction authors.


                                                                                        Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition, colleagues have organised events elsewhere, in collaboration with other institutions,
 for example Cox’s annual workshop at transmediale (Berlin), in collaboration with Aarhus
 University and various partner institutions (for example, CRASSH, University of Cambridge, 2019;
 Emergent Media Lab, Concordia University, 2020); and Hammond’s one-day workshop on Ludic
 Expressions of Violent Conflict at the 2018 Central and Eastern European Game Studies
 Conference, in collaboration with colleagues from the University of Tromsø and Charles
 University, Prague.

 Jackson co-organised the 2018 European Media Manager’s Conference (EMMA) with Dr Michal
 Glowacki from the University of Warsaw at Warsaw University. The conference considered the
 datafication of media and resulting implications for media managers internationally. The
 conference was preceded by an ‘unconference’ that brought scholars together with small to
 medium-sized businesses in Warsaw to discuss and test models of knowledge exchange between
 industry and academia. A direct outcome from the conference was an edition of the Journal of
 Media Management. The membership of EMMA increased by a third that year, due to the
 popularity of the conference topic and the overall organisation.

 We have also been successful in attracting funding for collaborative research projects and
 networks:
 Cox is co-PI on The Contemporary Condition, a research project funded by the Danish Council
 for Independent Research (6.2 million Danish Krone) at Aarhus University, and a partner on the
 Ways of Machine Seeing project, working with colleagues at the University of Cambridge. The
 latter includes publications and workshops, most recently (December 2018) Generative
 Adversarial Networks Experimentation Lab, co-organised with Anne Alexander (University of
 Cambridge), David M. Berry (University of Sussex), and Leonardo Impett (Max-Planck for Art
 History, Rome), at CRASSH, Cambridge University.

 Hammond was PI on a one year AHRC network grant (£41,000), War Games: Memory, Militarism,
 and the Subject of Play, which sought to develop new critical understandings of the relationships
 between videogames, militarism and war, cultural memory and history. The network involved
 academics (from the universities of Tromsø, Bergen, Gothenburg, Utrecht, Kent, Portsmouth,
 Oxford, Notre Dame, the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Charles University Prague, the
 Jagiellonian University Kraków and Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam) as well as games companies
 (Auroch Digital, Evil Twin Artworks, Matrix Games, Modiphius Entertainment), museums (Narvik
 War and Peace Centre, Imperial War Museum, Royal Armouries Museum), and games journalists.

 Dewdney is a funded member of the advisory committee of a three year (2019—21) Swiss
 National Science Foundation funded research project on Post Photography in collaboration
 with the Lucerne University of Applied Sciences and Arts and Fotomuseum Winterthur. He
 presents papers based upon his own research, chairs sessions, attends seminars and advises the
 PI and CI on the progress of the research.

 Jackson’s four-year international research project with Michal Glowacki (University of Warsaw),
 funded by the Polish National Science Center (€65,000), compared the internal organisational
 culture of ten high technology clusters in North America and Europe. The findings were
 presented at the European Broadcasting Union’s Accelerating European Media conference in
 Brussels in October, 2019. The conference was designed to inform priorities within the
 forthcoming seven-year Horizon Europe research programme. Jackson is also founding
 President of the International Association for Public Media Researchers which incorporated in
 2020. The Association draws together nearly 400 researchers worldwide and draws on over 20
 years of scholarship in the field. There is a bi-annual conference co-hosted by a university and
 public service broadcaster and a bi-annual Reader published by Nordicom. IAPMR has
 partnerships with the Public Media Alliance and the Central European University. The
 Association is sponsored by the European Broadcasting Union.




                                                                                           Page 13
