Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Leeds
 Unit of assessment: UOA14
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1A. CONTEXT
 Integrated expertise from the School of Geography (SoG) and the Social and Political Transport
 Science group of the Institute for Transport Studies (ITS) positions Leeds as a world-leading centre
 for geographical research. We aspire to advance knowledge and solutions to profound global-
 scale challenges, including: climate change and transitions to net zero; inclusive, just and healthy
 societies; advancing technologies for environmental management; securing healthy soils and
 freshwater supply, and ecosystem protection. Collaboration on research, impact and
 postgraduate/postdoctoral researcher (PGR/PDR) training is underpinned by shared facilities and
 administrative support as part of the Faculty of Environment (FoE). Directors of Research &
 Innovation represent SoG and ITS in a cohesive faculty research committee, strengthening
 interdisciplinary strategy development and management alongside UOA6 (Food Sciences), UOA7
 (Earth & Environment) and UOA12 (Engineering) colleagues. Significant developments since
 REF2014 (Table 1) include:
   Strategic hires and professional development have expanded expertise in climate change
     adaptation, urban analytics and food security, strengthening our ability to lead research on
     major global challenges.
   Increased PhD awards/yr with current PGR numbers >166FTE (232 PhD and MA/MSc by
     Research (MbR) students including cross-UOA co-supervision), producing graduates who will
     lead future scientific and societal advances.
   A >5-fold rise in REF2 outputs in Nature/Science group journals (with >3-fold increase for
     Nature/Science core journals), more monographs, and increases in PGR/PDR-led
     nominations.
   Average Income/FTE/yr increased 26%, with >£12M new awards in 2019/2020. These
     successes contributed to >£25M of new office, laboratory and field facilities since 2014,
     enhancing our inspiring and vibrant environment.
   Athena Swan silver award (2019), and new UOA-led BAME and LGBTQ+ initiatives,
     recognising equality in structures and cultures are key to maintaining high-quality research,
     impact and training.

                              Table 1: Indicators of UOA development
                                                    REF2014               REF2021
           Staffing
           Cat-A submitted                          48.9FTE               60.85FTE
           PhD awards (avg/yr)                    64.7 (12.9/yr)        123.6 (17.6/yr)
           REF2 outputs
           Nature/Science group                      8 (4%)                43 (28%)
           Nature/Science                            4 (2%)                15 (10%)
           Monographs                               1 (<1%)                5 (3.3%)
           PGR/PDR led                              17 (10%)               28 (18%)
           International co-authors                 68 (38%)               96 (63%)
           Non-academic co-authors                  36 (20%)               52 (34%)
           Income
           Total research income (avg/yr)      £16.6M (£3.3M/yr)      £31.5M (£4.5M/yr)
           Avg. income/FTE/yr                  £69,386 (2011-13)      £87,435 (2018-20)

 Addressing global challenges requires interdisciplinary research, and we combine staff expertise
 and PGR mentoring in the natural sciences, social sciences, computer science and arts &
 humanities. Leadership of major research centres and projects positions us centrally in
 international, national and regional networks, enabling two-way dialogue with industry,
 government, NGO’s, public groups and other academics. These allow us to understand and
 respond quickly to emerging research needs and provide evidence to underpin decision-making.
 Strategically-directed impact pathways are supported by professional support staff and funded
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 knowledge-exchange projects, generating benefits for environmental protection, public health and
 the economy.

 1B. UNIT STRUCTURE
 The distinctiveness of Leeds geography lies in our five research themes (Fig. 1). These themes
 span our research group expertise to focus inter-disciplinary thinking, while positioning the unit
 centrally in numerous external networks (Section 4) and cross-institute research platforms (see
 REF 5a).
                                                          Fig. 1. UOA structure. UOA research
                                                         themes (highlighted) ensure our research
                                                         groups        play     leading      roles    in
                                                         interdisciplinary     institute     platforms.
                                                         Delivery is supported by management
                                                         groups       interacting     efficiently   and
                                                         effectively (arrows) via staff with roles
                                                         spanning committees.

                                                         Research and impact management is led
                                                         by Research and Innovation Committee
                                                         (RIC), with research group leaders and two
                                                         research/impact managers supporting
                                                         SoG and ITS Directors of Research &
                                                         Innovation with operational and strategic
                                                         decision-making. RIC is part of a broader
                                                         management structure (Fig. 1) which
                                                         enables       two-way     dialogue     and
                                                         professional        support        between
                                                         management groups and all staff. This
                                                         connectivity allows researchers’ voices to
                                                         be channelled to leaders, and decisions
                                                         fed back via the same routes, to inform
                                                         operations and further iterations.

                                                          The unit comprises five research groups:
 Ecology & Global Change (EGC) determines the dynamics of ecosystem patterns and processes
 in space and time. River Basin Processes & Management (RBPM) researches processes and
 fluxes and their impacts on the environment and society in freshwater, soil, alluvium, ice and
 marine environments. Social Justice, Cities & Citizenship (SJCC) analyses the complexities of
 social (in)justice and citizenship and contributes towards achieving a radically fairer world. Social
 & Political Transport Science (SPTS) studies mobility and transport systems to deliver effective,
 fair and environmentally sustainable mobility systems. Spatial Analysis & Policy (SAP) develops
 and applies cutting-edge methods to enhance understanding of society, business, and the
 environment. SoG-ITS integration was consolidated with Manley’s chair, four University Academic
 Fellows (UAF; Heinen, Ge, Lovelace, Pangbourne) and two UKRI fellows (Pangbourne, Philips).
 Research groups organise meetings (including inter-group theme-based meetings) for peer
 support, discussing outputs, planning/reviewing proposals, training and developing impact
 activities. All staff, PGRs, PDRs and visiting-researchers are members of at least one group, to
 maximise inclusivity in debates and decision making. We support affiliations with multiple groups
 to further develop our interdisciplinary expertise.

 Our research themes align with globally recognised geographical challenges. For example, 13/17
 UN Sustainable Development Goals relate directly to our research and impact activity, most
 notably climate action, sustainable cities, gender equality, health and wellbeing, clean water, and
 life on land. Four themes are relevant to World Economic Forum major challenges (food security,
 inclusive growth, climate change, gender equality), and we work in 4/7 EU priority areas (climate
 action, health and wellbeing, societal engagement, sustainable food/farming). New research and
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 impact initiatives are supported through competitive faculty-level internationalisation funds
 (£20k/yr), school-level priming funds (up to £10k/yr), university-level strategic initiatives (e.g. UAF
 £50K start-up), and seedcorn funding from the White Rose Consortium (Leeds-York-Sheffield;
 (£11K/yr) or N8-Agrifood partnership of research intensive Universities across Northern England
 (up to £30K).

 Institute platforms (REF5a) build directly on the work of our research groups given our strategic
 focus on interdisciplinary global-challenge themes (Fig. 1). We lead water@leeds (Holden &
 Tillotson [directors]) and Leeds Institute for Data Analytics (LIDA) including the Alan Turing
 Institute Urban Analytics theme (Birkin [director]). We hold leadership roles within the Priestley
 International Centre for Climate (Chatterton, Ford, Gloor), Leeds Social Sciences Institute (Waite
 [deputy director], Lomax, Routledge), Global Food and Environment Institute (Carter, Chapman,
 Ziv), Energy Leeds (Lovett, Marsden) and Culture (Bell). These platforms enable us to lead the
 development of collaborations, partnerships and PGR training, cross-fertilising ideas with internal
 and external partners (Section 4).

 1C. RESEARCH AND IMPACT: EVIDENCE FOR STRATEGY DELIVERY
 After successfully implementing our REF2014 plans, RIC mapped major international research
 needs/challenges to our research excellence. This underpinned a revitalised strategy that aims to
 extend our previous plans with increased research quality and further growth of our position as
 international leaders. Four key objectives are:
  (1) Continue to produce world-leading outputs and develop solutions to global challenges by
       increasing our leadership of collaborative partnerships internationally and nationally.
  (2) Enhance research quality, innovation strengths and staff diversity through retention and
       strategic hiring, and growing doctoral/postdoctoral excellence alongside expansion of our
       MbR programme.
  (3) Further expand the breadth, depth and diversity of our research portfolio with more large-grant
       income, to enhance our environment, outputs and impact.
  (4) Increase the depth and breadth of relationships with businesses, regulators, NGOs and civil
       society, to further identify research user needs and deliver relevant knowledge.
 Our achievements and future plans under each of these objectives are detailed in sections 1-4,
 respectively, of this document.

 Since REF2014, our researchers delivered >1300 outputs and played a role in >360 funded
 projects. Improved outputs quality is fertilising ever more fruitful collaborations and partnerships.
 Five research themes have developed to focus and grow interdisciplinary innovation both within
 and between research groups, and with external collaborators and users. For each theme,
 evidence for major research and impact achievements, and ongoing initiatives to strengthen
 further, are presented with parentheses illustrating key examples from our REF2 and REF3
 submissions.

 Theme 1. Transition to net zero. Climate change is the most pressing environmental problem of
 our generation. A key focus of our research is on continental-global consequences and responses
 to climate change, with large grant funding from NERC, Gordon & Betty Moore Foundation and
 the EU, leading to global impact with international governments. Key achievements have been
 advanced understanding of carbon-cycle processes in Amazonian (UOA14-4239) and African
 forests (UOA14-4171), high-latitude peatlands (UOA14-2437) and the Southern Ocean (UOA14-
 2307), and quantifying global Methane budgets as part of the NERC MOYA consortium (Gloor;
 UOA14-1820). We led a major new conceptualisation of the ‘Anthropocene’ linking ecology and
 ‘human geology’ (UOA14-1295), and developed new climate-social science insights to support
 government policies for adaptation (UOA14-4157; 4187).

 A second area of strength focuses on emission reductions drawing on expertise from the social
 sciences, engineering and environmental studies. We are a focal point for the transport carbon-
 reduction agenda nationally, leading mobility themes within multi-partner centres DEMAND,
 CREDS, UKERC and UKRI’s Energy programme Decarbon8 with >20 businesses and
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 government groups. We developed expertise on transport-sector planning to address climate
 targets (UOA14-1504; 1507), relationships between multimodality and emissions (UOA14-3138)
 and reducing emissions from heavy-goods transport (UOA14-4204). Our researchers have
 pioneered sustainable societal transitions, with funding from ESRC and EPSRC advancing
 understanding of low-impact housing and transformational urban environmental development
 (Chatterton, UOA14-1543, REF3 UOA14-3), and demand management to drive sustainable water
 use (UOA14-4176).

 Our work is influential for international decision-makers and society, including IPCC assessment
 invitations and commissions to synthesise and communicate the effects of global change (1.5˚C
 SR, SROCC, AR6 and SRCC reports; Ford, Brown). We have developed partnerships with
 governments in S. America and Africa to protect major C stocks in peatlands (REF3 UOA14-2),
 and led the Commission on Travel Demand used by the UK government’s Committee on Climate
 Change (Marsden).

 Theme 2. Inclusive, just and healthy societies. The world is increasingly urban but inequalities are
 widening within and between cities and rural areas. Covid-19 has focused government and public
 attention to these issues, and our expertise positions us to lead on responses. Understanding and
 managing the movement of human populations is a significant component of our research, as a
 core partner in the JPI/ESRC Urban Public Administration and ServiceS project (UPASS, with
 Amsterdam, Zhejiang and Beijing Jiaotong), and the UKRI Urban Living Partnership. Research
 links sociology expertise with urban transport planning in relation to governance of sustainable
 mobility (UOA14-4068), and for increasing physical activity, especially walking and cycling
 (UOA14-3136). Research linking human behaviour with transport network analysis transformed
 UK cycle infrastructure planning, including pandemic-driven pop-up cycle lanes (REF3 UOA14-4).
 The Transport, Travel and Social Adaptation Study (TRANSAS; Marsden) funded by UKRI,
 Department for Transport (DfT), Transport Scotland, Transport for the North and Liverpool City
 Region was also developed to direct Covid-19 responses. We have advanced links between
 sociology and population movements due to forced labour, exploitation and asylum (UOA14-4155;
 4232), economic circuits of migration control (UOA14-2875) and healthcare (UOA14-1849).

 A second focus develops new understanding towards safeguarding human rights, with theoretical
 and methodological innovations in critically-engaged scholar-activism as distinctive strengths
 (UOA14-1544; 4695). Research on the effects of, and responses to, social exclusion has
 strengthened considerably since 2014 through roles in the EU Contested Cities network (9
 partners in Europe/S. America), the EU Contested Territory project (19 partners), and McQuaid’s
 UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship. Research has highlighted serious inequalities in energy justice
 (UOA14-4154), air-quality exposure (UOA14-4293) and sexual-orientation legislation (UOA14-
 1793). Our work includes a strong focus on neoliberal political and economic drivers of inequality,
 in particular improving understanding of housing affordability, displacement and safety problems
 associated with privatisation including Grenfell (UOA14-4387; 4613), energy poverty (UOA14-
 2180), health effects of urban deprivation (UOA14-804) and ongoing ESRC funded work on
 financialisation of the European migration crisis (Garelli).

 Impact has arisen from commissioned inputs to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights
 (McQuaid, Hodkinson), and Mullen’s role in the European Social Policy Network underpinned
 improvements in access to essential services for low income people. We produced two
 commissioned reports (UK Chief Medical Officer, Natural England) on environmental inequalities
 (Mitchell) influencing the Guys and St Thomas’ Charity £30M health effects of air quality
 programme. We provided advice to the DfT on travel behaviour (REF3: UOA14-4) and testimonies
 to UK parliamentary committees on modern slavery (Waite) and transport planning (Marsden).
 Further impact is developing from AHRC-funded Queer memorials work and ESRC IAA funded
 work promoting LGBTQ+ inclusive fieldwork (Zebracki). Gonzalez’s ongoing ESRC traditional
 retail markets research emphasizes innovative alternatives toward social inclusivity, apprising
 Parliamentary committees and directly informing Covid-19 high street retail responses.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Theme 3. Advancing technologies for environmental management. Large-scale datasets and
 analytical advances are revolutionising our understanding of human-environmental system
 processes, in terms of data volume, velocity and variety. Our strengths build on leadership of the
 LIDA, the Alan Turing Institute Urban Analytics theme, hosting four Turing fellows, and leading the
 ESRC’s Consumer Data Research Centre (CDRC) and Consumer Data Research Support
 Service (CDRSS). Theoretical data science develops computer science advances to enhance
 understanding of geographical patterns and processes (UOA14-34; 939; 3710). These
 fundamental advances allow us to develop leading urban analytics advances from massive
 datasets spanning healthcare, social media and travel/retail smartcards. Partnerships with
 governments inform understanding of social phenomena including prosperity, healthy-living,
 transport and crime, and we work with major businesses to maintain economic competitiveness.
 Leadership of the CDRC underpinned our development of new insights into socio-economic
 systems using ‘big data’ from businesses, such as mobile phone records (UOA14-4071), travel
 behaviour (UOA14-4070) and smart meters (UOA14-2481). Our data science has significantly
 advanced urban planning knowledge, including internal migration patterns (UOA14-4207),
 economic drivers of urban form (UOA14-4231) and property-market dynamics (UOA14-4230).

 A second strength is developing and applying methods for remote sensing to inform management
 of environmental change, utilising hydrology, geomorphology and ecology data from networks of
 sensors, satellites, drones, scanners and photogrammetry. Our work developed new
 methodological advances in structure-from-motion (SfM) photogrammetry to minimise 3D
 uncertainty in drone-derived data (UOA14-2715), and protocols for using SfM in extreme
 environments where direct measurements are dangerous or impossible (UOA14-4159; 4203).
 Other strengths in developing remotely-sensed spatial data have created methods to compare
 high-resolution data with historical imagery, improve land cover classification, and quantify glacier
 surface properties using laser scanners (UOA14-938; 4238). We pioneered satellite technology
 applications in ecology, advancing estimates of forest biomass (UOA14-4220), identifying 4.67M
 km2 of dryland forest never previously reported (UOA14-219) and quantifying acceleration of
 Amazon secondary forest loss for the first time (UOA14-4173).

 Our distinctive strengths are recognised internationally, including Comber’s role as the UK
 representative on the UN Global Earth Observation land cover validation panel, Ziv’s work on the
 GEO-BON Ecosystem Services working-group, and Phillips as a core member of the European
 Space Agency’s (ESA) Climate Change Initiative Biomass project. Scientific excellence enables
 our academics to influence policy-making: urban analytics research on real-time behavioural
 responses to major weather events contributed to a session at the International Transport Forum
 OECD, and we hold advisory roles for the Office for National Statistics (Lomax, Norman).

 Theme 4. Securing healthy soils and freshwater supplies. Soils and water are critical for human
 wellbeing, food systems and environmental health. Our catchment-science strengths incorporate
 socio-economic, behavioural and biophysical perspectives to guide decisions about agricultural
 land-use change, soil sustainability, and water quantity/quality in aquatic systems, with co-
 ordination roles in major EU (BESTMAP, Euro-FLOW) and UK (NERC integrated catchment
 solutions programme iCASP) networks. We lead continental-global scale soil science advances,
 explaining the genesis of global peat development from new catalogues of radiocarbon dates
 (UOA14-4216), agricultural-zone shifts with climate change (UOA14-1147) and biome-scale
 nitrogen fixation (UOA14-3229). At regional scales we have advanced understanding of tropical
 soil carbon storage (UOA14-4133; 4229), water supply hotspots from peatlands (UOA14-4235)
 and links between policy and land management (UOA14-999). A growing focus is on contaminants
 of emerging concern, developing leading expertise on pharmaceutical chemistry in food crops
 (UOA14-3845) and the aquatic environment (UOA14-1810), and developing new insights to anti-
 microbial resistance (Carter, NERC UK-India Tackling AMR).

 Our research has developed widespread understanding of aquatic systems in rapidly changing
 environments, including the first full water transfer inventories and footprints for China (UOA14-
 4176), significant advances in malaria-risk mapping across the while of Africa incorporating
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 hydrological modelling (UOA14-4167), and improved understanding of aquatic foodweb response
 to extreme events using network science (UOA14-1811). Studying emissions from thousands of
 floodplain trees closed the Amazon methane budget, demonstrating that they emit as much
 methane as all Earth’s oceans combined (UOA14-1820). We make significant advances in
 understanding the global consequences of cryosphere change for the environment and society,
 advancing understanding of glacier and ice-cap recession rates (UOA14-1842; 2609), and
 developing knowledge of the implications of ice loss for: permafrost carbon storage (UOA14-
 4228); societal change by connecting Indigenous knowledge and science across the entire Arctic
 zone (UOA14-4186), and; mountain river biodiversity based on >1.2M invertebrate observations
 from mountain ranges globally (UOA14-4234).

 Our expertise is recognised via advisory roles with groups such as the UN-FAO (Grainger),
 NASA’s High Mountain Asia panel (Quincey) and the UK’s technical advisory group for the EU
 Water Framework Directive (WFD) (Klaar). We advised the UK government Agriculture Action
 Group taskforce and two Royal Society Global Environmental Research Committees (Holden,
 Lewis). Multiple impacts are developing from leadership of the NERC iCASP centre (2017-22) on
 themes including reducing flood and drought risk, water quality, and sustainable agriculture (Klaar,
 Chapman, Kay).

 Theme 5. Ecosystem protection and restoration. Ecosystem services underpin human wellbeing,
 but human activities have pushed the planet into its sixth mass-extinction event. We quantify
 changes in biodiversity and ecosystem functional processes in forest, soil, freshwater and marine
 ecosystems and use our expertise to inform protection and restoration solutions via changes in
 land management, rewilding and policy interventions.

 World-leading research on tropical forests is built around founding and leading Forestplots.net,
 the meta-network of people and plots connecting >2300 researchers and fostering analysis of
 biodiversity and ecosystem function datasets from >4500 plots (44 countries). We led funding of
 this network via multiple large grants by originating collaborations including RAINFOR (S.
 America), T-FORCES (Asia) and the African tropical rainforest network (AfriTRON). Phillips’
 research leadership led to his induction as a Fellow of the Royal Society. We lead multiple
 advances understanding forest ecology, including establishing thermal-sensitivities of forest
 carbon cycling with 225 researchers from 178 institutes (UOA14-4172), drought effects on carbon
 cycling (UOA14-420; 4236) and tree mortality (UOA14-2610), and relationships between
 functional processes and facets of diversity, including biodiversity (UOA14-1297), phylodiversity
 (UOA14-4178) and dominance (UOA14-4240). Nottingham’s appointment expanded our expertise
 in soil microbiology, developing new understanding of below and above-ground tropical forest
 diversity and functioning (UOA14-4132; 4133).

 A second ecosystem strength focuses on peatlands, with major advances in understanding carbon
 storage in the tropics including potentially the world's largest tropical peat complex in the Congo
 (UOA14-1296; 2643). Pan-European research has identified significant concerns about
 widespread drying (UOA14-4177) and erosion (UOA14-4237) and produced methodological
 advances for modelling frameworks (e.g. DigiBog, SD-TOPMODEL) to facilitate advances in
 peatland land-use planning and restoration (e.g. UOA14-4153; 4210). Clarivate Analytics analysis
 of our outputs and citations in Web of Knowledge showed that we are one of the world’s most
 productive institutes for peatland research.

 Our ecosystem expertise informed protected area designations in S. America and Africa (REF3
 UOA14-2) and we worked with Defra to inform government agriculture and environmental (carbon)
 protection plans. Carver’s rewilding research (REF3 UOA14-1) led to his appointment as joint-
 chair of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Commission on Ecological
 Management Rewilding Task Force, mandated to develop a framework for protecting and
 restoring wildland ecosystems that informs IUCN policy and guidelines for 1300 members and
 14,500 global experts.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1D. ONGOING STRATEGY DEVELOPMENT
 We will continue to challenge and improve knowledge by combining fundamental advances with
 applied research, to generate adaptive solutions among scientists, policy-makers, businesses and
 society. A strategic growth area underpinned by the initiation of a cross-faculty group on Climate
 Change Adaptation and Vulnerability will link our work across Theme 1 & 2, strengthening
 collaborations across the Priestley Centre via Ford’s leadership of the UKRI COVID Observatories
 (2020-22) project understanding interacting Covid-19, climate & food system risks among
 Indigenous peoples. McQuaid’s FLF (2020-25) will further expand understanding of how the arts
 can help marginalised African communities engage with climate change decision-makers. Lovett’s
 leadership of the Royal Society/DfiD African Clean Energy Research alliance (2016-21) and the
 EPSRC Resilient Sustainable Micro-Grids project (2018-21) will further enhance the role of
 geographical expertise in low-carbon energy solutions under Theme 1. Additional strengthening
 between SoG-ITS will allow the development of novel Transport Solutions for People and Planet
 spanning Themes 1 & 2, with leadership of DecarboN8 already advancing place-based research
 to accelerate decarbonisation, and new micro-mobility solutions building from ELEVATE (Heinen
 2020-24). International leadership will strengthen via a Canada-UK AI initiative (2020-23; Manley)
 on Responsible Automation for Inclusive Mobility.

 Building on the successes of Theme 3, we aim to strengthen our data analytics leadership via
 holding/sharing data, and training and analysis. We seek to grow expertise in health and
 population analytics, as part of the SIPHER medical sciences consortium (2019-24), work on
 automation and mobility (ESRC 2020-23) and leading the ongoing CDRC (2020-24). We will build
 on urgency research to increase societal understanding of the global responses to Covid-19,
 advancing understanding of transmission (Manley MRC, EPSRC), effects on crime rates
 (Malleson, ESRC) and travel adaptations (Marsden, EPSRC). This research will ensure Leeds’
 key role in post-crisis economic and societal recovery, and allow diversification of funding streams
 towards MRC/healthcare providers. We plan to build on LIDA expertise and facilities to grow
 capacity for environmental data analytics. For example, ongoing work with ESA is informing
 satellite data solutions to uncover forest structural and functional characteristics, ‘smart
 agriculture’ expertise under Themes 3/4 is developing from £3.2M investment in soil, hydrological
 and meteorological sensor networks and analytics expertise (Section 3B), and our research under
 Theme 5 will expand intercontinental ecosystem knowledge utilising molecular (omics)
 techniques. Agricultural sustainability expertise will further develop new links between Theme 4
 and 5, building on expertise leading BESTMAP (Ziv, EU 2019-2023), Carter’s UKRI FLF on
 contaminants in agricultural systems (2020-25), and Chapman/Holden’s work to understand soil
 carbon formation, transformation and loss (NERC Locked-Up, 2019-23). To sustain this growing
 agricultural expertise, we aim to expand BBSRC and agro-industrial funding.

 1E. OPEN RESEARCH
 Increasing open outputs, data and collaborations has been supported with three staff in SoG/ITS,
 institute-level staff, and via initiatives such as ReproducibiliTEA led by library staff. Outputs are
 archived in the White Rose Repository (WRR), with a ten-fold growth in deposits since 2014 and
 >450,000 downloads (Table 2). Open access PGR thesis availability has tripled since 2014, with
 a nine-fold increase in downloads. Access to outputs is enhanced further by UOA researchers’
 use of Research Gate (>50% Cat. A staff), pre-print servers (e.g. arXiv, bioRXiv) and funding for
 Gold open access (119 papers in 2020; 51 in 2014; total since 2014 = 674 [~50% of outputs]).

                             Table 2. WRR deposits and downloads
                                    Years      Deposits    Downloads
                       Outputs     To 2014        141         60,068
                                   To 2020        1455       456,492
                       Theses      To 2014         59         10,405
                                   To 2020        174         97,601

 Orcid ID used by all staff aids cross-referencing of our activity. 95% of in-scope nominated outputs
 and >94% of total outputs in the REF period are open-access compliant. Reproducibility is
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 supported with data and code archives, facilitated through Research Data Leeds (>100 datasets
 deposited from UOA members since 2015 launch), external repositories, and our own DOI minting
 (ForestPlots.net). By originating and developing the ForestPlots platform (NERC, EU, Royal
 Society), we support researchers worldwide to access data, and contributed to the development
 of the global plant-traits database ‘TRY’. A second open platform (PeatDataHub.net) that we lead
 has been developed since 2020 with QR strategic-priorities funding.

 We promote accessible science through open and reproducible code, publications, tools and
 software via external roles and collaborations: (1) Comber is co-Chair of the Association of
 Geographic Information Laboratories in Europe, a forum on open and reproducible research; (2)
 Geocomputation with R (Lovelace) was the first completely open source and publicly accessible
 online geographic textbook from an established publisher, and we hold editorial roles for open
 access journals (e.g. Brown - Frontiers in Environmental Science); (3) Many staff use GitHub,
 encouraging community engagement and collaborative input plus transparent review; (4) We
 actively promote the R statistical computing platform, including textbooks (Comber, Lovelace),
 techniques/practical exercises using RPubs, and package development (BiomasaFP;
 cyclestreets; OpenTripPlanner, pct, stats19; stplanr; >150,000 downloads combined); (5) CDRC
 provides open outputs (maps, case study data) with >200,000 downloads; (6) We lead co-
 production initiatives to deliver public services in equal and reciprocal relationships, steering the
 Leeds Open Data Institute innovation group (Chatterton), and leading >40 iCASP co-production
 workshops with businesses, government and NGOs. Open research supports our strategy aims
 by fostering broader collaborations and enabling end-user uptake of outputs to develop impact.
 For example, R package ‘stplanr’ now underpins a web portal for UK MPs working on road safety,
 and the iCASP Derwent Data Finder facilitates Environment Agency planning for monitoring water
 quality.

 1F. RESEARCH INTEGRITY
 The Concordat to Support Research Integrity is implemented at the institution level for all
 researchers. Policies on General Data Protection Regulations, professional integrity,
 whistleblowing, research misconduct, harassment, and bullying are continually enacted and
 monitored by SoG/ITS management teams. A pre-application risk review, where necessary,
 initiates ethics, H&S and high-risk travel reviews. Ethical review for all research involving human
 subjects or substantial environmental impacts is overseen by FoE Research Ethics Committee
 with UOA representation (Mullen). Authorship policy follows the Committee on Publication Ethics.
 Implementation is supported with UOA initiatives including training for PGRs and staff (e.g. ethics,
 plagiarism, conflicts of interest), open research growth, and enhanced laboratory sample tracking
 procedures. These approaches improve design, analysis and interpretation of all projects.

 Section 2. People
 2A. STAFFING STRATEGY
 Staffing is central to Objective 2, and our profile has increased in seniority, quality and diversity
 since 2014. Returned FTE increases are accompanied by enhanced quality of outputs, impact
 case studies and income/FTE. The UOA draws on the expertise of >140 staff, including cross-
 faculty professionals: Category A (submitted) is 59 academics and 5 independent fellowship
 holders (60.85 FTE; 56.85FTE on permanent contracts). Cross-department appointments
 promote interdisciplinarity (e.g. Tillotson with Engineering, Ford with Earth & Environment,
 McQuaid with English). Five emeritus staff and 35 postdoctoral associates bolster our research
 strengths.

 At the unit level, SoG and ITS employ two dedicated Research and Impact Support Managers,
 providing bespoke assistance to academics for research and impact planning, complex bid
 development and administration (Section 4B). In addition, research networks that SoG/ITS lead
 employ >10 co-ordinators, and facilities are managed by 10 technical staff. Two dedicated
 administrative officers provide travel planning, purchasing, and workshop/conference
 organisation. At Faculty level we developed an integrated approach to research support, to draw
 on the expertise of >20 shared professional staff who advance skills, knowledge and strategy
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 development. This includes a Faculty Research Office supporting grant administration from project
 conception to completion, and eight staff supporting doctoral training, marketing, outreach and
 media activity, enabling researchers to maximise their productivity in a fast-changing environment.

 We strongly encourage visiting-researcher exchanges to/from the UoA, with formal policies
 underpinning incoming application reviews by Research and Innovation Committee. Since 2014
 we supported >100 visitors (including PGR) from 27 countries, spanning academic, governmental
 and NGO organisations (Fig. 2a). Through the EU funded Contested Cities network we hosted
 >30 visitors from Europe and Latin America. Four visiting-researchers benefitted from prestigious
 Cheney Fellowships funded by alumni endowments, and we hosted visitors from India and Ghana
 funded by Commonwealth Fellowships, four British Council academics from South America, and
 two Chinese Scholarship Council recipients. Other visitors have been supported by Royal Society,
 British Academy and Marie Curie funding. Our academics have held visiting-researcher positions
 at e.g. Colorado (Gloor), Brisbane (Lomax, Heinen) and Beijing (Tillotson, Grainger). These
 prestigious linkages maintain our international standing with network building, co-supervising
 projects, research dissemination and impact generation.

 Fig. 2. Top ten countries (excluding UK) for (a)
 incoming visiting-researchers, (b) PGR
 recruitment and (c) joint-authored outputs 

 2B. STAFF DEVELOPMENT
 We ensure UOA vitality is sustained with staff
 development and succession planning linked
 to structured training, mentoring and
 promotion schemes in line with the Concordat
 to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. A multi-pronged approach
 includes ECRs and postdoctoral researchers:
 (1) Coaching and mentoring (mandatory for
 probationers) expands personal effectiveness
 and career progression. Annual staff review
 and development meetings with a senior
 academic enable constructive two-way
 discussion of achievements and setting
 realistic,    achievable      and     prioritised
 personal/school objectives. (2) Annual
 Academic Meeting (AAM) appraisals for all
 staff with Heads of School and Directors of
 Research & Innovation review successes and
 strategically plan future priorities including
 professional development. (3) Internal funding
 allocations from grant overheads to personal
 development funds supports training and
 networking. (4) ECRs are supported further via
 a specific forum, with the leader representing
 staff on faculty and school level research and
 innovation committees. (5) Secondments to promote development of staff expertise, networks and
 impact (e.g. Lovett - Kew Gardens 2015-17; Birkin - Alan Turing Institute ongoing). In support of
 our equality and inclusivity strategy, (6) female staff are encouraged to develop leadership skills
 and maximise their potential through Aurora and Springboard programmes, and (7) all academic
 leadership roles are advertised openly providing equal opportunities for career development. (8)
 Staff benefit from a continuous research and impact workload allocation (20% pro-rata) plus
 sabbatical period (up to 6 months every 5 years or upon completion of major leadership roles) to
 develop grant proposals, outputs, and/or impact thus enabling continuity of high-quality
 innovations. (9) Non-academic staff are supported through coaching/mentoring, annual staff
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 review meetings with line managers, and with core school funding for training course attendance
 and following National Technician Development Centre best practice.

 Annual recognition and reward nominations by team leaders allow us to value staff expertise for
 both research, impact and academic leadership activity, and enhance retention. Our valuing of
 staff contributions has seen promotions of eight staff to Associate Professor, and ten to Professor
 since 2014. We replace departing academics and support-staff in key areas to maintain strengths,
 and recruit new staff to expand into emerging strategic areas. Eight appointments have been
 made to 5-year tenure-track UAFs (Batterman, Carter, Heinen, Klaar, Lomax, Lovelace, Ge,
 Pangbourne), plus four lecturers (McQuaid, Morris, Garelli, Nottingham) and three chairs: climate
 adaptation (Ford), environmental analytics (Comber) and urban analytics (Manley). Our academic
 demographic profile (Table 3) reflects the success of our recruitment and development
 programmes, with more Professorial staff and a balanced F:M profile at Lecturer/Research fellow
 (reflecting the even gender balance of new hires). For succession planning we closely mentor
 early-career fellowship applicants, with >20 successes since REF2014 (Section 4E).

                 Table 3. Submission profile (%) with female/male breakdown (n)
               Role                            REF2014              REF2021
               Professor                   24% (F: 0; M: 13)    38% (F: 4; M:20)
               Associate Professor         32% (F: 5; M: 12)    24% (F: 4; M: 12)
               Lecturer/research fellow    44% (F: 7; M: 17)   38% (F: 12; M; 12)

 2C. RESEARCH STUDENTS
 An intellectually stimulating and rigorous PGR training environment is core to Objective 2. We
 achieve this by developing innovative and exciting projects at the forefront of our five themes, and
 integrate PGRs into funded-project teams whenever possible. PGRs are valued members of
 research groups and institute-level platforms, exposing them to interdisciplinary ideas. PGRs are
 key players in strategy delivery, through high-quality publications (Table 1) and central roles in
 many collaborations with academic and non-academic partners.

 PGR recruitment spans >40 countries (Fig. 2b) and averages >30 starters annually, supporting
 capacity building and knowledge advancement in our five research themes. Our international
 standing is particularly strong in S. America linked to our Amazon monitoring networks (Section
 3B) with international co-supervision supporting >30 Brazilian visitors (mostly PGRs). Since 2015
 SoG has promoted a MbR for a shorter research degree or to combine research with employment,
 growing to 7 students (2020). Applications are judged on a candidate narrative to identify students
 with high potential, taking into account life-experiences as well as academic achievements.
 Shortlisted PGRs are interviewed by at least two staff who undertake unconscious bias and
 protected-characteristics training, ensuring fair and equitable processes. Degrees are offered full-
 time or part-time to allow flexibility for diverse circumstances. The Leeds/FoE graduate boards
 established criteria for consideration of potential academic achievement in PGR admissions, raise
 awareness of PhD opportunities through advertising on BBSTEM, and established summer
 placements for BAME students to experience research opportunities. The ESRC White Rose DTP
 also developed a partnership with the Stuart Hall Foundation to ring-fence two scholarships for
 black British students.

 PGR funding is sustained from research councils, industry and internal competitions (Fig. 3). UKRI
 awards are predominantly ESRC (White Rose DTP, Turing scholarships and Data Analytics and
 Society CDT) and NERC (SPHERES 2014-18 and PANORAMA 2019-27 DTPs; SENSE CDT
 2020-26). We diversified funding by obtaining eligibility for AHRC studentships through the White
 Rose College of Arts and Humanities and the EPSRC Water-Wiser CDT (2019-27). Large
 proportions of self-funded and international government-funded PhDs highlight our reputation as
 a leading PGR training institute.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                              Fig. 3. PGR funding sources since 2014.

 Building from strong end-user linkages (Section 4), we held 16 CASE/collaborative studentships
 from NERC/ESRC since 2014, 5 via competitive open-CASE schemes. We have also received
 studentships from industry (Yorkshire Water), strategic partnerships (e.g. the Alan Turing Institute,
 China Scholarship Council), large grants (e.g. Marie Curie Euro-FLOW and ERC DUST) and
 international businesses (e.g. Malaysian Rubber Board, Ghana Petroleum Corp.). To expand
 funding, a dual-PhD programme has been initiated with Beijing Jiaotong University, and we aim
 to develop this model with other partners. Further diversification is originating from a Leverhulme
 training programme in Extinction Studies starting 2021, and annual bursaries for two MbR students
 studying flood management funded by the Environment Agency, National Trust and other
 partners.

 PGR Monitoring and Support is led by two supervisors per PGR (monthly meetings), reporting to
 an independent support group (two members) to review progress/offer advice. Pastoral care is
 overseen by Director of PGR Studies to enhance support/networking. PGR Forum reports to
 Research and Innovation Committee, and PGRs participate further in faculty/university initiatives
 to support their development (e.g. water@leeds forum; Leeds Social Science Institute, Priestley
 Climate Scholars). Professional and personal development is supported within research groups,
 and cross-group theme engagement is strongly encouraged. Group meetings allow PGRs to
 participate in decision-making and present ideas and research. PGRs receive a Research Training
 Support Grant for external training and conference attendance to further develop their skills and
 networks. SoG’s Culture Enhancement Fund for PGR-led initiatives enabled a Science/Art
 Collaboration in Climate Studies conference, and training in virtual reality to enhance outreach.
 Our strategy has supported a >94% PhD submission rate, almost 50% increase in PhD
 completions/yr compared to REF2014 (Table 1 & 4), plus 16 MbR completions.

                               Table 4. Doctoral degrees awarded
                             2014   2015     2016     2017   2018          2019     2020      Total
  Professional research       0       0        0        0      0            0         0         0
    doctorates
  Other doctoral degrees     18.19    17.11     11.93    12.5     18.66    25.98    19.24    123.61

 A Training and Career Preparation analysis (month 1) is reviewed and updated regularly with each
 PGR’s support group. Meeting records, training and progression are monitored online using a
 system (GRAD) developed by SoG and now used across the University. PGRs develop generic
 and interdisciplinary skills (including transferable skills) following the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework, coordinated by the Leeds Doctoral College (see REF5a).

 Training prepares PGRs for work in environments in and beyond academia. Human geography
 training is from an MA Social Research, and the White Rose DTP interdisciplinary social-sciences
 programme including Leeds-developed pathways (Wood: Cities, Environment and Liveability
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 pathway director; Malleson: AQM group). PGRs in the ESRC Data Analytics and Society CDT
 undertake a 4-yr integrated PhD/MSc with social sciences, computing, mathematics and natural
 sciences training. Physical geography PGRs undertake training through DTP/CDTs. Residential
 training schools build team-working and networking skills, and modelling, programming and
 statistical analysis training are core provisions. Optional training develops field and laboratory,
 impact planning, publishing and enterprise skills. Our expertise and standing allowed us to develop
 novel international PGR training courses with UFZ, Germany, and The National Socio-
 Environmental Synthesis Center, USA, funded initially from a Leeds International Research
 Collaboration Award. We co-ordinated 6 workshops (8-10 PGRs each) since 2014, developing
 collaborative skills and joint publications.

 Publications are a key route to enhancing PGR communication skills and employability, and since
 REF2014 14x PGRs defended a new PhD by publications. Our PGRs led major outputs since
 2014 including papers in Nature (UOA14-1296), Trans. Inst. British Geographers (UOA14-4230),
 Nature Sustainability (UOA14-4235, 4169), Nature Communications (UOA14-4240) and Nature
 Ecology (UOA14-4178). Two PGRs subsequently won fellowships at Leeds (Philips: ESRC;
 Draper: Marie Curie), and others won positions at prestigious institutes including Arizona, Beijing,
 Birmingham, Cambridge, Chinese Academy of Science, Exeter, Glasgow, Humboldt-Berlin,
 Imperial, Leeds, Ningbo, Oxford, Singapore, Texas, Yale and Zhejiang, extending our academic
 network of influence.

 We encourage PGR secondments to gain hands-on experience and build collaborative links.
 Examples include LIDA internships, and collaborative award opportunities with non-academic
 CASE partners, academic collaborators, learned society schemes, or temporary employment (e.g.
 van-Leeuwen, Calderdale Council). PGRs are supported to take leaderships roles in scholarly
 networks (e.g. O’Kerry RGS-IBG Gender and Feminist Geographies; Philips RGS Transport
 Geography). These approaches recognise that PGRs undertake a range of careers, enabling self-
 directed experiences to enhance their employability. Former PGRs have established careers in
 major organisations including Capita, the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather
 Forecasts, Environment Agency, National Transit Agency Ecuador, Ministry of Land Ghana,
 Natural England, Oman Ministry of Defence, Indonesian Ministry of Planning, Taipei government,
 Walmart and the World Bank. A dedicated Professional Development Manager maintains alumni
 links, allowing us to grow research, impact and training with their organisations.

 2D. EQUALITY & DIVERSITY
 We promote diversity, equality and inclusivity (E&I) among all UOA members, to attract, develop
 and retain excellent people from diverse social and cultural backgrounds. UOA members take
 core roles in University- and sector-wide initiatives, including Aurora and Women Rising, and a
 faculty team which won an Athena Swan Silver award with a clear action plan for achieving Gold.
 Our E&I ethos is supported by the SJCC and SPTS groups who are internationally recognised on
 equality and diversity research, exemplified by hosting Feminist and Women’s Studies
 Association, and Impact in Sexualities and Queer Research conference. EGC group create multi-
 lingual conference presentations and outputs that enhance collaborations with tropical nation
 researchers.

 We developed our GeoInclusive task force (replacing E&I Committee) to ensure an inclusive and
 welcoming workplace spanning all staff and all aspects of their work, regardless of status based
 on protected characteristics. Head of School plays a key role, with E&I expertise included from all
 research groups. Our UOA management structure provides pathways for all staff to voice
 problems, challenge decision-making and find solutions (Section 1B; Fig. 1). Post-2014 strategy
 has been underpinned by: equalities and unconscious bias training (all staff); mentoring and
 review; promotion workshops; return to work and post-maternity/adoption/surrogacy protocols;
 female writing and impact case study retreats. A LGBTQ+ geography forum provides a space to
 meet and provide mutual support. We recognise BAME researchers are under-represented, and
 are working to address this. SoG supported the first ‘Decolonising the Curriculum’ event at Leeds
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (2019), and initiated a Black and Student of Colour Forum (inc. PGRs) to share experiences and
 support, directed by Loyola-Hernández (Racial Justice Network trustee).

 We are committed to fairness in HR and staff development. Staff returning from periods of
 unplanned leave are supported with phased returns, and flexible/remote working options are
 available to staff with personal or dependant health/caring needs. Career pathways for part-time
 and fixed-term staff are the same as for all staff, using a carefully monitored workload model and
 promotion criteria ‘calibrated’ for fairness. We offer the potential for sharing leadership roles,
 enabling part-time staff to hold roles including Deputy Head of School and Director of Student
 Education in SoG. Staff benefit from institutional support including Occupational Health Services
 wellbeing, and we undertake workplace adjustments for researchers with disabilities via assistive
 equipment and/or support workers, enabling a productive working environment. We allow
 researchers to request childcare costs for conference attendance from research group funds or
 external funded projects where appropriate.

 E&I considerations underpinned REF planning, with the submission team comprising balanced
 F:M membership, and output/ICS reviews discussed openly to aid staff development. Consensus
 decision-making on expected scores underpinned output and ICS selection. An optimum outputs
 profile was modelled anonymously based on expected scores, then summarised by staff group
 (Table 5). We recognised that work was needed to address gender imbalances and have taken
 positive steps through structured training, mentoring and promotions. As a result, leader roles for
 3/5 research groups, 6/8 UAF awards and 50% new lectureships are held by females. Female
 FTE has risen from 20% to 32% since REF2014, the UOA now hosts four female professors
 (REF2014 = 0), and more income is attributed to female staff (section 3A).

                      Table 5. Output and FTE distribution by staff groups
  Group                                                      Outputs (%)              FTE (%)
  Female:Male                                                    25:75                 32:68
  Professor:Associate Prof.:Lecturer:Researcher:Former      45:27:16:06:06        36:35:09:20:N/A
  Human:Physical                                                 47:53                 64:36


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3A. INCOME
 Strategy Objective 3 focuses on enhancing income from diverse funders, and REF4b/c show
 income grew significantly during the REF period to >£5M/year in 2018-20. Awards are from >50
 sponsors, more diverse than 2014, and with enhanced EU and UKRI income (Fig. 4). Staff
 development successes include awards to female researchers (3% in 2014 up to 31/35% in
 2019/2020) now being in line with FTE (32%), and overall enhanced income/FTE (Table 1). These
 successes allowed us to develop world-leading research outputs and facilities, maximise societal
 impact, and further grow non-academic networks.

 Income generation has been boosted through our focus on awards >£1M. We successfully led or
 were partners in >20 large grants since 2014 across all five themes. These include leading major
 UKRI programmes such as ESRC’s Consumer Data Research Support Service (CDRSS) and the
 Consumer Data Research Centre (CDRC; combined >£16M; £4.1M to Leeds), and NERC’s £5M
 iCASP. Three NERC large grants on tropical ecosystems totalled >£8.5M (£4.1M to Leeds;
 CongoPeat, BIORED and ARBOLES). Four EPSRC grants totalling £7.8M (£2M to Leeds)
 included ELEVATE, DEMAND, DecarboN8 and Sustainable Microgrids. We also hold major co-
 investigator positions in EPSRC’s Centre for Research into Energy Demand Solutions (CREDS)
 and UK Energy Research Centre Phase 4.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                     Fig. 4. Annual average research funding, REF2014/2021

 We have successfully grown EU funding, with five co-ordinator roles (>£13M total; £3.8M to
 Leeds): Euro-FLOW, BESTMAP, CONTESTED TERRITORIES, DUST and EMPOWER. We also
 won partner roles in >£20M EU projects including CONSOLE, CONTESTED CITIES,
 ECOPOTENTIAL, and RECARE. Additional large-grant successes were from the UKRI-MRC
 Prevention Research Partnership as part of the Systems Science in Public Health and Health
 Economics Research consortium (SIPHER) (£1.1M), a £1.2M Royal Society award to study solar
 treatment of biomass for power generation, and support for the Amazon Forest Inventory Network
 (RAINFOR) in Peru (Moore Foundation, £1.2M). Research income will be sustained post
 REF2021 with >£12M new awards in 2019-20 combined, reinforcing our world-leading expertise
 and enabling further advances across our research themes.

 Key to income growth is organisational support. Large applications and fellowships are primed
 through structured workshops supported by university Research and Innovation Services and
 interdisciplinary platforms, funding for external planning meetings, cross-faculty reviews, and
 interview training. Pre-application support occurs within research groups and via Directors of
 Research, who pre-review applications via a project initiation procedure which alerts internal
 reviewers plus technical support (laboratories, IT, HR), then maintains oversight of reviews to
 ensure only competitive ideas are submitted. Our processes are continually informed by staff
 participation in, and learning from, funding panels and peer-review colleges. Faculty Research
 Office supports researchers with application financial planning, risk management, online
 submission and post-award management. In addition to strategic planning, staff remain agile to
 rapidly emerging opportunities via core workload-model allocations for research; notable awards
 include Covid-19 responses (Ford, Malleson, Manley, Marsden), NERC Urgency (Brown, Klaar,
 Smith), and NERC Highlights (Brown, Chapman, Holden).

 3B. INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES
 Repurposed facilities have been developed for SoG (£14.3M in 2015, plus £4M for LIDA in 2014)
 and ITS (£3.9M; 2017) providing modern space to enhance collaborations between students, staff
 and external partners. We offer 15 rooms with 56” screens for visualisation and teleconferencing,
 and two rooms can function as private space for parents with children or for wellbeing. A technical
 services committee, coordinated by deputy heads of school, manages facilities. A faculty-level
 committee ensures efficiencies in purchasing, maintenance and sharing excellence. Library
 collections span >2 million titles, with dedicated UOA funding for new additions, and open access
 systems (data, outputs) maximising societal access to our work (see Section 1).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 IT infrastructure is overseen by Directors of Research, who interface with institute IT leaders.
 Infrastructure supporting efficient remote-working has been upgraded significantly both before and
 during the Covid-19 pandemic, including desktop anywhere via Microsoft remote desktop client
 and Pulse Secure VPN, incorporating full Microsoft Office 365 software. Modern servers support
 off-site intensive simulation work. All students and researchers benefit from SharePoint technology
 and enhanced visualisation capabilities for spatial analysis and simulation. High Performance
 Computing (HPC) equivalent to 12,000 computers can be accessed free at point-of-use, funded
 through central overheads and a £1M biennial university-level investment, as part of the N8
 universities collaborative regional facility. Staff and researchers benefit from direct access to IT
 support, annual software updates, and 3-5yrs hardware renewal.

 LIDA provides further specialist computing facilities and a 5-person support team, free at the point-
 of-use. Integrated data analysis expertise across the University and with external partners forms
 a key infrastructure element linking research and impact for strategy Theme 3. Notably, this forms
 part of the UK data analytics strategic infrastructure, and Lomax sits on the governance board for
 the Data and Analytics Facility for National Infrastructure supporting long-term UK planning and
 investment. LIDA houses >200 workstations, with 80 dedicated to training. The highest standards
 of data access and protection are provided (ISO/IEC 27001:2013) plus NHS information
 governance toolkit compliance. Controlled data input/output provides confidence for external
 funders and users, with inward investments to date supporting >90 major projects.

 Analytical laboratories have a dedicated manager who leads training and supervision of
 technicians. SoG laboratories offer colorimetric auto-analysis, elemental thermal oxidation, gas
 chromatography-mass spectrometry, ion chromatography, laser particle sizing, optical-emission
 spectrophotometry, UV-vis spectrophotometry, a microscopy facility and walk-in climate-controlled
 chambers. Defra licensing allows the import/storage of non-EU samples. We work with N8
 universities to maintain efficiencies/collaborations through equipment sharing. Laboratory use,
 including basic consumables, is free to access funded via SoG core finances, allowing all
 researchers equal opportunities to develop high-quality research.

 We lead specialist fieldwork facilities including state-of-the-art global forest monitoring networks
 RAINFOR, AfriTRON and Protected areas of Peru (MonANPe). Infrastructure includes >4500 plots
 in 44 nations tracking tree and soil ecology/biogeochemistry, with selected sites augmented by
 temperature-controlled greenhouses and canopy towers (>£120K NERC, Royal Society),
 hydrological monitoring and digital herbaria ($50K; Moore Foundation), plant physiology
 equipment (>£100k) and Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) (£35k; British Council). Laboratory
 facilities enable advanced tree-ring width and isotopic analysis (>£27K NERC).
 Cyberinfrastructure hosted and developed entirely at Leeds (ForestPlots.net) allows us to
 collaboratively manage, share and analyse complex data including those of partner networks.
 These facilities allowed us to develop significant, wide-reaching impact case studies
 (REF2014/21) with data underpinning national submissions for Paris Agreement Forest Reference
 Emission Levels, plus >100 world-leading outputs including >15 in Nature/Science group since
 2014 with >1000 collaborators.

 A £3.2M university investment in the GFEI (2019), and NERC/BBSRC awards (>£750K to Leeds),
 provided a UK-leading baseline capability in integrated environmental and agricultural sensing and
 observation at the university farm, underpinning our soil science leadership in the N8-Agrifood
 consortium. Infrastructure includes three multi-parameter stations (£111K) with eddy-covariance
 CO2 analysers, 3D ultrasonic anemometers, net radiometers, plus temperature, humidity, soil
 moisture, water potential and heat-flux sensors. Hyprop2 moisture analysers and a WP4C
 Dewpoint potentiometer (£33K) support laboratory analysis. A Haldrup F-55 harvester (£155K)
 enables precision harvesting of crops. A £125K Nano-Hyperspec VNIR (400-1000nm) is hosted
 on a DJI UAV with GPS/INS and LiDAR Integration. Two smaller UAVs with high-resolution
 cameras further allow the collection of imagery and SfM photogrammetry. Two SoG staff hold
 Civil Aviation Authority UAV pilot licenses. These investments have enabled our researchers to
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 win >£1.3M NERC funding since 2015 (Critical Zone Science, SoilBioHedge, LOCKEDUP), to
 underpin growth of our agricultural research over the next decade.

 Fieldwork is supported by three vehicles and equipment including ground-penetrating radar, Leica
 GPS-Total Stations, a Reigl terrestrial laser scanner, water quality probes, a LiCor portable CO2
 analyzer, multiple dataloggers including telemetry for meteorological and hydrological
 research, and a variety of coring and ecology equipment. This high-quality equipment, funded via
 annual allocations of core funds and informed by staff-suggested priorities, allows researchers to
 maintain our reputation at the forefront of physical geography research.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base,
 economy and society
 4A. ARRANGEMENTS AND SUPPORT FOR RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS
 AND PARTNERSHIPS
 We effectively lead large collaborations allowing us to secure funding (further supporting strategy
 Objective 3) and we engage proactively with businesses, regulators, the third sector and policy-
 makers to identify and cultivate impact (Objective 4).

 Investment in the best people and facilities allows us to develop and maintain a reputation for
 leading research and societal impact via active collaborations with UK and overseas scientists.
 Internationally, the school leads numerous networks (see Section 1C & 3A) spanning our five
 research themes, creating direct two-way linkages to rapidly disseminate research findings/ideas
 and gain timely information about emerging opportunities. Nationally, LIDA links us to >90
 research centres, programmes and projects with infrastructure supporting >£50 million of
 research, making it a major powerhouse for civic engagement and business growth. water@leeds
 has grown rapidly from its initial core strengths in our RBPM group to now be a world-recognised
 centre. SoG benefitted substantially from this investment, leading to our principle role in the NERC
 iCASP project. Regionally, Leeds is a member of the N8, developed specifically to increase
 collaboration and drive economic growth with end users. The EPSRC DecarboN8 network led by
 Marsden brings together 23 industry, civil society and community partners including Transport for
 the North, to collaboratively seek solutions for decarbonising transport systems.

 Success of our collaborative networking is illustrated by >80% of REF2 outputs having co-authors
 external to Leeds (63% international). Our collaborative reach has doubled over the REF period
 with outputs written with researchers from >120 nations; REF2 nominations include co-authors
 from 95 of these nations (46 in 2014), in line with our strategy of developing international
 partnerships and engaging with global challenges. Additional to our long-standing strengths in
 Europe and the Americas (Fig. 2c), we are growing Chinese collaborations (2014: x5 outputs;
 2020: x22).

 PGR supervision enables collaboration externally, including the White Rose social sciences DTP
 linking Leeds, Sheffield, York, Sheffield Hallam, Hull, Bradford and Manchester Metropolitan. Our
 staff lead projects in three CDTs, with Liverpool, Manchester and Sheffield (ESRC Data Analytics
 and Society), Edinburgh, British Antarctic Survey and National Oceanography Centre (NERC
 Centre for Satellite Data in Environmental Science (SENSE)), and Loughborough and Cranfield
 (EPSRC WaterWISER CDT). The NERC DTP PANORAMA led by Leeds offers further research
 integration with York and Hull. These provide staff and PGRs with 3-4 year collaborations, which
 sustain the production of novel outputs, impacts and proposals.

 4B. RELATIONSHIPS WITH KEY RESEARCH USERS, BENEFICIARIES OR AUDIENCES
 Dissemination and impact training, planning and support for researchers is supported by SoG’s
 Impact Support Manager (ISM), and ITS’s Research Support Manager. Support and access to
 priming funds, including institute-level impact accelerator accounts, allow staff to develop
 relationships with research users and audiences. Training and support is provided centrally via
 ODP&L (REF5a) and through workshops led by ISM. Non-academic collaborations with new and
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 existing partners support two-way exchange of knowledge, underpinning impact planning and a
 case-study portfolio across all research themes.

 A briefing-note series developed in 2019 provides staff with opportunities to translate research
 outputs so non-specialists quickly understand new findings, and our staff contribute to POST notes
 (e.g. 537, 603) to reach UK parliamentarians. These approaches seed potential future
 collaborations and impact. Media training and press releases enable our work to reach wider
 audiences and influence public discourse via television, radio and in written articles/social media.
 A diverse array of social media streams at the level of individual staff, research groups and for
 both SoG/ITS (combined followers >8000) further enable public engagement with research.
 Proactive use of social media, LinkedIn and Altmetrics enables ISM to effectively develop and
 track pathways to impact among research users; for example, Lewis published a top 50 Altmetric
 paper in 2019 creating >5000 interactions including new links to policy sources. Events such as
 the annual CDRC Data Partner Forum, LIDA Showcase, LIDA intern scheme (30 projects since
 2016), and iCASP funded projects (>40 since 2017) provide pioneering examples of industry
 engagement supporting strategy Objectives 1 and 4. As an example of our collaborative
 successes, 34% of REF2 outputs were co-authored with non-academics who enabled rapid
 adoption of new research recommendations.

 Baseline research and impact workload allocations (Section 2A), coupled with increased research
 income that allows us to employ support staff in project management roles, provide time for
 researchers to engage quickly with, and lead, emerging opportunities with a range of audiences.
 Our rounded impact strategy includes a focus on government organisations and businesses who
 can drive impact from the ‘top-down’, as well as civil society and campaigning NGOs who push
 for impact ‘bottom-up’. These relationships are strategically directed at different scales:
 engagement with major international organisations allows us to hold a position at the forefront of
 global research challenges, whilst national end-user engagements ensure our strong UK standing.

 To be recognised as a world-leading research institute (strategy Objective 1), we support staff to
 develop relationships with major international organisations. For example, multiple roles link to the
 UN, including Grainger as advisor to the FAO Forest and Land Restoration Mechanism, the
 Convention to Combat Desertification Science-Policy Interface, and the Global Forest Resources
 Assessment. Additionally, Comber is the UK’s Global Earth Observation land cover validation
 panel representative, and Ziv leads the Biodiversity Observation Network working-group in the
 Intergovernmental Group on Earth Observations. Phillips was invited to showcase research at the
 UN Framework Convention on Climate Change COP21 (Paris, 2015). Other international
 contributions include malaria planning advice to the Zambia Chief Medical Officer (Smith),
 informing WWF’s International policy on Forest Carbon Finance (Phillips), and commissioned
 reports for the European Social Policy Network (Mullen).

 A major focus for impact is government and policy makers, who enable our work to permeate
 multiple sectors. We inform future transport solutions working directly with local authorities and
 Sustrans.org. (Heinen, Lovelace, Mullen), Marsden sits on the Leeds City Council Expert Advisory
 Panel on transport, and Philips works with Transport for Greater Manchester. We hosted the DfT
 Strategy Executive in 2018/19, including a researcher-led course for their professional
 development. Marsden also led the Commission on Travel Demand cited in the Committee on
 Climate Change’s 2018 report to Parliament, resulting in further work with the DfT, Transport for
 London, the Committee on Climate Change, the Transport Economists' Group and a
 commissioned report for the European Parliament.

 Our quantitative human geography strengths are recognised with national commissions and roles,
 such as with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Birkin), Government Office for Science
 (Marsden), Depts. for Education (Gould), Health (Norman, Heppenstall), Communities & Local
 Government (Chatterton) and the All Party Parliamentary Group on Modern Working (Waite). The
 Office for National Statistics (ONS) employ Lomax as an expert advisor for National Population
 Projections and a panel member on Modernising the Census, and Norman sits on their Population
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Theme committee. Predictive policing research (Malleson, Heppenstall) has developed
 partnerships with South Yorkshire Police and Ordnance Survey. In response to the Covid-19
 pandemic, Birkin was selected to be Task Leader for Urban Analytics on the Royal Society’s Rapid
 Assistance in Modelling the Pandemic steering group, he sits on the Isaac Newton Institute’s
 Infectious Dynamics of Pandemics steering board, and Heppenstall is a Data Science Advisor for
 the UK government Joint Biosecurity Centre, guiding local and national decision-making.

 Physical geography end-user linkages have grown from a NERC impact fellowship (Viki Hirst) on
 Water Framework Directive (WFD) projects with the Environment Agency, which laid foundations
 for iCASP. We contributed to Environment Agency decision-making on Natural Flood
 Management (NFM) funding allocations (Brown), and work with Leeds City and Calderdale
 Councils, the National Trust, Forestry Commission and the Construction Industry Research and
 Information Association (CIRIA) developing flooding solutions (Klaar, Smith). Our external
 standing has strengthened with roles on Natural England’s Science Advisory Committee (Lovett),
 the UK government/UKWIR Agriculture Action Group taskforce (Holden) and the WFD UK
 Technical Advisory Group (Klaar). Defra commissioned the first full carbon and greenhouse gas
 budgets for lowland peatland systems in GB (Baird, Holden, Chapman), evaluation of new
 ecological time-series methods (Comber), and they appointed Ziv to their Environmental Land
 Management modelling expert panel to ensure the quality, rigour and relevance of research
 contributing to post-Brexit policy.

 4C. WIDER CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ECONOMY AND SOCIETY
 A strong economy is critical for the UK, and we work with businesses to inform decision-making
 and investment. The iCASP programme aims to lever £50M of economic benefits in the Yorkshire
 region, so far funding projects with businesses such as JBA Consulting, ARUP Ltd, Thomas
 Mackay and umbrella organisations such as the National Farmers Union. The CDRC and CDRSS
 projects link to >150 commercial partners such as Zoopla and ao.com to optimise mapping work,
 and with retailers ASDA and Sainsbury’s planning store locations to reflect seasonal population
 dynamics. During the Covid-19 pandemic, LIDA led a new data alliance with Rolls Royce to find
 faster ways of supporting the response and subsequent recovery, using our secure infrastructure,
 expertise and global networks. The alliance includes IBM, Google, Microsoft, The Data City,
 Truata and Whitespace. The National Market Traders Federation utilised Gonzalez’s findings on
 retail-market users and providers to develop a practical guide for recovering and re-establishing
 businesses post-lockdown. Green economic growth is supported through Holden chairing the
 Shetland Windfarm Advisory group overseeing Viking Energy’s conservation and monitoring
 measures, and an advisory board role with SSE Renewables.

 Research use by the water industry has developed over multiple RAE/REF cycles. For example,
 NERC research (2003-09; Chapman) linking soil recovery from acidification to rising raw-water
 colour has recently driven R&I investment by Yorkshire Water (YW), Scottish Water, United
 Utilities and Welsh Water, alongside NERC funding (climate resilience programme) with CEH and
 Glasgow. YW are also a major partner for our Theme 4 work, funding >£1.4M research since
 2014, most notably to enhance understanding of peatland hydrology and chemistry to inform land
 management. Our human geography expertise is utilised by Thames and South West Water, in
 partnership with the ONS, to understand water demand linked to population dynamics. Moody’s
 UKRI Industrial Innovation Fellowship has expanded expertise in water colour and carbon cycling
 processes across Europe. Building from a YW funded PhD studying environmental flows
 furthermore allowed us to develop and lead the Euro-FLOW consortium, with 23 European
 partners including hydropower and water companies. We have expanded our water research
 reach into Africa (knowledge-exchange hub with the Global Water Partnership Tanzania), and in
 China Tillotson’s research enabled his Visiting Chair at Beijing Forestry University (2015-18) and
 collaborations with SUSTech, Hohai and Shandong. This expertise directly supports commercial
 ventures, with Tillotson sitting on the Technology Advisory Group of G2O Water Technologies Ltd,
 as well as supporting 3x water science innovators from Thailand and Vietnam as a mentor for the
 Royal Academy of Engineering Leaders in Innovation programme.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We engage with an array of civic groups, particularly via strategy Themes 1/2 linking us to diverse
 communities. Chatterton for example established the Antipode Foundation public charity which
 disperses £200,000/yr in scholar-activist awards, and he has further supported the work of
 Kirkstall Valley Development Trust and Leeds Community Homes, and been seconded
 to developer Sustainable Britain, to advise on affordable low-carbon housing. The foundations of
 this work were funded by the N8, ESRC and Leeds Impact Accelerator Accounts which developed
 a methodology for co-production, then EPSRC funding for a detailed Urban Living Pilot (the TRUE
 project). This work provided support to >100 community-led groups (REF3 UOA14-3).
 Furthermore, Zebracki’s co-founder role in Queer Pride Gent, Belgium, informed debates,
 performances, and the fulfilment of a LGBTQ+ monument following his #LHBTMonumntGent
 activist work.

 Working with Artists is a key route for research dissemination. Leverhulme artist-in-residence Trudi
 Entwhistle created landscape installations inspired by our water research along the 2014 Tour de
 France route, and an Arts Council artist-in-residence, Dr Joanna Brown, collaborates with Zebracki
 via water@leeds on cultural perceptions of flooding. Zebracki’s research was also showcased at
 a monument unveiling in Eindhoven, Netherlands, and via co-curation of RGS Artistic events.
 Additionally, McQuaid led six research-arts events in Uganda (2015-19) on sexual health, barriers
 to girls' education, and urban sustainability, reaching >500 teachers, parents, NGOs, police and
 religious leaders with participant-stakeholder focus-groups facilitated to develop solutions.

 We have expertise organising public workshops such as Loyola-Hernandez’s British Academy
 Rising Star Engagement Award #resistance:Exploring digital protest by marginalised groups,
 merging global online-participation with in-person presentations/discussion. Quincey’s NERC
 Everdrill project was communicated to >50 people from Namche Bazaar, Nepal, via discussions,
 virtual-reality films of Everest and physical glacier models. Keynote contributions to prestigious
 outreach events included the Royal Society Café Scientifique (Phillips, 2014) and a Royal
 Institution Christmas Lecture (Baird, 2020).

 4D. CO-OPERATION AND COLLABORATIVE ARRANGEMENTS FOR PGR TRAINING
 We played major roles in three international PGR training networks: (1) as co-ordinators of Euro-
 FLOW, we developed five advanced training courses and multiple PGR secondments with
 regulators, large businesses and SMOs including Engadiner Kraftwerk, Swiss National Park,
 Environment Agency, Yorkshire Water, ARUP, CBEC Ltd and USGS; (2) The EU Contested Cities
 network supported the exchange of ~20 PGRs, and this will be extended with; (3) our role in the
 EU Contested Territories network (2020-2024). We contribute to six UKRI training programmes
 as leaders or by hosting formal PGR training (Section 2C), and the CDRC offers numerous
 courses to PGRs and professionals including QGIS, R and Python. PGR training is further
 enhanced through co-supervision with multiple end-users (Section 2C).

 4E. CONTRIBUTION TO THE SUSTAINABILITY OF THE DISCIPLINE
 We actively promote collaboration with organisations within and beyond higher education, to drive
 the global research agenda, co-develop and disseminate our research, and influence policy
 development. We hold scientific advisory positions for >10 institutes, including IGB-Berlin
 (Holden), Chinese University Hong Kong (Stillwell), Housing Associations' Charitable Trust
 (Chatterton), ArcticNet Canada (Ford) and both MS-Amlin and SSE Renewables (Holden). In
 addition to multiple peer-review college roles, our staff hold/held roles on grant decision-making
 committees, notably ESRC (Waite, Heppenstall, Stillwell), EPSRC (Marsden), NERC (Holden,
 Mitchell, Kay, Woulds), UKRI FLF (Birkin), USA NSF (Gould), Dutch Research Council (Comber),
 Portuguese STF (Heinen) and the Irish Research Council (McQuaid). We make substantial
 contributions to professional/learned societies with >30 leadership and/or trustee roles including
 American Association of Geographers (AAG) Feminist Geographies (Conlon), British Society for
 Geomorphology (Smith), Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment (Mitchell),
 International Geocomputation Committee (Heppenstall), several RGS groups (Lomax,
 Pangbourne, Vanderbeck, Zebracki) and Society of Environmental Toxicology & Chemistry
 (Carter). Our staff edit international journals including senior Editorial Board roles for African
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Journal of Ecology (Lovett), Transport Policy (Marsden), Applied Spatial Analysis and Policy
 (Norman, Stillwell), Geology Today (Carrivick) and Regional Env. Change (Ford). Overall, our staff
 held >50 Editorial Board/Associate Editor positions and edited >15 special issues since 2014.

 Leadership of >20 international conferences has maintained the vitality of the discipline, with nine
 major conferences at Leeds including RC21 Urban and Regional Development of the International
 Sociological Association (2017, Gonzalez) and the 7th International Conference on Flood
 Management (2017; Holden, Tillotson). We lead the triennial World Conference on Transport
 Research Society (Marsden, Heinen, since 2016). We played major roles organising international
 meetings, such as UNFCCC COP20 Biodiversity and Climate Change, Lima (2014; Baker),
 International Symposium on Ecohydraulics (Klaar, 2014-2020) and World Wilderness Congress
 (2019/20; Carver). We regularly lead sessions at the AAG, World Conference of Transport
 Research, American and European Geophysical Union, and GIScience meetings.

 Translating new research to education benefits underpins the future sustainability of geography,
 with our Professional Development Manager co-ordinating activity with schools/colleges. We
 contributed to the Geography A-level Content Advisory Board (Chapman), British Council’s Global
 Water Initiative (Grainger), Netherlands Universities QA (Comber), and have developed CPD
 courses for the National Centre for Research Methods (Newing), DfT (Marsden, Pangbourne,
 Heinen) and Highways England (Lovelace). Lovett pioneered MOOC development at Leeds with
 the Environmental Challenges course (FutureLearn platform) reaching >80,000 people (170
 countries).

 Recognition of the success of our strategy and work to maintain the vitality and sustainability of
 Geography is evident from prestigious fellowships and prizes (Table 6).

                  Table 6. Notable awards received (*impact prize, +PGR prize)
   Award(s)                                                                Recipient
   AAG James Blair Award for scholar-activism (2016)                       Routledge
   Academy of Social Sciences Fellow (2018)                                Birkin
   RGS Murchison Award for pioneering urban-analytics research (2019)
   British Diatom Group Carter Prize (2017)+                               Fell
   Cycle Planning Awards Best Innovation (2016)*                           Lovelace
   Foundation for Sociology of Health & Illness book prize (2020)          Bell
   Society for Computational Economics prize for outstanding               Heppenstall
     computational statistics (2020)
   RGS Gill Award for outstanding ECR (2018)                               Malleson
   RGS-IBG Ambassador Certificate of Achievement (2018/19)+                Tether
   Royal Society Fellow (2020)                                             Phillips
   Royal Society of Chemistry emerging investigator (2019)                 Carter
   Thompson-Reuters highly-cited (2013-2020)                               Lewis, Phillips
   Thompson-Reuters highly-cited (2018)                                    Galbraith

 Since 2014 we hosted >20 competitively awarded fellowships (Section 2), including 9x UKRI (2x
 future leaders), 4x Marie Curie incoming and 4x Alan Turing Institute fellowships. Overall, the
 variety of our contributions and achievements attests to the outstanding strength of Geography at
 Leeds, and thus a continued world-leading research and impact role throughout the next
 assessment cycle.
