Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Glasgow
 Unit of Assessment: 10, Mathematical Sciences
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Unit context
The School of Mathematics and Statistics at the University of Glasgow (UofG) spans all three
fundamental areas of the mathematical sciences, with research and teaching strengths in Applied
(21 FTE) and Pure Mathematics (18.8 FTE) and Statistics (20.1 FTE) (described as groups). The
phenomenal growth of our Unit since the REF2014 by 50% (59.9 FTE submitted compared to 41
FTE in 2014) has allowed us to solve fundamental mathematical problems with results appearing in
prestigious journals such as Annals of Mathematics, Inventiones, and Annals of Applied Statistics,
while pursuing new applications of mathematical and statistical modelling in health-care technology
and in environmental sciences and ecology. We lead 3 EPSRC funded research hubs and are
partners in one centre (with total funding awarded exceeding £5M) including the Centre for
Mathematics in Healthcare (SoftMech), the Statistical Emulation and Translation in Healthcare hub,
a multi-centre research collaboration with MIT and POLIMI, and a Research Centre on closed-loop
data science. Our research is delivering global impact in diverse areas such as animal pain,
radiocarbon dating and ground and surface water and air quality. Our research diversity is reflected
in Figure 1 emphasising our commitment to fundamental research in the Mathematical Sciences
across Pure and Applied Mathematics and Statistics and to cross-disciplinary and applied research
that delivers impact. Figure 1 identifies a number of distinct Unit themes and specific strengths
(based on fluid staff groupings) to encourage and strategically support exchanges of ideas, methods
and applications across all three groups and designed to afford maximum research flexibility.




                              Figure 1. Research areas and themes

We are a major international Mathematical Sciences research centre attracting excellent researchers
globally at all career stages (20 early career and 13 internationally established research leaders
appointed since REF2014; see Section 2). Our hiring strategy, which embeds ED&I in pursuing
breadth and depth in the mathematical sciences has enabled us to respond to a multitude of
emerging research challenges (Section 3) which is reflected in our rapidly growing grant income,
which has tripled over the REF period (Table 1), and the growth in our Postgraduate Research (PGR)
student numbers by 54% (48 registered in 2014 to 74 in 2019/20, with 41% BAME, 8% registered
disabled and on aggregate 42% female). This is a steep upward trajectory, with PhDs awarded


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
increasing from 9 p.a. (2014) to 14 p.a. (2019/20). The excellence of our Unit is further evidenced
by the national and international roles our staff play in setting the Mathematical Sciences agenda, in
the London and Edinburgh Mathematical Societies, the Royal Statistical Society, the Royal Society
of Edinburgh and the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications (IMA). Our colleagues have been
globally recognized for their scholarship through the Timoshenko, Dilwyn and Crighton Medals, the
Whitehead, Adams and Barnett prizes, elections to the AMS fellowship and a CBE (see Section 4).

Our accomplishments are directly attributable to (a) strategic investments from the University in new
appointments (see above) as well as a £10 million investment in a bespoke building (Section 3), (b)
our sustained investment in PhD students and fellowships and (c) our leadership of collaborative
interdisciplinary networks.

                              13/14     14/15    15/16    16/17    17/18     18/19    19/20
          FTE (R&T)             41       42      46.5      49.6     53.6     55.93    59.93
          Awards in £1M        1.23     1.13      1.8      1.93     3.55     3.13      4.26
          PGR students          48       60       63        60       61       62        74

               Table 1. Growth in FTE, proportioned award value and PGR numbers

REF2014 strategic aims
Our strategy presented in REF2014 was to enhance the position of the School as a broad-based,
internationally leading and research-led institute. Specific objectives were:
   a) growing and supporting our staff, and making strategic appointments at all levels;
   b) ensuring that we have a world leading infrastructure and base for growth, while fostering
      interdisciplinarity;
   c) increasing recruitment of research students, and growing our PGT programmes.

We had striking success with all three objectives. We have supported nine of our colleagues in their
promotions to professor, a testament to our developing talent strategy. We have attracted
outstanding external appointments to 3 chairs in Pure and Applied Mathematics and Statistical
Sciences as well as making early and mid-career appointments (5 in applied mathematics, 8 in pure
mathematics and 7 in statistical methodology), a testament to our external reputation. We have
achieved significant grant successes, for example, SofTMech and the new EPSRC Hub for Statistical
Emulation and Translation, a partnership in a programme grant in Algebra and leading environmental
modelling awards (EPSRC WEFWEBs).

Further details
In Statistics we have hired an additional 10 FTE (an increase of 50%) to strengthen our capacity,
in particular in data science, and as a result we are one of the largest UK statistics groups (external
leadership appointment of Illian to the Chair of Statistical Science, 2019, promotions of Lee (2018)
and Miller (2019) to professor and recruitment of 7 ECRs since 2017). Staff have been recognized
internationally with the Frank Hansford-Miller Award (Bowman, 2015), the Abdel El-Shaarawi Young
Researcher’s Award by the International Environmetrics Society (Miller, 2018), the Suffrage Science
Award for Mathematics and Computing (Neocleus, 2019) and the Barnett Award of the RSS (Scott
OBE, 2019).

This strengthening of capacity is part of our strategy to pursue statistical methodology that is
motivated by global challenges and to deliver high-impact solutions through forging links within the
Unit (e.g. Mathematical and Statistical Ecology, Mathematical Sciences in Healthcare) and across
disciplines. Our methodological focus includes spatiotemporal models, point processes, and
functional data analysis. Our new appointments in data analytics and data science bring expertise
in statistical emulation (Swallow), clustering and networks (Anderson, O’Donnell) and extremes and
computationally efficient inference tools (Castro Camilo, Niu). They have also allowed us to grow the
Mathematical and Statistical Ecology theme within the Unit, led by Cobbold and our new


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
appointment Illian, which is further supported by 3 new appointments (Torney (2016), Swallow (2019,
Niu (2019)). Supporting this theme will improve cross-unit research and stimulate new impactful
research (see Section 1.2 below).

In Applied Mathematics our strategy has been to build extensively on our expertise in Continuum
Mechanics, embedding our research on blood circulation and soft biological tissue modelling into the
world-leading interdisciplinary 2016 EPSRC Maths-in-Healthcare Centre for Multiscale Soft
Tissue Mechanics (SofTMech) with 14 investigators led by Hill, Luo FRSE and Ogden FRS, a
renowned expert in solid mechanics and a recipient of several major prizes (Timoshenko Medal,
IUTAM/Elsevier Rodney Hill Prize in Solid Mechanics). The Centre includes statisticians (Husmeier,
Niu, MacDonald), clinicians and medical scientists and has strong partnerships across the UK and
with industry. We made key appointments in the areas of solid-mechanics/fluid-dynamics and
Mathematical Biology (Stewart (2013), Penta (2017) and Gao (2019)) which supported the winning
of a major EPSRC Centre-to-Centre partnership grant (2020, £870k) for collaboration with MIT
and the Politecnico di Milano (POLIMI) widening the scope of SofTMech research and its
international impact. The already existing interdisciplinary links with statistics will be significantly
expanded through a £1.5M grant for an associated Hub on Statistical Emulation and Translation
(Husmeier, 2020). Further investments in applied mathematics included the strengthening of the
MHD group (MacTaggart (2015) and Teed (2017)) and the leadership appointment of Mottram
(2020) to further strengthen and diversify our capacity in mathematical modelling with the aim to
develop future links with industry.

In Pure Mathematics our strategy has been to retain internationally recognized areas of excellence,
such as in algebraic facets of symmetry, while developing new research connections with analytic
and geometric structures, as well as re-establishing expertise in number theory. Leadership in Pure
Mathematics has been greatly strengthened by the external appointments of Wemyss (LMS
Whitehead Prize, Adam Prize, Early Career EPSRC fellowship) to the Chair of Mathematics in 2016
and Li (ERC Consolidator Grant) to the Chair in Mathematical Analysis in 2020 as well as internal
professorial promotions. Wemyss is a Co-Investigator of the EPSRC programme grant Enhancing
Representation Theory, Noncommutative Algebra and Geometry Through Moduli, Stability
and Deformations, which is the first ever programme grant with algebra at its heart. This brings new
coverage of algebraic geometry and connects it to research themes in geometric representation
theory (Bellamy, promotion to chair 2019), low-dimensional topology and group theory (Brendle,
promotion to chair 2016) as well as developing new ties in arithmetic geometry with recent
appointments in number theory (EPSRC Early Career Fellow Bartel 2017, promoted to professor
2019, Sofos 2019).

Since 2014 we have grown our capacity in analysis (specifically operator algebras) to become the
largest in the UK, led first by White (promotion to chair 2016, Humboldt fellowship, now professor at
Oxford) and now by Li (Chair of Analysis 2020, ERC Consolidator Grant). Li, White and Zacharias
made a leading contribution in the international effort of classifying nuclear C*-algebras, while Voigt,
Whittaker provide expertise in noncommutative geometry and dynamics interlocking with other
research themes including geometric group theory (Brendle) and Teichmüller theory (Gadre 2016,
Fortier Bourque 2018) and ring theory (Brown).

To create further interdisciplinary links between algebraic topology, algebra and geometry as well as
mathematical physics and integrable systems, we have made 8 additional appointments (Davison,
Fortier-Bourque, Gadre, Gratz, Lecuona, Stevenson, Valeri, Wand) since 2014.

1.2 The Future
Our aim is to undertake fundamental research needed to address significant societal issues and
scientific challenges. To realise our vision we will continue to invest in people across the
Mathematical Sciences, be proactive and responsive in shaping our research themes, further
stimulate our interdisciplinary research and impact, grow our postgraduate and postdoctoral
communities and shape our estate by developing and extending our building.



                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Aim 1. Strengthening existing and growing new research themes
• Our new Analytics, Inference, Impact and Innovation Initiative (AI3) will support research that
   transforms the practice of Statistics, Data Analytics and Data Science by bringing together
   our research in functional data analysis, spatio-temporal modelling, computational statistics,
   Bayesian inference and network analysis and their applications.
• In Applied Mathematics and Statistics, we will further strengthen the link between Mathematical
   and Statistical Ecology through research on spatial point processes, Bayesian inference and
   artificial intelligence, while enhancing collaborations with the Boyd Orr Centre of Population and
   Ecosystem Health and the Institute for Biodiversity, Animal Health and Comparative Medicine.
• In Applied Mathematics and Statistics we will build on the success of the SofTMech Centre and
   the Hub for Statistical Emulation and Translation, to grow our fundamental research in all aspects
   of soft tissue mechanics, physiological fluid-structure interactions, statistical machine-learning
   and emulation applied to Mathematical Healthcare with the aim to translate our research into
   clinical trials.
• In Applied Mathematics our appointment of Mottram (2020) to a chair in Applied Mathematics
   is part of our succession planning to maintain a leadership role in mathematical modelling and
   fluids in particular. We will capitalise on Mottram’s experience in collaborations with
   multinationals (Merck Chemicals, Hewlett-Packard) and SMEs (Envisics, Kirkstall) to
   substantially increase our knowledge exchange with industry.
• In Pure Mathematics we will expand our expertise in Algebraic Geometry (Wemyss), Geometric
   Group Theory (Brendle) and Number Theory (Bartel, Sofos) connecting growth in these themes
   to our UK-leading strength in algebraic research (Bellamy, Brendle, Brown), fusing a historical
   strength with modern methods to forge connections across pure mathematics.
• We will further develop and strengthen the interdisciplinary links between Integrable Systems
   and Mathematical Physics with pure mathematics including geometry, representation theory
   and algebra.

Across all research themes within the Unit, we will make new staff and leadership appointments
(including a professorial appointment in Statistics and Data Analytics for succession planning). We
will continue our growth in staff with a goal of a further 25% increase and our PhD recruitment with
a goal of a 50% increase, over the next 5 years. We have already secured £1.3M of investment from
the University to accommodate future growth of our Unit.

Aim 2. Supporting interdisciplinary collaborations and delivering Impact
Our conviction that mathematical sciences are key to tackling major multi-disciplinary research
challenges drives our underpinning theme of cross-disciplinary research. We have built networks
with external partners from industry and business, government and non-governmental organisations
and agencies as well as academic networks ensuring our continuing success to deliver impact.
We have won support for cross-disciplinary research and impact from a variety of sources, including
cross-disciplinary PhD studentships (e.g. UofG Lord Kelvin Adam Smith (LKAS) scheme, NERC
DTP Iapetus I and II, STFC and ESRC funding), institutional KE funds and Impact Accelerator
Accounts (EPSRC). The Unit has invested strongly in leadership to develop cross-disciplinary
research and impact: we have appointed a senior member of staff as impact champion, who is also
a full member of the Unit’s management committee, and two Industrial Advisory Boards, which
strengthen existing and facilitate new collaborations with partners to further enhance our impact.

Impact activities: Our 5 impact case studies are based on long-standing collaborative partnerships
with the environment agencies (EA and SEPA), Public Health Scotland, Shell and Vetmetrica (a
veterinary IoT SME). We nurture these partnerships through training workshops for the partners’
staff, student and staff placements, and our staff serving as advisors. We actively pursue
opportunities to work with others and support such activities financially and administratively.
Workshops are often based on our open access software including CARBayes (Lee, 119K
downloads in the REF period), CARBayesST (44K downloads) and GWSDAT (Bowman, Evers),
software developed in collaboration with Shell. Our Unit delivers societal impact through outreach
events (our distinguished lecture series and workshops described in Section 4) and taking the lead

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in national STEM public engagement as well as training workshops for continuing professional
development (CPD).

Future pathways to impact
Through our strategy of developing cross-disciplinary research we have identified a number of future
impact case studies that we will support financially (e.g. hiring Postdoctoral Research
Assistant/Associate (PDRA) support, workshop funds), academically (through recognition in the
Unit’s workload model) and administratively (e.g. gathering evidence of impact). The impact pipeline
is drawn from all themes of our Unit, is supported by an impact champion (Stewart) and includes:
 • The development of similarity-sensitive measures of biodiversity (Cobbold) where a
     recently developed plant biodiversity simulator is being used to investigate the predicted effect
     of landscape decisions for peatland restoration with Peatland ACTION for Scottish Natural
     Heritage. Partners include the Natural History Museum (NHM).
 • Applying machine learning to conservation images (Torney) to assist with the monitoring of
     animal populations. Deep Learning has been applied to automate the counting of wildebeest in
     the Serengeti in collaboration with the Tanzanian Wildlife Research Institute (TAWIRI), Frankfurt
     Zoological Society, and the Friedkin Foundation.
 • Statistical learning and discrimination in Forensic Science (Neocleous) develops models
     and easy-to-use software for evidence evaluation and classification. Partners include the
     Netherlands Forensic Institute, the Swedish Statens Kriminaltekniska Laboratorium and the
     Polish Institute of Forensic Research. This project is currently being supported by the Unit in the
     form of a PDRA to assist with software development.
 • The design of efficient numerical algorithms based on Laguerre diagrams (Roper) is
     currently investigated in collaboration with Heriot-Watt University and a research group of Tata
     Steel Europe. The aim is to generate realistic candidate microstructures for use in the modelling
     of steels and other alloys.

Aim 3. Supporting our staff and growing our postdoctoral and PGR communities
At the heart of our strategy are our investments in our staff, postdoctoral appointments and
postgraduate students.
Staff: We will work towards fulfilling the potential of our staff as international research leaders. We
have developed a mentoring programme by senior academics, we support training (e.g. participation
in the Scottish Crucible and the University Leadership Development Programme), we provide
financial support for conference and workshops, both for attendance and organisation (e.g. the joint
BMC-BAMC 2021) and we fast track promotions of outstanding internal candidates.
Postdoctoral: Through our grant success we have since 2014 increased the number of research
only staff by 167% (currently 18.7 FTE for 2019-20 with 26.5% being female). We will prioritise further
investment in early career researchers through our 3-year Rankin-Sneddon fellowship scheme (4
appointments since 2019) and support our postdoctoral community through mentoring, training
events and workshops as well as the UofG Researcher Development Programme.

PGR recruitment: We will build on our success in PGR recruitment by continuing the Maclaurin
Scholarship Scheme, giving every year, 2-3 outstanding PG students five years of funding together
with teaching experience. In addition, we have a targeted graduate teaching assistant scheme for
existing PhD students who wish to gain teaching experience (usually over a 6-month period). We
are also building on industry collaborations to support our recruitment. We have been active in
pursuing CDT funding applications (successfully reaching the interview stage) and will continue to
be responsive to opportunities given our recent grant success. We will support our PGR community
through provision of general skills training and dedicated national training including SMSTC and
APTS and by encouraging them to present at conferences.

Aim 4. Progress towards an open research environment
We actively prioritise open access research: all publications are made available by posting them on
arxiv.org or on the University’s own repository Enlighten. Data generated in the course of our
research is made openly available through University support or funder repositories (e.g. NERC data

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
centres). Open access software (e.g. CarBayes, RShiny apps) from our research is disseminated
via CRAN or GitHub. Currently more than 98% of our staff have ORCIDs.

    2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy, recruitment and policy

Overview
We motivate and empower all our staff by providing the skills and opportunities to lead future
developments in the mathematical sciences. Our staffing and hiring strategy is driven by our vision
of excellence and strengthening interdisciplinary links in our Unit. It is based on the following
principles:

      •   Recruiting excellent staff, based on research publications and income, expertise in new
          areas, strengthening of interdisciplinary links, as well as the potential to provide future
          leadership.
      •   Growing talent within the Unit by investing in our support mechanisms, e.g. our generous
          travel support for staff or through sabbatical leave.
      •   Increasing diversity by sustaining our track record of appointments that have increased the
          diversity among our staff, growing underrepresented groups in the mathematical sciences.
          For example, currently 29% of our professorial staff are female compared to the UK average
          of 11% according to the latest 2017 Benchmarking Study of the London Mathematical
          Society1.

Since REF2014, the unit has grown from 41 to 59.9 FTE with new appointments across all areas of
our Unit and at both, senior and early career stages (we now have 32% ECR staff from 14% in 2014,
but retain a healthy career profile across all grades (Figure 2)), balancing necessary leadership and
future succession planning.




                                  Figure 2. R&T staff growth by grade




1
 Carried out by Ortus Economic Research Ltd on behalf of the LMS - Table 7:
https://www.lms.ac.uk/sites/lms.ac.uk/files/files/Benchmarking%20Report%20FINAL.pdf


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We target specific research themes of interest (see Section 1.2) but are flexible based on the field
of applicants. Since 2014 we have made appointments that cross research themes: Number Theory
and Arithmetic Geometry (Bartel, Sofos), Mathematical Physics and Algebra (Valeri), MHD
(McTaggart, Teed), soft tissue modelling (Gao, Penta) and Mathematical and Statistical Ecology
(Illian, Kosta, Torney, Swallow). External professorial appointments in Pure Mathematics (Li,
Wemyss), Statistics (Illian), and Applied Mathematics (Mottram) and internal promotions (Bartel,
Bellamy, Brendle, Cobbold, Korff, Lee, Miller, White, Zacharias) have strengthened leadership for
our research themes.

Staff development strategy
At each career stage, we aim to support our staff in their development with emphasis on a collegiate
research culture supplementing the UofG Researcher Development Programme.

Postdoctoral staff. We strongly adhere to the national Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers by implementing a supportive Performance and Development Review
(P&DR) offering help and advice throughout the year, ensuring all research staff are mentored and
by providing tailored and subject specific online resources and training workshops.

Career development for all staff is supported through the P&DR reviewer relationship and informal
mentoring by experienced staff. We encourage collegiality through shared PGR supervision, grant
writing advice from staff with panel experience and by proposing colleagues for membership in
learned societies or funding panels to help with growing esteem. We support staff by providing mock
interviews and making previous grant applications available. The success of these measures is
reflected in a growth of senior grades within our Unit (Figure 2), for example an increase from 17.5%
to 25% of professorial staff since 2014.

Support for Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
All ECRs are assigned a mentor, an experienced colleague who is different from the reviewer
conducting the annual P&DR appraisal. While emphasis in both instances lies on the supportive
nature of these sources for advice, the additional mentorship provides support for day-to-day
problems. This dual system is of great benefit in staff retention and underpins the collegiate
atmosphere of our Unit.

ECRs are also supported through the University’s Early Career Development Programme (28 staff
were or are participating) and a number of bespoke training workshops (e.g. writing EPSRC First
Grant proposals and fellowship applications) and through peer review. We also encourage staff to
attend the Crucible, an interdisciplinary event at local University and Scottish HEI level, where novel
research collaborations are explored, as well as monthly College research mini-symposia. We
prioritise ECRs in PGR allocation and ensure supervisory support by pairing them with experienced
co-supervisors.

New appointments are given a reduced (2/3) teaching load for either 2 or 3 years (depending on
experience) to allow them to develop their research (e.g. grant applications, manuscripts, conference
attendance). This teaching reduction is extended throughout probation.

Supporting the next generation: Rankin-Sneddon fellowships
In order to support and attract new talent, the Unit created in 2017 from its own annual budget, the
3-year Rankin-Sneddon fellowship scheme for recent PhDs. These give the successful applicants a
period to establish an independent research profile. The fellowships allow our Unit to react quickly
to new research developments and foster new collaborative links inside as well as outside the Unit.

Supporting new staff members
Our Unit takes pride in its welcoming and friendly atmosphere, which starts with the interview
process, where applicants are able to mix with colleagues following their presentations. On
appointment, new staff are welcomed to our Unit through meetings with HoS and other senior staff,
as well as informal meetings with their appointed mentor and colleagues. Our weekly seminar series

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and informal reading groups, which are often preceded and/or succeeded by social activities
encourage staff integration. Our new building with its dedicated meeting areas for staff and PGR
students plays an essential supporting role in these activities, as does our practice of teaching in
teams.

Motivating, empowering and supporting staff
Our Unit operates a workload model monitored annually and adjusted quarterly to provide an open
and transparent system to balance research, teaching and administration. Every effort is made to
combine teaching and administrative duties in a single semester to enable staff to devote a
significant period of the year to research. In addition, the Unit has a generous sabbatical policy for
all staff: periods of study leave vary between 6 months and 1 year, with applications submitted
annually to the Unit’s Research Director. The Unit has approx. 10% FTE on study leave in any given
year. The Unit provides annual funding in excess of £250K to support staff and PGR students
(excluding research equipment) in 3 streams of activity (Table 2). These are in addition to the funds
used to support specific PGR training including APTS, SMSTC and attendance at BMC/BAMC. Each
staff member and PGR student is eligible to apply for these funds. Additional year-end funds are
often available to support additional IT (equipment) updates (as happened in 15/16 and 18/19).

    Expenditure    13/14    14/15      15/16      16/17     17/18      18/19      19/20 Average
    Annual          265K      272K      264K       292K      299K       299K       314K    286K
    Budget (£)
    Seminars        12%        12%       11%         9%         8%       11%        10%         10%
    Staff Travel    22%        22%       29%        21%        24%       23%        13%         22%
    PGR Travel       8%        14%       16%        13%        14%       15%         9%         13%
    IT              42%        42%       60%        38%        21%       57%        39%         43%

                                   Table 2. Research expenditure

The Unit further supports staff through both University Leadership and national training programmes,
e.g. Aspiring Leaders, Academic Leadership, Senior Research Leaders (6 participants) and the
LFHE Aurora Leadership Programme (2 participants), which has resulted in promotion success.

Facilitating excellence
The Unit has a research director who chairs the Unit’s research committee, and oversees a system
for encouraging high quality outputs, grant applications and impact to support the academic
development of all staff. This is based on three teams of three senior staff, one from each subject
area. The role of these teams is to actively support staff, for example, through informal one-on-one
meetings, highlighting and encouraging grant applications as opportunities arise and bringing
individuals together for interdisciplinary collaborations. These arrangements have contributed to an
increase in our research income (see Table 1 and Section 3).

2.2 PGR Training and supervision support
Since REF2014 we have grown from 44 to 71 doctoral degree students (24 students recruited for
2019-20) with an average 42% being female (Table 4), well above the 26% of the latest 2017 UK
National Benchmarking Study2. According to a 2019 survey of postgraduate students (PRES20193)
we score particularly high in student satisfaction in the categories of Supervision (95% compared to
the RG average of 88%) and Resources (95% compared to the RG average of 86%) with an overall
satisfaction rate of 91% compared to the RG average of 85%. This is reflected in the timely
completion of PhD projects within the normal 4-year period between start and award (see Table 3).



2
  “2017 National Benchmarking Study” prepared by Ortus Economic Research Ltd for the London
Mathematical Society; Figure 6:
https://www.lms.ac.uk/sites/lms.ac.uk/files/files/Benchmarking%20Report%20FINAL.pdf
3
  https://www.advance-he.ac.uk/knowledge-hub/postgraduate-research-experience-survey-2019
                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                               13/14    14/15     15/16    16/17    17/18     18/19    19/20
          PhD new starts         14       23       14        18       22         17        24
          PhDs awarded            9       11       13        13       13         20        14

                            Table 3. PhD students starts and degrees awarded.

The Unit’s new building has transformed our students’ interactions, intellectually (through facilitating
interactions between the different areas of the mathematical sciences) and socially by bringing them
closer together via dedicated PhD student space. This is evidenced by the survey results: 100% of
our students are highly satisfied with the provision of suitable workspace, computing resources and
facilities provided by our Unit. During the lockdown and the ongoing COVID19 restrictions we have
supported students through IT equipment (e.g. to borrow laptops and workstations for home use).

Funding mechanisms and initiatives for PhD students
Our Unit received in the REF period on average 3 EPSRC DTA funded places and at least one
College of Science Engineering Scholarship per annum. We also nominate our best undergraduate
students for Carnegie Scholarships and have a record of success: typically, we have at least one
such student per year. Other funding sources include the China Scholarship Council, Biometrika,
SENSORS, SAAS, Shell, Glaxo-Smith Kline, Royal Bank of Scotland, Toshiba Medical Visualization
Systems, McDonnell Foundation as well as self-funded students on scholarships from overseas
institutions (2-3 per year). The College also co-sponsors industrial studentships and currently two
students are on this scheme.

From our own funds, we have supported a new scheme, the Maclaurin scholarships enabling
students to fund their PhD through teaching. We recruit 2-3 such students per year. Students on
these scholarships have an additional year because of teaching duties and are carefully supported
in both their teaching and research activities.

We have sought to grow our PhD cohorts through applying for CDTs and have soft launched the
Algebra PhD (GlaMS) programme (with Edinburgh and Heriot Watt Universities). We will continue to
respond to opportunities as they arise. The Unit is a full partner in the NERC IAPETUS Doctoral
Training Programme.

Diversity of our PhD student cohort
To support our recruitment of overseas students and to increase diversity, we have introduced a 1+3
PhD scheme, where students are recruited to a taught Masters programme before they progress to
3 years of PG research. This is made possible (and attractive) by our substantive taught Masters
programmes offering a wide choice of specialism.

                        13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 19/20 Average
           Total          48      60       63      60      61      62       74        61
           UK            48%     47%     40%      40%     34%      35%      30%       39%
           Europe        10%     22%     24%      25%     34%      31%      28%       25%
           Overseas      42%     32%     37%      35%     31%      34%      42%       36%
           Male          58%     58%     59%      53%     56%      55%      64%       57%
           Female        40%     40%     41%      47%     44%      45%      36%       42%
           Unknown        2%      2%      0%       0%      0%       0%       0%        1%

                            Table 4. Diversity of our PGR student cohort



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



As part of our strategy to increase student diversity we have engaged with the African Institute for
Mathematical Sciences (AIMS), a pan-African network of centres of excellence: we are one of the
first Units at a UK HEI holding a Memorandum of Understanding enabling a staff exchange between
Glasgow and AIMS centres. Several of our staff members (Athorne, Chanialidis, Cobbold, Krähmer,
Low) have taught advanced courses in Africa and our two EPSRC GCRF awards also support our
engagement more generally in Africa and India. The MoU and awards have allowed us to support
and recruit PhD students funded by the Schlumberger Foundation as well as remote supervision of
PhD students in Africa to grow PhD capacity. In addition, 2 students are currently supported through
the Graduate Assistantships in Developing Countries initiative (Makerere University, Uganda).

The proportion of female students registered for our postgraduate research degrees is on average
42%, twice the 2017 National Benchmark2 of 26%. We believe this is a direct result of our Unit’s
diversity activities (detailed below) and our above UK average of 29% female professors serving as
role models.

Recruitment, support and training mechanisms for PhD students
We have a PGR Team of 3 staff members, and it is Unit policy to appoint at least one female member
to the PGR Team to support gender diversity within our PGR cohort. Together they oversee the
recruitment process and manage support mechanisms and training provision. The head of the PGR
Team is a member of the Unit’s Research and School Management Committees. The team assesses
the suitability of applicants, organises applicant visits and supports joint supervision and
collaboration. Offers are discussed in a committee of senior academics to balance supervision load,
monitor equality and diversity and widening participation. When assigning doctoral scholarships, we
prioritise ECRs and pair them with experienced supervisors to support their development of
supervisor skills. Induction is delivered through a dedicated member of our School Office who
remains the main contact for administrative matters and the PGR Team who look after academic
issues and monitor progress. We hold regular town-hall style meetings with the students to discuss
any concerns and the PGR community elects 2 representatives who relay any concerns to the PGR
Team.

To support the academic and skill development of our students we provide substantial funding for all
1st year students to attend postgraduate level courses such as the Academy for PhD training in
Statistics (APTS) and the Scottish Mathematical Sciences Training Centre (SMSTC) broadening the
mathematical sciences background of graduate students across Scotland and supporting our
widening participation strategy. Our staff is actively engaged in SMSTC course development and
delivery as well as providing stream leaders of subject areas (Cobbold, Gratz).

Our Unit offers financial support to PhD students to attend summer schools, workshops and
conferences (Table 2) allowing them to build up their own personal networks, acquire new skills and
disseminate their work. Examples include the Research Student Conference in Statistics, LMS
workshops and the British Mathematics/British Applied Mathematics Colloquium. Applications for
international travel scholarships are supported, and typically 1-2 students per year spend a period
of study overseas. Every year we also welcome a small number of overseas students for short visits
(1-2 per year).

Monitoring, progression and support
There is a robust annual review process for progression and development: each student gives an
oral presentation, and submits a written report followed by a mini-viva with two members of staff not
involved in their supervision. This process is used to identify and offer support to students who might
be struggling as well as providing a forward looking discussion and development opportunities for
those making good progress. This has ensured the timely completion of PhD theses, see Table 3.

Success Highlights
Evidence for the effectiveness of our support mechanisms is the success of our students, for

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
example SofTMech PhD students Mason (supervised by Ogden, 2019) and Paun (supervised by
Husmeier, 2020) were awarded the Gold Medal at the prestigious STEM for Britain event held in UK
Parliament. Currie (CASE and Industry PhD student) won best poster prize (supervised by Scott
and Miller) at the 2019 RSS Conference, and Paun (supervised by Husmeier) won the Best Student
Paper award at ICSTA 2019.

One inspiring story is the science engagement of Dr Angela Tabiri (supervisors Brown and Krähmer)
funded by the Schlumberger foundation and identified through our engagement with AIMS. Angela
represented our School at the international Science Slam in Prague. Her presentation on
"Noncommutativity in the world and in mathematics" subsequently gained big audiences on social
media and she went on to build on this success when organising the first ever Science Slam Ghana
under the auspices of Femafricmaths, a non-governmental organisation in Ghana involved in the
promotion of science and women in mathematics, where Angela takes a lead role (she is now an
AIMS-Google fellow).

2.3 Equality & Diversity
Two of our priorities are to ensure that we not only offer support for all our staff taking into account
different personal circumstances through a number of policies (study leave, flexible working
arrangements etc. described below) but also that we promote the inclusion of all underrepresented
groups in the mathematical sciences. We currently have 27% female research only staff (2017 UK
National Benchmarking Study: 21%2), 29% female professorial staff (2017 UK National
Benchmarking Study: 11%2) and our unit management committee is 50:50. Over the REF period we
have also increased the diversity with respect to nationality among our staff (see Figure 3).




                         Figure 3. Nationality groupings of our R&T staff
Promotion of diversity
The School has a long-standing culture and tradition of tackling the lack of diversity. We have already
detailed our involvement with AIMS and in EPSRC GCRF awards to address diversity in ethnicity
(currently 17.5% of our staff are BAME and 76.2% White). Our Unit has also made leading
contributions to equality practices whose efficacy has been recognised nationally and
internationally.

Owens’ "Too Long Long-List" approach to achieve diversity at conferences while serving as lead
organiser for the British Topology Meeting at the University of Glasgow in 2016 has informed our
seminar speaker selection process with the aim of increasing the percentage of underrepresented
groups. The effectiveness of this approach is evidenced by a progressive increase from 12.5% to
23.5% of female speakers in our research seminars. This policy success was brought to the attention
of the London Mathematical Society, which adopted it in their document "Advice on Diversity at
Conferences and Seminars" in 2018. Since then the LMS has been approached by the Mathematical
Societies of New Zealand and of Brazil who expressed a wish of adopting it as well.

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Women are represented at the top managerial and subject specific level of our unit: our Heads
of Subjects in Mathematics (Brendle) and Statistics (Miller) are female professors as is our School’s
Research Director Scott. The REF submission was jointly delivered by two senior staff (one female)
while the output selection team (comprising 8 staff) included 3 women.

Several of our staff members have been recognized in their roles to raise awareness to
equality and diversity issues. Lecuona is EMS representative on the LMS Women in Mathematics
Committee. Gratz was a workshop leader for the second WINART (Women in Noncommutative
Algebra and Representation Theory) meeting in 2019. This entails leading a research group of five
female early career researchers in a joint research collaboration. Neocleous won a Suffrage Science
Award in 2018 and Brendle has been recognized for both her contributions to topology and geometry
as well as for her “service to the profession aimed at the full participation of women in mathematics”
through election as Fellow of the American Mathematical Society in 2019.

Equality and diversity policies
In order to consolidate our success in recruiting a higher than average percentage of female staff
and PhD students the School has formed a Self-Assessment-Team (SAT) in 2016 preparing for an
Athena Swan Bronze Award, chaired by the Head of School. Some main points on the SAT agenda
have been to look at simplifying the application procedure for positions across all subject categories
within our Unit and, particularly, increasing the number of female staff shortlisted for academic
positions. Our staff have undergone training regarding equality and diversity (92%) which informs
staff roles in their day-to-day teaching and supervision roles as well as membership on interview
panels and committees.

The SAT has also taken concrete steps in improving the experience of and facilitating support for
staff taking career breaks due to personal circumstances by issuing unit specific and detailed
guidance documents for flexible working arrangements and managing career breaks. Our new
Parental Leave Guidance highlights Keeping-in-Touch (KIT) days (and SPLIT days for Shared
Parental Leavers) to help staff keep up with any developments, attend training days and other
events. Returners from maternity/paternity/adoption/shared parental leave can apply to a College
Academic Returners Research Support Scheme for funding (up to £10k), to support resumption
of their research on return. Funding can be used to buy-out teaching time, provide administrative or
research assistance, fund pilot work for a grant application or travel to conferences etc. 3 staff have
benefitted from these schemes over the REF period.

Our Unit has an Engagement Lead (Brendle) whose role is to facilitate constructive dialogue
between School members with university and school management and we have developed a staff
survey (2019) to identify areas where changes can be made. A concrete outcome has been a
change in our IT policy: we now provide laptops as well as desktops to staff with caring
responsibilities to facilitate flexible working hours.

The Unit has a dedicated Disability Coordinator (Jackson) who monitors that the needs of disabled
students and staff are met and who liaises with the University’s disability services if support cannot
be provided at Unit level. Several awareness workshops have been organised in our Unit highlighting
issues and needs of students with mental health issues and disabilities. Key figures in our support,
administrative and academic staff have been trained in mental health first aid. We are currently in
the process of widening participation to other staff in key teaching and support roles.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Current research income & supporting strategies
Since REF2014, the university has made significant investments in the Unit via a new building, more
than 20 new staff (4 in senior leadership positions), as well as promotion of staff (6 to professor
within the REF period) and increased funding for PhD studentships. As a result, our research awards
have effectively tripled across the Unit and staff career stages, rising from £1.2M in 2014 to a

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
sustained level of more than £4.3M in 2019/20 (Table 5) with a grand total over the REF period
exceeding £17M. Our research income has almost doubled from £885K in 13/14 to £1.6M in 19/20,
with total income of £9.3M. This is remarkable given the 32% of ECRs within the Unit. Our research
funding comes from a wide variety of sources reflecting our breadth of research in the Mathematical
Sciences, interdisciplinarity and also our outstanding and diverse collaborative links (see Section 4).
Funders include EPSRC, EU, MRC, NERC, BBSRC, ESRC, Royal Society of Edinburgh, the Nuffield
and McDonnell Foundations, the Wellcome, Biometrika, Carnegie and Leverhulme Trusts, in
addition to industrial funding (such as Glaxo Smith Kline and Devro (Scotland)) and University and
College research support funds for PhD studentships, impact and knowledge exchange grants. We
have been successful in gaining a wide variety of smaller grants (including from RSE, RS, LMS),
which are invaluable in supporting staff visits, visitors and conferences and from agencies (SEPA,
PHS) to run training courses for their staff. A breakdown is shown in Table 5 below.


         Sum of Proportioned Award Value              13/14          19/20     Grand
                                                                                Total
         BIS Research Councils                      £876,631      £3,132,361 £12,557,788
         EU Charities and Other Sources             £11,563            -       £84,699
         EU Government Bodies                       £77,000        £979,260  £2,267,955
         Industry (all sources)                     £24,750            -      £376,483
         Overseas                                    £3,016         £27,261   £320,581
         UK Charities                               £239,522        £70,699  £1,271,275
         UK Government                               -£836          £50,941   £125,890
         UK Other Sources                               -           £1,100     £30,010
         Grand Total                               £1,231,646     £4,261,622 £17,034,681

                                     Table 5. Research awards

Our staff actively pursue prestigious fellowships and major awards. Across the Unit, 13 competitive
fellowship awards have been won (Table 6).

 Fellowship Funder/Scheme            Staff member      Dates         Current Position
 Leverhulme Fellowship               Hill              2020-2022     Professor
 RSE Fellowship                      Husmeier          2019          Professor
 ESPRC Advanced Fellowship           Luo               2019-2024     Professor
 Feodor Lynen Fellowship             Bönicke           2019-2021     Rankin-Sneddon Fellow
 Royal Society URF                   Davison           2018-2023     Professor (Edinburgh)
 Leverhulme Fellowship               Cobbold           2018-2020     Professor
 EPSRC Postdoctoral Fellowship       Raedschelders     2018-2021     Research Fellow (Belgium)
 EPSRC Early Career Fellowship       Bartel            2017-2022     Professor
 Biometrika Fellowship               Macdonald         2016-2018     Lecturer
 Humboldt Fellowship                 White             2015-2018     Professor (Oxford)
 Leverhulme Emeritus Fellowship      Brown             2018-2021     Professor
 Leverhulme Fellowship               Luo               2015-2017     Professor
 EPSRC Early Career Fellowship       Wemyss            2013-2021     Professor

                                        Table 6. Fellowships

In Applied Mathematics and Statistics, the Unit has been consistently successful in winning
significant research funding in “Mathematical sciences applied to healthcare technology” and is now
a leading UK and global centre for soft tissue modelling. These awards include SofTMech, an
EPSRC investment in soft tissue modelling led by Hill, Luo and Odgen and supplemented by the

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
award creating the Centre for Multiscale soft tissue mechanics with MIT and POLIMI led by Hill and
the recently awarded Hub for Statistical Emulation (Husmeier) which will translate our research into
clinically applicable tools (more than £5M awarded). These major awards have also been
instrumental in leveraging significant additional research funds from industrial partners and charities
including Glaxo Smith Kline, Devro (Scotland), and the BHF.

In Pure Mathematics, the unit has seen considerable success with the £3.3m EPSRC Programme
Grant in Algebra in 2019 (Wemyss CoI, joint with Edinburgh and Sheffield), an ERC consolidator
award of €1.3M in 2020 (Li) and an ERC starting grant of €1.2M in 2018 (Davison, now professor at
Edinburgh University), further evidencing the standing of our Unit as a major UK and international
research centre across subject areas.

In Statistics and Data science, with a focus on Environmental Statistics, our Unit led the
quantitative modelling programme (Miller, Scott and O’Donnell) in GloboLakes, a NERC £5M
consortium project and Hydroscape, a NERC £3.7M project (Miller and Scott). Scott led the £1.4M
EPSRC funded WEFWEBs (modelling the water energy food nexus) consortium project with 7
academic partners and the EPSRC network plus SECURE, which built a network of statisticians,
modellers and environmental scientists from more than 15 partner organisations. In Environmental
Epidemiology, Lee has won awards from both EPSRC and MRC researching long-term health effects
of air pollution and developing Bayesian spatio-temporal models for cluster detection, in disease risk.

We have seen success in awards including the EPSRC centre “Exploiting closed loop aspects in
computationally and data intensive analytics” and “Computational inference for systems biology”
(Husmeier EPSRC). The Unit also plays substantial roles in major cross-disciplinary research
investments. These include the Quantum Technology Hub in Quantum Enhanced Imaging, one of
four quantum technology hubs that are part of the UK Government’s £270m National Quantum
Technology Programme (Bowman and Evers). The unit was a founding member of the £7M Urban
Big Data Centre (Scott, Dean and Bowman), one of 4 ESRC investments in data centres and in the
ESRC Applied Quantitative Methods Network (AQMEN) (Dean, Lee, Bowman).

Distinguishing features of our research strategy are our procedures and support mechanisms to
stimulate exchanges with industry, public and third sector bodies. A large number of our awards
include strong partnerships across environmental, and health sectors as examples. We have made
a number of honorary appointments (see Section 4 for further details) and also frequently deliver
training courses and workshops with external attendees.

3.2 Support Mechanisms
We have a research support system that operates both at a local unit level underpinned by university
wide support.

Unit level. Research is facilitated by the Research Committee, chaired by a senior professor (Scott),
which coordinates and publicises funding initiatives, liaises with College/University wide support and
provides discipline specific guidance and peer review. For applications to funding schemes that
include an interview, our Unit provides full mock interview panels. The Head of School
Administration offers advice and support to staff in preparing their financial applications.

College & University Level. A variety of support mechanisms are provided across the University
and College and through bespoke funding schemes. The College Research Support Office provides
local support to Principal Investigators from the proposal stage through to final reporting, ensuring
high-quality submissions and effective management of awards. Two dedicated members of staff
from the College Support Team are based part time within the School to assist in the application for
and administration of grants. The College Research and Business Development Managers help
research staff identify funding opportunities, develop proposals and support external engagement
with a view to creating impact. Our staff has also benefited from several College and University wide
funding schemes that support PhD, PDRA and staff mobility, and from a number of University
initiatives including the Lord Kelvin Adam Smith (LKAS) scheme which aims to attract and retain

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
outstanding researchers (LKAS fellows). The School hosted one such fellow (Kosta). The LKAS
PhD studentship scheme supports interdisciplinary research and the unit has had a number of
successes in these competitions. We have won 5 such studentships over 7 years (20% of those
awarded to the College of Science and Engineering). Staff within our Unit have benefitted from the
EPSRC Impact Acceleration IAA funds (Miller, Scott, Bowman, Luo and Neocleous), the Glasgow
Knowledge Exchange Fund (GKE) (Scott, Bowman, Luo) and the Glasgow GCRF Small Grants Fund
(Miller and Scott, Ray, Bowman) to further our impactful research.

3.3 Infrastructure & Facilities
One significant change since REF2014 has been the £10M University investment in a new bespoke
building (completed in 2017). Our building was planned and designed with the direct input of the
Unit’s academic and support staff, resulting in a building with a highly flexible layout to facilitate
scientific meetings and collaborative exchange, a dedicated staff space for informal discussions and
research seminars, generous office space for international visitors and a dedicated floor for our
research students. The building has been a key asset in recruiting new staff members and PhD
students. The building has also been instrumental in supporting and enhancing our vibrant and
diverse research culture ensuring that we can bring together teams of individuals to work on
collaborative research in both formal and informal settings. This investment is part of a major estate
and infrastructure campus development plan and we are now centrally located close to the Advanced
Research Centre opening in 2022 and representing a £113M investment which will host 600
academics, PDRAs and PGRs to stimulate interdisciplinary research.

At the same time, the Unit has heavily invested in its computing infrastructure to ensure that staff
have resources needed in computationally challenging research areas. The new building has full
802.11 ac Wi-Fi network coverage and connects to the campus network via 2 x 10Gb
connections. We have dedicated research computing facilities, comprising 33 high-specification
servers offering 1000+ processing cores and combined 1.2Tb of RAM, and a Compute Grid, which
offers 290 processing cores and 0.5Tb of RAM. The Unit has 4 IT support staff in total, managing
the research computing environment and a dedicated IT budget of approx. £100K p.a. (see Table
2). We have invested in dedicated local IT support (4FTE) to manage and develop our research
computing cluster and associated software.

Our library provision is of outstandingly high quality, enhanced by the many exchange agreements
with the Glasgow Mathematical Journal. Library spending in the mathematical sciences is in excess
of £126k per annum.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The Unit’s breadth and depth in Mathematical sciences ensures that we are well placed to support
and grow current interdisciplinary applications but also expand into new areas. Key to this vision are
our national and international networks which overlap with and extend our more formal collaborative
partnerships. Our Unit encourages, supports and strengthens new and existing collaborations
through infrastructure (new building) and financial support (annual funds for inviting visitors and
collaborators, conference travel), and ultimately research culture. We have appointed key
collaborators to honorary or senior honorary research fellows or honorary professorships, thus
ensuring that our staff and students are engaged with leaders in industry and government supporting
our KE and inter-disciplinarity strategies. Many of our staff serve on external committees or working
groups (e.g. the Scottish Government working group on creation of a low emission zone in Glasgow,
Maths Counts, COMEAP (UK advisory Committee medical effects of air pollution), the Joint Nature
Conservation Committee (UK advisory committee) and EU Science Committee (SCHEER)) as well
as membership of learned societies). Staff and students have successfully participated for instance
in the parliamentary event STEM for Britain, winning a number of awards.

4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
The Unit has a strong network of partnerships and collaborations (see examples in box below). Our
networks are key in supporting major cross-disciplinary research projects and delivering impact (our


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
impact case studies include partners such as Shell, SEPA, PHS, EA, Newmetrica). These research
connections have been developed through staff leading and participating in outreach and KE events
and workshops, as well as advisory committee membership. Our unit has strategically driven the
formation of academic and non-academic partnerships by supporting financially (Table 2) and in
kind, a diverse range of activities including hosting visitors, supporting our staff to participate and
organise research workshops, by co-funding PhD students and encouraging staff to co-author
papers and reports. Academic collaborations and partnerships are fundamental for the delivery of
our major grants, and in supporting our thriving research culture. We also are key partners in the
delivery of collaborative PGR training (SMSTC, APTS see Section 2). We describe some highlights
below.

SofTMech: supporting all aspects of SofTMech activities is a network of more than 18 international
academic partners (led by Hill, Luo, Odgen). This is also supported by the SoftMech Centre to
Centre success partnering with POLIMI and MIT. As part of the network there are frequent meetings
with clinicians as well as representatives of health boards and drug companies to inform new
treatment development and clinical trials.
EPSRC Programme Grant in Algebra and Geometry: the programme grant “Enhancing
Representation Theory, Noncommutative Algebra And Geometry Through Moduli, Stability And
Deformations” (CoI Wemyss) forms a partnership with 12 other universities and research institutes
from Canada, France, Japan, the UK and the US supporting exchange visits and joint training of
postdocs and PGR students.
WEFWEBs: led by the Unit (Scott), this was an EPSRC mathematical sciences led multi-disciplinary
project modelling the water-energy-food nexus involving 7 other UK institutions. Policy briefs
developed as part of WEFWEbs highlighted the importance of data in managing water-energy-food
systems,
Globolakes: this NERC funded highlight grant has 5 academic partners and a non-academic
partnership group. Research led by the Globolakes consortium has resulted in a Nature Climate
change publication showing the impacts of climate change on global lake quality (based on novel
statistical clustering methods developed by O’Donnell, Miller and Scott).
Hydroscape: this NERC consortium award includes 5 national partners,including the Natural History
Museum, and British Trust for Ornithology. Miller and Scott with PDRA Wilkie have developed
statistical models linking national biodiversity records to environmental quality to support
conservation management decisions

Our Unit has also been a partner in EU International Training Networks and COST programme bids,
e.g. the STARS ITN (focused on statistical and data sciences) bid included NTU, Norway, University
of Vienna, University of Bologna. The successful Aquasense ITN led by UofG Engineering, in which
we are a partner, includes 10 EU institutions in Poland, Sweden, Austria, Serbia and Italy as well as
Exeter and Edinburgh Universities.

The Glasgow Mathematical Journal Trust (GMJT), through its funding schemes, invests in and
facilitates many mathematical activities throughout Scotland from school level through to research
level mathematics via some of the networks below dispensing approx. £45K per year.

We have been founders and members of a number of networks including Algebra and
Representation Theory in the North (ARTIN), an LMS and GMJT funded network, Centre for
Mathematics Applied to the Life Sciences (CMALS), Classical and Quantum Integrability (CQIS) a
mathematical physics network supported by LMS Scheme 3 grants, GLEN, a LMS funded seminar
network in algebraic geometry, The Scottish Topology Seminar funded by the GMJT, the Scottish
Operator Algebra Research (SOAR) seminar funded by the EMS and GMJT, Statistical Methods for
Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences based in North America (STATMOS) and EPSRC funded
network for Statistical Research in Environmental Sciences (SECURE). The activities of these
networks range from organising research seminars, hosting and supporting visits, supporting pilot
projects and running workshops. These networks and associated events ensure that the Unit’s staff
are well connected and aware of new research opportunities.



                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.2 Research End Users, building bridges
We are acutely aware of the wider role mathematical sciences have to play in creating new
technologies, contributing to the solution of environmental problems, health issues and other societal
challenges. Our underpinning theme of cross-disciplinary research driving impact, has meant that
we have invested effort in building a network of partners from industry and business, in government
and non-governmental organisations and agencies. These partners have been instrumental as
impact partners but also in developing our research and teaching agenda and in supporting bids for
research funds.

Stimulating exchanges with industry, public and third sector bodies
To further advance our knowledge exchange and impact agenda, our Unit has appointed two
industrial advisory boards since REF2014. These boards meet face-to-face annually but liaise more
frequently via email and teleconferencing providing strategic input to research directions and new
developments (members include representatives from the banking, pharmaceutical, official statistics
sectors as well as industry). We have in addition appointed a number of honorary research fellows
who are based in key partner organisations including Gemmell (former CEO Scottish Environment
Protection Agency), Smith (Centre for Ecology and Hydrology), Heald (National Health Service),
Trovato (Lloyds), Tough (RES industry). The boards and honorary appointments facilitate the
development of impact pipelines. We have made our first inward secondment of Maier from
Biomathematics and Informatics, Scotland (BioSS) and we have CASE PhD students with SEPA,
Shell and Canon Imaging. Staff are also encouraged to take on external and honorary appointments
(e.g. Lee with Committee on Medical Effects of Air Pollution (COMEAP) and Public Health Scotland,
Scott with Joint Nature Conservation Committee).

Our major research grants (see Section 3) have included non-academic project partners. For
illustration, SofTMech partners include the Golden Jubilee national Hospital, the M. D. Anderson
Cancer Centre, the Ninewells Hospital and Medical School, the Greater Glasgow and Clyde Health
Board, the Glasgow Clinical Research Facility, Ansys Inc, Clyde Biosciences Ltd, Dassault Systems
Simulia Corp, Fios Genomics, LGC Ltd, Siemens Medviso AB, Mosaiques Diagnostics AG and
Glaxo Smith Kline. Our air pollution and health research partners include Health Protection Scotland,
NHS ISD, the Scottish government, Transport Scotland and Glasgow City Council. Our Unit’s
environmental and ecological research has benefitted from engagement with the environment
agencies of Scotland and England, the Centre for Ecology and Hydrology and Plymouth marine Lab
as examples. Recent CDT bids included more than 40 industrial and agency partners promising in-
kind and financial support. Our Unit has benefitted from co-sponsorship of PhD students, CASE
studentships, equipment and the provision of data.

We have delivered training workshops with and for our partners supported by training grants from
NERC, LMS and others. For illustration, the EPSRC-SECURE network ran a series of workshops
and training events open to partners and members and generated 15 collaborative pilot projects.
SofTMech hosts regular industry workshops, and meetings with stakeholders including clinicians
and patients. We regularly organize workshops and training courses for external organisations,
linked to our open source software, for example, bespoke training courses funded by NERC and
SAGES (Scottish Alliance for Geography and Earth Sciences) for the environmental sciences
communities and for external organisations including SEPA, PHS and Dounreay.

4.3 Impact and outreach activities
Other major activities in our unit include outreach events for the wider public and pupils to promote
the importance of STEM subjects and the important role mathematics has to play. These activities
are coordinated by the Unit’s Outreach Committee involving a cross section of senior academics,
ECRs and PhD students.

In particular, our Unit is heavily involved in raising the wider public’s awareness of mathematics
through Brendle as member of Making Maths Count, a Scottish government profile-raising group,
where she serves as part of the steering group for Maths Week Scotland. As part of Maths Week
Scotland, which began in 2017, we have annually hosted a public lecture (2017: a statistics lecture
by Heather Reid, 2018: a public EMS lecture by Mark Chaplain, 2019 and 2020: LMS Popular

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Lectures by Holly Krieger and Diana Davis respectively). The “Maths Inside” photography
competition (Wilson) is now in its 3rd year with over 500 entries in 2020 (commended by the Deputy
First Minister of the Scottish Government).

A former staff member, Liberty Vittert (now Harvard University), developed outreach at national level
through regular invited appearances on radio and television in Scotland achieving particular
prominence with a TEDx talk to 2000 people in Glasgow. Her work raised the profile of statistical
literacy in a variety of different fora, leading to her appointment to the BBC Expert Women Panel in
2018.

We run a series of Royal Institute Master classes (S3 pupils), University Taster Sessions (S5-6
pupils) as well as Open Days and our staff also participate regularly in the Glasgow Science Festival.
Our Unit also runs the Ambassador Programme allowing some final year students to complete their
BSc project in a local school working alongside teachers. This programme is hugely popular with
both our students and the local schools, and has helped to root our Unit in the local community while
inspiring the next generation of mathematical science students. Several of the participating schools
are in deprived areas of Glasgow and this programme is supporting our widening participation
ambitions. Table 7 gives an overview of our many activities.

Event                                 Date      Target Audience                         Funding
Multiple SofTMech Training,           2017-20   Clinicians, Industry, Patients, …       ESPRC
Outreach and Engagement Events
European Researchers Night            2017      General public                          EU
London Mathematical Society           2019      General public                          LMS
Popular Lecture for Maths Week
Scotland
LMS Undergraduate Summer              2018      Mathematics UG students                 LMS
School
LMS Popular and Edinburgh             2018-19   General public                          LMS/EMS
Mathematical Society Public Lecture
for Maths Week Scotland
CISM (International Centre for        2018      Postgraduate students
Mechanical Sciences) Summer
School: "Advanced topics in MHD"
Spatial health modelling training for 2017      Clinicians and epidemiologists          School
analysts in NHS Scotland
NERC funded postgraduate training 2014-16       Environmental science PhD               NERC
course in Environmental Statistics              students
Exhibitions at Glasgow Science        2015-16   General public                          RSS and
Festival                                                                                school
Anglo-Franco-German                   2015      Academics                               EPSRC
Representation Theory Network
Summer School
Bowman Lecture                        2019-     Public and academic community           Endowment
Mitchell Lecture                      2014-     Public and academic community           Endowment
Distinguished Lecture Series          ongoing   Wider community                         School funds
Royal Institution Masterclasses       ongoing   S3 pupils                               School funds
University Taster Days                ongoing   S5/6 pupils                             School funds
Ambassador in Mathematics             ongoing   Schoolchildren and teachers             School funds
Scheme

                     Table 7. Examples of Training, Outreach & Impact Events




                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Unit has invested to create several distinguished lecture series representing the research areas
within the school.

We host the Mitchell and Bowman Lectures in Statistics (from School endowments) as well as
School funded Rankin/Sneddon distinguished Lectures covering Pure and Applied
Mathematics. The Mitchell series was endowed in the 1930s, but the Bowman endowment was
made only in 2018, while the Rankin and Sneddon series began in 2014. Our speakers under all
schemes since 2017 have included Muffy Calder (Glasgow), Michael Wemyss (Glasgow), Vaughan
Jones (Auckland), Elizabeth Thompson (Washington), Mike Cates (DAMTP), Peter Boyle (Lyon),
Brendan Murphy (UCD), Philip Maini (Oxford), Yuji Kodama (Ohio State), David Spiegelhalter
(Cambridge) and Chris Wikle (Missouri).

4.4 Contributions to the wider mathematical sciences community
Reflecting our commitment to the mathematical science community, our staff are actively engaged
through editorial roles, service in learned societies, strategic committees of grant funding bodies and,
more generally, provision of science advice (informed by the mathematical sciences); some key
highlights are given below.

Staff in our Unit have been reviewers for and members on national (EPSRC, NERC, British Council,
Carnegie) as well as international grant advisory boards: EU Commission (Marie Curie Fellowships
and Science Council Scheer), DFG (Germany), FWO (Flanders), INRA (France), NWO
(Netherlands), NSERC (Canada), NSF (USA), Vetenkapsradet (Sweden). Our staff has been heavily
engaged in learned societies including 43 editorial memberships, 15 international grant advisory
boards, 10 members of the Peer Review Colleges for EPSRC and NERC and 3 presidents of learned
societies. Two of our staff members (Brown – chair for 3 years, Strachan) have served on the EPSRC
SAT and another two are panel members for REF2021 (Brendle, Wemyss).

Our unit is also represented at the highest level of the national learned societies, Scott was
International VP of the Royal Society Edinburgh (2016-2019), Strachan was President of the
Edinburgh Mathematical Society (2015-2017) and Brown (2009-17) was VP of the London
Mathematical Society. Brown was awarded a CBE in 2019 and the IMA-LMS Crighton Medal. Brown
and Brendle were elected Fellows of the American Mathematical Society in 2019.

Brendle was LMS Council Member at large (6 years), and Lecuona is the EMS representative on the
LMS Women in Mathematics Committee (a role she took over from Brendle in 2019). Whittaker is
Convener of the EMS Research Support Fund Committee and Wilson is Convener of the EMS
Education Committee. Scott is a member of Scottish Science Advisory Council, JNCC committee
member, and serves on the EU Science Committee SCHEER. Lee has been appointed to COMEAP
(2020-present).

Borisova, O’Donnell, Miller and Anderson have or are currently serving on Royal Statistical Society
local group while Miller serves on the RSS Council and is a member of their academic affairs advisory
group, and Lee was Honorary Secretary of the RSS environmental statistics section. Scott serves
on the RSS Honours committee. Scott and Miller have both served on the International
Environmetrics Society (TIES) board, Miller is currently secretary of TIES and in addition, she served
two terms as secretary of the Statistical Modelling society (IWSM), Ray has been appointed to the
board of the Newton Gateway and Scott is a member of the NERC advisory network, and the ICMS
and INI management boards.

Our staff are encouraged and supported to actively engage in national and international conference
organization, as well as chairing and serving on organizing and scientific committees for major
discipline and cross-disciplinarity conferences (Table 8).




                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Conference                                     Date      Institute/Location
   BMC/BAMC                                       2020      U of Glasgow – postponed to 2021
   Mini-Symposium on Low-Dimensional              2020      8th European Congress of
   Topology                                                 Mathematics, Slovenia
   GEOMED                                         2019      U of Glasgow
   Tilting theory, Singularity Categories &       2019      Banff Canada
   Noncommutative Resolutions
   Enumerative Arithmetic and the Cohen–          2019      MPIM Bonn, Germany
   Lenstra Heuristics
   Low dimensional topology                       2019      CIRM France
   Symplectic Representation Theory               2019      CIRM France
   RSS Conference                                 2018-19 Glasgow and Belfast
   Royal Society Theo-Murphy meeting on           2018      Int’l Kavli Centre of the Royal
   Quantum Integrability and Quantum Schubert               Society London
   Calculus
   Joint Meeting EPSRC Centres for                2018      U of Glasgow
   Mathematical Sciences in Healthcare
   Minisymposium "Multiscale Soft Tissue          2018      British Applied Mathematics
   Modelling: Cardiac Electrophysiology and                 Colloquium St Andrews 2018
   Active Contraction"
   RSE-MOST Big Data Workshop                     2017      Taiwan and Edinburgh
   LMS/CMI Research School “Developments in 2016            U of Glasgow
   Contact and Symplectic Topology”
   Frontiers in Functional Data Analysis          2015      Banff, Canada
   International Environmetrics society           2016      Edinburgh
   conference
   Operator Algebras: Dynamics and                2014      CRM Barcelona, Spain
   Interactions, Intensive Research Programme
   Hamiltonian PDES, Frobenius manifolds and 2013           SISSA, Italy
   Deligne-Mumford moduli spaces
                                   Table 8. Conference Highlights
4.5 Wider influence
Our staff regularly delivers invited conference presentations and plenary lectures in the UK and
overseas. They are invited to visit recognized international centres of excellence such as the Institute
for Advanced Study Princeton (Wand), the Fields Institute, Toronto (including Cobbold, Fortier-
Bourque, Voigt), the Research Institute at Banff (including Brown, Cobbold, Illian, Ray), the CIRM
Marseilles (Lecuona, Owens, Wand), the CRM Montreal (Korff, Valeri), the Max Planck and
Hausdorff Institutes in Bonn (Korff, Lecuona, Owens, Voigt, Wand), the Mathematical Research
Institute at Oberwolfach (including Brendle, Brown, Owens, Wand, White), the Bose Centre in India
(Feigin) and the International Centre for Theoretical Physics (Torney) to name a few. Many of our
staff are also regularly invited for extended research visits or visiting appointments at overseas
institutes such the American Institute for Mathematics at San Jose (Cobbold), the IAS Princeton
(Wand), the University of Chicago (Brendle), the NASA Ames Research Centre (Simitev), the Fields
Institute (Cobbold), the University of Ottawa (Cobbold), the University of Melbourne (Korff), the
University of Sydney (Bellamy), CSIRO (Scott).

In Mathematics Odgen delivered the Timoshenko Medal address at the ASME International
Mechanical Engineering Congress in Phoenix, USA and the Hill Prize Lecture at the International
Congress of Theoretical and Applied Mechanics in Montreal. Other noteworthy international plenary
lectures associated with prizes which staff have won include the Barnett keynote lecture at RSS
conference Belfast by Scott, the El-Sharaawi keynote delivered by Miller at the TIES conference in
Guanajuato, Mexico, the lecture series given by Bowman in Australia and White’s invited lectures at
the European Congress of Mathematics and the 2015 Abel Symposium in Norway.

                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our unit’s international research profile and reputation is also demonstrated by 15 national honours,
and international prizes (Table 9).

Prize/Award                               Date      Name                         Grade    Gender
Adam Prize                                2020      Michael Wemyss               10       M
Fellow of the AMS                         2019      Tara Brendle                 10       F
Fellow of the AMS                         2019      Kenneth Brown CBE            10       M
David Crighton Medal                      2019      Kenneth Brown CBE            10       M
CBE                                       2019      Kenneth Brown CBE            10       M
Barnett Award of the Royal Statistical    2019      Marian Scott OBE             10       F
Society
Dillwyn medal (STEM)                      2019      Gwyn Bellamy                 10       M
Abdel El-Shaarawi Young Research          2018      Claire Miller                10       F
(AEYR) award
Suffrage Science Award for Mathematics 2018         Tereza Neocleous             8        F
and Computing
LMS Whitehead Prize                       2017      Michael Wemyss               10       M
Rodney Hill Prize                         2016      Ray Odgen FRS                10       M
ASME Timoshenko Medal                     2016      Ray Odgen FRS                10       M
Frank Hansford-Miller Award from the      2015      Adrian Bowman FRSE           10       M
Statistical Society of Australia
Enlightener Prize for the best popular    2015      Mikhail Feigin (co-author)   9        M
science book published in Russian in the
natural and exact sciences category
Fellow RSE                                2014      Xiaoyu Luo FRSE              10       F
                                     Table 9. Prizes & Awards
In summary, since the 2014 REF, the Unit, has benefitted from significant university investments
allowing, an upward trajectory in the strength, breadth and depth in Mathematical Sciences to
become a major international research centre. We have appointed more than 20 (50% increase in
FTE) researchers from across the globe to permanent academic posts, tripled our research funding,
grown our PGR numbers by more than 50% and moved to a brand new £10M bespoke building. Our
staff are globally recognised for their excellence, gaining numerous awards and holding senior
positions in learned societies. Our breadth and depth in the mathematical sciences has enabled us
to respond to a multitude of emerging research challenges including geometric theory, healthcare
and the environment and to generate world-leading impact in environment, health and geosciences.




                                                                                              Page 21
