Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Lincoln

 Unit of Assessment: 24, Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
      a. Summary context and structure
 This UoA covers the research of 11.8 full-time equivalent (FTE) staff, with
 10.8 FTE from the School of Sport and Exercise Science and 1 FTE from the Lincoln
 International Business School. The staff are organized into the following two multi-disciplinary
 research areas/themes reflecting the sport and exercise parts of our main professional body, the
 British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences:
      • Performance (led by Prof Mullineaux), with a goal to explore fundamental and applied
         sport science research to enhance sport performance. Primarily adopting a quantitative
         approach, with 6 FTEs (Gee, Martin, Mullineaux, Mulloy, Taylor, Willmott), areas of
         expertise include: biomechanical feedback; physiology of the female athlete; professional
         practice issues and interventions in psychology, and; psychological states underlying
         excellent performance.
      • Wellbeing (led by Prof Allen-Collinson), with a goal to explore issues influencing
         health, exercise, sport and physical activity. Primarily using either qualitative or mixed-
         methodology approaches, with 5.8 FTEs (Allen-Collinson, Dickerson, Henderson,
         Jackman, Pielichaty, Timmins), areas of expertise include: the lived experience of health
         and illness conditions; physical-cultural embodiment; optimal experiences in exercise and
         physical activity; athlete mental health and help-seeking, and; race and
         gender representation in the media.

 The goal of the School’s research is to address topics of national and
 international importance aligning with government, governing bodies of
 sport, and other relevant regulatory bodies and industries. Research topics have arisen from:
     • House of Lords’ 2012 “Sport and exercise science and medicine: building on the
         Olympic legacy to improve the nation’s health” recommendations 1 (e.g. biomechanical
         feedback in sport) and 3 and 6 (e.g. GP referral research);
         (https://publications.parliament.uk/pa/ld201213/ldselect/ldsctech/33/3302.htm).
     • Government’s Sporting Future to address socio-cultural and socio-demographic
         factors affecting physical activity (e.g. Wellbeing group);
         (https://www.parliament.uk/written-questions-answers-statements/written-
         statement/Commons/2019-02-07/HCWS1311).
     • English Institute of Sport (EIS) along with British Canoeing focus on investigating
         biomechanics (Performance group).
     • International Sport Federations’ research priorities, such as the need for Anterior
         Cruciate Ligament research (Performance
         group); (https://bmjopensem.bmj.com/content/2/1/e000168).

 The following describes our strategy to addressing such research priorities, and examples of
 research in these areas are emphasised throughout (e.g. see section 4d).

    b. Achievement of strategic aims
 The implementation of the School’s research strategy has ensured that all REF2014 strategic
 aims have been met as follows:

   i.  Further increase the number of research-active staff
 7 FTEs submitted to REF2014 has increased to 11.8 FTEs to REF2021.

   ii.  Increase external research income
 Increased from £48,128 in REF2014 to £411,660 in REF2021, with a further £470,000
 secured to be spent beyond August 2020 (see section 3a).



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  iii.  Increase the number and sources of funding awards for full-time doctoral
        students, and increase the number of doctoral degrees awarded
 Doctoral studentships funding has been secured from 4 international, 2 national
 and 9 internal competitive sources, which was achieved through strategically prioritising staff
 and financial resources to recruit doctoral students. The 1 completion for REF2014 has
 increased to 13 completions in REF2021 (see section 2b).

   iv.   Further develop our international collaborative links leading to tangible outputs
 International links have continued to be a strength, generating doctoral funding
 (e.g. £90,863 from University of Copenhagen, Denmark for 3 doctoral studentships in
 the Wellbeing group), staff and post-graduate research (PGR) student exchanges (e.g. Harvard
 University, USA), visiting
 researchers (e.g. Universities of Copenhagen, Jyväskylä, Tasmania, Turin), and co-authorship
 of peer-reviewed journal articles (see section 4b).

   v.    Make optimal use of College and University support for research
 Targeted support has greatly enhanced our research capacity and capability. Examples
 include: School, College and University funding for 9 doctoral studentships and impact
 generation (e.g. Research Assistant appointments); University funding from
 the interdisciplinary Lincoln Institute of Advanced Studies for international visiting
 researchers/scholars, and; PGR student and Early Career Researchers (ECRs) resources and
 training programmes offered by the University’s Doctoral School (see Institutional Environment
 Statement).

  vi.    Continue to strengthen impact
 The School’s impact strategy has generated an impact-focused culture among staff, further
 enhancing our ability to engage with a wide range of users and policy-makers to develop impact.
 A key strategic element was allocating greater resources and more staff time to those working
 with external partners, including external funding for staffing, adjusting work loading and
 appointing Research Assistants to work on impact (see sections 1d and 2a).

 vii.     To support all staff currently without a doctorate to obtain a PhD or
          equivalent qualification
 The percentage of staff with a doctorate has increased from 60% to 100%. This has increased
 research productivity, such as, through greater doctoral supervisions, and rendering a greater
 proportion of staff eligible for a range of esteem activities such as internal and external
 examining, keynote speaking and editorial positions. It has also enhanced the professional
 development of staff, including assisting promotion of some staff
 (e.g. allowing some of those promoted during the REF cycle by meeting promotion criteria; see
 section 2a).

  viii.  Invest in additional state-of-the-art facilities and resources
 This continued to be a key strength of the School, contributing to enhanced research capacity
 and output, and assisting in attracting new research-active staff and doctoral students. This has
 resulted in greater research productivity, supporting external income-generation (see past
 aim ii and aim E), and securing funds to appoint additional staff (e.g. 1 FTE project manager to
 work on the new industry focused Motion Capture facility, the MoCap Hub; see
 sections 1d and 4c).

     c. Future strategic aims
 Our future strategic aims, which cohere with the overarching College and University Five-Year
 Strategic Plan (see Institutional Environment Statement), are as follows:

         A. Produce research of value to sport and exercise science
         • In relation to national and international priorities, the aim is to advance understanding
            and practice in selected topics such as those outlined above (see section 1a).


                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    B. Enhance the foci of the research groups
    • The two research groups are structured to stimulate, generate and support
       multidisciplinary research, facilitated by inter-theme collaboration within the School,
       and across the University. Given the breadth of expertise in the School, the
       multidisciplinary research approach will strategically bring individuals together to form
       inclusive, coherent research groups and to enhance the research culture by promoting
       ideas/information-exchange and incorporating new members’ areas of expertise.
    • External collaboration will be a key focus of the research strategy, enhanced by
       research groups maintaining external membership from across universities, businesses,
       sport organisations, local authorities, National Health Service (NHS) and the third sector
       (see section 4b).

    C. Dynamically align research foci with evolving initiatives
    • Respond to evolving local, national and international initiatives (e.g. changes to staff,
       government initiatives, funding opportunities) through, for example, adjusting workloads
       and allocating resources.

    D. Increase staffing and research productivity
    • The number of new staff with research responsibilities will be increased to
       16 FTE. The increase in staff will focus on appointments where research expertise aligns
       with a research group, which will continue to build capacity for greater depth of
       research.
    • Targeted support will be provided to staff to increase their research
       productivity. This will include recognising and supporting equality and diversity (see
       section 2c), implementing drivers to increase the time devoted to research activities, and
       rewarding talent, including via promotion (see section 2a).

    E. Increase external income to £1,100,000
    • External income generation is a continually developing priority. As our research profile
       strengthens and number of staff increases, there is concomitantly greater scope to
       increase the amounts and widen the sources of income from national and international
       high-quality funders (see section 3a).

    F. Increase PGR student funding to £500,000 and PhD completion numbers to 16
    • The primary routes will be to continue to collaborate with external partners, and to
       continue to be successful in internal awards for funds. This continues to be a priority so
       as to strengthen the research culture, develop the next generation of
       researchers, enhance the research groups, and develop strong
       potential academic leaders (see section 2b).

    G. Increase international collaboration
    • Increase international links via doctoral funding, staff and PGR-student exchanges,
       visiting researchers, and co-authored journal articles. Staff will be encouraged and
       supported in collaborative work nationally and internationally to increase numbers and
       quality of research outputs, grant submissions and impact. For example, all staff
       will continue to be encouraged and financially supported to attend
       conferences annually to improve international collaborative links and networks (see
       section 4b).

    H. Embed impact into our research
    • The impact strategy developed over the REF2021 cycle was effective in developing
       impact, generating an impact-focused culture, and facilitating engagement with a wide
       range of users and policy-makers. We aim to continue implementing the impact strategy
       to fund, strengthen and broaden research impact (see section 1d).

    I.   Enhance professional development


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   To maintain 100% of staff with a PhD or equivalent qualification through
        future staff appointments.
    •   Provide enhanced professional development opportunities (see section 2a). The
        primary aim will be the provision of funding and opportunities for staff to enhance
        research skills through focused opportunities to develop cutting-edge theoretical,
        methodological and analytical approaches, and develop income-generating skills.
    •   Enhance mentoring support to maintain a framework for developing staff members’
        research capability, range and expertise. Membership of a research group germane to
        their research will provide a supportive, motivating and effective forum
        for enhancing research capabilities and working synergistically (see
        section 2a). Mentoring will be provided by experienced research staff,
        particularly to ECRs, and engaging in the University’s Mentoring Pipeline scheme (see
        Institutional Environment Statement).

    J. Invest in facilities to retain state-of-the-art status
    • We will continue an investment programme to upgrade state-of-the-art equipment to
       ensure the School retains leading-edge technology suited to maintaining and enhancing
       the activities of the research groups (see section 3b).

     d. Impact strategy
 The key elements for impact are to continue to: develop strong networks of partnerships with
 both academic and non-academic organisations; identify important local, national and
 global challenges requiring research to provide in-depth understanding of the
 topic, and; empowering organisations to act upon the research. These partnerships will be
 strengthened and extended through the two research groups, and overseen
 by the School Research Committee, and College and University support systems.

 We will continue to focus on identifying new partners, and appropriately supporting this work
 through directed funding. The primary route for most impact-related work will continue to
 be strategically managed, including via activities represented in the case studies, through the
 following steps:
      • Identification of the partner usually through School-level contacts, individuals’ contacts
         or by the College’s Research Impact Knowledge Exchange Manager contacting or being
         contacted by existing or new external partners (including businesses, local government
         and charities) to identify their needs and potential services that could be provided by
         the School. In addition, individuals and organisations will identify staff
         and group research specialisms via, for example, websites, social media and the open
         access University repository showcasing our research.
      • Refining needs and funding proof of concept work. The School and partner will meet
         to understand each other’s requirements, and identify specific benefits from the School’s
         research. Subsequently, pump-priming funding will be obtained, for example, as in past
         from Innovate-UK Innovation Vouchers (£10,000 covering two projects); College
         Research Fund (e.g. four projects totalling £6,000); European Regional Development
         Funding combined with Lincolnshire County Council to purchase equipment and matched
         by staff-time to provide 12 hours’ free support to businesses (e.g. in past, three
         projects totalling £82,569). Some of these previously have led to impact, such as, those
         described in the impact case studies.
      • Securing funding to cover resources and provide expert staffing; achieved in a
         combination of ways, including: the Innovate-UK Innovation Vouchers; Research
         Assistants from internal funds; partner-match-funding from external businesses
         (e.g. £33,829 in 2020-23 from Delsys Europe Ltd), and; Innovate-UK Knowledge
         Transfer Partnerships (KTP; £224,835 for 2018-21; £261,009 for 2020-22).
      • Recording impact is a key element of impact through collating evidence. Staff working
         on impact-related projects will be supported in encouraging partners to
         record evidence related to the underpinning research, from collaboration with the
         University. Assistance will be provided via: the University Press Office and the Director of
         Research Impact Development; College away-days on developing impact; and through

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        themed discussions in Research Committee meetings on how to promote and obtain
        suitable evidence on impact.

 A range of mechanisms will enhance our ability to engage with impactful work, including through:
 capital expenditure prioritising purchasing bespoke portable equipment (aim J); the
 multidisciplinary research groups with membership or attendance from business, community and
 third sector groups (e.g. County Council Public Health, Community Lincs, The Golf
 Foundation), and; interaction with Public and Patient Involvement (PPI) groups linked to
 other departments, the NHS, and third sector (e.g. older citizen groups, such as U3A, Age UK,
 Evergreen, and the Healthy Ageing PPI group). Examples of mechanisms to achieve impact
 including the new MoCap Hub devoted to working with industry (see section 4c) and resulting
 impact such as improving the health and wellbeing of the police (see section 4d).

     e. Open research
 The University’s Lincoln Research Repository (see Institutional Environment Statement)
 provides a publically available resource to store research and other outputs. Staff are
 encouraged to upload all outputs, including abstracts and external presentations, which provides
 a full record of the variety of research activity conducted within the School. The Repository
 provides efficiency in the ability to, for example: generate reports on research activity; pre-
 populate forms for individualised staff monitoring through the annual Individual Research Plan
 process (see section 2a), and; provides supporting evidence of research activity to meet
 eligibility criteria for internal funding opportunities. The repository is also used to store
 accompanying material so that raw data, detailed analysis and computer code are made publicly
 available. To enable others to use or replicate their work, staff actively make their data and code
 available elsewhere such as in supplementary journal material (e.g. Mullineaux
 2017, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gaitpost.2016.12.028).


 2. People
     a. Staffing strategy and staff development
 Our research and staffing strategy aims to increase staffing (aim D) and enhance staff
 development (aim I), as described below.

 The staffing policy supports researchers within the two research groups, with the following
 considerations:
    • Staff numbers continued to expand over the REF cycle (up to 11.8 FTE). This growth
        has greatly enhanced existing research strengths, and refined strands germane
        to our core strengths of research in Performance and Wellbeing (see section 1a).
    • Research leadership is provided via both the School’s Research Committee, and
        through the research groups. These groups are led by Professors Mullineaux and Allen-
        Collinson whose research expertise and experience are broadly quantitative and
        qualitative, respectively. Both chairs use their time and expertise to support and develop
        staff within the School. All staff are provided with and supported in leadership
        opportunities.
    • Succession planning, once a role has been established by a senior staff member,
        junior staff are appointed to lead the role, with support maintained via mentorship and the
        Research Committee’s oversight. For example, the Athena SWAN group was initially
        chaired by a Professor, and following good-practice, a more junior staff member was
        appointed as chair after 4 years’ operation (see section 2c).
    • New staff and Early Career Researchers (ECRs). Research capacity was enhanced by
        increasing the number of researchers in both research groups, where 6 additional new
        staff were appointed during the census period (4 of whom were, and 2
        remain as, ECRs on the REF census date). All new staff are supported via a structured
        system of mentoring and peer support, with regular meetings to identify and action
        needs, and to ensure maximum use is made of individual and group training
        opportunities.


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff development is used to develop staff knowledge, skills and employability. This is in
 accordance with the University’s People Strategy (see Institutional Environment Statement) and
 external guidelines, including the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. Hence, all staff are strongly encouraged and supported in their research as
 follows:
      • Time efficiency mechanisms have been introduced for all staff, to help develop their
         research training and activity. Mechanisms include allocating a minimum of one
         designated day-per-week for research time, alternating light and heavy semester
         teaching loads, and initiating research-leave awards. Further, all staff are encouraged to
         adopt flexible working, and in particular, to work at different locations including at
         home to suit their requirements for research or personal circumstances (see
         section 2c).
      • ECRs are specifically assisted in developing research that leads to collaboration, journal
         publications and larger grant submissions. This is achieved during their first 3 years
         via lighter teaching loads, fewer administration roles, and greater time of an additional
         day per week for research. Hence a minimum of 40% of time is devoted to research,
         which has provided greater capacity to develop as researchers.
      • Funding is provided to pay for research expenses, professional
         development, and conferences. For example, the University has provided funding for
         staff to attend national training events. Within the College, examples include securing
         funding for 12 projects totalling £18,000 from the annual pump-priming grant
         competitions that particularly support collaborative research, including multi-disciplinary,
         and which actively encourages ECRs to apply.
      • Supervisory experience. All staff are supported in undertaking PGR supervision as a
         means to enhance research activity and to promote professional development. To date,
         all staff members have become involved in doctoral supervision. By achieving the past
         aim vii for all staff to have a PhD or equivalent qualification, this has increased the pool of
         supervisors contributing to our doctoral programme, and will aid in meeting aim F to
         increase the number of doctorates awarded. Supervisory teams must include
         experienced supervisors who must undergo University Doctoral School training, which
         provides new supervisors and ECRs with additional mentoring.
      • Achievement is recognized through staff promotion. There have
         been 3 promotions: Drs Pielichaty and Willmott to Associate Professor, and Allen-
         Collinson from Associate Professor to Professor in recognition of their research track
         record and research leadership within the School and across the University.
      • Quality assurance mechanisms are in place to support staff in maintaining high
         standards of research quality, integrity and ethics. All research protocols
         are examined in-depth, and must be approved by a University Ethics Committee. Internal
         peer-review processes are used to assess the quality of research grant applications prior
         to submission. For grants, there is a mandatory internal peer-review process within the
         College that is constructive and supportive, and has been effective in increasing the
         success rate in grant applications. Alongside more formal mechanisms, the research
         groups also operate collegial support systems, such as ‘Papers in Progress’ reviewing,
         whereby all researchers (newer and more established) can seek colleagues’ constructive
         critiques of their work at various stages.
      • Seminar series. The School seminar series includes contributions from staff and PGR
         students, an annual update from the research groups,
         and presentations from selected visiting international scholars. These seminars provide a
         rigorous yet friendly environment for presenters to disseminate and defend their work,
         and the multidisciplinary audience provides detailed input from wider perspectives. The
         College also operates a monthly Research Seminar Series, also multidisciplinary in
         nature, to which many of our staff and PGR students frequently contribute.
      • Wider mechanisms supporting the strategy. The University has many central policies
         and processes supporting staffing in their development, such as, the Continuing
         Professional and Personal Development Framework and
         academic appraisal process (see Institutional Environment Statement). In addition, there
         is wider assistance through appointment of specialists across the College (e.g. Professor

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        in Medical Statistics) where the breadth of this leadership also contributes to the
        multidisciplinary strengths of the School’s research.

    b. PGR Students
 One of the major elements and successes of our research strategy was increasing PGR
 completions from 1 in REF2014 to 13 PhDs and 15 MSc by Research in REF2021.

 Research students are an integral part of our research strategy, as detailed in
 aim F. Enhancing the doctoral experience through developing a group of research
 students enhances the School’s research culture. Each student is aligned with one of the two
 research groups to ensure each receive discipline- and subject-specific support. Full-time
 doctoral studentship have included full-studentships and Graduate Teaching
 Assistantships with no and some teaching responsibilities, respectively, which during the REF
 cycle comprised of 9 funded by the College and 2 from national and 4 from international
 sources (see section 3a).

 The environment for PGR students is effective and supportive, with University-wide support
 mechanisms coordinated by the Doctoral School, a growing team of experienced supervisors in
 the School, and a strong research culture developing amongst students and staff. A School PGR
 Lead (at Professorial level) oversees the recruitment, induction, and progression of students,
 along with their skill-development and training opportunities. A School PGR Administrator
 oversees the regulatory and procedural progress of the students. PhD students have
 dedicated shared office space with high-specification, networked computers and printers with the
 required specialist software. The shared space fosters a collegial research culture facilitating the
 sharing of skills and advice and allowing students to assist one another with research
 tasks including data capture. The office space is adjacent to the School ensuring students feel
 an integral part of the School community and its activities. PGR students present their work
 annually within the School seminar series, and student representatives sit on all relevant
 committees.

 The majority of students are funded, with approximately 55% from external funding,
 each with a budget of £1,500/year to pay for professional development, research
 expenses and conference attendance, and students can also make further requests from the
 School budget for such expenses (e.g. purchase of bespoke equipment for their studies). PhD
 students also contribute directly to the work of the two research groups, via joint publications
 with supervisory and other staff, and collaborative research bids. The national Postgraduate
 Research Experience Survey has resulted in the School achieving above the sector
 average scores in all areas. In addition to standard supervisory arrangements, students receive
 frequent mentoring, seminar and focused training. This has contributed to ‘supervisory support’
 being particularly highly commended by the students in the national survey.

 A comprehensive support structure is provided for PGR students, addressing aim F. The
 central support through the Doctoral School is described in the Institutional Environment
 Statement, and relates to aspects including regulations, training, support, central resources,
 careers’ advice, social and academic space, and academic and social events. Within the
 College, the annual showcase event provides students with the opportunity to highlight their
 research. Within the School, there are development opportunities through seminars, teaching
 opportunities and focused training (e.g. in ethics; in specialist analysis including NVivo
 and MATLAB). There is also further School support from an administrator to track, monitor and
 guide PGR students and supervisors in adhering to University protocols. Staff in the
 School also contribute to the Doctoral School’s programmes, helping to ensure a two-way flow of
 experience and expertise. Students are supported in enhancing their research profile
 including through authoring journal papers. Of the 13 doctoral graduates during this REF cycle,
 all are now employed with 12 in academia and 1 in industry.

    c. Equality and diversity


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School fully embraces equality and diversity, reflected in our Athena SWAN charter’s
 Bronze Award first awarded in 2015. The School’s Equality and Diversity Committee sits
 within the University’s structure to support equality and diversity for all protected characteristics
 of the Equality Act 2010 (see Institutional Environment Statement). The committee meets
 quarterly with representation from across the staff and student bodies, including
 representation on gender (equal numbers), age (full range from ECRs to Professors)
 and minority groups (e.g. BAME staff). The committee’s overall goal is to monitor and
 implement initiatives to maximise equality. Examples of roles and actions of the committee that
 relate to research cohere around the following:
     • Recognise all protected characteristics. In REF2014 there were 7 FTE submitted,
         all white British, comprising 6 males and 1 female. For REF2021, 11.8 FTE have been
         submitted made up of: race (9.8 white British; 1 white-Irish and 1 African-American); sex
         (4.8 female; 7 male), and; pregnancy/maternity and paternity (6 and 4 instances,
         respectively). The School actively implements actions to enhance all staffs’ ability to
         research regardless of their characteristics (see examples below).
     • Support staff in producing strong research. This includes: supporting staff in
         further enhancing the quality of their research through individual annual research-plan
         appraisals (Individual Research Plans (IRP); see Institutional Environment Statement);
         responding to the IRPs in work-load allocations; funding training events and conference
         attendance, and; identifying resources and equipment purchase needs. The IRP
         process has been and will continue to be conducted by the two Professors in a
         supportive manner; ensuring actions are tailored to support all individuals in maximising
         research productivity while reducing any negative influence of individual equality and
         diversity circumstances. For example, some staff ‘over-working’ were advised in
         their IRP on how to be more selective in engaging with opportunities, and workloads
         were reduced through liaison with the Head of School. Further, the committee facilitates
         engagement with University initiatives such as the Women in Science and Engineering
         Scheme and the Eleanor Glanville Centre, such as, to acquire funding to support
         research (see example below).
     • Improve the gender balance of staff and PGR students. To facilitate this, female staff
         and PGR students are encouraged to apply for staff positions, and active initiatives are
         used to support and retain female staff. For instance, 1) opportunities for internal funding
         are not announced prior to national holidays as it is generally acknowledged that such
         timing would hinder women disproportionately owing to their greater caring
         responsibilities outside of work; 2) support is provided to apply for funding to assist with,
         for example, keeping research projects active via staff during maternity leave (see below
         and section 2c), and; 3) promoting role models of successful women whom accounted for
         67% of the promotions. The success of this strategy has resulted in
         female percentages for staff submitted rising from 14.1% in REF2014 to 40.7% in
         REF2021, professors rising from 0% to 50%, and PGR completions rising from 0%
         to 38.4%.
     • Education. Raise staff and student awareness of equality initiatives, and operate our
         facilities to maximise accessibility for all staff and participants. General awareness is
         raised in the School’s staff meetings, and more in-depth awareness and training is
         achieved through seminars and workshops directed to the needs of PGR students and
         staff.

 As an example of supporting equality, during the REF2021 cycle we have used enhanced
 support for maternity and paternity leave. For the 6 instances of maternity leave, staff have used
 the ‘keeping in touch days’ allowing them to work for 10 days during their leave, which has been
 a priority to support them in maintaining research impetus. All staff returned to full-time and one
 to a 0.8 FTE, and two on their return to work were further supported with a time-allocation and
 funding support to allow them subsequently to complete their PhDs. There have also
 been 4 paternity leaves, one of which included further support of a 4-month reduction to half-
 time employment before returning on a full-time basis. Staff are also actively encouraged to
 adopt flexible working, which may suit their research or personal circumstances (see
 section 2a). Additional benefits were achieved through actively working with the University’s

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Eleanor Glanville Centre, an interdisciplinary centre with an institution-wide remit to maximise
 inclusion, diversity and equality (see Institutional Environment Statement). As examples, this
 Centre provided the School with: 1) support including data and reviews of the application for the
 School to achieve the Athena SWAN award (see top of this section); 2) access to the Academic
 Returners’ Research Fund (AR2F), allowing one member of staff to reduce her teaching on
 return from maternity leave, to enable her to spend more time on resuming her research, and; 3)
 accommodating international visiting researchers, including from Australia and
 Finland, to collaborate with our research groups.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
     a. Income
 The previous REF income of £48,128 has substantially increased to an income
 of £411,660 spent during REF2021, and approximately a further £470,000 secured to be
 spent in the future, which related to meeting the previous aim ii. Income remains as
 a strategic aim E, and was intended to assist in meeting aspects of the research strategy to
 increase PGR numbers (aim F) and to build the impact agenda (aim H).

 Regarding aim F, funding was secured to increase PGR students in relation to the research
 priorities of the two research groups. Funding included: 4 sources from international institutes
 (University of Copenhagen, Denmark for £29,910, £29,239 and £31,713; Southern Cross
 University, Australia with costs provided by the each institute while the student spends 2 years
 at each location); 1 national governing body of sport (British Canoeing and English Institute of
 Sport for £56,000), and; 1 company (Delsys Europe Ltd for £33,829). In all 6 cases, there was
 also matched funding provided by the University.

 In relation to aim H, funding was secured to build the impact agenda. This funding supported
 varying sizes of projects from small to large, and at different stages from early to later
 on in projects. For small projects, 2 projects each received up to £5,000 of funding from a variety
 of sources including Innovate-UK Innovation Vouchers. For medium sized projects, funding
 was for example obtained from Community Lincs to investigate combating loneliness and social
 isolation in rural Lincolnshire, including combating this via physical
 activity (£50,833), and funding from the European Regional Development Fund and Lincolnshire
 County Council was used to engage in research with business to produce new
 products (£82,659). For larger projects, two KTPs were obtained from the UK
 government’s Innovate-UK program (£224,835 in 2018 and £261,009 in 2020, both spanning 3
 years; see section 4d) and Higher Education Innovation Fund for the MoCap Hub to support
 innovation (£43,000 in 2020; see section 4c).

 As the two research groups continue to develop and build international reputations for expertise
 in their areas, our intention is to meet aim E, to expand external income generation through
 research council funding, KTPs and other knowledge exchange streams, including with partners
 within and external to the University.

     b. Infrastructure and facilities
 The £1.9 million Human Performance Centre, which opened in 2010, houses the School and
 provides the high-specification facilities and environment conducive to conducting innovative
 research. The Centre comprises specialist laboratories and rooms for sport and exercise
 science, physical therapy clinic, meeting and interview rooms, computer suites, seminar
 rooms, and staff and PGR student offices. Three of the large open-spaced
 laboratories provide the latest technology for conducting research.

 Equipment purchases have totalled £298,834 during the current REF cycle. Purchases
 focused on several key elements (in accordance with aim J) including:
 1) Facilitate research. The topics of the research groups direct the purchase of equipment to
 ensure all equipment enhances the capacity to meet our research objectives (see section 1c).


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2) Top-specification. Through our research, extant research and keeping abreast of industry
 developments, we keep ahead of the continually advancing specifications of
 equipment. Purchasing is geared to securing equipment that best matches research topics whilst
 also providing some of the leading technology to ensure our research remains at the forefront of
 the areas in which we work.
 3) Portability. Much of our research can require flexibility to test in varying situations. The
 portability of our equipment ensures researchers can travel to any location, either at the
 convenience of participants or for the requirements of the research. This equipment, with both
 laboratory and field capabilities, provides the School with the flexibility to conduct research in
 locations more conducive to obtaining ecologically valid results. For example, the 29-
 camera motion capture system is portable, allowing it be transported to new locations
 (e.g. regular use in a warehouse for the trampoline research; see impact case study).
 4) Upgrades. Whilst our equipment facilitates the research-group topics, as technology
 continually advances it has been beneficial to match these advances with equipment upgrades.
 For example, in studying muscle activity via electromyography (EMG), past research
 has predominantly analysed ‘net’ muscle activity, but with recent hardware and software
 developments, contemporary research focuses on measuring ‘individual’
 muscle fibres. An upgrade to our EMG system was thus required. Such upgrades are hugely
 beneficial in keeping our research potential at the forefront, and in this instance it also led to
 external funding of a PhD from Delsys Europe Ltd to study the topic (see section 3a).
 5) Customer support. It is vital that equipment is dependable. As such, comprehensive
 maintenance and upgrade agreements are secured for the majority of our equipment, with
 fees averaging £38,800/year. For the 29-camera motion-capture system (see next point 1
 below), for example, this maintenance agreement includes: same-day dispatch of replacement
 cameras; upgrading software as soon as it is released; comprehensive, 24-hour hardware and
 software support, and; annual site visits. These site visits are excellent in capturing a large
 number of our users to receive further training in the use of the equipment.

 Each piece of equipment requires specialist software, which includes a large number
 of licenses to allow multiple users in the laboratory, and for PGR students and staff to access the
 data in their offices or across campus such as in the library (e.g. biomechanics force platform
 software licenses). In addition, there are a number of University site licenses. The principal
 unlimited site licenses that we use extensively are for online surveys (Qualtrics), data processing
 (MATLAB with all toolboxes), qualitative data analysis (NVivo) and statistics (Stata, SPSS).

 Within the School several key research facilities include:
 1) Biomechanics Laboratory. This laboratory is a large open space
 measuring 13.5x17m, which includes equipment for measuring forces (e.g. 4 in-ground force
 platforms; 2 portable force plates; 1 pressure plate), muscle measuring systems (e.g. 16 unit ‘net
 muscle’ sensor system including triaxial accelerometers; 4 unit ‘individual fibre’ sensor system; 1
 isokinetic dynamometer) and video cameras (e.g. 2 high speed video cameras with 2D and 3D-
 stereoscopic/single-screen video creation at up to 40,000 frames/second or 1,000
 frames/second at full screen size). In addition, there is an impressive 29-camera real-time
 motion capture system, able to capture up to 10,000 frames/second, or 150 frames/second at
 full screen size (for examples of its use see section 4b). Throughout the REF cycle, this
 system has been expanded from 8 to 29 to meet the expanding research requirements.
 2) Strength and Conditioning Suite. To support one of the specific research areas within
 the Performance research group, a purpose-built suite was designed and installed. Top-
 specification stack and free weight systems are in place to enable cutting-edge research in this
 area. In addition, innovative monitoring systems were bought to investigate underlying
 theoretical principles for their effectiveness in training (e.g. GymAware equipment).
 3) Physiology Laboratory. This is a large laboratory with adjoining smaller rooms used to
 conduct several data collections simultaneously. In addition to standard ergometers for cycling,
 kayaking, rowing and running, there is specialised equipment including a swimming flume,
 curved non-motorized treadmill and cycle ergometers (e.g. SRM; AtomX Wattbikes). Data
 capture equipment includes a real-time expired gas system, and
 portable equipment versions, including those for measuring expired gases (Cosmed K4), 18-unit

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 team physiological monitoring (Zephyr bioharnesses), and blood (Analox GM7). The laboratory
 work complies with the Human Tissue Authority license, and has equipment and trained staff for
 the appropriate sampling, preparation and storage of human tissue samples.
 4) Interview Rooms. Throughout the Centre there are a variety of rooms purposefully designed
 for conducting focus-groups and one-to-one interviews. These rooms are private with good
 lighting, decorated minimally and furnished with a mix of soft and hard furnishing, all of which
 make a comfortable environment beneficial for developing rapport and conducting effective
 interviews, including on sensitive topics.
 5) MoCap Hub. The Hub principally supports funded research with businesses (see section 4c),
 and is based away from the main campus. It comprises of an 11x6m open space facility with 16
 of the motion capture cameras housed there long-term, and other equipment from the other
 facilities used there as required for short term projects.

 Technician support of 5 FTEs provides expert support for staff, PGR students and
 collaborators to conduct research in the laboratories. Over the REF cycle technician numbers
 have increased from 2 to 5 FTE. One FTE is dedicated to work in the MoCap Hub (see
 section 4c). Technicians undergo continual training in advanced equipment and software use,
 enabling them to pass on this knowledge to facilitate and support research by others.

 Safety of working environment is maximized through University and School policies. At a
 University level, there are extensive policies on all research-related work including
 risk assessment, and working on/off campus and ethics (see Institutional Environment
 Statement). For example, all research must be approved by the University Human Ethics
 Committee, of which Prof Mullineaux has been the Chair since August 2018 to present. At
 School level, there are extensive research policies (e.g. working-alone; risk assessment of all
 activities) that are stored for easy access on the School’s computer network.

 The University supports the School in external income generation (aim E) through the Research
 and Enterprise Office, working closely with the College’s Research Officer and Enterprise and
 Impact Manager, to help identify opportunities for funding and collaborative ventures, and to
 enhance the standard of grant applications (see Institutional Environment Statement). This
 combination of staff at University and College levels ensures that approaches are well-
 structured, coordinated and effective. In addition, the College has a Director of Research, with
 dedicated administrative support, to lead and encourage a strong research culture. For
 example, all administration of the two KTPs is managed centrally, which frees up the academics
 and company to work on the research within the partnership.

 We optimise use of the many wider University support systems for staff and PGR
 students (see section 2a), including extensive online and physical library facilities, information-
 technology resources and support from the Doctoral School (see Institutional Environment
 Statement). Several specific policies and systems exist to support research, including the
 Awards Management System (centralised database for costing and management of financial
 resources), and Research and Enterprise Services (e.g. managing legal, commercial and
 industrial relationships; providing independent specialist consultant support on bids;
 providing impact-related support pre- and post-award). There is also central funding for making
 publications open access (e.g. Mullineaux and Irwin 2017,
 https://doi.org/10.1080/23335432.2017.1348913).
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

     a. Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Collaboration has been a key focus of the research strategy (see aims A and G), and is a
 continually developing strength of the School, with demonstrable benefits locally, regionally,
 nationally and internationally. Examples of these collaborations are through the following
 mechanisms.

 Joint doctorates are a key element of the strategy to develop international
 collaboration. Through partnerships with international institutes, there have been benefits in

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sharing knowledge, undertaking comparative analysis, increasing pool of supervisors, and cost-
 sharing. There has been 1 completed and 3 ongoing international joint doctorates with the
 University of Copenhagen, Denmark, and Southern Cross University, Australia. This work has
 supported the research agendas of the groups, and resulted in additional benefits from
 subsequent collaborative research.

 International collaborations on research have further enhanced
 the School’s research through the sharing of knowledge, subject-expertise, and resources. This
 has resulted in a myriad of publications, increasing from 12% of papers with international
 collaborators in REF2014 to 45.6% of papers on Scopus with international collaborators in
 REF2021. We have collaborated with institutes in 11 countries, with examples including:
     • University of Copenhagen, Denmark, for joint funding for 3 doctoral studentships
        (1 complete; 2 ongoing) and long term collaborative research.
     • Links with institutes across Europe as part of an ERASMUS+ funding project on women
        in science.
     • Harvard University, USA, for long term collaborative research, resulting in publications
        and staff exchanges.

 There have been many international initiatives and cultural exchanges. This includes
 Memoranda of Agreement being established (e.g. Czech Republic; United States; Singapore;
 Hong Kong; Australia), outgoing staff exchanges (e.g. Harvard University, USA; Highpoint
 University, USA) and hosting international scholars (e.g. visiting researchers from University of
 Tasmania, Australia; University of Jyväskylä, Finland; University of Turin, Italy). These
 opportunities are opened to all staff, and both experienced and ECRs have been involved, and
 have provided benefits including publications and enhancing staff professional development.

    b. Relationships with users, beneficiaries and society
 Through research collaborations, the research groups have national and international external
 members thus providing practitioner and scholarly expertise to contribute to enhancing our
 research profile. External non-academic membership includes colleagues from, for
 example, Golf Foundation, Local Authority Public Health, Community Lincs and Australian Motor
 Neurone Disease Association.

 Motion Capture facilitates collaboration with businesses. The MoCap Hub has a remit to
 support businesses in using research to create new products. This industry engagement was
 facilitated through external capital income from the European Regional Development Fund,
 Lincolnshire City Council and University of Lincoln (see section 3a). There have been packages
 of 12-hours free support provided to 30 companies, which has resulted in 6 companies following
 up with government or self-funded follow-up work. In particular, the MoCap Hub has facilitated
 the award of two KTPs totalling £485,844 (see section 3a). Such projects have given ECRs and
 newer investigators the opportunity to develop key research management skills, such as
 negotiating the needs of businesses, and to devise studies with a more immediate impact
 on businesses’ working practices (for example, see section 4d). Since March 2020, £43,000
 Higher Education Innovation Fund and matched £43,000 University in-kind funding was used to
 establish a second MoCap Hub in its own premises employing 1 FTE technician with a remit to
 generate income to support industry, enterprise and innovation. The MoCap Hub links with the
 Impact strategy (see section 1d), and has included externally funded research with small local
 companies (e.g. Tended Ltd in personal safety technology) and larger international companies
 (e.g. McLaren Racing in Formula 1 racing).

    c. Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society
 Our contribution to the community and society is reflected in aim H, primarily achieved via the
 School’s impact strategy (see section 1d). Evidence of the reach of our work into the research
 base, economy and society are exemplified by the following examples:
    • Play trampolines design and safety (see Impact Case Study). A partnership was
        developed with Plum Products Ltd, the world’s leading manufacturer of trampolines for
        the toy and leisure industry. The initial work on human interaction with trampolines

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        demonstrated potential methods of monitoring the safety specifications of trampolines
        with the aim of improving safety. This work formed the basis of a £224,835 KTP funded
        by the government’s Innovate-UK scheme.
    •   Police health and wellbeing (see Impact Case Study). Our outreach
        research found that wellbeing through GP Exercise Referral Schemes, although
        successful, was restrained by structural issues and, importantly, by ineffective
        interactions between various stakeholders. The Police force was experiencing analogous
        teething-problems with its wellness initiatives, and subsequently recruited staff from the
        School to apply research-based evidence to improve the structure and success of the
        well-being initiative. Police management has found this highly successful, and has
        subsequently provided follow-on funding to buy in School support, including vis-a-
        vis rolling out findings nationally.
    •   Load-bearing clothing. Through a partnership with Arktis Endurance Textiles Ltd, our
        aim is to use scientific principles and biomechanical analysis techniques to enhance the
        research and development process for police, military and outdoor load-bearing
        equipment, principally with measureable benefits of improving performance and reducing
        injury risk. This work is facilitated through a £261,009 KTP that commenced in 2020.
    •   Addressing loneliness in rural areas. In rural-isolated areas, there is a propensity for
        certain social groups to experience loneliness and social isolation. Through
        a £50,833 grant from Community Lincs in 2019, our research was to investigate a range
        of initiatives around physical activity to combat loneliness and social isolation in
        rural Lincolnshire.
    •   Biomechanical research on elite canoeists. This has two main facets. The first, in
        conjunction with total funding of £84,000 (in equal parts from GB Canoeing, English
        Institute of Sport and University of Lincoln) was to fund a doctoral student. The
        project involved biomechanical research to: address coaches’ understanding and
        applications of biomechanics; investigate the benefits of boat, crew and other equipment
        benefits, and; specifically to investigate changes in paddle set-up on performance. The
        second facet has been physiological, whereby the GB development squad, funded by
        £3,334 from GB Canoeing, has undergone periodic laboratory performance
        assessments. This has led to evaluating the efficacy of both training and measurements,
        which coaches have used to modify their training practices.
    •   Leading a Food Strategy for the City of Lincoln. Through competitive internal
        funds (£43,342), the School led a multidisciplinary consortium researching the role that
        food has to play in food security/management and health. The strategy resulting from the
        research was adopted by the City of Lincoln Council, and has been used to inform the
        operation of local and regional groups such as the East Midlands Regional Big Food
        Project, Lincoln Food Partnership, and the Lincoln Food Summit.
    •   Knee surgery effectiveness via multi-site research. In collaboration with United
        Lincolnshire Hospitals NHS Trust, Portsmouth Hospitals NHS Trust and University of
        Portsmouth, a multi-site study was established to investigate biomechanical measures
        that could aid surgeons in refining operations and improving prognosis. This was initiated
        through the competitive internal Research Investment Fund for a post-doctorate
        (£44,384) and the external University Alliance provided through the University’s Lincoln
        Institute for Health funding for a doctoral student (£60,000). One doctoral
        student has completed, one external doctorate is ongoing, and further national
        sites for this longitudinal study are being negotiated. Arranging such a multi-site study
        was a success, hence further multi-site studies are being explored with additional
        partners.
    •   Assessing benefits of physical activity on Macmillan Cancer Support. With
        Macmillan as the UK’s leading cancer charity, a partnership agreement between the
        charity and the University was signed in 2013 for the University to coordinate activities
        across three key areas of volunteering, student experience, and research. The School
        has been integral in this partnership, including through £9,600 to deliver research on the
        benefits of physical activity and evaluation of delivery of such schemes across the
        UK. The impact from this partnership features in an impact case study with collaborators
        in Allied Health (UoA3).

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Contributing to the wider academic base nationally and internationally. This has been
 achieved by staff contributing to a range of activities, including: external doctoral
 supervision (e.g. University of Portsmouth; University of Exeter; De Montfort University; Cardiff
 Metropolitan University; Ping Inc, USA; English Institute of Sport); external advising and
 research council reviewing (e.g. Economic and Social Research Council; Wellcome Trust;
 National Institute for Social Care & Health Research, Wales); editorships and editorial board
 membership (e.g. Sociology; Sociology of Sport Journal; International Review for the Sociology
 of Sport; Qualitative Research in Sport, Exercise & Health; Journal of Contemporary
 Ethnography; Sociological Research Online; Leisure Studies); external MD and PhD
 examining (e.g. Universities of Brighton, Hull, Newcastle, Salford and Western Australia,
 and The Open University and Leeds Beckett University); invited professional expertise (e.g.
 British Psychological Society assessor for Chartered Sport and Exercise Psychologists); invited
 speakers (e.g. Caribbean High Performance Summit; webinar to the discipline’s professional
 body, the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences; keynote at
 the Physiological Society); consultant (e.g. work of the Gatorade Sports Science Institute at
 Manchester City Women’s Football Club), and; positions within professional
 organisations (e.g. Continual Professional Development Representative for the Division of
 Biomechanics and Motor Control, British Association of Sport and Exercise Science; Member of
 the Scientific Committee, International Society of Biomechanics in Sport).

 Contributions to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) agenda have been pursued
 by several researchers through mechanisms including: national and
 international committee leadership, mentorship and membership (e.g. Joint Lead for
 Equality and Diversity on the Football Collective’s management board; mentor for the Women in
 Sport and Exercise Academic Network (WiSEAN); member of the Poundbury clinic for Women in
 Exercise Research (POWER) group, affiliated to the National Institute of Women’s Health and
 Performance (NIWHP); member of the diversity committee for the North American Society for
 the Sociology of Sport conference); authoring EDI strategies (e.g. for the UK Football
 Collective); hosting international visiting scholars for gender research (e.g. from University of
 Tasmania), and; international partnering in funded research (e.g. Supporting Women in
 Achieving their Goals, (SWinG), which involves investigating a pan-European Mentoring
 Programme for Sports ERASMUS+ funded programmes). SWinG provides mentoring by
 industry experts to support women’s movement into positions in sports governance globally, with
 our research examining participants’ experiences of the programme and perceptions of its
 effectiveness.




                                                                                           Page 14
