Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Durham University

 Unit of assessment: Biological Sciences (UOA5)

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Plans are accurate at the time of writing, contingent on impacts of the pandemic falling within
 current expectations. Further details are in the 'Institutional-level statement on COVID-19’.

 1.1 Executive summary and context
 The vision for biosciences research at Durham is to focus on fundamental and cross-disciplinary
 science underpinning global challenges in climate change, food security, global health,
 sustainable bio-manufacturing, biodiversity and replacing animal models in research. The
 cohesive and distinctive theme across our research portfolio is that of 'sustainability'. This
 strategy has been strengthened through investment in 21 outstanding new staff appointments in
 priority sub-disciplines, new research equipment and geographical consolidation of research in
 Durham City. This submission represents 49.2 FTE staff from the Department of Biosciences
 (formerly the School of Biological and Biomedical Sciences), located either in a Biosciences
 building, or embedded in the nearby Chemistry Department to promote a key objective of
 interdisciplinary innovation. Our research informs undergraduate Biological Sciences B.Sc. and
 M.Biol. degrees that enjoy entrants with a minimum of AAA grades (without clearing). The co-
 delivery of research-led teaching, aligned to the aspirations of exceptional students, promotes a
 broad-based, sustainability-centred research strategy, informed by scientific advances and
 national and international priorities.

 Our environment promotes cross-disciplinary working (e.g., via Durham's Research Institutes and
 Centres; https://www.dur.ac.uk/research/institutes/ and co-location of some staff with Chemistry),
 and underpins economic and social impact in ecosystems management, biotechnology,
 agritechnology and health.

 In 2014 the Department reorganised its research into four groupings to promote staff interactions
 and the strategy summarised above:

    ●   Ecology, Evolution & Environment (EEE)
    ●   Molecular Plant Sciences (MPS)
    ●   Animal Cells & Systems (ACS)
    ●   Biomolecular Interactions (BMI)

 Discoveries include:

    ●   that global climate change has driven population change in birds;
    ●   the connectors between the cytoskeleton and other plant structures;
    ●   a novel signalling pathway for skin wound healing;
    ●   the mechanism for correct metalation of ̴ half of the reactions of life.

 Summary of impact

 Our staff:

    ●   co-formed two companies and enabled the sale for merger of one other;
    ●   were granted >50 patents;
    ●   helped to maintain and to restore biodiversity in aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems;
    ●   influenced policy in 194 nations preventing millions of cases of vector-borne disease.
1.2 Research structures
To promote cross-disciplinary research, the Department engages with discussion groups,
research centres, institutes, networks and initiatives via the Bio-X network (where X is any
discipline other than biology: https://www.dur.ac.uk/research/bioeconomy/; Section 1.2.5).

Research is overseen by a Director of Research (DoR) via a Research Management Committee
(RMC), which includes a Director of Facilities and Infrastructure (DoF), the Director of
Postgraduate Studies (DoP), Director of Impact (DoI) and a representative from each of the
Research Groupings (RG; Section 2.1). The RMC reports to an Executive led by the Head of
Department (HoD), which in turn answers to a Board of Studies (BoS) where all academic,
teaching, postgraduate, undergraduate and research staff are represented. A contract researcher
and a research staff coordinator (RSC) report to meetings of a Research Staff Forum, which
allows PDRAs to discuss any concerns with academic staff and report to the BoS.

Individuals with delegated responsibilities for equality and diversity, ethics, outreach, health and
safety also report to the BoS. The Executive and BoS coordinate the planning of research and
teaching and include representation from all relevant committees. The Department receives
strategic advice on research, education and appointments from an External Advisory Board with
representatives from academia (Profs. Rob Freckleton, Alison Smith FRS, Martin Warren, Fiona
Watt FRS (recently stepped down)), and from industry (Prof. Mark Carver). Each member of staff
has a primary home in one of four RGs (Table 2), which organise seminar series, run research
away-days, manage joint research facilities, provide staff and PhD student mentoring, identify
strategic priorities for staff recruitment, oversee internal peer review of funding applications and
nucleate larger research programs.
 a.                                               b.
          Departmental research groupings (RG)           Board of Studies       Research Staff Forum

             EEE      MPS       ACS   BMI
                                                            Executive           External Advisory Board

                                                                                Infrastructure Committee
             Collaborative structures (BioX)           Research Management
                                                            Committee           Postgraduate Committee
                   Institutes    Centres                                        Director of Impact


                                                 DU Research & Innovation Service        External Networks

Figure 1. Research organisation (a) and management (b).


1.2.1 Ecology, Evolution and Environment (EEE)
This grouping is uncovering relationships between organisms and their changing environment,
at scales from global (range changes) to sub-cellular (genetic traits), whilst considering
behavioural and evolutionary plasticity. The purpose is to understand the drivers of biodiversity
and hence the ecological impacts of human activity. The EEE grouping has helped to improve
the management of aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems to benefit biodiversity and/or human
health (REF 3).

EEE works with Non-governmental Organisations (NGOs) (Birdlife International, Kew, RSPB),
governmental, and supranational organisations (eUNEP, Environment Agency, DEFRA)
(Section 4). Staff explore:

      ●   the impact of environmental change, particularly global climatic change and
          anthropogenic factors, on populations (Willis, Stephens, Baxter, Dawson, Lucas);


                                                                                                             2
   ●   the role of evolution in shaping species’ relationships with their environment (Hoelzel,
       Drury, Welch);
   ●   the role of behaviour in modifying individual variation (Twiss, Drury);
   ●   the impacts of manipulating ecological systems for human benefit (biofuels, Bothwell;
       disease, Lindsay).

Since 2014, Dawson and Drury joined the group as Assistant Professors, Chomicki and Welch
as Fellows. Core research hubs within the group include the Conservation Ecology Group (Willis,
Stephens, Dawson, Drury) and the Molecular Ecology Group (Hoelzel, Welch, Bothwell). Both
groups make extensive use of Durham’s high-performance computing cluster, while the
Molecular Ecology Group is an intensive user of the Department’s genomic sequencing facilities
(Section 3.2).

Predicting scenarios by modelling
A major focus is modelling natural systems to predict future scenarios. For example, Willis used
contemporary models of species-climate interactions to infer future threats (PNAS 2019 52
13294-23299). To inform new conservation strategies resilient to a changing world, the group
applies simulation models to predict impacts on biodiversity. Dawson identified global hotspots
of alien species’ richness across multiple taxonomic groups (Nat. Eco. Evol. 2017 1 e0186) and
has explored global exchanges of non-native plants (Nature 2015 525 100-103). Statistical and
mechanistic models, especially spatially and/or temporally explicit models of ecological and
evolutionary processes, are being developed and applied to predict the responses of species and
ecosystems to environmental change. Stephens and Willis demonstrated a widespread
response of common bird species across two sub-continents to recent climate change (Science
2016 352 84-87). Lindsay demonstrated the impact of house design, changing housing
conditions in Africa and the utility of bed nets in limiting the Anopheles mosquito-borne spread of
malaria (Lancet 2015 385 1436-46; Lancet 2018 392 569-580; Nature 2019 568:391-394).

Evolution research
Relationships between genetic diversity, drift, fitness and local adaptation are used to investigate
evolutionary process and define evolutionarily significant units for conservation. For example,
Hoelzel used genomic data to demonstrate ongoing selection across the
mesopelagic/bathypelagic boundary in a deep-sea fish (Nat. Ecol. Evol. 2018 2 680-87). At the
interface with the MPS grouping, Bothwell has used genomic approaches to uncover the genetic
basis of multicellularity in the Ulva lineage (Curr. Biol. 2018 28 2921-2933), filling large omissions
in the tree of life.

EEE group impact
The research has wide-ranging impact, including:

   ●   influencing waterway management (Lucas: Nature 2020 588, 436-441);
   ●   deployment of insecticide-impregnated bed nets in Africa (Lindsay);
   ●   producing biodiversity indices for global use by, for example, the Convention on Biological
       Diversity (CDB) and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (Willis, Stephens)
       (Section 4.2);

1.2.2 Molecular Plant Sciences (MPS)
The MPS grouping is housed in laboratories next to extensive plant growth facilities, and works
to understand plant development, evolution and responses to the environment. Durham has a
long-standing record of research in plant sciences leading to agritechnology impact and
innovation - for example, the transgenic cotton line SGK 321 expressing the cowpea trypsin
inhibitor (CpTI), developed in Durham in the 1980s, was approved for commercial use in China
(a case study in REF2014) and Bt/CpTI cotton continues to be cultivated on a commercial scale.
Ongoing MPS research similarly underpins agritechnology, including cotton research with

                                                                                                         3
partners in China (Lindsey: Nat. Gen. 2017 49, 579-587; Nat. Gen. 2018 51, 224-229; Sections
1.2.5, 4.1).

New appointments

There has been a significant injection of new staff into MPS in the form of five-year research
fellowships (Fitches, De Lucas, Etchells, Chivasa and Brennan), all gaining permanent
positions (Section 2.6). H Knight was also recruited to Assistant Professor (then promoted to
Associate Professor) from a Senior Demonstrator position. Rapidly establishing her own group,
she has determined the role of specific Mediator subunits in regulating genes required for freezing
tolerance in plants (Plant Cell 2014 26 465-484).

Tackling global food security

To accelerate impact, DCCIT (Section 1.2.5) joined a five-year Agrifood Resilience Programme,
co-funded by HEFCE (£8M) and the N8 Universities (£8M), to tackle the challenge of global food
security through three themes (Section 4.1). Durham MPS forms part of the “Sustainable Food
Production” theme, providing opportunity for collaborative research between Durham and other
N8 University and industrial partners.

Plant development research

Work on the molecular and cellular basis of plant development (Lindsey, Etchells, de Lucas
and Liu) has provided insights into the regulation of embryogenesis and root development
through hormonal control (Lindsey and Liu), vascular differentiation and development
(Etchells) (Curr. Biol. 2015 25 1050-1055, Plant Cell 2020 32: 319–335 cover article) and
epigenetic regulation of cell-specific gene expression in cellular differentiation (de Lucas) (Plant
Cell 2016 28 2616-2631). Hussey visualises the dynamics of plant cell structures in exquisite
detail (Section 3.2). Multiple MPS staff study plant tolerance to abiotic and biotic stresses and
help to develop crop protection technologies: This includes research on signalling via second
messengers, posttranslational modification and control of gene expression in abiotic stress (H
Knight, Sadanandom and M Knight) (Plant Cell 2014 26 465-484, Science 2018 362 1407-
1410), responses to microbial pathogens (Sadanandom) and crop protection against
invertebrate pests (Fitches) (The Plant Cell 2018 30: 2099-2115).

1.2.3 Animal Cells and Systems (ACS)
The ACS grouping studies diverse cellular models with emphasis on in vitro cultures and non-
mammalian systems. A series of strategic appointments (Clark, Doupé, Riabinina, Davies,
Croset and Bazopoulou) has, with Weinkove, created critical mass in invertebrate systems and
especially Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster. This new grouping interacts,
and/or shares facilities, including a recently extended insectary (Section 2.5), with others working
on plant-insect interactions (Fitches, MPS), insects as disease vectors (Lindsay, EEE), and
vector-borne parasites (Denny, BMI). ACS has created two spin out companies and sold on a
third as part of a merger to create a new company, furthering animal-free research (Section 4.2;
REF 3). As examples of ACS research:

   ●   Doupé studies epithelial stem cell regulation in the Drosophila intestine. He combines
       genetic screens, bioimaging and genomics, revealing coordinated cell migration from
       seemingly chaotic movement (Nat. Comms. 2017 8: 14905, PNAS 2018 115 12218-
       12223).
   ●   Clark studies host-microbe interactions during ageing in the Drosophila intestine. She
       has a particular interest in the impact of the intestinal microbial population on physiology
       and age-related decline in epithelial permeability at three-way cell junctions (Nat. Cell Biol.
       2017 19 52-59).

                                                                                                         4
   ●   Weinkove combines C. elegans host genetics with that of its E. coli microflora and has
       developed automated techniques, leading to a spinout company (Section 4.2).
   ●   Riabinina is exploring sensory processing in Drosophila via genetics, behavioural
       assays, neuroanatomy, electrophysiology, functional imaging and computation. The
       discovery of an intestinal zinc sensor that modulates Drosophila growth and development
       (Nature 2020 580: 263-268), has tantalising implications for the notion that zinc acts as a
       master regulator. Her work offers new approaches to malaria control by complementing
       the epidemiological work of Lindsay (EEE) on the ecology of flies and the control of
       vector-borne disease (Table 5).
   ●   The most recent recruits, Davies, Croset and Bazopoulou, joined in 2020 (Section 2.5).

Exemplary imaging facilities are a mainstay of the ACS group (Section 3.2), enabling Goldberg
to visualise, for example, detailed interactions between the cytoskeleton and vesicles during
endocytosis (Curr. Biol. 2015 25 868-878). Quinlan (Section 4.3) uses a multiplicity of imaging
modalities to characterise structures within the eye, with emphasis on the cytoskeleton and
chaperones.

ACS has an additional focus on cell and tissue biotechnology incorporating tissue engineering
and the application of in vitro models and biomarkers of health and disease. A feature is new
ex vivo skin models (Jahoda, Przyborski, Benham, Karakesisoglou and Maatta), especially
for use in conjunction with Procter and Gamble (P&G; Sections 1.4, 4.2), with the over-arching
purpose of replacing animal testing. Ambler has uncovered how signals between basal
epithelial and dermal layers reorganise the composition of skin in wound healing (Nat. Comms.
2016 7 11394).

1.2.4 Biomolecular Interactions (BMI)
The BMI group work at the Biology-Chemistry interface, aided by location within the Department
of Chemistry, and use chemical, biochemical, and biophysical methods to understand:

   ●   pathogen-host interactions, with protozoan parasites, bacteria and viruses;
   ●   the handling of metals in biology, including enzyme metalation and nutritional immunity;
   ●   other types of post translational protein modification, especially carbamylation.

Djoko is one of a group of BMI academics, including Robinson, Young and Chivers,
specialising in Metals in Biology research (Nat. Chem. Biol., 2017 13 409-414; Nature, 2018 543
78-82; Nat. Chem. Biol., 2019 15 241–249), that benefit from interactions with bio-inorganic
chemists and that direct a BBSRC Network in Industrial Biotechnology and Bioenergy (NIBB)
driving impact in sustainable biomanufacturing (Sections 4.1, 4.2). Organisms sense change in
carbon dioxide concentrations but the primary sensors and extent of detection through protein
carbamylation have largely remained enigmatic due to its ephemeral nature. Working with
Hodgson and O’Donnoghue (Chemistry), Cann used triethyloxonium tetrafluoroborate to
covalently trap CO2 for proteomic detection (Nat. Comms., 2018 9 3092). Cann also led the
Journal of Biological Chemistry plant biology paper of the year (http://www.jbc.org/site/vi/2018/)
by establishing how a transcription factor allows an otherwise nonspecific DNA-binding protein
to specifically confer viral resistance. The previous identification of the DNA-binding protein by
Cann (J. Biol. Chem., 2015 290 24945-24960) also featured in a special issue devoted to the
best plant biology in this journal from 2015-2017.

A common focus of several programmes at the Biology-Chemistry interface (Sharples, Djoko,
Blower, Denny, Pohl plus collaborators Cobb, Sandford, Steel, Badyal, McGonigal, Walton,
Whiting and Williams from the Department of Chemistry) is to identify targets for antimicrobial
(including antiviral) compounds. New recruits Blower and Djoko are working towards the
development of bio-active compounds to tackle antimicrobial resistance. Back-to-back articles by
Blower reported the visualization of fluoroquinolone antibiotics locking bacterial topoisomerases
into partly inactive states, a molecular interaction that is impaired in enzymes from antibiotic-
resistant strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (PNAS 2016 113 1706-1713; PNAS 2016 113
                                                                                                     5
E839-E846). A fluoroquinolone was discovered with increased complex stability against
antibiotic-resistant topoisomerases, and related moxifloxacin is already part of a promising three-
drug trial. Blower swiftly took advantage of co-location with Walton (Department of Chemistry)
to jointly discover modes of action of bioactive ruthenium-complexes that inhibit histone
deacetylases (ChemPlusChem 2016 81 1276-1280). Djoko has developed metal-related
antimicrobials and has advanced understanding of the interplay between copper fluxes and pH
fluxes in response to host nutritional immunity (PNAS 2017 114 6818-6823). Denny has been
instrumental in securing an £8M MRC-GCRF award to tackle the scourge of parasitic vector-
borne ill-health (Section 4.1).

BMI research underpins impact in;

   ●   the development of bioactive antimicrobial compounds;
   ●   sustainable biomanufacturing (clean growth).


1.2.5 Structures promoting interdisciplinary research
The nature of Durham University, with its college system, location within a compact city, its scale
and internal structure is suited to fostering collaboration across traditional discipline boundaries.
Seven Research Institutes bring together staff from Departments in the Faculties of Science,
Social Sciences and Arts & Humanities, either virtually or in shared space, with commitments to
common research questions (REF5a/2.2). Institutes most relevant to biosciences are: the
Biophysical Sciences Institute; Durham Energy Institute; Institute for Hazard, Risk and
Resilience; and the Wolfson Institute for Health and Wellbeing. Institutes provide small scale
funding to support bursaries, meetings and project seed-corn.

As noted earlier, most of the BMI grouping is embedded in laboratory space within Durham's
Department of Chemistry (Section 2.1); this initiative actively promotes collaboration at the
Chemistry-Biology interface while retaining close links to the Department of Biosciences for line-
management, teaching and administration. There are particularly close interactions with a
Bioactive Chemistry and Synthesis grouping. BMI staff direct three networks driving the
exploitation of this research in biotechnology (Sections 4.1, 4.2).

Table 1. Major engagement with University Institutes and Centres

 Biophysical              Institute of Hazard      Durham Energy            Wolfson Research
 Sciences Institute       Risk and Resilience      Institute (DEI)          Institute for Health
 (BSI)                    (IHR2)                                            & Wellbeing (WRI)
 With Physics,            With Geography,   With Earth Sciences,            With Anthropology,
 Chemistry,               Applied Social    Geography,                      Psychology,
 Mathematics,             Sciences, Earth   Chemistry, Physics,             Chemistry, Law,
 Engineering,             Sciences          Engineering,                    Philosophy,
 Computer Science                           Computer Science,               Geography
                                            Business School
 BMI, ACS            EEE                    MPS, EEE               ACS, BMI
 Durham Centre for   Durham Centre for      Behavioural            Centre for Global
 Crop Improvement    Bioimaging             Ecology and            and Infectious
 Technology (DCCIT) Technology (DCBIT) Evolution Research Disease (CGID)
                                            Centre (BEER)
 MPS, EEE, BMI       ACS, MPS               EEE                    BMI
BMI, ACS, EEE, MPS represent the dominant Departmental groups involved (Section 2.1)

The University supports Centres (more focused than Institutes) that traverse Departmental
boundaries and four are closely aligned with Biosciences (Table 1). DCBIT is a designated
European Plant Cell Imaging Hub and provides exemplary imaging facilities adjacent to the
Integrative Cell Biology Laboratories (ICBL) (Section 3.2.1). DCCIT has been described in
                                                                                                        6
Section 1.2.2. CGID coordinates research in Biological Chemistry with relevance to combatting
infections and is involved in steering the MRC global network to combat neglected tropical
diseases (Section 4.1). BEER integrates EEE research in Biosciences predominantly with Earth
Sciences, Anthropology and Geography.

1.3 REF 2014 plans

As planned in REF 2014, the Department has sustained a vigorous campaign to recruit, support
and retain staff of the highest quality in priority areas, developing multi-skilled teams focused on
questions related to adaptation and environment, biomolecular interactions, crop improvement,
cell structure, development and regeneration, all of which map closely to the new research
groups and centres (Sections 1.2, 2.1). It has been possible to exceed expectations in realising
the DCCIT strategy to establish collaborative research programs with end-users in agricultural
biotechnology and seed industries, through the N8-AgriFood program (Section 4.1) and plans
to develop a multidisciplinary research hub focused around industrial biotechnology was realised
through the Durham-led phase 1 and phase 2 BBSRC NIBB (Section 4.2).

1.4 Mechanisms promoting impact and responsible research and innovation (RRI)

A central Research and Innovation Services (RIS) promotes research commercialisation,
supports engagement with stakeholders and provides advice in relation to research ethics
(REF5a/4.4). Through RIS, staff within this submission established more than 80 funded links
with industrial partners during this REF cycle, sustained existing spin out companies, for example
via mergers and acquisitions, and initiated further spinout companies (Section 4.2). A facilities
coordinator and business liaison manager within the Department of Biosciences promote
interactions with RIS and with external stakeholders, for example via workshops.

The Department has an industrialist on its external advisory board (Mark Carver, former Chief
Scientific Officer of Avecia Biologics, Senior Vice-President Research, Development and
Innovation for Fujifilm Diasynth Biotechnologies), and has appointed two Professors in Practice
(Elena Lurie-Luke, former Head of Global Life Sciences Open Innovation at Procter and Gamble
(P&G); and Adriana Botes, former Senior Manager at the Centre for Process Innovation and
entrepreneur), fostering industry interactions. Funded networks (EPSRC Physics of Life, BBSRC
NIBB) drive collaboration with industry to advance research along the technology readiness
levels and (MRC NTD and BOVA) promote engagement with policy makers and other
stakeholders (Table 5). Durham University has an extensive strategic partnership with P&G
(Section 4.2), enabling the swift execution of collaboration agreements, non-disclosure
arrangements and memoranda of understanding.

The Department of Biosciences takes advantage of Institution-level training and support for RRI,
ethics, integrity, open access and open data (REF5a/2.4). PhD training programmes (Table 3),
and networks (Table 5) also provide bespoke RRI training. In addition, the Department has
bioethics and safety committees, and mentors are assigned to all staff, including postdoctoral
research assistants and PhD students. Mentors are independent of supervisors to provide a
conduit for confidential reporting of any concerns relating to ethics, safety, open research or
research integrity; the bioethics and safety committees provide a second such route. The
emergence of post-publication peer review platforms has brought research integrity into focus
and this is an issue that Biosciences monitors closely. Staff are encouraged to make all
background data available online and to use pre-publication platforms, such as BioRχiv.

1.5 Impact strategy

Durham Biosciences is committed to the translation of fundamental science into impact and has
support structures to promote this (Section 1.6), including a designated academic Director of

                                                                                                       7
Impact (Lindsay) to develop strategy, the strategic use of research leave and institutional
support, including funding (REF5a/2.5).

Impact is recognised and valued in the staff promotion process. The selected case studies
(REF3) exemplify our impact in internationally important areas that include ecosystems
management (climate change, aquatic animals), biotechnology, and health and wellbeing at
interfaces with Ecology (vector control) and Chemistry (tissue engineering; Section 1.6). A series
of potential impact studies are in the pipeline for future development. In REF 2014 a case study
exemplified agritechnology, and of the 18 nascent case studies (which form our future impact
strategy) several in agritechnology are swiftly moving along the technology readiness levels
guided by DCCIT and the N8 AgriFood programme. For example, in 2018 Sadanandom was
awarded patent PCT/EP2017/057333 jointly with KWS Plant Breeders Ltd to optimise plant
immunity allied to nitrogen uptake. Under a licensing agreement, KWS are collaborating in field
trials of winter wheat varieties screened in Durham. In 2019, these trials attracted funding from
the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for a pilot study to enhance nitrogen use efficiency in wheat,
in support of increased yield in low to middle-income countries. Fitches and Sadanandom lead
a £10M Innovate UK project in insect biotechnology.

1.6 Development of impact case studies
Mechanisms to support impact are apparent in the development of the case studies:

Tissue Engineering
RIS (REF5a/4.4) supported initial IP protection, formation of spin-out Reinnervate and its merger
with Biopta to form Reprocell Europe in 2016 and negotiated finance from NorthStar Equity and
Park Walk Investors. A commercial terms agreement enabled Przyborski to buy-out his time 40-
60%, 5 years, to develop the business. Durham’s strategic partnership with P&G fostered
multiple, funded collaborations and leveraged RCUK funds.

Vector control
Workload management provided Lindsay with six months’ research leave to draft the global
vector control policy with the WHO, RIS supported the acquisition of VC funding and negotiated
IP for forthcoming commercialisation.

Climate change
Workload management granted six months’ research leave for Willis to liaise with organisations
using outputs of climate impact modelling. Seedcorn funding was awarded to test the application
of models at scale.

Aquatic animals
University Research Impact Funding supported a consultant to assist negotiations with water
management authorities and businesses, while workload management agreed 12 months’
research leave for Lucas.

1.7 Summary of future impact strategy
Our strategy to drive future impact:

    ●   Aligns with our basic research strengths;
    ●   Is related to priority areas in Ecosystems, Agritechnology, Biotechnology and Health
        (Figure 2);
    ●   Exploits our extensive networks (Section 4.1) and engagement with industry and society
        (Section 4.2);
    ●   Will be supported by new staff appointments, infrastructure and facilities through the
        departmental and institutional mechanisms described (Sections 1.5, 1.6, 3.3).

                                                                                                     8
Section 2. People

2.1 Staff affiliations to research groupings
Table 2. Departmental groupings

 Ecology, Evolution      Molecular Plant          Animal Cells and         Biomolecular
 and Environment EEE     Sciences MPS             Systems ACS              Interactions BMI

 Robert Baxter MPS       Adrian Brennan* EEE      Carrie Ambler            Tim Blower* c

 John Bothwell MPS       Stephen Chivasa*         Adam Benham BMI          Martin Cann MPS c

 Guillaume Chomicki*     Peter Etchells*          Paul Chazot              Peter Chivers c

 Wayne Dawson*           Elaine Fitches*          Rebecca Clark*           Paul Denny c

 Jonathan Drury*         Patrick Hussey BMI       Tim Davies*              Karrera Djoko* c

 A Rus Hoelzel           Heather Knight           David Doupé*             Sushma Grellscheid

 Steve Lindsay ACS       Marc Knight EEE          Martin Goldberg BMI      (Ehmke Pohl) c

 Martyn Lucas            Keith Lindsey BMI        Colin Jahoda             Nigel Robinson MPS c

 Philip Stephens         Junli Liu                Akis Karakesisoglou      Martin Schröder

 Sean Twiss              Miguel de Lucas*         Arto Maatta              Gary Sharples c

 Andreanna Welch*        Ari Sadanandom           Stefan Przyborski        Tessa Young* c

 Stephen Willis                                   Susan Pyner              Brian Suarez-
                                                                           Mantilla* c
                                                  Roy Quinlan BMI

                                                  Olena Riabinina*

                                                  David Weinkove

                                                  Vincent Croset*

                                                  Daphne Bazopoulou*

EEE MPS ACS BMI Secondary affiliations: *ECR when appointed since 2013: Name in
parenthesis submitted to UOA8: C Housed in laboratories embedded within the Department of
Chemistry.

2.2 Staffing strategy and staff development
Since the last REF submission, there has been a net increase in the number of FTEs from 39 to
49.2, to build research strength and generate critical mass in specific areas. The focus has been
on ECR appointments (Assistant Professor-level; 41% female and ten nationalities in the REF
period), to build careers, and sustained vitality is evidenced by a similar mean staff age (48.7 in
2020; 48.4 in 2013) despite the passage of seven years.




                                                                                                      9
Appointments
Newly appointed academic staff include Blower, Clark, Davies, Dawson, Djoko, Doupé, Drury,
Fitches, Riabinina, Croset and Bazopoulou; plus, Brennan, Chivasa, Etchells and
Grellscheid who were submitted to REF 2014 as Fellows, along with Heather Knight who was
submitted as Senior Demonstrator; most are now appointed to open-ended academic contracts.
Chomicki, De Lucas, Welch and Young joined as Fellows (De Lucas now permanent), while
the research of six staff (Ambler, Lucas, Schröder, Sharples, Pyner, Twiss) who were not
submitted for REF 2014 has benefited from newly introduced research structures and systems
of mentoring (setting of clearly defined targets; five have had research leave). Ten staff left (nine
were submitted in REF 2014) and one individual with a joint appointment in Chemistry (Pohl) is
submitted to UOA8.

Drivers for recruitment
Academic staff recruitment strategy is by fit to research areas, the quality of past performance
and future promise. Recruitment also recognises the need to sustain a spectrum of sub-
disciplines that match student interests and needs, including for undergraduate and masters-level
projects. Since 2013, ~90% of the Department's graduates entered employment (including in
biosciences-related jobs) or further study within 12 months, with ~30 % graduating to bioscience-
related masters and PhD programmes.

Probation, progression, promotion
A University-wide shortened (12 months) probation period was introduced during this REF period
for all newly appointed academic staff, reflecting our emphasis on the quality of the initial
recruitment process. All staff complete annual written progression and promotion reviews with
feedback, to support career development (REF5a/3.2). Promotion criteria are transparent, and
staff are actively encouraged to seek promotion. Twenty-one academic staff have been promoted
in the census period.

Mentoring and training operate at the Departmental level through individual mentors and
workshops focusing on new developments, and at the Institutional level via courses on, for
example, grant writing, research management, open access and data management (REF5a/2.4).
A credit-based workload model, managed by the Head of Department, recognises and rewards
staff for carrying out research and for achieving impact, and provides balance in research,
teaching and administrative duties.

2.2.1 Fixed-term postdoctoral researchers
Relevant Concordats guide supervision of postdoctoral researchers, for example, Support the
Career Development of Researchers, in which staff are trained. Postdoctoral researchers are
affiliated to the Departmental RGs, through which they organise seminar series. Postdoctoral
researchers deliver presentations to the entire Department at annual research away-days and
become members of research centres and research institutes, facilitating the delivery of seminars
to multidisciplinary audiences. Postdoctoral staff are offered staff development courses, given
opportunities to engage in (modest amounts of) teaching. They are assigned mentors to assist
with career development in addition to advice provided by supervisors. After two years
postdoctoral contract, researchers are enrolled in the same departmental promotion and
progression annual review as academic staff. Representation is provided via the Research Staff
Forum (Section 1.2).

 For all staff, the Department has a weekly seminar series with external speakers. Research
Institutes and Centres also host speakers.

2.3 Postgraduate environment
Postgraduate study by research in Biosciences is supported by a robust infrastructure and
established programmes of training and assessment. There are typically about 100 students
                                                                                                    10
enrolled, financed by a range of funding sources with 27% non-UK, 62% female. A factor in
recruitment is international visibility, attracting students who contact staff directly and often bring
support grants (such as from the CONACYT programme in Mexico and Chile, Science Without
Borders in Brazil, and the FCT foreign studentship programme in Portugal). Funding is available
through the Durham University Doctoral Studentship programme, and University matched grant
schemes, for example with the Chinese Studentship Council. The Department has generous
levels of support from a series of externally funded Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTP) and
Centres for Doctoral Training (CDT) (Table 3), reflecting the spectrum of sub-disciplines with
which the Department engages.

BBSRC and NERC DTPs were both renewed in 2019/20 and each supports ca. six students per
year in Durham. The soft matter CDT includes a sub-group of students working at the interface
between Biosciences and Chemistry (about three each year). IAPETUS NERC DTP is led by
Durham as is the Leverhulme Trust Durham-Arctic CDT with a cohort of 15 PhD students, while
the Durham GCRF CDT funds 20 international studentships in support of GCRF-related
initiatives. In collaboration with Newcastle University, a centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) was
established in 2019 with funding from EPSRC, to train 60 PhD students over nine years in
Molecular Sciences for Medicine (MoSMED). This CDT harnesses Durham's expertise across
the natural sciences and especially those of Biosciences staff embedded within Chemistry.
Biotechnology, pharmaceuticals and related sector partners from the UK and Europe provide co-
supervision and industrial placements. Another source of studentships has been matched grants
from industry (e.g. Procter & Gamble).

Table 3. Funded PhD training partnerships with Durham Biosciences

 NLD DTP (BBSRC)          IAPETUS       environmental               MosMED            molecular
                          science DTP (NERC)                        sciences CDT (EPSRC)
 With Newcastle and       Academic partners in Scotland             With Newcastle University
 Liverpool Universities   and the North East of England
 SOFI soft matter CDT Durham Arctic (Leverhulme                     Durham UN sustainable
 (EPSRC)                  Trust)                                    goals CDT (GCRF)
 With Edinburgh and Leeds Durham only                               Durham only
 Universities

Student progression
Student progression is assessed and monitored regardless of funding source. All students
complete a training needs analysis, updated annually, and attend a series of induction
workshops, providing training in generic skills and concepts relevant to the Biosciences. Students
take at least four of an additional 12 workshops on bioscience skills. DTPs and CDTs provide
further training. Thesis committees of at least two staff, excluding the supervisor, meet with
students each year with written and oral reports. The Department makes decisions about
progression at eight months. Second-year PhD students present a poster at an annual Durham
Biosciences Postgraduate Conference. In the third year, PhD students give an oral presentation
at an annual conference. The NLD DTP students organize a yearly conference held in Durham.

The student environment is overseen by a Graduate Studies Committee, which includes a PG
student representative, further informed by the Graduate Liaison Committee, which comprises
the Director of Postgraduate Studies, the Postgraduate Secretary, and ten postgraduate students
from across the Departmental RGs and from different stages of study. One seminar series is
attended and managed by PG students as is an annual careers fair.

Prizes and wider activities
An annual prize is given to a postdoctoral researcher or PhD student in recognition of a published
paper: for example, Stuart Nelis' discovery, reported in Developmental Cell 2014 28 102-110,
that plants can control growth via 20S proteasome-targeted degradation of specific second

                                                                                                      11
messenger proteins. Posters from PG students at all levels are presented each year in lively
poster-sessions at the Departmental Research Away Day, with bursaries to support conference
attendance awarded for the best ten presentations. During the REF cycle, more than 198 papers
have been co-authored by PhD students including 15 in discovery journals. PhD students and
postdoctoral researchers regularly win prizes for poster and oral presentations at international
conferences. They have also chaired international meetings for early-stage researchers such as
the 2019 Gordon Research Seminar on the Cell Biology of Metals in Barcelona. At least 87% of
PhD students enter research posts in academia, industry or the third sector.

Postgraduate students are supported in wider activities such as the Biotechnology YES
competition (NLD DTP students were winners in 2018) and outreach (e.g. events at the Durham
Botanic     Garden;     the      BBC    Good     Food      Show,      Birmingham       NEC;
https://www.dur.ac.uk/dccit/outreach/).

2.4 Equality and diversity
The Department of Biosciences includes seven teaching-only positions, and 25% of all staff are
female (41% female appointments since 2014). The numbers of RAE/REF-eligible female staff
have grown from 2 in 2008, 4 in 2014 (versus 37 and 39 males) and now 11 (22%). The majority
of eligible staff (92% of males and 100% of females in RAE2008 and 92% of males and 75% of
females in REF2014), were submitted previously. The Department benefits from a diverse and
multicultural staff profile; this submission contains all eligible staff and includes 14 holders of non-
UK passports and five BAME staff. The Department renewed its Bronze Athena SWAN Award in
2019 and will be applying for Silver in 2022. Two female staff, including one ECR, are currently
on the departmental Executive Committee (eight members).

Meetings and seminars are scheduled to enable attendance by staff with family or caring
commitments. The Department maintains an equal gender balance amongst invited speakers
coming from a range of backgrounds, providing diverse exemplars to PGs and PDRAs. The
vibrant postgraduate community has an even gender balance. The Research Staff Forum
promotes mentoring and disseminates information regarding career opportunities. Fixed-term
contract staff enrol in a redeployment pool for six months before their contract ends, giving
preferential opportunity to apply to internal positions before external advertising.

Research leave and flexible working
All academic staff are entitled to research leave, accumulating one term's leave for every seven
terms worked. The Executive arranges cover for teaching and administrative duties. Over the
past five years, the relative number of males and females applying for leave has reflected the
numbers of eligible male and female staff. The Department is committed to supporting requests
for flexible or part-time working arrangements. Trial periods of up to 12 months may be agreed
to ensure plans are suitable. Several members of research support and academic staff currently
work part-time due to personal commitments. The University IT system facilitates flexible remote
staff working.

Before parental leave, needs are discussed with the Departmental Manager, HoD and Human
Resources. The Department offers bespoke support beyond the statutory policy, for example
arranging and funding technical support during leave. The Department has attracted and hosted
two Daphne Jackson Fellows, returning to science after long career breaks. The University
sponsors this scheme.

Diversity
Shortlisting for academic, research and support staff positions uses a scoring matrix based on
criteria in the job description. The 'Disability Confident' scheme guarantees an interview to all
disabled applicants meeting the essential criteria. For positions at Assistant Professor and above,
shortlisting requires Faculty-level approval. Interview panels have at least two male and two

                                                                                                       12
female members. All staff involved in shortlisting or interviewing are given 'Equality Diversity
Inclusivity' and 'Unconscious Bias' training.

The selection and inclusion of papers and impact case studies for REF have followed the
institutional code of practice (REF5a/3.6), based firstly on merit and then considering protected
characteristics where this increases diversity while retaining quality.

2.5 Early career researchers (ECRs)
Supporting the development and progression of early-career staff (at the time of appointment) is
a priority. In addition to the mentoring mechanisms already described (Section 2.2, REF5a/3.3),
ECR support includes a reduction in teaching or administrative workload (approaching 90%
reduction in most cases) for the first two years with some ongoing reduction for at least three
years. Use of facilities (Section 3.2) and associated technical support is provided free of charge
to ECRs. Access to facilities is also open for individuals bridging between sources of funding, but
otherwise paid-per-use at cost. Support for at least one, and often more, PhD student(s) is
provided to ECRs.

Laboratory and office space refurbishment for ECRs is a priority, exemplified by a £350k
conversion of 98.5 m2 of former teaching laboratory into research space for the nascent
invertebrate research sub-grouping (Clark, Croset, Doupé, Weinkove, Bazopoulou, Davies,
Riabinina) to include category two containment of genetically modified flying insects (Drosophila
and mosquitos) and C. elegans.

Among recent recruits, Davies has exploited C. elegans to understand how cytokinesis is
influenced by cellular context (eLIFE 7 2018), Croset has discerned cell diversity in Drosophila
from gene expression in single cells (eLIFE 7, 2018), and Bazopoulou has uncovered the
connections between ROS, histone methylation, lifespan and stress in C. elegans (Nature, 2019
576 301-305).

ECR start-up packages have exceeded £100k for consumables and equipment costs, according
to strategic need. Examples include an ACTA Protein Purification System and crystal trials robot
(Blower), containment level 2 cabinet and newly constructed office space (Djoko) and Chromium
Single Cell Sequencing (Croset).

RIS, DoR, HoD, RGs and mentors all work with ECRs to identify sources of funding, to help
prepare bids, draft responses to referees and conduct mock interviews. Institution-wide, funder-
specific liaison groups (MRC, NERC, BBSRC) offer pitch-to-peer sessions and provide feedback
to ECRs on developing plans for grant applications.

2.6 Independent research fellowships
A set of five–year University-funded fellows were recruited in this REF period to strengthen
Molecular Ecology (Section 1.2.1), and MPS (Section 1.2.2). The opportunity for these
researchers to establish their groups led, for instance, to Fitches co-discovering a novel
molecular mechanism for jasmonate signalling in response to stress (Plant Cell 2018 30 2099-
2115) and De Lucas obtaining insights into the regulation of gene expression in plant
development at both transcriptional and epigenetic levels (Nature 2015 517 571-575 and Plant
Cell 2016 28 2616-2631). Powell joined EEE on a COFUND fellowship and Chomicki on a
NERC fellowship. Recent work of Chomicki on farming-ant behaviour (PNAS 2020 117 2535-
2543) featured in a commentary in the same issue because it presents a Darwinian solution to
the problem of managing the conflicting demands of crop plants for light, nutrients and protection.

Two Daphne Jackson Fellows, Helen Thompson and Victoria Maltman, re-entered research
careers in MPS and ACS, the former having since obtained a BBSRC-funded position with
Lindsey. Arthur Glasfeld joined the BMI group on a one-year Fulbright award, Tessa Young
initially joined for 18 months on a COFUND Fellowship, then for three years on a Royal

                                                                                                    13
Commission 1851 Fellowship. Blower was awarded a Lister Prize Fellowship in 2019. A third of
Fellows obtained more secure positions in Durham Biosciences, and it is intended to (at least)
sustain this.

2.7 Plans for future staffing

The University is committed to sustaining Biosciences staff FTE numbers in the region of 50 (the
current number) by replacing an anticipated ten retirements during the next REF cycle, and
additionally making 10 to 15 more appointments (to ca 60 FTEs) to further increase research
quality and critical mass in perceived areas of strength and to create more links between RGs
(Section 2.2). All RGs have positions approved for advertising at the census date with eight posts
authorised (in November 2020) for recruitment in the current fiscal year. Outstanding staff will be
recruited to priority areas as follows:

2.7.1 Ongoing plans for EEE
Appointments post-2020 will focus on "Ecosystems Modelling" and "Molecular Ecology and
Evolution", plus especially the interconnections between these sub-disciplines, to underpin
impact concerning "Climate Change", "Biodiversity" and "Ecosystem services".

2.7.2 Ongoing plans for MPS

Appointments post-2020 will focus on "Integrative Cell Biology" (Section 3.2.1) including plant
signalling (transduction and integration), to deliver impact in "Food Security" and "Plant
Biotechnology". With effective structures in place to support the development of early-career
research staff (Section 2.5), the cohort of MPS Fellows (Section 2.6) will exert a growing
influence on the MPS research culture as they advance through permanent academic positions.

2.7.3 Ongoing plans for ACS

Appointments post-2020 will focus on "Integrative Cell Biology" (Section 3.2.1) including
invertebrate molecular cell biology and "In vitro Tissue Biology" with the strategic aim of delivering
impact in "Replacement of Animals in Research" and in "Global Health". Mentoring the career
development of staff in the nascent invertebrate cell biology group (Sections 2.5, 1.2.3) will
remain an ongoing priority.

2.7.4 Ongoing plans for BMI
Appointments post 2020 will focus on "Biological Chemistry of Molecular Interactions",
underpinning impact in "Next Generation Antimicrobials" and "Sustainable Biomanufacturing
(clean growth)". Via the Global network to combat neglected tropical diseases (Section 4.1),
chemists such as Sandford, with a track record in bringing to market fluorinated compounds to
treat eukaryotic microbial infections, will work with Denny to identify targets for combatting
leishmaniasis and Chagas disease.

2.8 Promoting exchange with business and the third sector
The University supports the preparation of non-disclosure agreements, initial costs of patent
filing to facilitate industry collaboration, and back-filling of teaching while individuals develop
spin-out companies such as Magnitude Biosciences, Reprocell Europe and LightOx (Section
4.2). Impact activity is recognised in the Departmental workload model (Section 2.2) and is
supported by University seedcorn grants (Section 1.6). Extensive networks provide routes to
engage with non-academic partners and schemes to encourage interactions are funded by,
e.g. the BBSRC NIBB and N8 AgriFood (Sections 4.1, 4.2).




                                                                                                      14
Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income
Larger scale awards have been provided by UKRI, with BBSRC as the major contributor (totalling
>£10M), while an ~£8M MRC GCRF network that involved Biosciences staff located in Chemistry
is mostly recorded on the Chemistry (UoA8) return. In fiscal year 2018/2019, the Department of
Biosciences won £5.8M in new awards (the highest to date), representing significant progress
towards a forecast of £200kFTE-p.a. by the end of the next REF cycle.

Industrial funding came from numerous start-ups and SMEs, plus major multinationals and
nationals, including Total, Procter & Gamble, Unilever, Syngenta and Northumbrian Water.
Income from industry exceeded £5.1M with P&G being the largest single industrial funder (£3.1M
to Biosciences staff since 2013). A >£1M European Research Council starter grant to
Sadanandom commenced during this REF cycle; he also leads a BBSRC sLoLa with de Lucas
(£4.5M, announced July 2020) and partners in Cambridge, Nottingham and Liverpool
universities. Large scale funding for multiple collaborative networks is described in Section 4
and recent growth in new awards is described in Section 3.3.

Priority areas such as applied ecology, conservation biology and mathematical modelling are
supported by a wide diversity of agencies, including NERC (>£1.5M and the IAPETUS DTP) and
a total of 26 other bodies, including:

   ●   BirdLife International
   ●   British Trust for Ornithology
   ●   Sir Halley Stewart Trust
   ●   British Deer Society
   ●   Natural England
   ●   RSPB
   ●   British Trust for Ornithology
   ●   Heritage Lottery Fund
   ●   Charities Aid Foundation
   ●   Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
   ●   The Environment Agency
   ●   National Geographic Society
   ●   Marine Management Organisation
   ●   Leverhulme Trust
   ●   UNEP World Conservation Monitoring Centre

Willis and Stephens have pioneered the use of Citizen Science to increase data collection to a
scale well beyond that possible with solely grant-funded staff, identifying the hallmarks of
environmental change in biodiversity pushing ecosystems towards tipping points and extinctions
(Science 2016 352 84-87; Remote Sens. Ecol. Conserv. 2018 4 361-374).

Since 2014, internal and external funding has injected about £4M into equipment managed by
the Department of Biosciences. These funds include:

   ●   £900,000 for a super-resolution microscope and £480,000 for electron microscopy;
   ●   £500,000 for a light sheet microscope for biological imaging;
   ●   £600,000 for Illumina sequencers for genomics;
   ●   £375,000 for a triple ToF mass spec for proteomics;
   ●   £310,000 for a Qtrap chromatography system for bioanalytics.

The DoF and DoR maintain a ‘pipeline’ document of new equipment needs and of ageing
equipment approaching renewal, which informs the priority order for internal and external funding
bids. The University maintains a reserve to match external equipment-funding, an annual round

                                                                                                15
of bidding for new equipment and an emergency fund to replace ageing equipment. Funding for
impact activities is considered elsewhere (Sections 1.6, 2.8, 4.1).

3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
The Department of Biosciences has outstanding core facilities, supported by excellent
Experimental Officers, strengthening grant applications and promoting strong research outputs.
These are augmented by facilities held by other departments and also accessible to UoA5 staff,
including biophysical techniques, such as high field NMR, EPR, CD- and IR-spectroscopy plus
diffractometers for small molecule crystallography. Skilled facility managers, overseen by specific
academics, operate the Departmental facilities and report to an infrastructure committee, chaired
by the DoF which in turn reports to the DoR via the Research Management committee and to the
Executive. The DoF coordinates the capture of funding from internal and external sources to
maintain and extend these facilities.

Research facilities
There are 10 research facilities in the Department of Biosciences (Table 4). These have been
used, not only by Durham researchers, but also by external collaborators from institutions in the
UK, Germany, Poland, Russia, Switzerland, USA, Austria, China, Czech Republic, Belgium,
Brazil and Spain. The facilities are also used by companies such as BioToolomics, Cambridge
Research Biochemicals, P&G, and public institutions such as Public Health England.

Table 4. Departmental core facilities

 Advanced light       Electron          Genomics            Bioinformatics     Bioanalytics
 imaging and          microscopy                            laboratory
 microscopy
 Proteomics           Crystallography   Specialised plant Advanced             Cell technology
                      and biophysical   growth            animal cell          suite
                      methods           environments      culture facility

Bioimaging
Advanced light imaging microscopies include: Super-Resolution, Structured Illumination (3D-
SIM), localisation (PALM/STORM), Airyscan Confocal Laser Scanning (CLSM), Spinning Disk
Confocal Laser (SDCLM), Multiphoton, Total Internal Reflection Fluorescence (TIRFM),
Deconvolution, Fluorescence Lifetime Imaging (FLIM) and Fluorescence Cross-Correlation
Spectroscopy (FCCS). Electron microscopy includes scanning and transmission electron
microscopes (with the highest resolution SEM that is unique to a biology Department in the UK),
advanced sample preparation, 3D imaging and high-sensitivity imaging.

More than half (58%) of the academics in this submission use the Bioimaging core facility (with
its team of technical support staff and microscopy specialists) which is central to the Durham
Centre for Bioimaging Technology (Table 1). It is one of the leading facilities in the UK in terms
of the breadth of imaging modalities, especially for Plant Science research, and is a member of
the UK-Bioimaging network of microscopy facilities. All microscopes are located in purpose-
designed space. The facility is recommended as a European node for plant and crop imaging by
an independent international evaluation board for the Eurobioimaging infrastructure programme
(ESRIC). The imaging laboratories are licensed by the Food and Environment Research Agency
to work with plant pathogens.

Since 2014 the facility has provided images for more than 70 publications. Such exceptional
facilities have made it possible, for instance, for Hussey to visualise how the Networked (NET)
superfamily of actin-binding proteins connect the cytoskeleton to other structures, for example
NET3C to the plasma membrane and endoplasmic reticulum (Curr. Biol. 2014 24 1397-1405);
how actin polymerizes to regulate autophagy in plants (Curr. Biol. 2016 26 2060-2069, highlighted
in Curr, Biol. Dispatch, R703-705); and how the plant immune response triggers cytoskeletal-
                                                                                                  16
plasma membrane connections to invaginate, strengthening the cell wall to inhibit pathogen
ingress (Curr. Biol. 2018 28 2136-2144).

Genomics, bioanalytics and proteomics
Genomics capabilities include an Applied Biosystems 3730 capillary instrument for Sanger
sequencing, an Illumina HiSeq 2500 and MiSeq for a broad range of Next Generation Sequencing
applications, allied to a Bioinformatics lab with 7 Linux workstations boasting high RAM capacity.
Bioanalytics includes Sciex 6500 hybrid triple-quad MS with Shimadzu UHPLC system, Waters
H-Class UPLC system with diode-array, fluorescence and single-quad MS (QDa) detectors,
Waters UPC2 system with diode array and single-quad MS (QDa) detectors, Shimadzu GC-MS
with single-quad mass detector, AKTA Purifier LC system with UV detector, plus preparative and
standard HPLC. Proteomics facilities include a Sciex TripleTOF 6600 mass spectrometer and
Sciex 4800 MALDI TOF/TOF mass spectrometer. A cell technology suite provides a specialised
environment for isolation and analysis of single cells, including laser capture micro-dissection,
flow cytometry and microinjection equipment and Chromium single cell sequencing technology.

Structural analysis
For the determination and analysis of molecular structures, assorted methods complement
crystallography, including techniques to study protein-ligand interactions, such as Isothermal
Titration Calorimetry, Thermal Shift Assay and Surface Plasmon Resonance. Allied to these
facilities operated by Bioscience staff embedded within Chemistry is a dedicated ICP-MS used
exclusively for elemental analyses of biological samples, plus an anaerobic chamber and
associated spectrophotometers for following metal-protein interactions.

Plant and animal growth facilities
Specialised plant growth environments include 13 walk-in growth chambers, six arctic/tropical
cabinets with humidity and carbon dioxide control, tissue culture cabinets, and 12 freestanding
cabinets. An advanced animal cell culture facility contains Ruskin flow hoods with precisely
controlled environmental conditions, vital for tissue engineering as used in one of the impact case
studies (Przyborski). These facilities have enabled impact, including from spin-out companies
LightOx, Magnitude Biosciences and Reprocell Europe (Figure 2).

Environmental field research facilities
The Department has excellent facilities to support environmental field research, delivering
impact though the citizen science initiative MammalWeb (Figure 2) and exemplified by two
impact case studies (REF3). Specialist equipment includes high precision, real-time, kinetic
GPS and high-resolution field spectroscopy, Eddy covariance measurements of methane,
carbon dioxide and energy fluxes using a tuneable diode laser instrument coupled with an
open-path infrared gas analyser and sonic anemometer, automatic weather and soil stations
for ecosystem modelling, mass spectroscopy that enables the use of rare elements and stable
isotopes as environmental tracers. At the heart of this important hub of research activity is the
University High-Performance Computing Facility (REF5a/4.3) which allows large-scale
simulations and modelling of ecological and other systems-based biological processes.

3.2.1 Buildings
The total floor area of the Biosciences building is 6343 m2 (including 676 m2 dedicated to teaching
laboratories), plus 224.5 m2 of greenhouse space, and 595.84 m² of embedded laboratories in
the Department of Chemistry. All research laboratories are serviced by facilities expected of well-
found laboratories, such as central autoclaves, centrifuges, incubators, warm- and cold-rooms,
gel-documentation systems, general biochemistry and molecular biology facilities. EEE-staff
have wet and dry labs plus storage and infrastructure for fieldwork and computing.

The Department recognises the value of research at interfaces between its RGs, for example,
commonality and specialism in animal versus plant cell biology. Several ACS and MPS staff are
                                                                                                    17
housed in the Integrative Cell Biology Laboratories (ICBL) extension to the Biosciences building,
which was added to encourage shared working and information-exchange and contains many of
the core facilities (Table 4).

3.3 Strategy for future infrastructure, income and facilities
The University has priority plans (next REF cycle) for a new-build, cross-departmental, teaching
facility that will provide state-of-the-art space for digital learning and laboratory learning. In turn,
this will vacate existing teaching laboratory space - currently housed in multiple Natural Science
Departments - which will be refurbished as research laboratory space for new staff.

Re-alignment of research to deliver impact in global priority areas (Section 1.1) is central to the
strategy to enhance future income. Expenditure (REF4b) lags behind awards and both will grow
as recently appointed ECRs establish their funding portfolios. Evidence of the success of this
strategy is the relatively higher level of grant funding in 2018/2019 (£5.8M in new awards).

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Summary of networks supporting engagement and impact
Local, national and international networking has led to multidisciplinary collaborations which
have, in turn, led to 43 Durham-based co-investigators on funded grants plus 23 co-investigators
from outside Durham, during the census period. Outputs have been co-authored with
collaborators from over 820 institutions across 71 countries, equating to 77% of outputs having
international co-authors. Through exchange visits with partners in China, Lindsey and
collaborators acquired genomic sequences of more than 300 varieties of cotton (Nat. Gen. 2017
49 579-587), subsequently discovering at least a dozen loci linked to superior fiber quality for use
in breeding programmes (Nat. Gen. 2019 5: 224-229). Baxter and others in EEE were the second
UK group to become members of the “University of the Arctic”. Researchers at MIT and Harvard
selected Alvetex® Scaffold technology developed by Przyborski to test the effects of gravity on
the density of bone tissue models cultured on the International space station.

Departmental structures also promote collaboration within and between groups (Table 2), and
Institutional structures work across the natural and social sciences (Table 1; Section 1.2.5) to
benefit the economy and society.

Table 5. Formal external networks directed (or co-directed) by staff in this submission

 Physics of Life Networks         N8 AgriFood Program                Global network to combat
 (EPSRC)                          (HEFCE)                            neglected tropical diseases
                                                                     (MRC NTD)
 National and International       Academic partners in the N8        International academic
 (USA, EU, China) academic        Universities, Agribusiness         partners especially in LMICs
 partners, Biotechnology          industrial partners
 industrial partners
 Cann                             Sadanandom                         Denny
 Metals in Biology:               Building out vector-borne          Strategic and coordinated
 Elements of                      diseases in sub-Saharan            business partnership with:
 Biotechnology &                  Africa BOVA (NERC,
 Bioenergy (BBSRC NIBB I          BBSRC, MRC)
 and II)
 National and International       Academic, building sector,         Procter & Gamble
 academic partners UK-            industry, development
 based industrial                 agencies, advocates and
 biotechnology business           policymakers in the UK and
 partners                         sub-Saharan Africa
 Robinson                         Lindsay                            Lindsey

                                                                                                       18
Two externally funded networks exemplify collaboration supporting the Department’s approach
to research for health and wellbeing (Table 5): both are multidisciplinary exploiting, respectively,
research strengths at the Chemistry-Biology interface and in insect ecology. Denny, with Pohl
and co-investigators in the Department of Chemistry and the University of York, lead the UK HUB
of the Global network to combat neglected tropical diseases, supported by £8M from GCRF.
Combinations of chemical and genetic approaches are being used to discover new targets for
drugs to combat leishmaniasis and Chagas disease. Over 350M people worldwide are at risk
from leishmaniasis, while 7M people suffer from Chagas disease in Latin America alone. The
network includes a dozen partner institutions from at-risk countries. Funded by multiple UKRI
councils, Lindsay leads an interdisciplinary network in sub-Saharan Africa to prevent the
transmission of malaria, dengue and zika by developing built environments hostile to mosquitos.
This requires collaboration between experts in vector-borne disease and epidemiology, with
architects, urban planners, industry, local stakeholders and decision-makers in endemic
countries.

Sadanandom was appointed to an N8 AgriFood Programme chair in 2015 to develop capacity
in the North of England to tackle global challenges of sustainable food production, resilient supply
chains and improved nutrition and public health. This programme, involving researchers from
eight HEIs in the North of England (Durham, Lancaster, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester,
Newcastle, Sheffield, York), has forged alliances across disciplines and with non-academic
organisations.

Across the partnership, three patents have been filed, £26M of external funds won, 29 externally
funded projects have been instigated with agri-industry partners and >147 projects have been
primed with Programme funding. Dissemination activities have included a meeting at the House
of Commons ('From Farm to Fork') and a presentation to the US Environment Protection Agency.
Pump priming funds have led to UKRI grants, including a BBSRC award to Sadanandom in
collaboration with Newcastle University investigating the effect of nitrate upon Septoria resistance
via WRKY transcription factors. Sadanandom identified a key step between pathogen
recognition and plant defence responses with implications for developing resistant crops (Nat.
Comms. 2018 9 5185). Lindsey was Co-I with Kepinski at Leeds for a successful BBSRC ALERT
award for plant bioimaging.

Cann directs the renewed (2019) phase 3 Physics of Life network+ with McLeish (York), which
in 2018 supported a £15M UKRI (EPSRC, BBSRC, MRC) Physics of Life Strategic Priority Fund
for collaborative projects.

4.2 Overview of engagement with industry, investors and society

             EXTERNALLY-FUNDED         AREA OF IMPACT                SPINOUTS
                 NETWORKS         (Primary and Secondary RGs)
              NERC, EPSRC, MRC          ECOSYSTEMS
                                                                   MAMMALWEB
                    BOVA                 EEE (MPS)

                N8 AGRIFOOD           AGRITECHNOLOGY
                                         MPS (BMI)
                  BBSR NIBB
                                       BIOTECHNOLOGY
                  EPSRC PoL               BMI (ACS)                  REPROCELL
                   MRC NTD                  HEALTH              MAGNITUDE BIOSCIENCES
                                      ACS (BMI, EEE, MPS)
                                                                       LIGHTOX

Figure 2. The wider impacts of research.

                                                                                                   19
The research commercialisation team (REF5a/4.4) liaises with early-stage investors to establish
companies, assisted in Biosciences by a Director of Impact (Lindsay). A third of staff have been
awarded patents since 2014. New spinouts during this REF cycle include Magnitude Biosciences
Limited, a collaborative venture between Weinkove and academics in Physics, to test the impact
of metabolites and drugs on ageing in C. elegans. The company’s Healthspan Machine uses
bespoke image analysis to monitor large numbers of nematodes under multiple conditions.
Magnitude has received investment from Saker Capital, the North East Innovation Fund, the
European Regional Development Fund and is managed by Northstar Ventures. The spinout was
highlighted in the BBSRC Impact Showcase 2020.
Founded in 2018 by Stephens, MammalWeb is a non-profit partnership between Durham
University and Durham Wildlife Trust that has developed a platform to engage volunteers in the
routine monitoring of mammals. Lightox was founded in 2016 in a collaboration between Ambler
and academics in Durham's Department of Chemistry, the University of York and High Force
Research Ltd. Lightox has coupled photosensitizers and light exposures to specifically target
primary and secondary tumours. Lightox won the 2018 Bionow Start-up of the Year Award.

Reprocell Europe was formed via merger, in 2016, with Reinnervate (founded by Przyborski).
Scotland’s First Minister opened the Company’s Contract Research Facility in 2017. The wider
Reprocell corporation continues to market and develop the Alvetex® family of 3D cell culture
products, including in collaborative ventures with P&G to generate skin- and other tissue-models
to minimise the use of live animals in product testing.

The P&G strategic partnership (Table 5, REF5a/2.5.3) includes 40 biosciences-led projects,
valued at £10.3M, and has led to the development of products (see Przyborski case study,
REF3) and seven joint publications. Biosciences links with P&G have mostly revolved around ex
vivo skin models (Przyborski, Määttä, Benham, Karakesisoglou) and metal-related
antimicrobials (Robinson, Sharples, Schrőder). Both of these areas secured matched funding
from BBSRC (LINK and IPA awards), leveraging at least £2.6M.

The Durham-led (Robinson) phase I, BBSRC-funded, Metals in Biology NIBB (Table 5)
instigated 43 collaborations between UK academics with expertise in this sub-discipline, and a
diversity of industrial partners, to create or secure at least 86 jobs, leverage more than £12.8M
of additional funding, file patents; and one business has already launched metalloenzyme-
generated products in Europe and Asia. A second phase was awarded £1.3M in the first instance
in 2019, to sustain the network for a further five years to advance Metals-in-Biology-related
projects along the technology readiness levels towards more products. In a series of publications
led by Robinson, the monumental task of measuring the dynamic ranges of each of a set of
DNA-binding metal sensors has been completed, defining metal availabilities inside a cell (Nat.
Chem. Biol., 2017 13 409-414; Nat. Comms., 2017 8 1884 1-12; Nat. Chem. Biol., 2019 15 241–
249), highlighted in Nat. Rev. Chem. 2019 3 130, with all three articles recommended one or
more times by F1000 prime. Since approximately half of the reactions of life are catalysed by
metals (Nature, 2009, 460 823-830), this has broad implications by rendering protein metalation
predictable and open to manipulation, which underpins the Durham-led phase I and II BBSRC
NIBB. Chivers engineered Ni(II)-handling by E. coli to create cells capable of metalating cofactor
F430, allowing collaborators to recreate the pathway in a heterologous bacterium (Nature, 2018
543 78-82).

Outreach

Two-way communication with the public is encouraged via an outreach coordinator reporting to
the BoS (Hawkins, https://www.dur.ac.uk/biosciences/publicoutreach/). In the last 12 months,
staff delivered more than a dozen outreach lectures (including engagement with the local
community through Cafe Scientifique, Saturday Morning Science and Pint of Science) and
contributed to six large scale outreach events. Media appearances include five with BBC Country
file, interviews on Radio 4, BBC World-service, BBC Good Food Show, articles in the Washington

                                                                                                     20
Post, BBC online, national newspapers, and expert advice was given to the BBC Natural History
Unit. Steve Lindsay's recent work to repurpose malaria-detection by trained dogs to SARS-CoV-
2 detection has attracted considerable media attention.

4.3 Citizenship, leadership and esteem
Examples of national and international roles since 2014 (additional to those noted previously)
include:
    ● Lindsay: World Health Organisation's Vector Control Advisory Group;
    ● Przyborski: Chair of BBSRC Appointments Board, Chair of BBSRC Responsive Mode
       Panel C, Chair of NC3Rs grant panel, Board of Directors NC3Rs, President of the
       Anatomical Society.
    ● Lindsey: BBSRC Council, Chair BBSRC Appointments Board, Advisory Committee on
       Releases to the Environment (UK Government), BBSRC Expert Panel on Germplasm
       Collections, Royal Society Newton Fund Advanced Fellowship Panel, Chair of the New
       Phytologist Trust;
    ● Stephens: Science Panel to Quality Assure the UK and England Biodiversity Indicators;
    ● Baxter: Marie Skłodowska-Curie Research and Innovation Staff Exchange Scheme for
       Horizon 2020, International Arctic Science Committee;
    ● Willis: Deputy panel chair (and UK Chair) of NERC Latin American Biodiversity Panel;
    ● Denny: review panel for Museum d'Histoire Naturelle in Paris, Treasurer British Society
       for Parasitology;
    ● Lucas: British Standards Institute, Ecological Methods panel;
    ● Sadanandom: UK-US Plant Health Committee for UK government white paper on crop
       protection research;
    ● Quinlan: Scientific trustee for Fight for Sight UK;
    ● Cann: Induction panel chair for new BBSRC panel members;
    ● Lindsey and Hussey: Presidents of the Society for Experimental Biology, and Chairs of
       SEB Council.

Multiple staff assess appointments and promotions at institutions in the UK and overseas
(including USA, France, Germany, Italy, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Malaysia, South Africa,
Russia, Oman, Pakistan).

Staff served on more than 39 funding panels for organisations including:
    ● NERC (multiple members of the peer review college, frequent funding panels,
        Independent Research Fellowships sift and interviews panels, Large Grants Moderating
        Panel, case studentships panels);
    ● BBSRC (responsive mode committees B, C and D, Fellowships panel, CASE
        studentships panel, Strategic LOLA panel, future leaders programme panel, Newton
        Fund);
    ● Portuguese Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia;
    ● Assessment Board of the Government of Ireland Postdoctoral Fellowship Scheme;
    ● Fight for Sight;
    ● The Royal Society Research Grant Panel.

Editorial boards
Staff served on more than 42 editorial boards (or advisory boards), including:
    ● Current Biology, Hussey;
    ● Journal of Applied Ecology, Stephens and Willis;
    ● New Phytologist, Lindsey;
    ● Parasitology, Denny;
    ● Behavioural Ecology and Sociobiology, Twiss;
    ● Editor of Conservation Genetics, Hoelzel;
    ● Antioxidants and Redox Signalling, Benham;
    ● Journal of Biological Chemistry, Quinlan.

                                                                                                21
   ●     Dawson, founding Editor-in-Chief of Plant-Environment Interactions.

Staff wrote 15 invited commentaries/News-and-views items for Nature and Nature-family
journals, Science and PNAS.

Conferences and lectures
Since 2014 staff hosted more than 44 conferences, chaired sessions and delivered more than
219 lectures, including at diverse Gordon Research Conferences, and invited named lectures
such as:
   ● The Norwood Lecture, San Francisco, Jahoda;
   ● The Wills Lecture Queen Mary University of London, the 2020 West Riding Lecture
       Sheffield University, Pioneer Lecture at the 2020 (rescheduled to 2022) Nobel
       Symposium in Chemistry, Swedish Academy of Sciences, Stockholm, Robinson;
   ● Chair of the 2020 (rescheduled to 2022) Gordon conference on Intermediate filaments,
       Quinlan.

Prizes
Prizes won include:
    ● Innovative Technology Award 2016, Przyborski;
    ● Fellow of the Linnean Society of London, Lindsey;
    ● Fellow of the Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology, and 2018 Special
       Recognition Award from the International Society for Eye Research, Quinlan;
    ● 2016 FESPB award for a young member of the European Federation of Plant Biologists,
       de Lucas;
    ● Lister Prize 2019, Blower;
    ● 2020 Institute of Physics Rosalind Franklin Medal, Cann (co-awardee).




                                                                                         22
