Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 12 Engineering

 1. UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE, RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY
 1.1 Overview and Structure
 1.1.1 Overview
 The Unit covers a wide range of engineering and applied science disciplines, encompassing
 traditional application areas such as aerospace, civil, electrical, electronic, and mechanical
 engineering; enabling technologies such as computation, imaging, materials, optoelectronics, and
 photonics; and future-facing applications such as biomedical, communications, cyber, and
 sustainability. We have a strong emphasis on the interactions between engineering, the
 environment and people; and on the complex systems that characterise and describe them.
 The Unit comprises the School of Engineering (SoE); engineering disciplines of the School of
 Electronics and Computer Science (ECS); and staff within the Zepler Institute of Photonics and
 Nanoelectronics which includes the recently established Centre for Electronic Frontiers and the
 long-established Optoelectronics Research Centre (ORC). Over the current assessment period,
 we have built on the strong separate submissions in REF2014 by:
   • Increasing average per capita annual research grant and contract income by >52%, from
      £108k to £166k
  •   Winning 7 new EPSRC Programme Grants (value £38.4M) to Southampton PIs, in addition
      to the 4 already running at the start, and participation in 6 further Programme Grants (value
      £33.7M) led from other universities
  •   Attracting capital grants and other third-party investment that has funded a complete new
      £170M engineering campus and £25M of major equipment
  •   Improving the diversity of our staff - for example, numbers of Category A BAME staff have
      increased from 49 to 62, and non-UK staff from 100 to 110; and of 26 Early Career
      Fellowships, 6 were won by women
 1.1.2 Structure
 SoE, ECS and ORC all sit within the Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences (FEPS),
 which oversees common structures and procedures for administrative, staff, and student support.
 All are research-intensive; SoE and ECS have vibrant undergraduate and postgraduate teaching
 programmes, while ORC teaches only at postgraduate level. In this narrative, all three sub-units
 are referred to as “schools”. Descriptions are given by individual school or for the whole Unit, as
 appropriate.
                             Figure 1.1: Unit Category A staff by School

                   STAFF (HEADCOUNT) IN UOA (JULY 2020)
        Optoelectronics
        Research Centre
            56, 20%




      Electronics & Computer
              Science                                                         Engineering
              44, 16%                                                          174, 64%



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 1.1: Summary of Unit Staff and Research Income for the final year of the REF period
 (2019/20)
             Cat A REF           Cat A REF         PDR            In-year        Research Grant
           submitted staff       submitted        Fellows        Doctoral           Income
             Headcount           staff FTE                       awards               £M

   Total          273               261             271             136                39.0

 Solving societal, system-scale problems requires a flexible organizational structure enabling
 engineers to work together with other disciplines in responsive and changing collaborations,
 whereas people management requires stability and consistency. To provide that stability, each
 member of staff belongs to a research group within an academic department. Academic staff are
 line managed by their group or department head. Research projects and teams are organised
 more flexibly, to encourage work across traditional discipline boundaries.
 Interdisciplinary and cross-school research is further promoted through University-level Institutes,
 collaborative research funding, Centres for Doctoral Training (§4.5) and interdisciplinary Centres
 of Excellence (§3.2).
 The Interdisciplinary Centres of Excellence are Continuous Digital Chemical Engineering Science;
 Future of Human Communication; Health Technologies; In-situ and Remote Intelligent Sensing;
 Internet of Things and Pervasive Systems; Machine Intelligence; and Re-engineering for Electric
 Mobility (§3.2). USRGs are University Strategic Research Groups (§1.4).

 Figure 1.2: Engagement of the Unit and Schools with internal and external cross-disciplinary
 groups.




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SoE comprises four departments, with constituent management groups as follows.
  •   Aeronautics, Astronautics and Computational Engineering (AACE): Astronautics;
      Aerodynamics & Flight Mechanics; Computational Engineering & Design.
  •   Civil, Maritime and Environmental Engineering (CMEE): Energy and Climate Change;
      Maritime Engineering; Infrastructure; Transportation; Water and Environmental Engineering.
  •   Mechanical Engineering (ME): Bioengineering; Energy Technology; Engineering Materials;
      Mechatronics; National Centre for Advanced Tribology.
  •   Institute for Sound and Vibration Research (ISVR): Dynamics; Acoustics; Signal
      Processing, Audio and Hearing.
 In addition to these established engineering areas, SoE works at the interfaces between
 engineering and complex biological systems; for example in environmental and ecosystem
 management, bioengineering, human factors, and performance sport. Our research addresses
 key challenges facing society in areas including sustainable energy, green transport, resource
 efficiency, resilient infrastructure, and cities, mitigating and adapting to climate and environmental
 change. Research projects and teams are therefore organised more flexibly (as is teaching),
 transcending the traditional disciplines of aeronautical, civil, environmental, maritime, and
 mechanical engineering, around themes of:
  •   Acoustics
  •   Autonomous Systems
  •   Bioengineering
  •   Computational Engineering
  •   Energy and Climate Change
  •   Fluid Dynamics
  •   Infrastructure
  •   Materials, Solid Mechanics and Surface Engineering
  •   Transportation
  •   Water and Environmental Engineering
 These themes reflect and are supported by major laboratories and facilities, as described in §3.5.
 They have been developed and refined over the assessment period to enable us to respond to
 key international and UK research priorities, as described in §4.4.
 ECS comprises one large integrated school spanning the spectrum of Computer Science (UoA
 11) and Electrical and Electronic Engineering. It is organised into management groups clustered
 around research themes. Following a strategic review in 2016 these groups were reorganised to
 reflect the interdisciplinary nature of our research, new research challenges, and opportunities.
 The groups relevant to this UoA are:
  •   Biomedical Electronics
  •   Cyber Physical Systems
  •   Electrical Power Engineering
  •   Next Generation Wireless
  •   Smart Electronic Materials and Systems
  •   Sustainable Electronic Technologies
  •   Vision Learning and Control
 Research groups include staff from both computer science and electronics facilitating cross-
 disciplinary research, for example between software and computer hardware. The groups’
 research covers a wide range of areas e.g. nanotechnology and nanoelectronics, electronics
 hardware (power, processing and reliability), wireless communications, power
 generation/distribution, materials, and medical technologies. Cross-cutting research is further
 facilitated through interdisciplinary initiatives, which bring together staff with complementary skills
 to address specific challenges in Machine Intelligence (CMI); Health Technologies (CHT); and
 Internet of Things and Pervasive Systems (CIoT). These new initiatives sit alongside the Arm-



                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ECS Centre for research in advanced design methods, architectures, and validation for
 dependable and energy-efficient multi-core processor systems (§4.2.1).
 ORC has been at the forefront of photonics technology for more than 30 years and is organised
 into four broad research areas:
  •   Electronic Materials and Devices
  •   Fibres and Lasers
  •   Nanophotonics
  •   Photonic Systems, Circuits and Sensors
 ORC’s mission is to combine focused, application-led research, with fundamental studies into the
 generation, transmission, and control of light, with a particular emphasis on lasers, nonlinear
 optics, telecommunications, nanophotonics, bio-photonics, and the photonics/electronics
 interface. ORC has developed important new lasers, fibre-lasers and new fibre components,
 producing major impact in the fields of telecommunications and materials processing. It
 developed the erbium-doped fibre amplifier (EDFA) which powers the internet, and has a long
 track record of trialling and commercialising the technology it develops, which since 2000 has led
 to 13 photonics spin-out companies employing >600 people.
 1.2 Research Strategy
 Although submitted for REF2014 in two different UoAs, the research objectives of all three
 Schools for the period 2014-2020 were broadly comparable, focusing around:
 1.2.1 Staff recruitment and development
 We have recruited a total of 59 Category A academic staff, supervised 1069 PhD students to
 successful completion and won 41 flagship fellowships funded by bodies such as the RAEng, the
 Royal Society, ERC, and UKRI (§Table 4.10). We have promoted 36 (6F,30M) and externally
 recruited 9 (1F,8M) staff to professorial chairs.
 1.2.2 Facilitating collaboration and teamwork
 During the assessment period, all three Schools have reviewed, refreshed and refocused their
 research organizational structures (groups, themes or centres) to better address societal needs
 and research challenges, and to facilitate interdisciplinary working including:
  •   Growing silicon photonics following the recruitment of Reed and his team in 2012. Activities
      expanded into nanoelectronics through Prodromakis.
  •   Strengthening ocean and offshore engineering through external appointments Gourvenec,
      White and Thornton and their subsequent engagement with Oceanography, Computer
      Science, Archaeology, and Law through Southampton Marine and Maritime Institute
      (SMMI)(§1.4)
  •   Committing >£0.5M annually from 2017 in start-up funding and PhD studentships to create 7
      new interdisciplinary Centres of Excellence in areas including healthcare, sensing and
      security, transport, and AI; to enhance industry engagement, provide a forum for seminars,
      and deliver impact (§3.2).
 We have continued to lead and participate in internal and external collaborations within and
 across disciplines, addressing national and global research grand challenges. Specific examples
 include leading roles in the UK Collaboratorium for Research in Infrastructure and Cities
 (UKCRIC, Powrie is Convenor, Richards Director of Strategy); the UK Rail Research and
 Innovation Network (UKRRIN), in which we lead the Infrastructure Centre of Excellence; and the
 Faraday Institution (Cruden and Spearing). We are major partners in the National Wind Tunnel
 Facility consortium (NWTF; Ganapathasubramani). Sandham led the UK Turbulence
 Consortium (to 2018). We are a founding member of the National Dark Fibre Facility (NDFF: a
 collaboration between the Universities of Bristol, Cambridge, Southampton, and UCL) and host
 one of its nodes.
 UKCRIC, NWTF and NDFF offer our researchers the opportunity to experiment and collaborate
 using test apparatus, wind tunnels, and flumes at other institutions, and a unique research facility

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for emulating real-world communication networks. We also have a formal collaboration
 agreement with Diamond Light source, giving our researchers beamtime access for a range of
 collaborative projects.
 1.2.3 Developing and exploiting our world-class facilities
 A notable, once in a generation, achievement has been the completion of the new Boldrewood
 Innovation Campus (BIC). This £170M investment in teaching space, staff/student offices, and
 laboratories was funded largely from sources external to the University, including Lloyds Register
 (who relocated their Global Maritime Centre of Excellence to Southampton), South East England
 Development Agency, and UK Research Partner Investment Fund. New facilities include a fluid
 dynamics laboratory with a 138m long towing tank and unique anechoic wind tunnel (supported
 by Airbus); simulation and autonomous systems laboratories; and the new National Infrastructure
 Laboratory (NIL) funded by the £26M UKCRIC grant from Department of Business, Energy and
 Industrial Strategy (BEIS), which houses a large structures testing laboratory with a 15m x 30m
 strongfloor, a world-leading geotechnical testing laboratory, and a 3m radius geotechnical
 centrifuge (§3.5).
 The Photonics Institute (TPI) at Nanyang Technological University (NTU), Singapore has been
 developed since 2014 as a strategic collaboration between University of Southampton (UoS) and
 NTU and represents the next phase of the trend for globalised research. TPI facilities span five
 Centres that extend the capabilities available at Southampton and provide specialist infrastructure
 in the areas of semiconductor lighting and displays, and biophotonics. These TPI Centres
 comprise 220 faculty and research staff with a combined grant portfolio of £65M (not included in
 REF4c and not otherwise part of this REF return). Leading professors from the ORC (Payne,
 Zheludev, Reed) have helped TPI colleagues to establish new research directions in fibre
 technology, metamaterials, quantum and topological nanophotonics, and silicon photonics. This
 has resulted in an influx of photonics funding to TPI from the Government of Singapore.
 Southampton academics have been involved in several large multi-million research programmes
 in Singapore, totalling more than £38M. The collaboration between the TPI and the ORC has
 resulted in numerous joint publications (241 over the REF period, journals and conferences, co-
 authors Zheludev, Reed, Payne), as well as joint patents.
 In addition to these entirely new campuses, we have continued to develop and exploit our existing
 world-leading facilities, including the Zepler Institute Cleanroom Complex, as described in (§3.5a-
 p).
 1.2.4 Growing research partnerships to produce world-leading research
 Establishing and sustaining long-term partnerships with industry and other key external
 organisations was identified as a vital component of our strategy in REF2014. Links and
 interactions have been facilitated in a number of ways including RAEng Industry Fellowships,
 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs), secondments (§2.2), consultancy, Industry Days, and
 industrial engagement. The Unit has provided consultancy to over 150 companies/government
 bodies, held 11 KTPs (§3,Table 3.3) and organised over 122 events of industrial engagement
 (§4.2.2 & §4.2.3).
 We have established new or renewed key partnerships with major UK and international
 companies including Airbus, ARM, BAE Systems, English Institute of Sport, Huawei, Lumenisity,
 Microsoft, National Grid plc, Network Rail, Rockley, Rolls Royce, Shell, SPI Lasers, and Thales.
 These partnerships and income from other major industry collaborators, are summarised in (§3,
 Tables 3.1 & 3.2.)
 1.2.5 Increasing engagement with Industry
 A key stated objective in REF2014 was to broaden our funding base and grow industrial funding.
 All Schools now have a significant and diverse funding portfolio encompassing not only EPSRC
 and EU but also MRC and NIHR, reflecting the breadth and depth of interdisciplinary research
 activities. Many staff have long-standing research collaborations with industry as summarised
 above and in §3.1. We have been very successful in securing long-term research funding
 underpinned by large grants having a value of >£70M, detailed in §4,Table 4.2.



                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.6 Objectives 2021-2025
 We will continue to sustain and grow research excellence in line with the University’s strategy
 (REF5a) and mission to change the world for the better, and in support of UN sustainable
 development goals, UK Government grand challenges and industry sector strategies, and
 UK/regional economies, by:
  •   Recruiting and developing staff to reinforce, complement, and broaden our key areas of
      activity, with a particular emphasis on improving our (gender) diversity
  •   Recruiting, training, and developing the next generation of world-leading researchers, again
      with a focus on improving diversity
  •   Leading and supporting major, externally-funded research programmes
  •   Being agile in research, including diversity of funding sources and the ability to form teams
      rapidly
  •   Exploiting and developing our facilities
  •   Establishing and growing partnerships with industry, users, and other researchers.
 We will maintain the health and currency of our fundamental engineering disciplines, and through
 our research enhance social equity and inclusion, environmental protection, and sustainability. In
 that context, we will invest and encourage growth in the following inter and multi-disciplinary
 research areas.
  a) Healthcare and medicine
     Digital healthcare: diagnostic systems including real-time (bio)chemical analysis, fusion of
     machine learning, wearable technologies, energy harvesting, extended lifetime, and
     manufacturability of next generation digital healthcare platforms.
     Advanced prosthetics and orthotics: body interface sensors, AI evaluation, IoT,
     computational modelling, and musculoskeletal biomechanics to enable digitisation and
     evidence-based rehabilitation.
  b) Manufacturing and materials of the future
     Novel semiconductor materials: development and characterisation of new group VI
     compounds including 2-D materials, thermo-electric and topological insulators, phase
     change memory, ovonic threshold switch, radiation hardened SOI CMOS, memory
     technology (including silicon carbide for harsh environments).
     Advanced manufacturing: 3D printing of complex metal alloys and composites; non-
     destructive material analysis using advanced X-ray imaging (µ-VIS lab); ultrafast image
     capture to explore mechanical properties in-operando regime; material design using
     predictive multiscale simulations combined with machine learning algorithms.
  c) Energy technologies
      Sustainable and resilient power systems: cost-effective integration of renewable energy
      generation, management of ageing assets through innovation in new insulation materials,
      first generation digital twins for electrical assets.
      Clean energy technologies: energy storage (e.g. safer Li-ion batteries and next-generation
      Al-ion battery technology); hydrogen for heating; high power density cryogenic and
      superconducting electric machines and very high strength (>20T) magnets.
      Solar photovoltaics (PV): simulation of large power production in cities utilising built
      infrastructure (roofs of buildings etc) coupled with energy storage informing policy;
      investment to support announced city climate targets.
      Energy Efficiency: city-wide simulation of interventions (insulation, CHP, heat pumps etc) in
      buildings supported by large scale consumption monitoring, creating understanding for net-
      zero targets.
      Offshore renewable energy: novel foundation systems including tethered buoyant
      structures; upscaling of offshore wind, wave and tidal energy through new technologies for

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      fixed and floating station-keeping, seabed surveys and coupled system modelling, drawing
      on Machine Learning and AI to better quantify risk and reliability; new cable-seabed
      interaction modelling to increase power transmission; regional modelling of offshore wind
      energy resources to inform policy.
      Energy for development: solar PV driven mini grids to provide electricity access for hard-to-
      reach rural communities in developing countries.
  d) Robotics and autonomous systems
     Control engineering: modelling and control of networked systems in e.g. IoT, power
     generation and distribution; robotic swarms; parsimonious models describing only the
     variables of interest with minimum complexity; modularity; hierarchical modelling.
     Unmanned autonomous vehicle technology to facilitate rapid disaster relief, seabed
     surveying and aged population mobility.
  e) Sustainable infrastructure and cities
      Healthy and sustainable housing: housing that is dry, energy efficient and affordable in
      neighbourhoods that promote wellbeing.
      Mitigating the impacts of climate change: resilience in infrastructure systems including
      earthwork slopes and railways.
      Co-existing with biodiversity: the role of green and blue infrastructure
      Sustainable infrastructure systems: decarbonisation of infrastructure through improved
      materials and design; better understanding of material and system behaviour, deterioration
      and life cycle performance/analysis; railway electrification infrastructure; high-intensity use
      railway track systems; very light rail.
      Sustainable mobility: making cycling and walking safe and attractive; decarbonisation of
      transport; integrating electrified road, aerospace, maritime and rail propulsion technology to
      support delivery of net carbon zero by 2050.
      Environmental assessment of cities: assessment of city environmental footprint based on
      5 city-wide criteria - energy, transport, air quality, waste management & natural environment
      - providing feedback for improvement and annual progress tracking.
  f) Transformative digital technologies
     Cyber hardware: hardware-based solutions for side channel attacks on cryptographic
     hardware; smart card security; physical unclonable functions (PUFs); hardware-based
     monitors for anomaly/intrusion detection; vulnerabilities in co-processors; device
     fingerprinting.
     Embedded hardware systems: green mobile and embedded devices (energy-efficient or
     environmentally-powered); safe and intelligent devices.
     Quantum Communications: 6G systems and standards; topological quantum codes
     (correcting for quantum bit errors imposed by quantum decoherence).
     Computing System Engineering: high performance computing using (millions of) low-
     performance compute elements, embedded in a parallel bespoke communications fabric
     (input formalisms and command, control, internal visibility and debug tools); photonics for
     computing (imaging, programmable photonics) and hardware-enabled AI.
 1.3 Impact Strategy
 As engineers, our raison d’être is to carry out research that solves practical problems through the
 application of fundamental science. Achieving impact is crucial and underpins our philosophy.
 Within the University framework summarised in REF5a, our impact strategy – which builds on and
 exploits key research strengths – has four pillars:
  •   Engagement with industry on research ranging from individual undergraduate projects
      through to major UKRI-funded programme grants.
  •   Enterprise units, which provide specialist commercial services that build on our research
      strengths and industry access to our key research facilities (§1.3.2).

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  •   Entrepreneurship (consultancy, patents and spin-out companies).
  •   Long-term, strategic partnerships with key companies and industry organisations.
 1.3.1 Engagement with industry
 Over 90% of our research grants have strong industry support, and many of our PhD student
 projects are undertaken in collaboration with industry. Most of our major grants have their own
 industry advisory groups, which in addition to helping define and steer the research, facilitate the
 early uptake and impact of research results. The value placed by companies on engaging with us
 in this way is illustrated by the seniority of their representation, e.g. the Director of Systems
 Engineering, Network Rail; Head of Track, Network Rail High Speed; Chief of Technology System
 Design, Rolls Royce; Acoustics Domain Technical Advisor, Airbus; Technical Competence
 Leader in Aerodynamics, Airbus. New and renewed long-term strategic industry partnerships
 were summarised in §1.2.4 & §3 Tables 3.1 & 3.2.
 Our selected impact case studies are in areas of established research strength, and involve
 companies with whom we have long-standing partnerships or are spin-outs from the Unit. This
 relationship is illustrated in Table 1.2.
 Table 1.2: Areas of research strength, facilities and company links in relation to selected Impact
 Case Studies
  ICS # Area of Research Strength          Previous and      Key facilities (and    Company
                                           current major      predecessors)          strategic
                                           grant funding                           partnerships
  12-01    Energy Harvesting             EP/G067740;          PEM lab              Perpetuum
                                         EP/H013458
  12-02    Signal processing             EP/L010550;          IRIDIS super         AccelerComm
           algorithms / hardware         EP/P034284;          computers
           acceleration                  Innovate UK
           implementation for 5G         133560; Innovate
           wireless communication        UK 900037
  12-05    Engineered non-linear         GR/S50700; UK        Zepler clean         Covesion
           materials                     Quantum              rooms
                                         Technology Hub -
                                         EP/M013294
  12-06    High-powered Fibre Lasers EP/M020770;              Zepler clean         SPI Lasers
                                     EP/P027644               rooms
  12-08    Silicon Photonics             EP/M009416;          Zepler clean         Rockley
                                         EP/L00044X;          rooms                Photonics
                                         EP/L021129;
                                         EP/R003076
  12-12    Hollow Core Fibres            EP/I01196X;          Zepler clean         Lumenisity
                                         EP/H02607X           rooms
  12-16    Aircraft design- cleaner,     CompUTC; ANTC; Acoustics          Rolls Royce;
           quieter more efficient        NoiseUTC       laboratories, Wind Airbus
                                                        tunnels; IRIDIS
                                                        super computers
  12-17    Transportation                RRUK                 Infrastructure and   Network Rail,
           infrastructure                (GR/S12784           Geomechanics         HS1
                                         EP/D080207);         laboratories
                                         Track21
                                         (EP/H044949);
                                         Track to the
                                         Future
                                         (EP/M025276)

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  12-19    Ecological engineering and EU Horizon 2020          Large scale          Environment
           ecohydraulics.             AMBER                    ecohydraulics        Agency
                                                               laboratories and
                                                               flumes.
  12-25    Signal processing for          EPSRC Prosperity     Acoustics, signal    ClanTect, BBC,
           sound and vibration            Partnership- BAE     processing and
                                          EP/S03661X;          Active control
                                          EP/L000539           laboratories

  12-28    Micro-technologies for         EPSRC, NIHR          Centre for Hybrid    Vivoplex,
           medical applications                                Bio-devices          Sharp
  12-29    Cleaner, safer, smarter        EPSRC Prosperity Fluid dynamics           Shell, Lloyds
           maritime                       Partnership- BAE and Water/               Register, RNLI,
                                          EPSRC Grant      environment              CJR
                                                           Laboratories             Propulsion.
 Examples of impact not included in the Impact Case Studies are given in §4.2.1 (Table 4.4).
 1.3.2 Enterprise Units
 Operating as small, embedded, financially self-sustaining business units with dedicated staff,
 each has their own business plans with agreed financial and non-financial key performance
 indicators. In addition to facilitating and generating external income (£10.4M over the REF
 period), enterprise units contribute through internal spend and reputational enhancement. Each
 has its own head, reporting formally to the Associate Dean Enterprise (Williams). Enterprise units
 operate in areas of research strength and expertise, often related to a major experimental facility,
 as follows:
  a) ISVR Consulting: consultancy and applied research in noise, vibration and acoustics.
  b) The Wolfson Unit for Marine Technology and Industrial Aerodynamics (WUMTIA):
     hydrodynamic, aerodynamic and naval architecture/engineering consultancy to an
     international client base of designers, builders and regulatory bodies. WUMTIA specialises
     in small to medium size fast power craft and sailing yachts, experimental hydrodynamic and
     aerodynamic testing and computational fluid dynamics.
  c) University of Southampton Auditory Implant Service (USAIS): specialised assessment,
     treatment and rehabilitation of deaf and hearing-impaired people across the South of
     England and beyond. It carries out cochlear and other types of auditory implant assessment
     and implantation for National Health Service (NHS) England.
  d) nC2: expert consultancy in tribology, corrosion and forensic materials engineering.
  e) ECS Partners Ltd: set up to establish and sustain links with industry, including through
     consultancy and providing access to fabrication and characterisation facilities, reducing risk
     and cost for fabless start-ups needing small prototype runs.
 1.3.3 Entrepreneurship
 Academic staff are encouraged to achieve impact for their research through appropriately high-
 level consultancy. Typical consultancy commissions include developing new codes of practice,
 establishing design principles for a new class of structure or artefact for which no code of practice
 currently exists, high profile legal or expert witness advice, and specialist investigation using
 unique or bespoke equipment only available at the Unit. Academic consultancy is typically
 provided to public, private, charitable or voluntary sector clients by individuals or groups of
 academics responding to an approach or tender. Consultancy is undertaken through ECS
 Partners Ltd. and its counterpart for the School of Engineering, Engineering and Environment
 Partners. Consultancy income generated across the Unit amounts to ~30% of the University total
 (£10M of £33M, 2019/20). Examples of significant, high profile consultancies are given in §4.3.1,
 and contributions to codes and standards in §4.3.2.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In addition to iCURE, SetSquared and the Science Park Catalyst as outlined in REF5a, start-up
 and spin-out companies are encouraged and facilitated through the Future Worlds Innovation
 Hub (§4.3.3). This is a unique on-campus start-up accelerator, which nurtures aspiring
 entrepreneurs and cutting-edge technologies through one-to-one support and a network of
 seasoned founders, investors and millionaire entrepreneurs. Since its foundation in 2015, over
 3000 students and staff and have engaged with its programme of events; and over 100 start-up /
 spin-out ideas have been accelerated through its network of 80 mentors, investors and senior
 executives, including directors of Apple and Salesforce and the founder of Arieso.
 Future Worlds can host up to 15 resident start-ups in its six-month accelerator programme. It has
 raised the profile of the University through its presence at the Las Vegas Consumer Electronics
 Show (unique among UK universities), and partnerships with SkyDeck Incubator (University of
 California, Berkeley). §4.3.3 lists some successful spin-outs that have benefitted from Future
 Worlds.
 IP protection and commercialisation within the Unit has been vibrant and over the assessment
 period, the Unit has filed 345 patent applications (figure is for all applications in different
 geographical regions). In the same period 134 patents were granted. The total royalty income
 received by the University, derived from licensing of IP from the Unit, is £1,056,170
 1.3.4 Supporting the vitality and sustainability of our impact
 Generation of impact is a key element of the Unit’s activity. The associated industry/user
 engagement is a double benefit in that it generates new research ideas; in our field, industry need
 is as likely to push the boundaries of human knowledge as pure research. The four pillars of our
 impact strategy have been hugely beneficial to all concerned, and will therefore continue to form
 the basis of our future impact and industry engagement strategy. With the anticipated continuing
 pressures on the economy, it is likely that enterprise will become increasingly important in terms
 of both University funding and in realising the UK’s industrial strategy.
 We will reinforce and grow current success and strength by:
  a) Continuing to improve the visibility and recognition of enterprise and industry engagement
     activities and career progression for staff involved, especially women and BAME staff.
  b) Shaping the development of a refreshed University Enterprise strategy for 2021 and beyond.
  c) Ensuring we have the resource to support industry engagement and enterprise activities in a
     timely manner, including assisting in the UK’s recovery from Covid-19.
  d) Increasing the number of high-level, strategic partnerships with major companies.
  e) Exploiting more proactively our unique, world-leading research facilities in acoustics, aero-
     and hydro-dynamics, the Zepler cleanroom complex, geomechanics, high voltage, imaging,
     infrastructure, materials and nanofabrication.
  f)   Shaping forward-looking research roadmaps and research outputs to align with Government
       strategies including the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund (ISCF) and the Global
       Challenges Research Fund.
  g) Further developing interdisciplinary research as outlined below.
 1.4 Interdisciplinary Research
 The University, FEPS and its Schools actively encourage and facilitate cross-disciplinary
 research (Figure 1.2). We provide leadership across the University in interdisciplinary research in
 life sciences, through the University Institute for Life Sciences (IfLS), and in marine and maritime
 studies, through the Southampton Marine and Maritime Institute (SMMI).
 IfLS (Deputy Director Morgan) draws together expertise in science and engineering to address
 research challenges and opportunities in the life sciences. IfLS has fostered strong links between
 Engineering, the National Oceanography Centre Southampton (NOCS) and Southampton
 University Hospital Trust (SUHT), including access to state-of-the-art imaging, bioinformatics,
 proteomics and lipidomics facilities and expertise. IfLS runs the FortisNet network; an
 interdisciplinary hub of expertise in regenerative medicine, orthopaedics, prosthetics and assistive

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 technologies that develops products and processes to improve lives by connecting clinicians,
 enterprise and engineers.
 SMMI (Deputy Director Gourvenec, Founding Director Shenoi) covers a unique cross-
 disciplinary spectrum encompassing humanities, natural, physical, and social sciences,
 engineering, and law, where knowledge is acquired and applied in a collaborative manner with
 business and civic and industrial societies to reach common objectives.
 A new group (2019) in the Alan Turing Institute led by Weymouth and Sobey has established
 marine and maritime data-centric engineering research, with funding of £800k to address
 fundamental AI and data analytics issues and provide a roadmap for applications in the marine
 industry.
 The University Strategic Research Group in Nexus Science brings people from across the
 University to work on interactions between water, energy and food. Projects have included the
 multi-partner EPSRC Vaccinating the Nexus programme (£1.6M) and a British Council-funded
 initiative to develop sustainable hydropower in Brazil.
 Global NAMRIP (Global Network for Anti-Microbial Resistance (AMR) and Infection Prevention:
 Chair Leighton, steering group including Eason, Hill) was established in 2015 to address the
 global problem and cost of anti-microbial resistance. The network crosses 4 continents, includes
 200 academics in the UK, conducting research with translational emphasis on infection
 prevention and vaccination. Established with an EPSRC grant (NAMRA £0.87M, 2015-2017) it
 has pump-primed 39 projects, which have generated 23 follow-on awards, 9 prizes and
 awards,12 patents, and one spin-out company.
 Autonomous systems research, led by Scanlan, aims to ensure a sustainable, critical mass of
 cross-disciplinary excellence; provide continuity of funding for world class science and research in
 the area of autonomous systems, sensing, computing, communications and platforms; provide world
 class, cost effective facilities and capabilities for scientists and other users and allow society, through
 this technology, to develop and maintain a low carbon economy, respond to climate change and
 conduct earth science research whether sub-sea, surface, land, air or space
 River, estuary and coastal research led by Nicholls (to 2019) and Kemp in collaboration with
 colleagues in Natural and Environmental, Human and Social Sciences addresses mitigating
 environmental impacts of river engineering, coastal morphodynamics, flooding, and the future
 evolution of delta areas (which provide homes to 500M people worldwide). Major funding over the
 assessment period came from EUH2020 (AMBER, total 6.2M Euro) to develop adaptive
 management strategies for barriers in European rivers, the results of which have fed directly into
 the 2030 Biodiversity Strategy to set a clear target of reconnecting at least 25,000km of Europe’s
 rivers by 2030; NERC (iCOASST, £2.9M) for research in collaboration with the Environment
 Agency on coastal erosion and accretion to support flood risk management; and the £3.8M ESPA
 Deltas project analysing coastal Bangladesh, the results of which are being used by the Planning
 Commission for Bangladesh in its new 100 year Delta Plan. This research has formed the
 nucleus of the new Future Towns Innovation Hub, funded through awards of £3M from the EM3
 Local Enterprise Partnership and £1.5M from Research England.
 Looking to the future, we have identified key areas of future interdisciplinary research, to which
 the expertise and contribution of early career researchers (ECRs) will be essential. These have
 been formalised by the establishment of 7 Interdisciplinary Centres of Excellence (CoE), in
 Continuous Digital Chemical Engineering Science; Future of Human Communication; Health
 Technologies; In situ and Remote Intelligent Sensing; Internet of Things and Pervasive Systems;
 Machine Intelligence; and Re-Engineering for Electric Mobility (Figure 1.2 & §3.2).
 In addition, the Faculty runs cross-disciplinary community building workshops such as the IoT for
 smart infrastructure event, combining our strengths in sensing, optical fibres, big data and
 infrastructure, and utilising opportunities presented by the National Infrastructure Laboratory and
 our nanofabrication/clean rooms complex.




                                                                                                   Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Interdisciplinary research is further actively supported through pump-priming small projects and
 equipment, creation of new cross-theme interdisciplinary groups and joint appointments across
 research groups.
 1.5 Open Access
 Staff are encouraged to make their research outputs as widely and freely available as possible.
 Institutional funding to cover the costs of gold open access is available for key papers resulting
 from UKRI research; it is a University requirement that a pre-publication “author-accepted-
 typescript”, along with relevant datasets, are uploaded to the institutional repository, ePrints. This
 is the world’s leading open-source digital repository platform, developed by ECS 20 years ago it
 has now been adopted by 675+ institutional and subject repositories world-wide. Managed
 through ECS partners (§1.2.4 & §3.4) its success contributes to our enterprise economy.
 Approximately 33% of our journal papers have been published with gold open access.
 Recent examples of our progress in encouraging an open access research environment beyond
 REF policy requirements are:
  • CORNERSTONE; an open access service fabricating silicon photonics devices for
     researchers around the world. In contrast to the conventional licensing model in this field,
     CORNERSTONE shares its fabrication processes, its process design kit and a library of
     commonly-used components openly and freely via its website. Entry for researchers who do
     not have access to their own fabrication facilities is facilitated by the removal of legal barriers
     and complex license agreements.
  • PeRSo, a personal respirator for healthcare professionals treating COVID-19, which
     illustrates our ability to react quickly to a world-wide crisis in terms of sharing results and
     data. Two open-access papers (along with datasets,CAD files and assembly instructions)
     were published on 6/4/20, three weeks after the project started, and to date have been
     downloaded >2400 times. The project had >18,000 hits on social media (Twitter
     @PeRSoPPE); over 5000 first tweets with the dataset. A PeRSo-Developing World website
     led to 96 contacts in 28 locations, raised awareness of the technology and enabled
     dissemination of development material. Teams in Colombia (Universidad Los Andes),
     Ethiopia (University of Bahir Dar), Bangladesh, East Africa, South Africa and India have
     manufacture prototypes based on the PeRSo Specification.
 1.6 Research Integrity
 The University is a signatory to the Concordat for Research Integrity and has robust policies to
 ensure we maintain the highest standards in research. The Research Integrity and Governance
 Committee (RIG) is responsible for developing and fostering a culture of research integrity, and
 promoting responsible research conduct and governance amongst the University academic
 community.
 Each School has a Concordat representative (ECS Torah, ENG Kaparias, ORC MacDonald)
 reporting to School management meetings bi-annually or where new polices or changes in
 governance are discussed. The Faculty RIG champion chairs the Ethics Committee and sits on
 the Information Governance Group and the Data Protection Impact Assessment Panel, ensuring
 continuity in the standard and exchange of information in the Faculty and Schools.
 Within the structure outlined in REF5a, the Faculty Research and Ethics Committee (FREC),
 chaired by an experienced academic, comprises representatives from each school, a student and
 a lay member. FREC meets twice annually to review the ethical implications of all research
 studies involving human subjects or participants, and ensure that such projects adhere to both
 Faculty and University ethics policies and procedures. Complaints and potential research integrity
 issues are also considered and addressed. As part of the Unit’s induction programme, all new
 staff and PGRs are introduced to the University and Unit culture regarding research integrity,
 ethics and ethical approval, and the basis of responsible research through two online training
 courses in research integrity and ethics. Guidance developed by the Unit (e.g. a checklist for
 supervisors; secondary data analysis) is available on the Unit’s SharePoint site. There is also the
 opportunity via the Faculty staff website to review policies and undertake further training if
 required.

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People
 2.1 Staffing strategy
 The University, Faculty and Schools are committed to research excellence. We aim to sustain
 and improve research performance by attracting, nurturing, developing and retaining high-
 achieving staff; and to grow and develop our strengths, ensuring critical mass in key research
 areas. New appointments are planned at School level with reference to local requirements and
 internal/external opportunities (including succession planning, availability of research facilities,
 the funding landscape, and our current and future ability to address societal challenges); and
 approved by the University through an annual strategic planning and business review. We are
 committed to research-led teaching; the size and diversity of the UoA allows us to make
 research-led appointments, while ensuring good disciplinary coverage of the core subject areas
 of the undergraduate curriculum and our many specialist masters programmes. The quality of
 the research undertaken by an individual is paramount; all appointees must either already be
 performing at an international level or have the potential to do so. We expect staff to apply their
 skills to solving problems that are intellectually challenging and important to society, and to
 develop new skills through action learning and formal training. Our aim is to seek and attract the
 best talent worldwide, from a diversity of background, gender and ethnicity, and develop it into
 tomorrow’s research leadership.
 Over the REF period, we have appointed 59 new external Category A members of academic
 staff, and internally promoted 98 (L6 & L7). Some leavers have moved on to positions of national
 responsibility, e.g. Nichols (Director of the Tyndall Centre for Climate Change) and Thomsen
 (NCC Chair in Composites Manufacturing and Design); or to industry, e.g. Saito (Hitachi, Japan).
 International and sectorial visibility and mobility is further demonstrated by the appointments we
 have made from non-UK universities and industry. New appointees may either reinforce, or
 complement and enhance areas of research strength, or enable us to broaden into new but
 related areas of strategic research opportunity, as summarised below:
   •   Appointments to reinforce existing areas of research strength ensure their vibrancy and
       continuing development, reflect resource availability and exploit our major experimental
       and computational facilities. Examples include Mak (2015, cyber physical systems);
       Gauthier (2015, energy technology/buildings); Deiterding (2015, computational
       aerodynamics); Yan (2016, distributed sensor technology/Si MEMS); Afshan (2019,
       infrastructure); Bailey (2019, energy technology/cryogenics).
   •   Appointments made to complement and bridge existing research strengths, generating
       new multidisciplinary activities and thereby opening up new areas of strategic importance,
       include Downes (2014, structures/autonomy); Hovorka (2014, computational modelling
       linking with physics and maths); Schneider (2014, biomedical imaging); De Almeida
       (2014, hydrodynamics); Spencer (2016, biomedical electronics, to drive the
       interdisciplinary health care technology agenda); Thornton (2016,
       hydrodynamics/autonomy); Kashani (2017, infrastructure/earthquake resilience); Huang
       (2018, to drive cross-disciplinary research linking to Centre for IoT); Heydari (2018,
       transport); Singh (2019, electrical power engineering/system control).
   •   Appointments made to broaden our research base generally involve attracting proven
       research leaders to Southampton to grow our expertise and inspire new research areas.
       They include: Lot (2014-20, automotive); Ryan (2015), Kim (2016) and Wittig (2017),
       computational space propulsion and orbital mechanics); Wilson (2016, computational
       aeroacoustics, Rolls Royce UTC); Gourvenec (2017, infrastructure/offshore geotechnics);
       White (2017, infrastructure/offshore geotechnics); Turner (2020, cyber physical
       security/control systems).
 Appointments made through these three routes align with our research vision and future
 strategic directions, enabling the development of future research leaders and the exploitation of
 our experimental and computational facilities, and enhancing our ability to address societal
 challenges.


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Unit has implemented a range of initiatives to address gender imbalance in both recruitment
 and promotion, including using gender-neutral language in our advertisements, marketing
 materials and job descriptions; proactively approaching potential applicants with protected
 characteristics; and ensuring panels contain a mix of genders. An on-line tool (http://gender-
 decoder.katmatfield.com/) is used to ensure we use terms and descriptors that encourage
 applications from women and BAME candidates. Advertisements include information about our
 family-friendly policies and flexible/part-time working. We proactively contact potential female
 candidates to encourage them to apply. Shortlisting and interview panels are mixed gender,
 including at least two women. Panel membership is prescribed by role within the University and
 may include colleagues from other Schools to ensure balance. Panel members undergo training
 to ensure there is no unconscious bias against protected characteristics and internal candidates.
 The proportion of female Category A academic staff across the Unit has remained steady at
 about 11.0%. While progress has been made (the proportion of women at L6&7 has increased
 slightly from 5.7% in 2013/14 to 7.6% in 2019/20), there is much more to do regarding our
 gender balance. BAME Category A staff numbers have increased (from 49/292 in 2013/14 to
 62/273 in 2019/20); and non-UK Category A staff (from 100/292 in 2013/14 to 110/273 in
 2019/20).
 2.2 Staff development
 We run coherent programmes for inducting and mentoring new staff, and well-established
 processes for annual appraisal and promotions including:
 Induction: All new staff are assigned a line manager, who coordinates their induction and
 oversees the two-year probation period (one year for PDRs). Our induction highlights University
 policies on diversity, discrimination, and dignity at work, and online training that all new staff
 must take, including in ED&I, ethics, safeguarding, data management and health and safety.
 New staff are made aware of university-wide mentoring schemes, the WISET network and the
 Springboard development programme for women, which is funded by the Unit. We also have
 local school induction policies; the Head of School welcome letter emphasises our commitment
 to diversity and encourages uptake of University ED&I training, which is monitored to ensure that
 all new staff undertake it promptly.
 Mentoring: All new staff have a named mentor, who is not their line manager. Our mentoring
 scheme aims to help new staff settle in, and to provide a supportive environment for personal
 development. Mentors provide advice and support both in their own area of expertise and more
 generally, in areas ranging across education, enterprise, fellowships, finance, life transitions,
 outreach, grant funding, research supervision and management. Mentoring is a confidential
 process, separate from regular managerial support and induction. It is available and relevant to
 all individuals within the Schools, irrespective of their level of seniority or job family.
 Appraisal: Following probation, all staff have annual appraisal meetings with their line managers
 (a member of staff can request a change of line manager). Appraisal training, which covers
 unconscious bias and managing diversity, is mandatory for line managers. Appraisal via an on-
 line system ensures transparency. Objectives, achievements, training undertaken and required,
 and long-term ambitions and aspirations are discussed and recorded, and a performance
 descriptor is agreed. Discussion of research plans forms a key component.
 Staff workloads are managed with reference to School norms. The balance between research,
 teaching and leadership may vary between individuals, but the expected overall contribution is
 consistent for staff at a given level.
 Applications for promotion are considered annually. University-wide information events outline
 the process and key milestones. Line managers are proactive in encouraging applications,
 especially from groups under-represented at more senior levels. Potential applications are
 initially discussed informally, and applicants are supported in presenting their case by their line
 manager and through professionally-run workshops. Applications are considered by a School,
 then a Faculty panel, and for promotion to full professor by a University panel. Interviews are
 conducted at levels 6 & 7 (Associate and full Professor), for which the University offers day-long
 interview training. The panels at all levels are mixed gender and constructed in a manner to

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ensure there is no unconscious bias against protected characteristics. The application form
 includes space to comment in-confidence on individual circumstances such as career breaks,
 and periods of maternity/paternity leave.
 The recruitment, induction, appraisal and promotions processes all provide for the candidates /
 appraisees to give and receive feedback at each stage. This may be in writing or in person. For
 professorial applications it will cover the interview and include suggestions/advice in support of
 specific future plans and career path.
 We strongly encourage sabbatical leave where the scope supports our research strategy and
 the expected outcomes meet our aspirations in terms of quality and impact. Staff are
 encouraged to apply for external funding to support study leave – also an indicator of relevance
 and quality. The policy for study leave and sabbaticals is described in REF5a,§3.2.
 Secondment to and buy-out by business, industry, public and third sector bodies is encouraged
 where appropriate to the career development of staff and the Unit’s research strategy. Such
 secondments and buy-outs are often funded by the collaborating organization, and sometimes
 through an EPSRC or RAEng Industry Fellowship. At least 11 academic staff have been
 seconded or bought out by international and national companies including AccelerComm,
 Hitachi, Lumenisity, Proctor & Gamble and SPI Lasers, for periods ranging from 3 months to 4
 years. These have usually been linked to the development or transfer of specific products or
 technology. For example Maunder’s secondment as CTO of AccelerComm (80% FTE since
 April 2019) was instrumental in securing £8.8M investment, growing the company to 33
 employees. It filed 35 patents, sold 58 licences and developed 27 products in 4G and 5G
 encoders and decoders. Morgan’s 20% FTE, 2-year secondment to Vivoplex Ltd led to 9 patent
 applications in biomedical sensors. Nelson was seconded to EPSRC as CEO for 4.5 years.
 Enterprise and impact activities carried out on secondment or through partial buy-out are
 recognised for promotion purposes including to professorial level (Level 7).
 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I)
 All Schools within the Unit are fully committed to ED&I: details of some of our procedures and
 process, together with evidence of their success, have been given earlier in this section. All
 three Schools currently hold Bronze Athena SWAN awards, alongside the University’s Silver
 award. Each School has an ED&I committee and ED&I is a standing item at all management
 meetings. The chair of each school ED&I committee sits on the University ED&I Committee with
 membership from all faculties, professional services, staff and students. Chaired by the Vice
 President Research and Enterprise, it reports to the University’s Executive Board and
 recommends annual objectives. The schools follow University policies on Equal Opportunities,
 Gender Identity, Dignity at Work & Study, Religion & Belief and Reasonable Adjustments.
 Within the Unit an extensive network of groups meets regularly to share good practice and
 collaborate on initiatives regarding protected characteristics. These include the BAME, LGBT
 and Parents’ and Carers’ Networks. Active student societies span LGBT, Feminism, Religious
 and International remits. Support networks for women include Theano, WiSET and Empower.
 Theano, founded in the 1990s, is a networking group that brings together women and is open to
 all female students and academic staff across the University. WiSET, founded in 2002, helps
 shape the policies and culture of our University for women in science, engineering and
 technology. WiSET hosts the prestigious annual Campbell lecture and helps to develop school
 ECR mentoring programmes.
 The Faculty sets aside funding to cover maternity/paternity/adoption payments to fixed-term
 contract staff where the funding body does not do so. We provide the same level of return-to-
 work assistance (e.g. flexible return, managed transition, mentoring, partner support) to staff
 on fixed-term contracts as staff on open-ended contracts. All PGRs are covered by a Faculty
 parental leave and sickness leave policy that mirrors staff provision. Since 2014, there have
 been 10 periods of maternity leave and 33 periods of (2 week) paternity leave across the Unit.
 Other initiatives include suitably-configured private rooms for nursing mothers, well-being
 counselling and support, and a fund to cover additional carer costs associated with elective
 attendance at extracurricular conferences and similar events.


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Further evidence of our commitment to equality and diversity, for example in the recruitment
 and support of staff and research students, is given in §2.5.
 2.4 Supporting and developing ECRs (new academic staff and Postdoctoral Researchers)
 Staff induction tailored for Early Career Researchers (ECRs) appointed as academic staff
 covers research finance and funding, REF, grants, studentships, internships, fellowships,
 research facilities and research governance, in addition to compulsory on-line training in
 research integrity, ethics, intellectual property (IP) and ED&I.
 New academic staff are supported by their line manager and mentor in the supervision of
 PGRs, teaching, research and the development of grant applications. A personal development
 plan is drawn up, and followed with the benefit of internal and externally-provided training. New
 lecturer teaching increases gradually from 40% of a normal workload over three years,
 recognising the need to prepare new material and undertake formal training. Academic staff
 ECRs may apply for internal funds for pump priming, impact acceleration, feasibility or
 collaboration purposes. Research groups offer peer review and guidance for these and external
 research grant applications. Senior colleagues in other research areas or schools provide
 mentoring for academic staff ECRs through career guidance, review of long-term objectives and
 general confidential advice. ECRs participate in Fellowship Programme training modules on
 leadership, negotiation and presentation skills. Specific workshops and training include:
 Fellowships - a beginner’s guide; How to talk about yourself and your skillset; Pathways to
 Impact; and Meet the Fellows.
 Postdoctoral Researchers (PDRs) are essential to the vibrancy, breadth and freshness of our
 research ecosystem. Hence their effective integration into our research community is
 paramount. They are encouraged to join PhD supervision teams; experienced PDRs can be
 main supervisors, and apply for research contracts and lead projects in their own right. PDRs
 often have specialist expertise (for example, in relation to a particular apparatus, facility or
 technique); mentoring and training is geared to helping PDRs transition towards senior research
 posts.
 The Faculty runs an annual Research Week for all staff. Sessions focused on ECRs and PDRs
 cover topics including securing first grants (new investigator grants and early career fellowships),
 proposal writing, large proposals, fellowships, PI replies, mock panels, impact and industrial
 engagement, community building, motivational talks, networking and sessions with external
 funders. Staff diaries are cleared of meetings during that week and it is run out of term-time so
 staff can engage with research support events and devote a block of time to developing or
 refining a research proposal.
 Our Fellowship Programme, led by Roose and supported in each school by a fellowship
 champion, was established to identify and nurture outstanding junior academics and post-
 doctoral researchers, and to support them in securing prestigious externally-funded fellowships
 and permanent academic posts in our own or other universities. The Fellowship Programme
 arranges workshops in each school to advertise the various funding streams available. The Unit
 has won 26 early career fellowships (Table 2.3).
 Table 2.3: ECR Fellowships awarded.
  Funding body                                            F         M
  EPSRC- Early Career Researcher & Innovation             2         3
  Future Leaders Fellowship                               1         0
  NERC Fellowship                                         0         1
  RAEng Research Fellow, Industrial Fellow                1         7
  Royal Society                                           1         2
  European Research Commission                            0         1
  Others (e.g. Marie Curie, Leverhulme)                   1         6
  Total                                                   6        20

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ECRs may also benefit from the Faculty Fast Track programme which supports responsive
 mode applications with timelines, regular one-to-one mentoring sessions to discuss progress
 and support from the Research and Innovation Services (RIS) team. For high performing ECRs,
 an agreed focus on research may be accompanied by a corresponding reduction in teaching
 load. ECRs may be employed on Innovate UK projects, giving them the opportunity to spend
 periods of time with SMEs, to undertake consultancy or to contribution to our outreach
 programme. We provide matched equipment funding for research grant applications; a Faculty
 strategic fund supports large-scale bids including laboratory/workshop refurbishment; and the
 University Multi-user Large Scale Equipment for Research (MuLSER) fund provides institutional
 support to multiuser equipment bids such as EPSRC strategic equipment funding (§3.3).
 2.5 Postgraduate Researcher recruitment, training and support
 All postgraduate researchers are supported by the Faculty Graduate School (FGS), a team of
 academic staff and administrators with an overarching responsibility to ensure that University
 quality frameworks and regulations are applied rigorously. FGS monitors progression, training,
 supervision and registration status and receives and acts on student feedback. FGS Board
 meets quarterly, and the PGR Student-Staff Liaison Committee three times annually.
 Membership includes the Faculty Director of the Graduate School (McAlpine), PGR student
 representatives and doctoral programme directors from each school.
 Table 2.4: Unit Doctoral awards

   Year       13/14      14/15      15/16      16/17      17/18       18/19      19/20      Total

    PhD        133        142        171        186        145        156         136       1069

 PGR recruitment and admissions are led at a School level by senior admission tutors and
 representatives from research groups. Multiple funding routes include EPSRC DTP and CDT,
 iCASE, industry, the Faculty or University and the students themselves (e.g. government
 sponsorship of international students). Funding for any particular student can be made up from a
 combination of sources to broaden access. We seek to attract the best students through funded
 scholarships for international and EU students, and enhanced stipends for UK students. PhD
 scholarships are allocated competitively with panels judging applicants on academic quality and
 strategic importance, for example:
  • Developing people: early career academics, or a change in research direction
  • Interdisciplinarity: alignment with a recognised USRG or University Institute (§1.1)
  • Sustainability: leverage of additional income/matched funding or developing/sustaining a
    strategically important area of research
  • Excellence: outstanding quality of the project or the student
  • Enterprise: collaboration with a strategic partner or likely to lead to strong impact, spin-out,
    commercialisation etc.
 ED&I principles are embedded into our PGR recruitment and admissions processes. At PhD
 recruitment events we emphasize our commitment to providing a supportive and inclusive
 environment for all. We highlight the active involvement of our staff and students in groups such
 as WiSET+ and Theano, which support and encourage women in engineering. We proactively
 ask our high-performing female undergraduates if they would like to consider applying for PhDs
 in engineering, emphasizing the real-world impacts of our research and its positive effect on
 people. Our websites profile some of our successful PhD alumni, with examples chosen to
 provide a balance across different gender and ethnic groups. We ensure there is no
 unconscious bias in our studentship allocation procedures by redacting names and indications of
 gender or ethnicity from applications prior to ranking. We monitor attendance and gender
 balance at PGR recruitment events and activities.



                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research students are supported throughout their period of study, through formal and informal
 mechanisms and processes as follows:
 Induction: The University provides students with a high-level perspective, while Faculty and
 School inductions explain the stages of progression to successful completion and the
 compulsory and optional training opportunities. School-based local induction (a two-day tailored
 programme) provides in-depth guidance, for example on subject-specific training through an
 Academic Needs Analysis. Throughout the induction period there is a programme of faculty,
 school and research group social meetings, at which the students get to know each other, co-
 workers and staff.
 Supervision: Each PhD student has a supervisory team of at least two members of academic
 staff with a clear primary supervisor. At least one member of the team must have prior
 experience of PhD supervision to successful completion, enabling new academics to be
 mentored in supervision. Mentoring is also available to the students should they wish it. All new
 PhD supervisors are required to attend a Graduate School training workshop.
 Progress Monitoring: FGS has pioneered a web-based system, PGR Tracker, which supports
 progression monitoring and records all the training activities undertaken by each student. This
 system prompts students, supervisors and examiners when tasks are due for completion.
 Students submit reports through PGR Tracker and supervisors/examiners give feedback on the
 reports and any subsequent viva. This ensures that a permanent, personalised and easily
 accessible record of the progress of every student is maintained. PGR Tracker also
 automatically records training activities undertaken at the University and allows the student to
 enter any additional training or other activities that they wish to note, so as to maintain a record
 of their personal professional development. Following its success within FEPS, PGR Tracker
 has now been implemented across the University and an enhanced second generation system is
 being procured.
 Professional Skills Training and Support: FGS provides a broad range of courses to enhance
 research-centred learning and transferable skills training to optimise the development of
 postgraduate students. Personal development planning provides each student with a structured
 and supported process for reflecting on their own learning and achievements, and planning their
 personal, educational and career development. Subject-specific training delivered at Faculty,
 School and research group levels includes formal lecture courses, seminar programmes,
 methods training etc. Each PGR student irrespective of funding source has a personal research
 training support grant of up to £1200 p.a. conditional on progression, which provides funds to
 present papers at conferences and attend summer Schools.
 Career Development: Engagement with employers is an essential part of PGR career
 development. Nearly all of our PGR students are working on topics that are highly relevant to
 industry, and in collaboration with industrial partners. Students frequently attend conferences
 incorporating large industry exhibitions, and industry-based engineers are regularly invited to
 Southampton to give seminars. All PGR students are encouraged to participate in widening
 participation, through leading activities and mentoring young students to consider university
 study. Examples include robot building, creating and delivering research talks to sixth forms,
 summer Schools, and mentoring school students in extended project qualifications (EPQ). PGRs
 are also encouraged and trained to take part in undergraduate teaching, mainly through
 laboratory demonstration and providing tutorial support.
 Outside a student’s doctoral research, PGR internships provide experiential learning
 opportunities in which individual students contribute to the delivery of a project and/or the
 strategic direction of a host organisation. Student interns reflect on their experience and
 undertake a skills audit to assist in their personal development. These internships are optional
 and are flexibly negotiated with a range of organisations throughout the year. The Global
 Research Initiator scheme offers PGRs and ECRs the opportunity to visit one of our international
 partners to establish and cultivate research links at an institutional and individual level. Since
 2018 our records shown that 7 awards have been made to Unit staff and PGR students.



                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University Career and Employability Service includes dedicated PGR and international
 student web areas. It holds careers fairs and events, provides training on CVs, applications and
 interviews, and helps with work placements. The service also arranges for alumni to act as
 careers contacts. Within the Unit, the ECS Careers Hub plays a vigorous role in building
 relationships with leading companies that bring benefits to research and education programmes
 across FEPS. Each year, the Hub supports a full programme of employer visits, sponsored
 events and activities, ensuring that our students are aware and informed of the opportunities
 available to them. Annually, we have interactions with around 300 companies, with many of
 which we have long-standing partnership relationships and advertise over 400 technology
 positions directly to our students and alumni.
 Future Worlds (§1.3.3, §4.3.3) leads the development of entrepreneurial skills in our students, it
 nurtures aspiring PGR entrepreneurs through one-to-one support along with its network of
 seasoned founders, investors and millionaire entrepreneurs. Martinho-Corbishley and Lomeli
 established a start-up based on their PhD research, securing £100k seed investment for retail
 customer tracking technology. Radii Devices (Founder PhD Steer, RAEng Enterprise Fellowship
 in 2019) is a spin-out using software to improve prosthetic limb design. ArchA1 (Founder PhD
 Iris Kramer) uses the power of AI to the construction industry to deliver rapid results and
 improved outcomes by automatically detecting archaeological sites on earth observation data.
 FGS oversees new initiatives, such as establishing quality frameworks and regulations for
 collaborative research supervision and joint PhD programmes e.g. King Abdulaziz University,
 Saudi Arabia, Nanyang Technical University, National University of Singapore, University of
 Aachen, Germany and University of Padova, Italy.
 Papers co-authored by students and supervisors, based on or including the student’s doctoral
 research, have been awarded 41 “best paper” type prizes from journals, publishing houses and
 conferences. Other prestigious prizes include the 2015 IET Control and Automation Doctoral
 Dissertation Prize (Mayo Maldonado); a Gold Medal for Excellence in Engineering by a Young
 Engineer, STEM for Britain 2017 (Miguel Xavier), and Silver in 2020 (Davide Zilli); and Gold at
 Malaysia's Innovation Technology Expo 2016 (Sei Ping Lau).
 2.6 Equality and diversity issues in the construction of the REF submission
 An initial Equality Impact Assessment (EIA) undertaken in July 2019 was widely discussed within
 FEPS and a number of interventions made, including:
   •   Carefully considering the key equality, diversity and inclusion issues in selecting both
       internal and external reviewers for REF 2021 outputs, including ensuring an appropriate
       balance of seniority, disciplines, gender and ethnicity amongst reviewers
   •   Reminding assessors of the possibility of unconscious bias and that outputs should be
       reviewed purely on the basis of the quality of the work
   •   A review of all output scores to ensure consistency and fairness between the different
       Schools in the Unit
   •   Discussing the findings at school meetings.
 Allocating outputs to staff in accordance with the REF guidance and ED&I criteria is challenging
 for very large submissions (273 staff in UOA12). As described in the University’s Code of
 Practice (Part 4), we made significant use of a software tool that is blind to the protected
 characteristics of staff and their outputs, and also ensured that the gender balance for selected
 outputs matched that of the overall population of researchers.




                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Strategy for generating research income
 The Unit has a policy of securing strategic large grant funding via EPSRC programme grants
 (Unit PIs currently hold 7, refer §4.1 Table 4.2), and other multi-£M funding routes, balanced with
 shorter-term responsive mode grants and funding via industrial collaborators ranging from long-
 term corporate partnerships to shorter project-based support.
 The Unit has maintained an average annual research economy of ~£45M over the REF period.
 UKRI (notably EPSRC) is consistently the single biggest sponsor, accounting for about 55% of
 the Unit’s research income. 13% is from UK industry, reflecting our strong links with major high-
 impact collaborators including Airbus, BAE, Network Rail and Rolls-Royce. A full breakdown is
 given in Figure 3.1.
 Figure 3.1: Research funding by HESA class




 Total research income over the REF period was £304M, equating to ~£166k per FTE p.a. for
 each of the 261FTE staff returned in UoA12 (an increase of >52%, from £108k in REF2014).
 The Unit’s researchers derive tremendous benefit from access to world-class facilities and
 infrastructure both within the Unit and University, and at other institutions around the world via
 collaborative research projects. Within the Unit, facilities are operated in clusters (by theme) at
 School level, rather than individually by departments or groups, to maximise the benefit of multi-
 application disciplines such as acoustics, computing, materials, structures or photonics.
 Activities are further supported by teams specialising in the delivery of research impact, often
 (co-) funded by grant income from agencies and sponsors as shown in Figure 3.1. Many of the
 larger activities run annual competitions (typically £100k per call) for seed-corn stimulus funding
 to support new initiatives and early-stage feasibility studies; projects funded in this way often
 utilise the Unit’s wide range of experimental and computational facilities. (§3.5)
 Full lists of Programme Grants and other large scale (multi-£M) funding are given in §4.1 Table
 4.2 for Unit PIs, and §4.1 Table 4.3 for Unit Co-Is with a PI elsewhere. The respective totals of
 >£70.3M and £277.6M indicate a considerable and consistent level of research funding.
 In addition, the Unit has benefitted significantly from EPSRC Prosperity Partnerships leveraging
 matched funding from partnering organisation(s); equipment funding; KTPs; and framework
 agreement / strategic partnership / University Technology Centre (UTCs) type funding from
 industry. Details of these are provided here rather than in §4, reflecting the strategic nature of

                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 such funding streams in terms of the joint benefits of the research undertaken, partnership
 development, and routes to impact – for example, as evidenced by the Impact Case Studies.

 Table 3.1: Prosperity Partnerships, framework agreements, UK Capability and Equipment grants
  Scheme                      PI          Dates      Funder and key partners               Total
                                                                                          Funding
                                                                                            £M
  Prosperity Partnership      Reed        2017-23    EPSRC                                  4.2
                                                     Rockley Photonics
  Prosperity Partnership      Daley       2018-23    BAE Systems                            6.0

  Strategic Partnership /     Powrie      2013-24    Network Rail                           3.3
  Framework agreement
  Framework agreement         Hudson      2014-23    Shell                                  2.5
  Framework agreement         Turnock 2014-18        English Institute of Sport             1.0
  Strategic Partnership       Powrie      2014-20    China Railway Rolling Stock            0.3
                                                     Corporation
  UK Capability:              Reed        2014-20    EPSRC + 13 partners                    3.1
  Cornerstone
  UK Capability:              Reed        2020-22    EPSRC + 49 partners                    1.5
  Cornerstone 2
  Equipment grant:            Barton      2017-21    EPSRC + 16 partners                    1.1
  Structures 2025
  Future Towns                Kemp        2019-      EM3 LEP, Research                      4.5
  Innovation Hub                                     England
  Totals                                                                                  £27.5M

 Table 3.2: University Technology Centres
  Scheme           PI         Partner                   Name                      Dates     Direct
                                                                                           funding
                                                                                             £M
                                                                              2014-
  UTC        Angland        Airbus          Airbus Noise Technology Centre                   1.1
                                                                              present
                                                                              2014-
  UTC        Keane          Rolls Royce     Computational Aerodynamics                       1.1
                                                                              present
                                                                              2014-
  UTC        Wilson         Rolls Royce     Propulsion Systems Noise                         1.9
                                                                              present

 Table 3.3: Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs)
  PI                          Partner                             Date     Status
  Ferguson/Waters             Controlled Power Technologies       2014     Completed
  Gawith /Gates               Covesion 2                          2014     Completed
  Kim/ Joseph                 Vesta Wind Tunnels                  2014     Completed
  Hill/ Newton                Merck Chemicals                     2016     Completed
  Brocklesby/Frey             LMC Environmental                   2016     Completed
  Byfield/Kashani             Dawson Construction Plant           2017     Completed
  Gawith /Carpenter           Covesion 3                          2018     Completed
  Zwolinski/Halak             PragmatIC                           2018     Ends 4/21

                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Yang/Mak                     AccelerComm                           2018     Ends 1/21
  Jiang/Badar                  Blatchford                            2018     Ends 2022
  Sobey/Hudson                 Silverstream technologies Ltd         2020     Ends 2022
 3.2 Areas of strategic investment
 One of the key Faculty strategies is to support and actively encourage interdisciplinary research.
 To this end, over the REF period we have launched 7 new interdisciplinary Centres of
 Excellence. Each centre has a director, and is supported by Faculty and RIS staff and cross-
 disciplinary PhD studentships.
 Continuous Digital Chemical Engineering Science (CDCES) is developing smarter, greener
 and more efficient processes for the discovery and manufacture of new chemicals and materials,
 the building blocks of future technological and scientific advances.
 Future of Human Communication (FHC) is developing digital technologies that will help people
 to communicate better. Research focuses on accessible devices and systems to improve
 healthcare and wellbeing, and enhance the way we learn, work and enjoy entertainment and
 culture.
 Health Technologies facilitates coordination between academics and practitioners in the health
 domain, including e-health, healthcare technologies, wellbeing and rehabilitation.
 In-situ and Remote Intelligent Sensing (IRIS) is the world’s only research hub dedicated to
 developing intelligent, connected, self-powered sensing systems to operate in some of Earth’s
 most remote, harshest environments; providing a better understanding of the world around us and
 helping to tackle some of the most pressing environmental and societal challenges we face today.
 IoT and Pervasive Systems covers the full IoT system stack, from underpinning semiconductor
 and sensor devices through to machine intelligence and data science.
 Machine Intelligence includes academics involved in fundamental research as well as those
 using AI and robotics in novel applications. An £11.8M grant for research in this area – the
 Trustworthy Autonomous Systems Hub – was announced in June 2020.
 Re-engineering for Electric Mobility (RE4EM) is accelerating the development of sustainable,
 interconnected electric transport systems, the re-engineering of existing infrastructure and
 vehicles; through advances in energy storage technology, the use of digital tribology to optimise
 components and redesigning the human–machine interface.
 3.3 Organisational infrastructure, operational and scholarly support for research and
 impact
 The Unit benefits from a raft of research support activities provided by the University centrally
 through Research and Innovation Services (RIS), the Faculty and at school level.
 University central support: RIS oversee almost every aspect of the research funding lifecycle
 from initial advertising of calls through to impact, REF and licencing/spin-out activity. This
 includes:
   •   Advertising calls and alerting staff to funding opportunities
   •   Reviewing and providing feedback on draft proposals, including advice on costing
       (supported by the finance hub)
   •   Arranging mock interviews where relevant (e.g. EPSRC, RAEng, Royal Society, European
       Research Council proposals)
   •   Brokering engagement with funders via team visits, panels, and expert advice from
       specific staff who are fully focussed on a particular funder
   •   Negotiating contracts, including non-disclosure, confidentiality and licensing agreements
   •   Overseeing REF processes via a central planning section
   •   Assisting spin-out activities including technology transfer, licensing deals etc
   •   Running the Impact Acceleration Account, including funding, to maximise its effectiveness



                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Unit (Faculty/school)-level support includes:
   •   Marketing and research highlights dissemination activities
   •   Enterprise-related activities including Future Worlds meetings and events
   •   Local IT and HR management for our engineering-intensive Faculty
   •   A network to promote the fellowship culture within the Unit
   •   Support for proposals in terms of institutional and match funding
   •   A Patent Panel, which oversees the patent submission and filing process for developing
       impact
   •   Local support staff, often co-funded via large grant funding, who are specialists in
       particular areas of engineering, electronics, photonics.
   •   Fellowship champions, who provide support and feedback for staff engaging in fellowship
       applications
   •   Proposal review teams, who provide timely feedback on draft proposals
 Operational support is provided at University, Faculty and school level through various
 mechanisms and funding streams:
 Technical support: The University Estates and Facilities (E&F) team is responsible for day-to-
 day operation and maintenance, and its Project Management Unit for major new construction
 such as the Boldrewood Innovation Campus and the Zepler Institute cleanroom complex. Local
 enhancements are managed by E&F to the requirements of the Faculty/Unit. Technical support
 totalling >100 staff and £4M p.a. is controlled by Schools, funded by devolved budget allocations
 from the University and grants from research councils, through infrastructure, pool or dedicated
 technical posts.
 IT equipment: Funding and management depends on scale and user group/need. Central
 funding covers institutional provision including the IRIDIS4 and IRIDIS5 super-computers. IRIDIS
 remains one of the largest computational facilities in the UK. The 20,000-core IRIDIS5, >4×
 more powerful than its predecessor, has a peak performance of 1.3 Petaflops. It entered the list
 of the 500 most powerful super-computer systems in the world in November 2017. IRIDIS6 is
 now in the planning stage. We host the Spitfire cluster, which has a total of 864 cores, a peak
 performance of ~20Tflops, 4Tbytes of RAM and 30Tbytes of (RAW) disk storage. These facilities
 underpin the Rolls Royce UTC in computational engineering and are used in research across
 the Unit. Most other local IT, including lab-based PCs, are provided and maintained by central
 IT, via Unit technical support.
 Large-scale equipment: Major investment in new equipment is supported by the Faculty or the
 University centrally (e.g. through MuLSER; Template 5a), subject to a sound business case
 aligning with institutional strategy. For major equipment purchased via grant funding, the Faculty
 meets the usual 50% matching requirement following approval from the Associate Dean
 Research (Wood).
 Facilities management: Large-scale facilities operate as cost centres in the Faculty financial
 model, and are managed at University level TRAC small research facilities. They are credited
 with income earned from research and teaching, from which the day-to-day running costs are
 met including consumables, routine equipment purchase, maintenance, and technical support.
 The Area Academic Lead is responsible for keeping the facility up to date with state-of-the art
 equipment, and ensuring it is efficiently utilized with a user consultative group and fair access for
 all. The Area Technical lead is responsible for the day-to-day safe and efficient running of the
 facility, with the Area Safety Officer, reporting to central H&S team, having an oversight and
 advisory role.
 3.4 Infrastructure, facilities and expertise in relation to impact activities
 Impact activities are facilitated and promoted via four main routes focusing on the use of
 University facilities for newly created spin-outs, external commercial contract use, consultancy
 work, and ongoing collaborations with major companies.
 New spin-outs have benefitted from the use of the Zepler Cleanroom Complex (e.g. Lumenisity
 Ltd using ORC fibre drawing towers), the Printed Electronics and Materials Lab (Smart Fabric

                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Inks Ltd, who develop specialised printable inks), and bio-lab facilities (Vivoplex Ltd, developing
 implantable wireless sensors). Access agreements enable the use of facilities by spin-outs prior
 to securing seed funding.
 External commercial use involves agreed access to facilities as part of planned (usually joint)
 research programmes. Examples include Cornerstone (EPSRC EP/L021129) and Cornerstone2
 (EPSRC EP/T019697), which provides silicon photonics foundry services to external UK users;
 the rolling contract with IQE for LED fabrication using cleanroom facilities; and the Tony Davies
 High Voltage Laboratory, which supports testing and development of novel dielectric materials
 for cable insulation for manufacturers, leading to reduced material usage and costs and
 improved performance. Electrical equipment manufacturers such as AP Sensing, Brecknell
 Willis, Nexans, Power CSL, TE Connectivity and Vestas; infrastructure businesses Balfour
 Beatty, National Grid, Network Rail and Scottish Power Energy Networks; and
 telecommunications businesses A2Sea Solutions and Global Marine Systems have used the
 facility over the REF period.
 Consultancies via ECS Partners, E&E Partners and our enterprise units (§1.3.2 and §4.3.1)
 provide access to the cleanroom complex and other specialist facilities for commercial income
 generation.
 Ongoing collaborations with major corporates and industries: the National Infrastructure
 Laboratory (NIL: EPSRC EP/P013627) was funded to provide targeted investment in capital
 equipment to address near-term issues including the resilience of railways and roads in the face
 of climate change, flood and water management. The proposal was supported by Network Rail,
 who are now funding work in the facility as part of their ongoing research partnership with the
 Unit. Lloyds Register has invested in laboratory facilities and has ongoing research collaboration
 elsewhere on the Boldrewood Innovation Campus, while Airbus supported and use the new
 aeroacoustic wind tunnel. Our wind tunnels, hydrodynamics facilities and simulators underpin
 our framework agreement with the English Institute of Sport, and have contributed significantly to
 national sporting success in cycling, sailing and winter skeleton (sled) events.
 3.5 Specialist research infrastructure and facilities
 The Unit has extensive established and new facilities, housed in 20 buildings (many purpose-
 built) across three campuses. Over the REF period we have received over £250M investment in
 major new facilities and upgrades from UKRI, industry and the University. Each facility has
 designated Academic and Technical Leads and is supported by technical staff (§3.3).
 (a) The Boldrewood Innovation Campus (BIC) is the stand-out achievement of the last six
 years. It represents an investment of £170M funded largely from outside the University by bodies
 such as Lloyds Register, Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) and
 South East England Development Agency (SEEDA), recognising the strength and quality of
 Engineering at Southampton. The campus was officially opened in 2015 by HRH the Princess
 Royal. Home to Southampton Marine and Maritime Institute (SMMI) and Lloyd’s Register’s
 Global Technology Centre, it is the UK’s largest University-business partnership and represents
 the next stage of a >40 year partnership between the University and Lloyds Register in marine
 engineering research.
 BIC encompasses state-of-the-art facilities for teaching, research and enterprise including a fluids
 laboratory, autonomous vehicle research laboratories, a driving simulator sponsored by Jaguar
 Land Rover, a performance sports laboratory, a large design studio, lecture and seminar spaces,
 and the new UKCRIC National Infrastructure Laboratory (NIL), completed and opened in 2019 by
 the CEO of Network Rail.
    • The UKCRIC National Infrastructure Laboratory (NIL) represents a £48M investment as
       part of the UK’s Collaboratorium for Research on Infrastructure and Cities (UKCRIC)
       including funding from the Department for Business, Energy and Industry Strategy (BEIS),
       the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC £26M EP/P013627)
       and project partners. The laboratory houses teaching and research laboratories for
       geomechanics, large structures, environmental and infrastructure engineering (§1.2.3), used



                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       to develop new understandings of the behaviour of large structures and structural
       components, with an emphasis on the infrastructure, rail and maritime sectors.
   •   The Fluid Dynamics Research Laboratory incorporates a 138m towing tank and
       advanced wind tunnels complementing exisitng facilities. The towing tank, built with the most
       advanced instrumentation including a wave maker, will be used to investigate the power
       requirements of high speed vessels, safe limits in extreme waves, marine renewables, fluid-
       structure interactions of moorings for offshore structures, and the energy efficiency of hull
       designs. It also houses a unique aeroacoustic wind tunnel used in our research on aircraft
       noise reduction. A recirculating wind tunnel is used for environmental research including
       atmospheric boundary layers. These facilities complement our established RJ Mitchell wind
       tunnel, used extensively for research into vehicle and Olympic-level cycling aerodynamics –
       as well as by Chris Froome prior to his 2016 Tour de France victory, to perfect posture and
       maximise speed/performance.
 The Unit’s other key specialist facilities are listed below, in alphabetical order by research area
 or theme.
 b) Our Acoustics Laboratories are amongst Europe’s most comprehensive. They include large
 (55m2/348m3) and small (32m2/131m3) reverberant chambers, a large anechoic chamber (54m2),
 the Doak laboratory (anechoic down to 400Hz, with microphone arrays to give complete 3D
 maps of jet and valve noise), and the AB Wood 8m×8m×5m deepwater tank (with hydrophone
 and sources). These support our pioneering research in sound and vibration, including Rolls
 Royce and Airbus UTCs in aircraft noise. The deepwater tank has been used by DSTL (target
 detection), Statoil (gas pipe leakage), MOD/Red-Scientific/BAeSystems (TWIPS sonar, BAe-
 funded patent, all inventors being University of Southampton), and €2.5M Horizon2020 research
 quantifying leakage from North Sea Carbon Capture and Storage facilities. An audio laboratory
 with a 40-loudspeaker array and RME DAC/ADC units for 3D audio-reproduction underpins
 research into active noise/vibration control (which has attracted >£6M from the Home Office and
 BAE Systems for border security and maritime applications since 2015) and 3D/personal-audio
 research (£6M, including >£3M from Huawei and the S3A EPSRC Programme Grant with BBC).
 c) The Advanced Packaging Laboratory was established in 2017 to enable placement and
 connection to wafer-scale packaged components and LEDs, utilising processing equipment
 donated by IQE Ltd.
 d) Autonomous systems facilities for maritime robotics include: a 300kg autonomous surface
 vehicle with expanded payload capabilities and both subsea and surface communication, and a
 fleet of 6, medium (20-50kg) and small (<10kg) autonomous underwater vehicles capable of
 operating at depths of up to 500m. Of total value ~£250k, these form a basis for both
 fundamental (control, sensing, intelligence and swarm behaviour) and applied (environmental
 monitoring, infrastructure inspection) research at the University, and are compatible with mobile
 autonomous systems control centres to support operations at sea. We are one of the largest
 operators of drones in the UK, with ~100 platforms in extensive use in the UK and
 internationally. We have considerable experience of beyond visible line of sight (BVLOS)
 operation and were the first non-military organisation in the UK to gain CAA permission for a
 >25kg platform (in 2012). Field operations are supported by two ~£1M mobile laboratories.
 e) Bioengineering and human factors facilities include: a wet-biolab with microbiological
 safety cabinets; cell culture; a tissue testing suite housing multiaxial servo-hydraulic and
 electromechanical test machines; and microscopy. Human Factors facilities include an extensive
 hearing and balance laboratory suite (for researching human responses to vibration), a 6-axis
 motion simulator; 12m, 6m and 1m horizontal shakers; a 1m vertical shaker; oscillatory and yaw
 simulation; and an instrumented treadmill system for gait analysis.
 f) Energy and climate change facilities include: one stand-alone and two building-integrated
 instrumented photovoltaic arrays of 7.2 kW peak (kWp) and 12.5kWp; laboratory testing of solar
 home systems (batteries, lighting, fans, TVs, fridges etc.); environmental monitoring systems;
 thermal cameras; and tidal/wave energy device testing facilities (housed in the Fluid Dynamics
 Research Laboratory).


                                                                                              Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 g) The Centre for Hybrid Biodevices (CHB) is located within the Institute for Life Sciences and
 supports interdisciplinary research across the University. The laboratories are biosafety category
 2, facilitating research using hazardous biological material. They host a wide range of rapid
 prototyping and analytical equipment. The facility is widely used by researchers from
 Southampton University Hospital Trust, industry and start-ups.
 h) Infrastructure engineering facilities within the NIL include: the 15m×30m strongfloor and a
 smaller testing laboratory equipped with a range of computer-controlled, servo-hydraulic testing
 machines ranging from 1kN to 2.5MN in capacity, able to reproduce complex dynamic loading
 signatures; a 100kN high strain rate test machine; and bi-and tri-axial loading machines
 supported by UKCRIC, UKRRIN and Structures 2025. Facilities for stress analysis and
 crack/damage monitoring include ultrasonic scanning, and a suite of CCD and high-speed
 infrared cameras with associated image-based strain measurement software. Composite
 fabrication and processing facilities include vacuum assisted resin infusion and an autoclave (1m
 dia. × 1.5m long). Our new geotechnical laboratory is equipped with resonant column, cyclic
 triaxial, hollow cylinder and cyclic simple shear apparatus; a low temperature/high pressure rig
 for testing gas hydrate bearing sediments; consolidating anaerobic reactors used to investigate
 waste compression and degradation, on which similar equipment around the world is based; in-
 house digital image analysis-based strain measurement equipment; and a 3m radius
 geotechnical centrifuge. The geomechanics laboratory and our associated field measuring
 expertise supports work in geotechnical transport infrastructure (co-funded by EPSRC, Network
 Rail and HS1) and environmental geotechnics (we are a partner in the Dutch Accelerated landfill
 Remediation Trial). We also have access to an environmental analytical suite and a 36m full-
 scale railway test track.
 i) Materials, solid mechanics and surface engineering facilities have benefitted from
 continuing investments associated with the µ-VIS Computed Tomography Centre and nCATS,
 the National Centre for Advanced Tribology at Southampton. Equipment in µ-VIS includes 9 CT
 scanners and associated analysis suites, a Jeol JSM-6500F field emission scanning electron
 microscope; and micro powder processing and microfabrication facilities. Equipment in nCATS
 includes 3D contacting and non-contacting profilometry; a range of optical microscopes and
 associated metallography equipment; nanomechanical and nanotribological test facilities; pin-on-
 disc and twin disc tribometers; a full-scale train bearing and various wear, abrasion, corrosion
 and erosion test rigs. This is used to support themes across engineering, from geomechanics
 (characterizing the behaviour of plant roots in shearing soils, EP/M020355) through sustainable
 energy to bioengineering (prosthetic joint wear and dental tribology). µ-VIS will play a leading
 role in the recently-announced National Research Facility (NRF) in Lab-based X-ray Computed
 Tomography (XCT), commissioning what will be the largest engineering XCT capability in UK
 universities and leading on biomedical applications of XCT in collaboration with the Faculty of
 Medicine and Southampton University Hospital Trust.
 j) The Measurement Laboratory supports a wide level of electrical, optical, magnetic, structural
 and thermoelectric characterisation techniques. It has a 200mm wafer semi-automatic probe-
 station with 67 GHz network analyser, two variable temperature spintronic systems (prober with
 1T in plane field, and 9T cryostat), and a triple wavelength tip-enhanced Raman system. The
 facility is funded by Research Councils, EU Horizon 2020 and industry.
 k) The Printed Electronics and Materials (PEM) laboratory houses equipment to enable the
 printing and deposition of solution-processed functional materials, for example polymer-based
 low temperature materials for flexible electronics and e-textiles. Processes include screen,
 dispenser and inkjet printing, doctor blading and spray coating enabling the deposition of film
 thicknesses ranging from a few nanometres to hundreds of microns. The laboratory supports a
 wide range of research activities including flexible electronic circuit fabrication, thin film organic
 electronic devices and e-textiles for wearable applications.
 l) The Tony Davies High Voltage Laboratory (TDHVL) supports research into dielectric
 materials and insulation systems, as well as high voltage and related phenomena. The
 laboratory houses state-of-the-art facilities and is supported by a specialist engineering team. An
 EP large vacuum chamber with two 4800l/s maglev turbo pumps makes this a unique test facility

                                                                                                 Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in the UK. The TDHVL is also a commercial testing house and offers consultancy service. It is
 one of only a handful of facilities in Europe and has established itself as leading institution in
 high voltage research. The TDHVL is audited annually, and offers a certified service to
 ISO9001:2015, ISO14001:2015 and OHSAS18001:2007. The value of commercial activities
 undertaken through TDHVL is approximately £200k p.a. for clients including Morgan Sindall,
 Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult, QinetiQ, RINA Consulting and Transmission Excellence.
 m) The TRUMPF/ORC Advanced Laser Laboratory (ALL) is a jointly managed dedicated
 research facility geared towards providing concept phase technology typically linked to the
 company’s product road map. Deliverables are specific fibre, components, laser design concepts
 and early concept prototype lasers. ALL is staffed by both ORC and visiting TRUMPF Laser UK
 personnel and currently contributes ~£250k/year to costs, amounting to a total of £2M since its
 inception. In addition, the ALL is involved in preparing bids for larger UK/EU research initiatives,
 such as Innovate UK, EPSRC and EU H2020 and has contributed to an impact case study
 submitted for UoA 12.
 n) Transportation facilities include the Southampton University Driving Simulator (SUDS),
 comprising a Land Rover Discovery and Triumph motorcycle linked to AV Simulation’s SCANeR
 Studio simulation software. Three projectors provide a 135o forward field of view, door mirrors
 are simulated using mini-LCD monitors, and a rear projection screen allows natural usage of the
 vehicle’s rear-view mirror. In-vehicle information can be provided through the vehicle’s original
 instrument cluster, or through a bespoke, reconfigurable, touchscreen display. The car’s audio
 system delivers simulation sounds, and all vehicle controls are fully functional. Our on-road
 instrumented vehicle, a Toyota Prius plug-In hybrid, was acquired in 2020 and is equipped with a
 Race-logic Video VBOX Pro system combining 32 CAN data input channels with four high-
 definition video feeds, two microphones, and a GPS antenna. The system records data at 20Hz
 with a velocity accuracy of 0.1km/h, acceleration accuracy of 0.5%, and distance accuracy of
 0.05%. We have recently developed an instrumented bicycle (iBike) for on-road trials and
 behavioural studies. ComTET is a 10-workstation similar of the command room of an Astute-
 class submarine, with a custom-built simulation engine using Dangerous Waters software. For
 transportation data analysis, we have a range of planning and modelling software, traffic data
 collection and processing equipment.
 o) Water and environmental engineering facilities comprise bioreactor laboratories used in the
 development of novel environmental technologies for water, waste and wastewater treatment
 and bioenergy production from prototype to commercially viable application; an analytical suite
 (shared by all groups) housing a range of equipment including gas and ion chromatographs,
 atomic absorption and near infrared spectrophotometers, carbon and elemental analysers and
 calorimeters); 24m and 16m tilting flumes; 60m outdoor ecohydraulics flumes; 8m and 12.5m
 wave basins; a semi-anechoic ecosystem tank; and field equipment including boat-based
 acoustic Doppler current profilers and 3-D acoustic telemetry for ecohydraulics research.
 p) Zepler Institute Cleanroom Complex is a state-of-the-art 1780m2 multidisciplinary centre for
 materials and device research in photonics (silica, glass and silicon technologies), electronics
 and nanotechnology. Our cleanrooms house the best set of photonics and nanoelectronics
 fabrication capabilities in the UK University sector. Facilities include: silica fibre fabrication with
 four fibre drawing towers, nanofabrication, novel and compound glass, silicon and integrated
 photonics facilities, and FHD, SEM and FIB suites. The complex was established in 2008 at a
 cost of £120M including building and equipment, and offers a unique mix of expertise in
 established and cutting-edge technologies. Integrated with specialist application development
 laboratories in areas such as communications, lasers, sensors and biotechnology and advanced
 characterisation facilities across the University, the Zepler Institute is able to address every
 aspect of the discipline.
 3.6 Benefits-in-kind
 The Unit has strong working relationships with industry and alumni, resulting in benefits-in-kind
 having a total value of > £3.84M over the REF period (Table 3.4), in addition to those already
 mentioned.

                                                                                                Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 3.4: Major benefits-in-kind and other contributions

  Sponsor                     Relationship               Benefit                        Value
                                                                                         £k
  Intel                       Corporate                  Equipment: stepper/scanner      1400
  NERC                        Research Council           Use of facilities: ship time    225
  Lumenisity                  Spin-out                   Equipment: fibre draw tower     200
                                                         upgrade
  Huawei                      Corporate                  Donation to fund research       200
  Dr KV Reddy                 Personal                   Sir David Payne Student         100
                                                         Scholarship
  Central Laser Facility      Research Council           Use of facilities               284
  National Institute for      Department of Health       Use of Facilities: Diamond      1643
  Health Research             and Social Care            Light Source beam time
  ISIS Neutron and Muon       Research Council           Use of facilities               270
  Source
  Dr A Grudinin               Alumnus                    Postgraduate bursary             50
  Total                                                                                 £4372k


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Support for Unit research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 The University supports the Unit’s research collaborations, networks and partnerships through
 centralised functions for Research and Innovation Services (RIS), Finance, Estates and
 Facilities (E&F) and HR, as described in §3.3. The Office of Development and Alumni Relations
 (ODAR) develops mutually beneficial, lifelong relationships with key constituents to increase
 philanthropic support for the University. Fellowship networks, overseen by the Faculty, but
 managed at school level, have been running within the Unit for >10 years, brokering all aspects
 of fellowship submission, management, mentoring and focussed events. All these activities are
 overseen at University level by the Research & Enterprise Executive Group (REEG) which
 manages and maximises the delivery of research under the University strategic plan.
 As evidence of the Unit’s success, we summarise our major research collaborations, networks
 and partnerships below.
 Major non-UKRI collaborations involve: Airbus, ARM, AWE, BAE, Boeing, DSTL, European
 Space Agency, Huawei, IBM, Lloyds Register, National Grid, Northrop Grumman, Rolls Royce,
 Thales, Siemens, Schaeffler, Shell and the Home Office. Individual collaborations with an
 income >£1M are listed in Table 4.1.
 Table 4.1: Non-UKRI research income >£1M during REF period (rounded)

                             Funder                           £M
                             BAE Systems                      5.4
                             Rolls Royce                      5.3
                             DSTL                             3.6
                             National Grid                    3.1
                             Rockley Photonics                2.6
                             Huawei                           2.1


                                                                                          Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                               Microsoft                       1.9
                               Lumenisity (spin-out)           1.7
                               SPI lasers (spin-out)           1.3
                               Hi-Silicon                      1.2
                               Airbus                          1.1
                               Network Rail                    1.0
                               Total                       £30.3M

 Further funding totaling >£4M has been received from AP Sensing, AWE, BP, De Puy, European
 Space Agency, GE Aviation, Honeywell, IBM, Jaguar Land Rover, QinetiQ, Schlumberger,
 Southampton City Council, TWI, and others. Additional examples of major collaborative research
 via a research framework or similar strategic agreement with industry, including University
 Technology Centres, are given in §3.1 (Table 3.2).
 The Unit’s success in achieving its key REF2014 objective of research partnerships with industry
 and other academic institutions is detailed below.
 Large research collaborations funded through Programme and similar grants led by Unit staff
 over the assessment period are shown in Table 4.2. This includes 7 active EPSRC Programme
 grants (PG) totaling £37.4M and four other grants worth £32.9M, together involving more than 30
 HEIs and over 100 industry partners. 4 further Programme grants of total value £16M, not included
 in Table 4.2, were awarded prior to 2013 and ran for >3 years within the assessment period.
 Table 4.2: Grants >£2M led by a Unit PI awarded during the REF period (“(PG)” after the name
 of the PI denotes a Programme grant.
  PI                   Title                   Dates      £M             HEI           Industry
                                                                       Partners        Partners
  Richards             UKCRIC National         4/2016 -   26         N/A            N/A
                       Infrastructure          5/2017
                       Laboratory
  Prodromakis(PG) FORTE                        4/2018 -   6.3        Imperial,      11 including
                                               9/2023                Manchester     ARM, Lloyd’s
                                                                                    Register, NMI,
                                                                                    NXP
                                                                                    Semiconductor
                                                                                    UK, Thales
  Richardson(PG)       Airguide Photonics      6/2017-    6.1        Aston,         18 including
                                               5/2023                Bristol,       BT, CIP
                                                                     Cambridge,     Technologies,
                                                                     Liverpool,     JPL, Microsoft,
                                                                     Sheffield,     NPL, Oclaro,
                                                                     Surrey, UCL    Qinetiq, SPI
                                                                                    Lasers,
                                                                                    Toshiba
  Reed(PG)             Silicon photonics       12/2013-   6.0        KAIST, MIT,    8 including
                       for future systems      3/2021                Paris South,   Intel, Oclaro
                                                                     Tokyo,
  Powrie(PG)           Track to the Future     6/2015 -   5.2        Birmingham, 10 including
                                               5/2021                Huddersfield, HS2, London
                                                                     Nottingham    Underground,
                                                                                   Network Rail,
                                                                                   Tata Steel UK


                                                                                             Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Brown(PG)               PoETS                   5/2016-      5.0     Cambridge,      5 including
                                                  11/2022              Hong Kong,      UKAEA, NMI,
                                                                       Imperial,       Imagination
                                                                       Newcastle       Technologies
  Zheludev(PG)            The Physics and         10/2015-     4.4     Glasgow,        4 BAE
                          Technology of           9/2021               Nanyang         systems,
                          Photonic                                     and Taiwan      DSTL, Ilika,
                          Metadevices and                              TU              Oclaro
                          Metasystems
  Scanlan(PG)             CASCADE                 2/2018-      4.4     Bristol,        26 including
                          (Autonomous             1/2023               Cranfield       Babcock, BAE,
                          aircraft systems)                                            BP, DSTL, Met
                                                                                       Office,
                                                                                       Network Rail,
                                                                                       Ordnance
                                                                                       survey, Thales
  Hewak                   Manufacture and         2/2015-      2.5     Cambridge,      16 including
                          application of next     1/2021               Exeter,         DSTL, NPL,
                          generation                                   Oxford          Samsung,
                          chalcogenides                                                Seagate
                                                                                       technology
  Reed                    Cornerstone             9/2014-      2.2     Bristol,        2 Rockley UK,
                                                  6/2020               Cardiff,        Filarette
                                                                       Heriot-Watt,    Foundation
                                                                       Leeds,
                                                                       Nottingham,
                                                                       Strathclyde,
                                                                       St Andrews,
                                                                       UCL, York
  Beeby                   Novel                   3/2015-      2.2     none            9 including
                          manufacturing           6/2019                               DSTL
                          methods for
                          functional
                          electronic textiles
         Totals                                               £70.3M          31             109

 Grants with PIs at other institutions but on which Unit staff are Co-Is total >£251M; these include
 1 collaboratorium, 4 technology hubs and 6 Programme grants involving >25 HEIs and >200
 industry partners. These are summarized in Table 4.3.
 Table 4.3: Grants >£2M involving Unit Co-Is
  Co-I            Title                 Dates      Amount      Co-I HEIs/          Industry Partners
                                                    /£M        partners
  31              UKCRIC: UK            4/2016-      110*      Bristol,            >50 in the original
  (Convenor),     Collaboratorium       5/2017     excludes    Birmingham,         submission to
  Richards        for research in                   amount     Cambridge,          BEIS, including
  (Director of    infrastructure                   in Table    Cranfield, ICL,     Catapults, Network
  Strategy)       and cities                          4.2      Leeds,              Rail, Highways
                                                               Loughborough        Agency, National
                                                               Manchester,         Nuclear
                                                               Newcastle,          Laboratory,
                                                               Oxford,             Scottish Water,
                                                               Sheffield, UCL      Northumbrian
                                                                                   Water, Laing

                                                                                                Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                                                        O’Rourke, Arup,
                                                                        Costain, Mott
                                                                        MacDonald,
                                                                        Siemens, and city
                                                                        councils e.g.
                                                                        Manchester,
                                                                        Bristol, Newcastle
  Smith,       UK Quantum          12/2014-   38     Bath,              22 including AWE,
  Horak        Technology          3/2020            Cambridge,         DSTL, GCHQ,
               Hub (NQIT)                            Edinburgh,         Google, Lockheed
                                                     Oxford,            Martin, NPL, NIST,
                                                     Strathclyde,       Raytheon, Toshiba
                                                     Sussex,
                                                     Warwick
  Smith,       UK Quantum          12/2014-   35.5   Birmingham,        51 including AWE,
  Gawith,      Technology          11/2019           Bradford,          BAE, BP, DSTL,
  Horak        Hub for sensors                       Glasgow,           IBM, NPL, NIST,
               and metrology                         Lancaster,         Thales
                                                     Nottingham,
                                                     Strathclyde,
                                                     Sussex
  Smith,       QuantIC: The        12/2019-   21.6   Bristol,           30 including
  Gawith       UK Quantum          11/2024           Edinburgh,         Airbus, BAE,
               Technology                            Exeter,            DSTL, Leonardo,
               Hub in quantum                        Glasgow,           NPL, Qinetiq,
               imaging                               Heriot-Watt,       Thales, Toshiba
                                                     Imperial,
                                                     Strathclyde
  Payne,       National Hub in     1/2016-    10.2   Sheffield          39 including AWE,
  Reed,        high value          12/2022                              BAE, CIP, DSTL,
  Zheludev     photonic                                                 IQE, NPL, Plessey,
               manufacturing                                            Qinetiq, Renishaw,
                                                                        Sharp, Xyratex
  De Groot     ADEPT:              7/2016-    6.3    Southampton        4 including
  (PG)         Advanced            7/2022            (Chemistry PI)     European
               devices by                                               Thermodynamics
               electroplating                                           Ltd, Johnson
                                                                        Matthey, STFC
  Sandham,     Transpiration       8/2016-    6.1    Bangor,            9 including DSTL,
  Dieterding   cooling systems     8/2021            Birmingham,        ESA, Lockheed
  (PG)         for jet engine                        Imperial, Oxford   Martin, Rolls-Royce
               turbines and
               hypersonic flight
  Richardson   Lighting the way    6/2020-    5.6    Edinburgh,         2 DSTL, SPI
  (PG)         to a healthy        5/2025            Nottingham         Lasers UK
               nation:
  Preston,     MISTRAL:            2/2016-    5.4    Cambridge,         52 including Arup,
  Blainey,     Multi-scale         2/2021            Cardiff, East      BP, KPMG, Lloyd’s
  Powrie,      Infrastructure                        Anglia,            register, Shell,
  (PG)         systems                               Newcastle,         National Grid,
               analytics                             Oxford, UCL        Siemens, Transport
                                                                        for London



                                                                                      Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Nelson        S3A: Future         12/2013-     5.4     Salford, Surrey    9 including Bang &
  Fazi (PG)     spatial audio for   6/2019                                  Olufson, BBC,
                an immersive                                                Sony Europe
                listener
                experience at
                home
  Powrie,       ACHILLES -          7/2018-      4.9     Bath, Durham,      11 including Arup,
  Smethurst,    Assessment,         12/2022              Leeds,             HS2 Ltd, Network
  Preston       costing and                              Loughborough,      Rail, Highways
  (PG)          enhancement of                           Newcastle,         England
                long life, long                          Strathclyde
                linear assets
  Powrie,       UKCRIC              10/2017-     2.6     Birmingham,
  Richards      Coordination        3/2021               Cranfield, UCL
                Node
  Total                                        £251.6M          >25                >200

 4.2 Relationship development with key beneficiaries.
 In addition to the formal corporate level research partnerships listed above, mechanisms by
 which users inform our research agenda and benefit from our research include collaboration on
 individual projects including through EngD/PhD/CDT student sponsorship and KTPs;
 industry/user advisory boards at project, programme and strategic level; industry days,
 innovation meetings, exhibitions and showcases. These routes to engagement and development
 are described below, with evidence and examples given in each case to illustrate the
 mechanisms and the impact delivered.
 4.2.1 Interaction with key research users: collaborators, partners and industry
 Some typical cases from many possible examples are summarised below.
 The Arm-ECS partnership celebrated its 10th anniversary in 2018. It is the largest university
 research collaboration supported by Arm in the UK and in 2015 won the title University Research
 Group of the Year from the UK technology industry body, National Microelectronics Institute.
 This collaboration has been cited as an example of a highly successful industry-academic
 research by Arm and EPSRC and contributed to the information-gathering stage of the Dowling
 Review of Business-University Research Collaborations. The collaboration, led by Merrett,
 involves 13 academics and research staff from Southampton and 18 engineers from Arm, and
 has resulted in the fabrication of 13 new test chips, 46 co-authored papers, 10 co-supervised
 PhD graduates, 28 internships with Arm, 12 patents, and 5 open-source simulation tools.
 Shell Shipping established a Research Framework agreement in September 2014, through a
 deed of gift to the University of ~£1M over 5 years to fund Hudson as Shell Chair of Ship Safety
 and Efficiency and related research activity. The deed was renewed in 2019 (£1.5M to 2024), to
 support 3 research staff. It is managed and stewarded by Office of Development and Alumni
 Relations at corporate level.
 We have had a Strategic University Partnership (£1.25M), and subsequently a Research
 Framework Agreement (>£2M) in infrastructure systems with Network Rail since 2013
 (academic lead: Powrie). Within the REF period, this has supported research projects to a value
 of £2.2M and 11 PhD students; contributed to £6.9M of EPSRC grants; facilitated impact through
 rapid uptake of research results; and enabled staff and students to collaborate in EU projects
 Shift2Rail and In2Rail.
 The EPSRC-funded National Hub in High Value Photonic Manufacturing (£10.4M, 39 project
 partners, 2016-2022) addresses the grand challenge of optimising multiple cross-disciplinary
 photonic platform technologies to enable integration through developing low-cost fabrication
 processes. This theme addresses the collective requirements of the UK photonics (and
 photonics enabled) industry; its £1M short term (<1 year) research project budget has to date
 funded 9 projects having a total value of £506k.

                                                                                          Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Examples of impact arising from interactions and engagement with key research users, in
 addition to the Impact Case studies, are summarised in Table 4.4.
 Table 4.4: Examples of impact in addition to the ICS

  Lead            Nature/area of research                     Impact / Metrics
  investigator(s)
  Vershuur,        Cochlear Implants                           Changes in NHS candidacy
  Cullington                                                   guidelines for cochlear
                                                               implantation
  Yang             Long-standing research collaboration        Part of the UK contribution to the
                   with CERN though applied                    High Luminosity Upgrade (HL-
                   Superconductivity and Cryogenics.           LHC) to the Large Hadron collider
                                                               (LHC) at CERN. Total funding of
                                                               £2.2M from STFC, matched by
                                                               £2M from CERN, will bring major
                                                               commercial opportunities for the
                                                               UK cryogenics engineering
                                                               industry.
  Charlton         Harnessing the capability of photonic       Energy Savings estimated at
                   crystals to improve the light efficiency of 0.3GWh p.a.
                   light emitting diodes (LEDs).               Spin-out IQE and other economic
                                                               growth.
  Preston          Methods have been developed to             In partnership with Hampshire CC
                   design, monitor and evaluate policy        and Southampton CC, this
                   interventions that promote local           research informed future clean air
                   sustainable passenger and freight          policy for Southampton and
                   transport.                                 identified areas where
                                                              improvements could be made.
                                                              This work also attracted >£22M in
                                                              investment to the local economy.
  Kazansky         5D optical storage a joint venture with    Economic impact investment and
                   Microsoft, a method for modifying glass    new jobs at Microsoft. 5D
                   on the nanoscale for permanently           technology used to digitally
                   recording digital data in inert, stable    record and preserve national
                   silica glass using an ultrafast laser      historic archives including Magna
                   writing process.                           Carta.
  Turnock          Research for English Institute of Sport    1 Gold and 2 bronze medals
                   for Team GB                                (50% of all skeleton medals) at
                                                              the 2018 Winter Olympics
  Niu              Environmental sensors and wearable         Commercialisation through spin-
                   healthcare sensors for continuous          out SouthWestSensor Ltd. 8
                   monitoring of chemical and biological      employees.
                   biomarkers in situ

 4.2.2 Industry and Academia: industry-focused days
 Since 2014, the Unit has run over 211 events and industry-focused days, often with our strategic
 or industry partners but also with international government bodies such as the US Army.
 Examples of notable, large events with totals of attendees and exhibitors (in brackets) are:
   •    ChAMP - Chalcogenide Advanced Manufacturing Partnerships – 2014 (263)
   •    Industry showcase with Sharp Labs Europe – 2014 (>100)
   •    Parliamentary Outreach Event – 2014 (50)
   •    UK-Japan Silicon Nanoelectronics & Nanotechnology Symposium – 2016 (75)

                                                                                           Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   •       The Future Photonics Hub – 2016, 2018 (387)
   •       Industry days in Autonomous Shipping – 2016, 2017 (~50)
   •       Innovative Future Sensors: in partnership with JEMI – 2016 (50)
   •       3D imaging for life sciences – organised by µ-vis – 2018 (~100)
   •       Altera and Huawei engagement day – 2018 (55)
   •       UK-Japan Ballasted Railway Track Workshop – 11/2018 (36)
   •       Rail Safety and Standards Board (RSSB) Infrastructure Standards Committee 2-day event
           – 1/2019 (25)
   •       Working together in Silicon Photonics – 2019- (70)
   •       Rail Industries Association (RIA) Infrastructure Technical Interest Group – 9/2019 (50)
   •       NIL showcase and official opening – 9/2019 (160)
   •       Rail Industries Association (RIA) Unlocking Innovation (MADE in Britain) Infrastructure
           showcase – 2/2020 (130)
 4.2.3. Exhibitions and PR events
 Part of our engagement strategy, events and exhibitions enable us to open up discussions on
 specific industry needs and sector-wide challenges in engineering, manufacturing, and
 developing technologies, providing an opportunity for researchers to demonstrate our
 capabilities directly to industry. Examples include:
 FortisNet: a collaborative, interdisciplinary network in musculoskeletal health research bringing
 together expertise from clinical, academic, stakeholder and enterprise partners, led by the
 Institute for Life Sciences (IfLS). Since its launch in 2016, 5 annual FortisNet network meetings
 have taken place involving 237 individual participants representing 95 organisations (15
 academic, 49 industry, 14 clinical and 17 stakeholder partners). Collaborative projects initiated at
 the network meetings and supported by IfLS pump priming funds have returned 18x the
 investment in new research income.
 Between 2016 and 2019, we showcased our photonics research at >90 conferences, trade
 shows and networking meetings across the UK and in six countries from North America, Europe
 and Asia. A media highlight from 2018 was The Secret Story of Stuff: Materials of the Modern
 Age, broadcast to 2M viewers on 31 October; 12 minutes of the hour-long programme was
 dedicated to photonics research. In 2019, 17 press releases were published to academic and
 scientific media outlets, and a feature in the Telegraph named Southampton as a “hotspot” for
 innovation.
 4.3 Wider contributions to the economy and society
 Members of the Unit contribute broadly to the economy and society by providing expert
 advice/consultancy on specific projects/issues (§4.3.1), sometimes as expert witnesses;
 contributing to codes of practice and industry guidance (§4.3.2); and establishing start-up and
 spin-out companies (§4.3.3).
 4.3.1 Consultancy
 Engagement with users to develop impact is facilitated by the collaborative nature of our
 research. As part of that engagement, staff are encouraged to provide consultancy that involves
 exploitation of their research or the generation of new research ideas, usually through one of the
 vehicles (enterprise units, or ECS/E&E Partners: §1.3.2 and §1.3.3) we have established for this
 purpose.
 37% of our Category A academic staff have engaged in 184 separate consultancy commissions,
 working not only with large corporations but also charitable institutions and smaller companies in
 the UK, Europe, USA, Japan and China. Significant consultancies in which staff have utilized
 knowledge/expertise gained from their research include:
       •    Work for the Carbon Trust Offshore Wind Accelerator on optimizing the rating of their
            array and export cables, which identified cost reductions of £1/MWhr on the levelised
            cost of energy and was subsequently included in Best Practice Guidance to the wind
            farm industry (Pilgrim)

                                                                                              Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Chairing the Pilot Study Earthworks design review panels for HS2 (2018-19), which
        realised estimated savings of ~£100M; and membership (one of three) of the Company
        Chair’s 2019 review team (Powrie)
 Other consultancies have been carried out for companies including A2Sea Solutions, Arup, BAE
 Systems, Balfour Beatty, Bombadier, BP, China Southern Power Grid, CYME International Ltd,
 Daido Metals Ltd, DONG Energy, DSTL, Dyson, EInk, Equitix, Fugro, GKN Aerospace, Global
 Marine Systems, Hellenic Cables, Honeywell, Huawei, IIika, Kelda Technology, Merck, Power
 CSL, Rapiscan Systems, Reynolds, Rolls Royce, Samsung, Sharp Labs, Shell, TE Connectivity,
 Teledyne SSE and Woodside.
 4.3.2 Codes of practice and industry guidance
 10% of our academic staff work closely with industry/government bodies to define standards and
 publish technical guidance. This work results in monetary savings, reduced pollution/carbon
 omissions and improved future sustainability. Examples include:
 Chen contributed to Cigre D1.23 (brochure No.636, 2015); Cigre A2/D1.43 (brochure No.646,
 2016); and IEEE DEIS HVDC cables working group position paper and IEEE standard (IEEE Std
 1732-2017), 2017.
 Pilgrim is the UK representative on IEC TC20 Working Group 19, which maintains the IEC
 60228, 60287, 60853 and 60949 standards. He is also the UK member of a number of Cigre
 working groups, delivering internationally used best practice guides, including: Cigre B1.35,
 Technical Brochure “A Guide for Rating Calculations of Insulated Cables” in 2015; Cigre B1.50,
 Technical Brochure on Sheath Voltage Limiters and Bonding Systems in 2019; Cigre B1.56,
 Technical Brochure on Current Rating Verification in 2019.
 Gourvenec is Convenor of ISO/TC67/SC7/WG10, responsible for development of three
 international standards for offshore structures; a member of API committee SC2/RG7,
 developing mirror standards for the US offshore market (API RP2GEO); a member of the SC7
 committee responsible for ISO standards across all aspects of offshore structures; and UK
 expert on offshore geotechnics for BSI B-525-12, Design of Offshore Structures.
 Hanzo and his team are frequent contributors to the ongoing P1913 IEEE Quantum Comm
 standardization efforts.
 Maunder participated in the 3GPP TS38.212 New Radio channel coding standardization and
 published an improvement of the ratified standard with Hanzo and Shao.
 Powrie is co-author of Construction Industry Research and Information Association (CIRIA)
 reports C750 Groundwater control design and practice (2nd edition) and C760 Guidance on
 embedded wall design.
 Richards and Powrie contributed to the new Network Rail Overline Electrification Equipment
 (OLE) standard PAN101.
 White is a member of the ISO/TC67/SC7/WG7 Foundations Panel (ISO19905: Site-specific
 assessment of jack-up units), the ISO/TC67/SC4/WG6 Task Group on Risers and Flowlines (API
 RP 2RD/ISO13628: Design and operation of subsea production systems), and the drafting
 committee for BS10009 Stability design of cables on rocky seabeds.
 4.3.3 Startups and spin-outs
 Future Worlds (§1.3.3) has helped many start-ups and spin-outs to raise capital and launch
 during the REF period. Since its formation in 2015, 32 start-ups and spin-outs have been
 launched, and venture capital investment totalling £7M raised. In many cases, the underpinning
 technologies were developed through EPSRC funding.
 Staff have also engaged with the iCURE programme managed by the SETsquared enterprise
 partnership (REF5a). iCURE enables researchers with commercially promising ideas to engage
 with end-users to build their business canvas and identify commercial opportunities for their
 research. AccelerComm and Highfield Diagnostics have benefitted from the programme though



                                                                                         Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 awards of £50k each, enabling them to meet and interview >100 potential licensees and develop
 formal business plans.
 Spin-outs incorporated or active during the REF period include: Adaptive Audio (Elliott,
 Nelson); AccelerComm (5G mobile; Maunder); Arc Instruments (Prodromakis); Audio Scenic
 (3D audio; Fazi); Carena Healthcare (stents; Bressloff); CHG (Hewak); Covesion (Smith,
 Gawith); Cuesta (Shrimpton); Dynamics Modelling (Keane); e-sens (Prodromakis); HiT
 systems (Sharkh); Lumenisity (Richardson, Poletti); Opsodis (Nelson, Elliott); Pointcloud
 (Reed, Thomson); Radii Devices (prosthetics; Dickinson); Smart Fabric Inks (Beeby, Tudor,
 Yang); SouthWestSensor (sensing; Niu) and Vivoplex, (digital health; Morgan).
 4.4 Contribution to sustainability of the discipline and Interdisciplinary research
 Unit staff contribute to the sustainability of the discipline through leadership and participation in
 collaborative research programmes as listed in §4.1; working with government and other
 agencies in the UK and abroad, and contributing to collegial scholarly activity through journal
 editorship, review, committee and conference organisation activities, as summarised in §4.6.
 In addition to contributions to major national projects such as HS2, three examples of our links
 with government and our responsiveness to national/international priorities/initiatives are:
 a) The SUSCABLE II project, which took concepts developed in earlier EPSRC Supergen and
 Technology Strategy Board (TSB) projects to prototype stage. SUSCABLE II showed how low
 Technology Readiness Level (TRL), EPSRC-funded work could be developed through proof-of-
 concept to scale-up and prototype development, fully funded by industry. The consortium
 included two major multi-national cable makers (General Cable, Nexans) and one SME (Gnosys
 Global). The final stage involved the production of tons of a new thermoplastic insulation and the
 manufacture of kilometre lengths of a typical medium voltage cable core using industrial
 manufacturing facilities.
 b) The Tony Davies High Voltage Laboratory, which has undertaken Network Innovation
 Allowance research projects for National Grid throughout the REF period. Working with
 colleagues in Chemistry and Mathematics, major projects include Condition and climatic
 environment for power transformers (£928k), Liquids for cable sealing ends (£702k),
 Transformer oil passivation and impact of corrosive sulphur (£545k) and Economic ageing of
 transformers (£447k).
 c) The Britain is GREAT campaign: Working with UK Trade and Industry and the Foreign and
 Commonwealth Office, an iconic poster was produced promoting UK photonics manufacturing
 capability and encouraging people to visit, do business, invest and study in the UK. The poster
 was selected as the flagship image for the UK Pavilion at Photonics West in San Francisco, and
 for a UK Trade & Investment (UKTI) social media campaign to promote UK photonics capability
 worldwide.
 This complements our involvement in TPI (Singapore; §1.2.3) and (with the EPSRC National
 Epitaxy Facility, Sheffield) in the Future Photonics Hub (FPH). The FPH aims to secure the UK’s
 position as a leading innovator in the high value global photonics market by transferring new,
 practical and commercial process technologies to industry and between 2016-2019 has
 generated £15M in industrial income, funding 72 research projects across 9 key industry sectors,
 bringing new photonics technologies to market. We contribute to the All-Party Parliamentary
 Group (APPG) on Photonics, and the recent report Future Horizons for photonics research 2030
 and beyond , published by Innovate UK, the Photonics Knowledge Transfer Network (KTN) and
 the Photonics Leadership Group (PLG), featured the expert views of Payne and Reed together
 with 24 other UK photonics experts.
 4.5 Wider contributions to and recognition by the research base
 The following lists provide quantitative evidence of the Unit’s wider contributions to and
 recognition by the research base, through journal and book editorships (Table 4.5); leadership of
 grant-awarding committees (Table 4.6) and membership of Research Council and similar
 national/international committees (Table 4.7); fellowships (Tables 4.8 and 4.9); prizes; and
 invited keynote lectures etc (Table 4.10).

                                                                                                Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 4.5 Journal editorships
  Editorial Role Held                    Number       Additional commentary
                                         of staff
  1. Editor-in-Chief                        12        Including managing editor, deputy editor-in-
                                                      chief, founding editor and deputy editor roles
  2. Editor                                 56        Including associate editor and assistant editor
                                                      roles
  3. Topic Editor                           67        Including series editor, subject editor, guest
                                                      editor and consulting editor roles
  4. Other editorial board member            24
  Total                                     159
 Note: journals specify their editorial roles in different terminology, so the editorial roles in Table
 4.5 have been grouped into categories (1-4) indicating levels of seniority.
 Table 4.6: Leadership of grant-awarding committees
  Academic          Research Council or               Role held
                    Industry
  Nelson            EPSRC                             Member of Council 2014-2018
                    UKRI                              Member of Executive Committee 2018
                    RCUK                              Member of Executive Group 2014-2018,
                                                      Chair 2015-2018
                    RAEng                             Research Fellowships Committee
                                                      Chair 2018-
  Powrie            RAEng                             Newton Fund Steering Committee Chair
                                                      2014-2016
              Cross Academies (Academy                Lloyds Register Foundation “Engineering X”
              of Medicine/British                     Safer End of Engineered Life Programme
              Academy/Royal Academy of                Board Chair 2018-
              Engineering/Royal Society)              Frontiers Group Chair 2019-
  Prodromakis Lloyds Register Foundation.             Director of ICoN Programme
  Spearing    Singapore National Research             Fellowship Evaluation Panel 2012- date
              Foundation
 In addition to these high-level roles, Table 4.7 summarises shorter term membership of research
 council and similar grant committees in the UK, EU and overseas.
 Table 4.7: Membership of Research Council and similar national/international committees
  Location     Body                        Instances     Additional commentary
  UK           EPSRC                           62        College member, Panel/committee
                                                         chair/member
  UK           Other Research                    21      Including Royal Society, UKRI (FLF),
               Councils and charitable                   BBSRC, NERC, ESRC, STFC, MRC,
               trusts                                    Innovate UK, Leverhulme, Diamond,
                                                         Wellcome, Daphne Jackson Trust
  EU           National councils, ESF          188       Including associated states
  EU           Commission                      28        Including H2020 and ERC fellowship
                                                         panels
  Overseas National councils                     71      Including for the US Army (2), American
                                                         Association for the Advancement of
                                                         Science (1), National Science Foundation
                                                         China (3), the China Scholarship
                                                         Committee; and FCT Portugal (5)

                                                                                                 Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 As well as grants, all of the Unit’s Category A staff and many of our researchers regularly
 review papers submitted for publication in journals and academic conferences. We do not
 formally record this, but estimate we have contributed a total of at least 3,500 reviews over
 the assessment period.
 Fellowships of prestigious professional and learned societies, current and awarded during the
 Ref period, are summarised in Table 4.8.
 Table 4.8: Fellowships (by election) of major professional and learned societies
  Fellows of professional & learned societies          Before REF period      During REF period
  Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS)                    Payne                  Leighton,
                                                                              Richardson,
                                                                              Zheludev
  Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering           Elliott, Hanzo,        Chen, Reed, White,
  (FREng)                                              Leighton, Keane,       Wood
                                                       Langdon, Nelson,
                                                       Payne, Powrie
                                                       Richardson
  Royal Academy of Medical Sciences                                           Leighton
  Fellow of the Learned Society of Wales                                      Morgan
  Foreign Member of US National Academy of                                    Zheludev
  Engineering
  Fellow of the American Physical Society                                     Zheludev
  Fellow of the Acoustical Society of America          Nelson                 Elliott
  EPSRC RISE Fellow                                                           Payne
 In addition, Unit staff hold 102 fellowships of other relevant professional and learned society
 institutions (Table 4.9):
 Table 4.9: Fellowships of relevant professional and society institutions
  Post-          Name of Institute                                                      Number of
  nominal                                                                                 staff
  letters
  FIET           Institution of Engineering and Technology                                  19
  FIMECHE        Institution of Mechanical Engineers                                        9
  FIOP           Institute of Physics                                                       9
  FHEA           Higher Education Academy                                                   9
  FOSA           Optical Society of America                                                 7
  FIOA           Institute of Acoustics                                                     5
  FIEEE          Institution of Electrical and Electronic Engineers                         5
  FICE           Institution of Civil Engineers                                             5
  FRINA          Royal Institution of Naval Architects                                      4
  FBCS           British Computer Society                                                   3
  FRAeS          Royal Aeronautical Society                                                 3
  FIEAust        Institution of Engineers Australia                                         2
  SPIE           International Society of Optics and Photonics                              2
  FRSC           Royal Society of Chemistry                                                 2
  FIOM3          Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining                                2


                                                                                             Page 38
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Plus 1 fellow in each of: FRSS (Royal Statistical Society), FSEM (Society of Experimental
 Mechanics), FIMA (Institute of Mathematics and its Applications), FBPS (British Psychological
 Society), FCIBSE (Chartered Institute of Building Services Engineers), FIEH (Institute of
 Ergonomics and Human Factors), FISCM (International Society for Condition Monitoring), FGS
 (Geological Society), FRMS (Royal Mathematical Society), FICorr (Institute of Corrosion), FRGS
 (Royal Geographical Society), FPWI (Permanent Way Institution), FRMS (Royal Meteorological
 Society), FCIHT (Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation), Foreign Fellow of the
 Indian National Science Academy (only 9 Foreign Fellows), Foreign Fellow of the Indian National
 Academy of Engineering.

 Over 40 funded Research Fellowships have been awarded by research councils, learned
 societies and other bodies in the UK and EU as summarised in Table 4.10. In addition, Hanzo,
 Morgan, Pierron, Reed and Richardson have been supported by Royal Society Wolfson Merit
 Awards for at least part of the REF period.
 Table 4.10: Research Fellowships awarded during the REF period

       Funder                                    Name of fellowship awardee
  UK   EPSRC Early Career Researcher             Mills, Peacock, Glynne-Jones
       (ECR)
       EPSRC Innovation fellowship (ECR)         Yang, Thornton
       EPSRC Established                         Smith, Pierron
       EPSRC Manufacturing                       Saito (left 2020)
       Royal Society, URF (ECR)                  Thomson, Wheeler, Thompson,
       Royal Society Industrial fellowship       Prodromakis
       RAEng fellowship (ECR)                    Beresna, Jasion, Fokoua, Nedeljkovic,
                                                 Dickinson, Paruchuri
       RAEng Industrial fellowship (ECR)         El-Hajjar, Heaven,
       RAEng Senior Research fellowship          Gawith, Slavik
       RAEng Chair in Emerging Technologies      Gourvenec, Prodromakis
       RAEng Research Chair                      Zervas
       NERC Industrial Fellowship (ECR)          Nightingale
       Leverhulme (ECR)                          Fletcher, Davis
       British Council Commonwealth              Reed
       Rutherford Fellowship
       FLF(ECR)                                  Vanderwel
  EU   Marie Sklodowska-Curie (ECR)              Anderson, Lawson, Sun, Tzouvadaki, Lou
       ERC Starting grant (ECR)                  Guasoni
       ERC Consolidator grant                    Poletti, Roose
       ERC Advanced grant                        Hanzo, Kazansky, Zheludev
       Total                                     41


 High level prizes and awards: In 2017, the ORC was awarded a Queen's Anniversary Prize for
 Higher and Further Education. CBEs were awarded in 2018 to Nelson, for services to UK
 engineering and science, and Al-Hashimi (left 2020), for services to academia and industry.



                                                                                        Page 39
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Named awards, medals and prizes awarded to Unit staff include (in alphabetical order of
 awardee):
 Institute of Acoustics Tyndall medal 2018 Fazi
 Leverhulme Philip Trust prize 2014 Ganapathasubramani
 RM Quigley Award (Canada) 2014 Gourvenec
 Royal Institution of Naval Architects Ian Telfer Prize 2014 Hudson
 IEEE Comsoc Education award 2018 Hanzo
 EURASIP Papoulis award 2018 Hanzo
 IEEE Radio Communications Committee award 2014 Hanzo
 Piotr Laszczak-IET William James Prize 2015 Jiang
 Rayleigh Medal of the Institute of Acoustics 2018 Leighton
 Clifford Paterson Medal of the Royal Society 2018 Leighton
 British Geotechnical Association Medal 2017 LePen, Powrie, Zervos
 RAEng President’s Special Award for Pandemic Service 2020 Morgan
 IEEE/RSE Wolfson James Clerk Maxwell Award 2014 Payne
 BJ Lazan award 2017 Pierron
 SEM M.Hetenyi Award 2017 Pierron
 Zeng Gui-Xi Prize (China) 2016 Powrie
 RM Quigley Honourable Mention (Canada) 2017 Powrie, Le Pen
 PWI Arthur Maber Award 2017 Powrie, Le Pen, Thompson
 Rees Jeffreys Prize 2016 Preston
 William W Millar Prize 2017 Preston
 Individual Contributor PIC award 2019 Reed
 IET Crompton Medal for Achievement in Energy 2014 Reed
 Institution of Civil Engineers, Bill Curtin Medal 2016 Richards
 Breaking the Optical Communications Barrier EU Horizon 2020 Prize 2016 Richardson
 Institute of Ergonomics and Human Factors, President’s Medal 2018 Stanton
 Institute of Ergonomics and Human Factors, William Floyd Medal 2019 Stanton
 Institute of Acoustics Rayleigh Medal 2018 Thompson
 COSPAR Outstanding Paper Award 2016 Walker
 Institution of Civil Engineers Telford Premium 2017 White
 ASTM CA Hogentogler award 2017 White
 RM Quigley Award (Canada) 2014 White
 Tribology Trust Silver Medal 2018 Wood
 RAEng ERA Foundation Award 2016 Yang
 ICE Baker Medal 2017 Zervos
 IoP Thomas Young Medal and Prize 2015 Zheludev

 There were an additional 53 other (unnamed) prizes and awards, including “best young
 researcher” and “top 100 downloaded paper” from journals, conferences and societies.
 Table 4.11 shows the number of plenary and keynote talks, and conference chairs in the UK, EU
 and overseas.

                                                                                        Page 40
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 4.11: Invited plenary/keynote lectures, conference chair and committee membership roles
  Description                               Number       Commentary
  Plenary talks                                157       Including plenary session chair; total for
                                                         UK, EU, Overseas
  Keynote talks                                147       Including lecture series, named and
                                                         medal lectures
  Conference Chair and committee               337
  membership

 Unit staff hold visiting academic positions (adjunct, visiting, guest and honorary professor) at
 3 universities in the UK, 9 in Europe and 50 elsewhere (of which 20 are in China, 6 in Japan, 4 in
 the USA and 6 in Singapore).
 Co-operation and collaborative arrangements for PGR training: The Unit hosts or
 participates in a number of Centres for Doctoral Training (CDT), usually in collaboration with
 other disciplines and/or HEIs, as follows.
   •   EPSRC CDT in Next Generation Computational Modelling (Horak, Kramer, Richardson;
       2014-2022) was established to train future leaders in computational modelling, to form the
       core of a community of computational modellers crossing disciplinary boundaries,
       transferring computational advances to relevant application fields.
   •   EPSRC CDT in Energy Storage and its Applications (Cruden; 2014-2022) is jointly run
       between Sheffield and Southampton. It opened in October 2014 and has recruited 53 PhD
       students.
   •   EPSRC CDT in Sustainable Infrastructure Systems, (Powrie, Preston, Kemp; 2014-
       2022), focusing on energy, water, and transport in the priority areas of national
       infrastructure systems, sustainable built environment and water. From 2019, new students
       have been recruited into a successor CDT in Sustainable Infrastructure and Cities as part
       of a UKCRIC initiative.
   •   EPSRC CDT in New and Sustainable Photovoltaics (Boden; 2014-2023), led by the
       University Liverpool with Southampton, Bath, Cambridge, Loughborough, Oxford and
       Sheffield.
   •   EPSRC CDT in Prosthetics and Orthotics (Jiang; 2019-2027), led by the University of
       Salford with Southampton, Imperial and Strathclyde.
   •   Awarded in 2019, the EPSRC CDT in Machine Intelligence for Nano-Electronic Devices and
       Systems (Prodromakis, Norman) will develop and nurture the next generation of
       technology pioneers who will have the skills, assets and network to innovate at the artificial
       intelligence/electronics interface to enable systems with beneficial human impact.
   •   EPSRC mobility DTP in Defence and Security (~£1.5M) (Wood, Downes; Awarded June
       2020) is training grant aiming to reskill/upskill industrial staff and offer research projects
       across AI/drones/cybersecurity/autonomous systems etc to D&S industry such as DSTL,
       Thales, BAES, Boeing, Institute of Naval Medicine etc.




                                                                                               Page 41
