Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Institution: University of Bath

    Unit of Assessment: UoA5 Biological Sciences

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

    Unit context and structure
    Research in the Biological Sciences (Biosciences) at Bath has grown since REF2014, undergoing
    transformative change and enhancing our excellent international reputation. Our 48 (46.2 FTE)
    academic staff conduct research across the full breadth of Biosciences. Housed within the
    Department of Biology & Biochemistry (B&B), our research is organised within four complementary
    themes: Cell and Developmental Biology (CDB), Evolution and Biodiversity (E&B), Infection
    and Immunity (I&I), and Medical and Industrial Biotechnology (MIB). Individuals work across
    multiple themes, and typically belong to one or more networks or University research centres.
    Outstanding among these is the Milner Centre for Evolution (MCE), the major (£8.3M) investment
    in the Unit within the REF period. The MCE integrates and enhances work from the E&B and I&I
    themes and also has strong interdisciplinary links. Another University centre (Centre for
    Mathematical Biology) and a University-wide research network (Cancer Research @ Bath
    Network) are led by Biosciences academics. Through implementation of our research strategy, in
    the REF period we have achieved:
         • Grant capture (funds awarded) almost doubled from £16.2M (REF2014) to £30.9M
         • Publications increased from 702 (REF2014) to 868; 18.8 publications/FTE; 545 with
            international co-authors (up from 414); 154 papers1 published in Nature and Cell suite of
            journals, Science or PNAS
         • Outputs with industrial partner increased from 38 (5.4%) to 51 (6%)
         • 10% net growth of staff numbers: 21 new academics appointed (81% junior appointments,
            including 20% externally funded fellows); 15 staff promoted
         • Gender balance improved, from 18% female (2014) to 33% (2020), and Athena Swan
            Silver Award achieved
         • Number of PhDs awarded increased from 84 (REF2014) to 125 FTEs
         • A prestigious European Research Council Advanced grant awarded
         • Members of staff elected Fellow of the Royal Society, the Academy of Medical Sciences,
            the British Pharmacological Society, and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences

    Research and Impact Strategy We aim for excellence, through collaborative approaches,
    promoting synergies between fundamental understanding of key biological principles and
    industrial and societal needs. Recognising the increasing importance of interdisciplinarity, our
    recruiting goal during this REF period was to appoint outstanding academics to consolidate and
    bridge existing research strengths. Our strategy to enhance our research quality, quantity and
    impact as set out in REF2014 comprised:
         1) Providing the support to excel in individual excellence-led basic research, whilst
             encouraging alignment and responsiveness to key problems in the realms of Public
             Health, Climate Change and Food Security;
         2) Building collaboration and interdisciplinarity, through research centres and links with
             external research partners in international centres of excellence;
         3) Balancing pure and applied research, to enhance impact;
         4) Building on research strengths through recruitment of internationally recognised
             researchers.
    We have successfully implemented each component of this strategy within the four Research
    Themes (each of critical mass and boosted with new recruits) and used Centres and related
    groupings to promote interdisciplinary research, exceeding our REF2014 aims, as described in
    the following sections.




1
    106 if exclude Scientific Reports

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1 University of Bath Biosciences in its collaborative context

 Research Themes: Selected highlights and future focus
 Cell and Developmental Biology (CDB) (17 groups; total grants awarded £10.2M): addresses
 fundamental questions in cell biology and eukaryotic development. We have defined the role of
 imprinted genes in regulation of neural stem cell function and inter-generational effects on adult
 health (Ward: PLoS Biology, Nature Comms.), achieved the mechanistic dissection of long non-
 coding RNA and 5-formylcytosine and 5-hydroxymethylcytosine functions in cell cycle progression
 and cancer (Murrell: Nature Comms., Nature Chemistry, Nature Chemical Biology, Genome
 Biology), and shown that hypomethylation of pollen circumvents the interploidy hybridisation
 barrier, opening new routes for improvements in plant breeding (Scott: Plant Cell). CiteAb is now
 the go-to resource for antibody reagents (Chalmers, Impact Case). We have also identified the
 crucial role for YAP signalling in maintenance of body shape (Bagby, Furutani-Seiki: Nature) and,
 through pioneering use of injected nanodevices, we are revolutionising understanding of
 intracellular forces during the earliest stages of development (Perry: Nature Materials). Our
 research questions are relevant to human health and ageing (especially neurodegeneration,
 cancer and diabetes), developmental biology, stem cells and regenerative medicine, and Food
 Security. We see ongoing opportunities for fundamental contributions to Biomedicine, especially
 through the genetic and epigenetic basis for stem and cancer cell regulation, cell signalling and
 the biophysical study of development.

 Evolution and Biodiversity (E&B) (13 groups; total grants awarded £6.2M): addresses evolution
 at all organisational levels from genes to populations, and over all timescales from the evolution
 of microbes over a few days to the history of Life. We have shown that strategic investment and a

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 polychromatic 'greenbeard' locus explains patterns of cooperation and cheating in Dictyostelium
 (Wolf: PNAS, Nature Communications), and that primate-specific endogenous retrovirus-driven
 transcription defines naive-like stem cells (Hurst: Nature). Key contributions to understanding the
 impacts of Climate Change and Food Security include defining the phenological and fitness
 changes in plants responding to simulated climate warming, and changed demographics and
 predation in wild bird populations (Kover: Global Change Biology; Szekely: Science, Nature
 Climate Change; Younger: PNAS), elucidating mechanisms driving variation in adult sex ratio, and
 its consequences for parental cooperation, mating system and population growth (Székely:
 Nature, Nature Communications, PNASx2), and how a specialized metabolic network selectively
 modulates Arabidopsis root microbiota (Nützmann: Science). A distinctive educational contribution
 identifies how best to improve the understanding of evolution (Hurst, PLoS Biology, Nature Ecol.
 Evol, NPJ Science of Learning). Major future opportunities concern understanding how new
 species evolve and adapt, impacts of environmental change (natural and anthropogenic) on
 species range and extinction, and how evolutionary principles can improve human wellbeing.

 Infection and Immunity (I&I) (11 groups; total grants awarded £7.2M): aims to understand how
 pathogenic microbes interact with their human, plant or animal hosts. Numerous studies inform
 our understanding of the genomic traits determining virulence and disease outcome in bacterial
 and parasitic infections (Laabei, Sheppard, Feil, Massey, Hunt, Priest, Preston, Cowley, Bagby:
 Nature Microbiol., Nature Ecol. Evolution, Nature Comms.x2, PLoS Biology, PNAS, Genome Biol.,
 BMC Biology, J. Infectious Diseases, PLoS Computational Biol., J. Anim. Ecol., Sci. Reportsx3,
 Microb. Genomics), and the spread and evolution of bacterial diseases, including the development
 of antibiotic resistance in real time as crucial leverage in preventing resistance development (Feil,
 Sheppard: Environmental Microbiol., Microbial Genomics). Key translational outcomes include
 novel approaches to vaccine development by exploiting immunomodulatory proteins as vaccine
 adjuvants or capitalising on immune responses to asymptomatic carriage (Preston, van den Elsen:
 Clinical Infectious Diseases, Frontiers Immunol.), and development of new technologies for real-
 time sensing of bacterial infections and for high-throughput screening of new therapeutic
 interventions (Jones: Biosensors and Bioelectronics, Frontiers Cell. Infect. Microbiol.). With
 research so directly relevant to Public Health and Food Security, and in close alignment to the
 University’s strategic priorities in antimicrobial resistance (AMR) and Climate Change, we see
 numerous opportunities for future work on, for example, mechanisms and spread of
 virulence/antibiotic resistance, molecular epidemiology (e.g. Feil awarded EPSRC funds for
 COVID monitoring in waste water (08/2020)), host-microbe interactions, and biotechnological
 applications of microbes and their products.

 Medical and Industrial Biotechnology (MIB) (7 groups; total grants awarded £7.2M): studies
 fundamentals of protein structure, function, dynamics, engineering and biological interactions at a
 molecular level with a focus on exploiting this knowledge to deliver advances in medical and
 industrial biotechnology. We have characterised the mechanistic underpinning of rare, but fatal,
 kidney disease (Acharya: Human Molecular Genetics, Scientific Rep.) and described the
 engineering of a thermophilic host for production of terpenes from waste materials (Leak: Metab.
 Eng.). Our novel technologies, including patented discoveries, have led to successful development
 of peptide-based therapeutics for inflammation (van den Elsen: PloS Biology), high mortality
 cancers (Mason: ACS Chem. Biol.x3; Impact Case)), detection of novel psychoactive substances
 using fluorescence spectral fingerprinting (Pudney: Biochem. J., ACS Anal. Chem.), and a novel
 method for microbial monoterpene ester production (Leak: Mol. Cell Fact.). The ongoing focus
 will be on developing new technologies addressing societal industrial and biomedical needs.

 Strategy to promote collaboration and interdisciplinarity
 Collaboration and interdisciplinarity are embedded in our research culture and facilitated by our
 research structures: Research Themes provide the organisational unit for research within the UoA,
 and interface with Centres and Institutes at Faculty or University-wide level (Fig. 1). Cross-
 department interdisciplinary collaboration is promoted through formal (e.g. dedicated seminar
 series) and informal interactions, facilitated by our compact campus.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Recognising the outstanding strength of our evolutionary biologists, a key strategic investment
 was in the Milner Centre for Evolution (MCE; 2018; Directors, Hurst, Wills). The MCE is housed in
 a new £8.3M building and has a tripartite mission for blue skies and applied research and
 education/outreach. The Centre resulted from the University’s largest single donation to date
 (£5.6M) from Jonathan Milner (alumnus and co-founder of Abcam), plus contributions from
 Wolfson Foundation and Garfield Weston, and studentships through the Evolution Education
 Trust. Bringing together our evolutionary biologists (E&B) and microbiologists studying evolution
 of pathogens during disease outbreaks and antibiotic resistance (I&I), the MCE is a flagship Centre
 within the University.

 Within the REF period, a further three new centres with significant involvement of Biosciences
 have been founded, reflecting the integration of our research with the broader expertise in Bath
 and both national and international priorities:
    • Centre for Integrated Bioprocessing Research (founded 2019, incorporating the former
        Centre for Extremophile Research (Director Danson). Bioscientists (from CDB, MIB
        themes) work with academics from Engineering Departments and industrial partners to de-
        risk the development of novel bioproducts. E.g. contributions in metabolic modelling and
        synthetic biology, engineering microbes to produce bulk chemicals from renewable
        feedstocks (Leak; Metab. Eng.).
    • C3Bio is an interdisciplinary Centre embracing Engineering, Science and the Social
        Sciences, with a mission to use sensor technologies to address real world problems.
        Pudney’s involvement in a cross-Faculty team (with Pharmacy and Pharmacology (P&P),
        Chemistry and Psychology) led to the first point-of-care drug detection system for synthetic
        cannabinoid receptor agonists (Spice; Pudney, Anal. Chem.).
    • Centre for Therapeutic Innovation (founded 2017) incorporates the former Centre for
        Regenerative Medicine (Director, Tosh). Centre for Therapeutic Innovations takes
        fundamental biological research, notably membrane biophysics and signalling, through to
        drug discovery, development and commercial enterprise pipeline. Key involvement from
        Biosciences includes van den Elsen (co-lead of Mechanisms of Disease and Regeneration
        research stream), and academics with a drug development or detection focus (Mason,
        Pudney). Funding success includes joint bid for Light Sheet Microscope (BBSRC, Kelsh
        lead).

 The Cancer Research @ Bath Network (Director, Murrell) links our cancer researchers with those
 in P&P, Chemistry and the Royal United Hospital (Bath), and facilitates collaborations within the
 regional GW4 Cancer network. The Centre for Mathematical Biology and the Centre for Networks
 and Collective Behaviour, together with the more industry-facing Institute of Mathematical
 Innovation, link researchers from CDB, E&B and I&I with those from the Departments of
 Mathematical Sciences, Computer Sciences and Physics; successes include major BBSRC grant
 (Kelsh, £1M). The Centre for Sustainable and Circular Technologies links Biosciences with
 Chemical Engineering, Chemistry and Mechanical Engineering, as well as stakeholders and
 industrial partners, and has a strong focus on bio-based resources and production.

 Further opportunities come regionally from our GW4 partnership, which has resulted in numerous
 regional research groupings, including GW4 Cancer, GW4 Epigenetics, GW4 Climate Alliance,
 and GW4 Antimicrobial Resistance Alliance. Significantly, the UoA benefits from the drive of the
 GW4 partnership towards innovative PhD training, promoting joint PhD studentships, and first-
 class skills training. The GW4 partnerships also facilitate research applications, including multi-
 user large bids (e.g. MRC AMR in Thailand (£3M); Feil, £744K), and shared outputs (e.g. Feil:
 Microb. Genom.).

 Our research strength has been further enhanced by international research partnerships.
 University-funded David Parkin Visiting Professorships have funded four overseas academics’
 visits to the Department. International (e.g. Newton Advance grants (3)) and local (e.g. Bath
 International Research Partnership Scheme) funding schemes have promoted collaborations with
 world class researchers at overseas institutions (e.g. Kyoto, Sao Paulo, Beijing University of
 Chemical Technology). The MRC CLIMB project (Sheppard) has attracted many visitors, including

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 from China, Thailand and Spain. Hunt is Co-I on a Japanese Science and Technology Agency
 CREST (270M Yen awarded), funding collaborative research in Japan, enabling her to maintain
 research activity in collaborators’ labs, promoting interdisciplinarity and productivity. Mason
 partners with University of Queensland (MRC (£780K), plus BBSRC Partnering Award). The
 University has recently signed accords with seven partner universities on four continents, and the
 International Strategic Fund provides support for academics to initiate international collaborations
 with these institutions: e.g. six collaborative projects with institutions in Brazil and Uruguay,
 including funding from FAPESP-SPRINT, BBSRC-FAPESP, and the Bath International Relations
 Office.

 Balancing pure and applied research
 A key strength in Biosciences is translation of fundamental research into clinical, environmental,
 industrial and policy applications. This is achieved by encouraging all our academics to explore at
 an early stage potential application of fundamental research outcomes. UoA Impact Directors
 (Chalmers, Pudney) and other experienced academics (e.g. Danson, Leak) provide mentoring in
 this area. This is enhanced through MIB having a direct focus on industry-facing research and its
 commercialisation, and all our themes interface with multidisciplinary Centres that engage external
 partners, creating a pipeline to exploitation of research (Fig. 1). Sustained industrial collaborations
 are promoted through UKRI initiatives (e.g. Networks in Industrial Biotechnology and Bioenergy
 (NIBB: Leak, Henk); Integrated Biorefining Research and Technology Club (IBTI: Leak); MRC
 Developmental Pathway Funding Scheme (Jones); Innovate UK (Jones, Leak), EPSRC Impact
 Acceleration Accounts (IAA: Leak, Gebhard, van den Elsen, Pudney)), PhD studentships (e.g.
 iCASE and BBSRC Case: Preston, Mason, Acharya, van den Elsen, Scott, Feil, Jones, Pudney),
 scientific research agreements, consultancy and research grants. New industrial collaborations,
 developed through personal contacts or mediated via the University’s Research and Innovation
 Services (RIS), are often supported directly or through entrepreneurial grants (e.g. Mason, CRUK
 Pioneer Award). These include Leak (Corbion, Croda, Fiberight, ABsugar, Molson Coors), Mason
 (Sapience Therapeutics), van den Elsen (UCB-Celltech, Porton Biopharma Ltd), Sheppard
 (Aviagen, Banham Poultry), Pudney (Qualasept, UCB-Celltech), Williams (Mars Edge). In other
 cases, direct translation of research was supported by RIS, alongside academic sabbaticals (e.g.
 Chalmers, CiteAb; Preston, GSK Biologicals, GSK Vaccines, PHE and Birmex). Two of these
 examples contribute to our Impact Case Studies (CiteAb (Chalmers); Sapience (Mason)). Other
 opportunities for impact arising from pure research are diverse, with our other Impact Cases
 resulting from opportunities presented due to our academics’ 1) acknowledged specialist expertise
 resulting in playing a key role in developing science-related policy (Perry), and 2) recognising that
 key study populations would require protection, and founding an NGO to do this (Szekely).

 Building on research strengths through recruitment of academics
 Our recruitment in the REF period reflects and supports the UoA’s research strategy. Strategic
 use of recruitments has boosted each Theme by complementing existing strengths, building
 critical mass, and developing new strategic elements. Themes identified priority areas for each
 recruitment round, looking to enhance strengths and bridge between themes wherever possible,
 realised by appointing established leading experts and up-and-coming early career academics, all
 with international recognition appropriate to their experience, and independent of background or
 protected characteristics.

 These recruitments have been particularly effective in driving expansion within the E&B and I&I
 themes, fitting with the University and/or national research priorities of Food Security, Climate
 Change and AMR. Thus, within Food Security we have deepened our expertise in genomics by
 incorporating plant genomics (Nützmann (Royal Society URF)); established a prokaryotic genome
 sequencing facility, through recruiting a further microbiologist using genomics to address complex
 questions in the ecology, epidemiology and evolution (Sheppard (Director of Bioinformatics));
 expanded and strengthened our research in plant-microbe interactions (Cevik, N.Brown (BBSRC
 Future Leader Fellow)). Within Antimicrobial Resistance: expanded and strengthened our
 research in host-microbe interactions (Gebhard, Laabei, Hunt (Sir Henry Dale Fellow));
 strengthened the interface between microbiology and healthcare-associated applications (Jones,
 Cowley (Prize Fellow), Martinez-Urtaza (since recruited to CEFAS)); added (microbial)

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 experimental evolution to our core expertise (Taylor, Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin Fellow).
 Within Climate Change: enhanced expertise in ornithological evolutionary and behavioural biology
 (Field, Prize Fellow (now Lecturer at University of Cambridge), Younger (Prize Fellow)).
 Recruitments in CDB, often bridging with the E&B and I&I themes, have targeted: enhancing our
 profile in RNA biology across disciplines (Denham, Vance, Hussain); extending cell biology and
 stem cell research, and enhancing cross-disciplinary cancer research (Walko, Sero); consolidating
 and expanding developmental neuroscience and zebrafish research (Nikoloau); expanding and
 diversifying capacity for working with large data sets, from bioinformatics to high content
 microscopy (Turner, Sero). Finally, a senior recruit bridges the MIB and CDB themes, reinforcing
 our strengths in developing new therapeutic technologies, notably for cancer and
 neurodegenerative diseases, and forging new industrial links (Mason).

 Future strategic aims and goals
 Our plans for future growth reflect a strong commitment from the University to support and nurture
 cutting-edge and interdisciplinary research, especially in the priority areas of Sustainability and
 Health and Wellbeing (REF 5a, Section 1.5), underpinned by investment addressing the most
 timely research questions and strengthening the collaborative networks internal and external to
 the UoA. Our strategy will build upon the key pillars established during this REF period: 1)
 excellence-led research, aligned to real-world global challenges in Public Health, Climate
 Change and Food Security; 2) building collaboration and interdisciplinarity; 3) balancing
 pure and applied research to enhance impact; 4) building on research strengths through
 recruitment, with a focus on fulfilling our EDI aims as set out in our Athena Swan Action Plan.
 The 21 newly appointed staff are now firmly embedded within the Department, with growing
 productivity in publications, grant success and internal and external collaborations. With many
 recruited in the last two years, further growth in their grant success and outputs will be enabled by
 the support mechanisms outlined below. AMR and Climate Change are particularly ripe for
 expanded activity here, being increasingly recognised as urgent challenges. Feil and Gebhard
 represent our cluster of eight academics and others on the cross-university Steering Group, within
 the new GW4 Strategic Alliance on AMR. Our cutting-edge research into bio-based renewable
 resources (Leak, Henk), food security (N.Brown, Cevik) and conservation of biodiversity (Younger,
 Szekely) is contributing to tackling the climate emergency and mitigating its global effects. With
 increased targeting of these areas by funding agencies, we are strategically poised to expand and
 diversify our local, regional and international collaborative networks. We will continue to explore
 appointments exploiting interdisciplinary opportunities at Theme interfaces, for example, between
 E&B and other themes.

 Our significant focus on impact will be further enhanced, especially through Knowledge Exchange
 and Innovation. This is an area of strength for the MIB theme and, due to recent staff changes, is
 the current priority for targeted recruitments. Recent investment in our Zebrafish facility enables
 expansion of the use of this cost-effective model for biomedical and fundamental biosciences,
 including in vivo stem cell biology. The impact-focus of such appointments would enhance
 Biosciences involvement in Centre for Therapeutic Innovations. Faculty initiatives to support early
 development of potential commercial ideas and investment in activities of those centres with an
 explicit commercial ambition (e.g. Centre for Therapeutic Innovations and Centre for Sustainable
 and Circular Technologies), will be exploited alongside national programmes to enable both
 established and early career academics and our early career researchers (ECRs, here used for
 PhD students and PDRAs) to identify and seize opportunities for commercial exploration of
 research ideas. This will be enhanced by GW4-wide initiatives; for example, the current BBSRC
 SWBio DTP incorporates UCB, Rothamsted Research and SETSquared as partners. Biosciences
 academics regularly secure CASE (7 during REF period) and other studentships with industrial
 funding (6 in period), testifying to our ability to liaise with external partners. Together with public
 outreach, including through the MCE programme, these will enhance the visibility and impact of
 our research and researchers through the coming REF period.

 Strategy for an open research environment and a culture of research integrity Openness
 and research integrity are important to the UoA; we utilise the University’s robust and transparent
 policies regarding research governance including infrastructure, data storage and management,

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 use of animals and human tissue in research, grant management and regulatory issues. Written
 policies (available online) are augmented by on-site training in research ethics. Ethical review is
 provided by, for example, the Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Board, under the oversight of
 the University Ethics Committee. Library Services oversee utilisation of Open Access Funds, RIS
 offer support for compliance activities, and the Unit benefits from the GW4 NC3Rs regional
 programme manager, who works with academics and researchers to help sustain and grow
 research activity while ensuring best practice in governance. Subramanian gave the NC3Rs
 lecture at a GW4 showcase (2020). All Biosciences staff undergo online training, with annual
 refresher courses, e.g. on Recruitment and Selection processes, diversity, unconscious bias,
 academic integrity and Data Security. Our open research policies have resulted in 83% of outputs
 since Apr/2016 being green or gold open access.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy
 Our focus is on recruiting and nurturing first class researchers of all levels, independent of
 background or protected characteristics, striving to maintain a supportive research environment
 within which all can excel. As academic research staff teach, our staffing strategy considers both
 research and teaching needs. Research Theme Leads/Deputies identify research strengths to be
 highlighted to the Department Research Committee for strategic planning of research priorities
 and recruitment, before discussion at Department Executive. The primary emphasis at shortlisting
 and selection is on research quality of the applicant and fit with the UoA’s research interests and
 vision, with a clear focus on EDI (see below). All new appointees receive a start-up package suited
 to their discipline and position, with a primary aim to ensure they achieve independent research
 productivity as soon as possible.

 We appointed 21 new academics during the REF period. These recruitment opportunities resulted
 from retirements, expansion around PGT portfolio, University Prize Fellowships (Cowley, Younger;
 also Diezmann, Field, and Munoz-Descalzo) and direct investment in the MCE (Nützmann,
 Sheppard, Taylor). One recruitment priority was to strengthen and consolidate existing research
 excellence in molecular microbiology, genomic evolution, plant sciences, developmental biology
 and therapeutic technology development, as detailed in Building on research strengths (p. 5).

 University commitment to the establishment of the flagship MCE recognised our international
 excellence in evolution research and teaching and included the provision of three University Prize
 Fellowships for evolution research (Cowley, Younger and Field). In addition, the MCE attracted
 two further appointees as University Research Fellows (Nützmann, Royal Society URF, £475K;
 Taylor, Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowship, £480K). Together with new appointments in
 the MCE-facing I&I Theme (N.Brown (BBSRC Fellowship, £157K), Cevik, Denham, Gebhard,
 Hunt (Wellcome Trust Henry Dale Fellowship, £875K), Jones, Laabei, Shepherd), this provided
 critical mass and cemented the MCE as a world-class centre in evolutionary biology.

 We also strengthened links across Departments and Centres, with all new appointments rapidly
 becoming well-integrated. For example: Gebhard’s applied and interdisciplinary work involves
 cross-departmental relationships with Mathematical Sciences and Civil Engineering, and
 interfacing with Institute of Mathematical Innovation and Centre for Sustainable and Circular
 Technologies (EPSRC, £836K); Jones interacts closely with Chemistry, Chemical Engineering
 and Electrical and Electronic Engineering and with healthcare providers; Walko and Sero have
 already developed strong collaborative links to P&P and Centre for Therapeutic Innovations.
 Interaction with this Centre has been further enhanced by recruitment of Mason. Development of
 links to Institute of Mathematical Innovation has been achieved through a formal six-month
 secondment scheme; three UoA members have already participated.

 We also further strengthened our international profile; all new recruits bring established
 international partnerships. For example, N.Brown has long-standing collaborations with partners
 in Europe and South America (13 publications, including Nature Microbiology and mBio); Cowley
 with partners in North America, Europe and Asia (19 publications including Nature, Plos Genetics

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and mBio); Younger with partners in Australasia, North and South America, Europe and Africa (11
 publications, including PNAS and Global Change Biology).

 A key recruitment aim was to provide more female role models and address the gender imbalance.
 Having obtained a Bronze Athena SWAN award in 2015 we secured our Silver award in 2020.
 This went hand-in-hand with improving our recruitment practice (see Equality and Diversity below)
 leading to all advertised academic posts attracting outstanding female applicants and the gender
 balance improving from 18% female in 2014 to 33% in 2020. Three women attended the HE
 Aurora course (Crennell, Murrell, Urrutia), with two senior academics acting as role models
 (Murrell, Wonnacott).

 All appointees start on, or are expected to transition to, an open-ended contract. We have invested
 in recruiting talented young academics through research fellowships. N.Brown has already
 progressed to an open-ended position; the others are on track to do so.

 Succession planning is critical to maintaining research activity; changes in retirement age and
 employment law, deaths and chronic illness, and staff accepting positions elsewhere have all
 impacted us in this REF period. Our Theme-based organisation, co-teaching policy, shared lab
 space, PhD supervision and other measures have proven to be robust against major negative
 impacts, especially on shared responsibilities such as teaching. In terms of Biosciences
 leadership, key posts have fixed terms to facilitate succession planning (with open calls within the
 department for any vacancies) and nominated deputies mitigate against unforeseen changes.

 Staff Development
 The UoA has developed initiatives specifically tailored to support staff in the Biosciences at all
 career stages. These build on diverse Staff Development opportunities, targeted at enabling staff
 to excel in all aspects of their work whilst maintaining an appropriate work-life balance. These
 include the Bath Course which provides stage-appropriate training on teaching and research
 management, leading to Fellowship of the HEA upon completion. Initiatives for academics within
 the UoA include:
• Training and Mentoring Schemes: The University offers numerous training courses for new
    recruits, covering all aspects of academic responsibility. Academics are encouraged to choose
    one or more academic mentors in house and/or external to the University. Emeritus Professors
    and other senior academics in the Department provide informal advice to senior and less senior
    academics alike. Our mentoring of early career academics includes grant writing support,
    contributing to major grant successes (e.g. Gebhard: BBSRC and EPSRC, total £1.25M;
    Walko: BBSRC New Investigator, £536K; Vance: BBSRC New Investigator, £514K; Hussain:
    BBSRC £458K), and resulting academic promotion to Senior Lecturer (Gebhard, Hussain,
    Vance). University Research Fellows receive commitments to open-ended contracts.

•   Support for achieving Impact: Achievement of impact is a major priority within the UoA, with
    opportunities for individuals to shift focus from basic to applied research where valuable, and
    extensive central support provided by RIS (e.g. via IAA funding). Chalmers’ impact case was
    directly supported in this way, enabling him to focus on development of CiteAb at a crucial
    stage. Flexibility of academic staff time also plays a major role in achieving impact, with Perry’s
    impact case dependent upon his commitments allowing sufficient time for his contribution to
    national policy development. More generally, and especially at the early stages of exploration
    of impact opportunities within an individual’s research programme, support from RIS on IP
    protection and integration with the resources of the SETSquared partnership; peer mentoring
    from experienced colleagues, both within the Department (e.g. Leak) and elsewhere (e.g.
    numerous colleagues in P&P); introduction to potential industrial or other collaborating or
    exchange organisations; and impact generation events such as workshops and Centre
    meetings, all provide effective opportunities to build impact.

•   Sabbatical leave: The University operates a formal programme of sabbatical leave entitlement,
    managed by the PVC (Research). Successive Heads of Department have encouraged the
    uptake of this opportunity, recognising the positive impact it can have on research progress,

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    e.g. both Szekely and Wolf used sabbatical leave to work at the Berlin Institute for Advanced
    Study, enabling the UoA to strengthen its links with that institute.

•   Promotion planning: We have an annual staff development and performance review in which
    staff discuss their career development and assess their readiness for promotion. Improved
    communication of promotion criteria, now including outreach and teaching excellence, has led
    to greater transparency and 80% success rate for applications; 33% of UoA staff were
    promoted during the REF period. Staff considering application for promotion are assisted by a
    Departmental Promotions Committee that formally considers applications and provides advice
    to the applicant in time for changes to be implemented before submission to the appropriate
    University committees. Within this process development needs are highlighted, and the
    Department can provide support for attending specialist and leadership training.

•   Workshops and training events: Within Biosciences, local, highly effective innovations have
    included both user-groups and regular workshops around research interests. These include
    Bambu (coding workshop for bioinformatics) and C3Bio (workshops on nanobiology).

•   Maternity/Paternity/Parental leave support: During this period two academics have taken
    maternity leave and four paternity leave. Several staff use University childcare facilities. During
    this period, promotions and transitions to open-ended appointments included those with caring
    duties, and illness/disability. Feedback from staff who have taken leave has been positive and
    we have appointed a Research Parental Leave Officer (Taylor) to offer further advice and
    support for maternity/paternity/parental adoption leave.

•   Pump prime funding The UoA has allocated funds for pump prime funding and equipment
    through an open call for competitive applications organized by the Research Committee. Staff
    can use these funds, for example, to address reviewers’ comments to complete research
    papers, or to get preliminary data for invited grant applications.

•   Recognition and reward of staff for research and impact The University recognizes outstanding
    contributions to research and impact through prizes and annual contribution pay awards
    scheme. During the REF period, UoA staff have been recognized through Excellence in
    Doctoral Supervision (van den Elsen, Danson) and Doctoral Recognition Awards (Wills), and
    eight academics and PDRAs benefitted under the pay award scheme.

•   Support for staff during COVID crisis The UoA (and University) took a flexible approach to the
    COVID crisis, supporting staff and graduate students through 1-2-1s and virtual social events
    (mainly via the Theme structure), and operating a transparent system for a phased safe return
    to research activities, with technical staff providing invaluable assistance in identifying safe
    operational procedures. This was complemented at a University level by implementation of
    adapted policy and procedures to enable the return to research activities.

 PDRAs are supported by our implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers, delivered institutionally through the Research Staff Working Group.
 Within the UoA, we empower and support PDRAs through formal annual career review
 conversations. PDRAs are assisted in finding mentors external to their supervisory team and
 encouraged to participate in bespoke in-house programmes (Academic Career Academy
 Programme, science writing workshops; attended by 70% of PDRAs). These have prepared them
 for pitching research ideas (e.g. at GW4 Crucibles) and successfully applying for independent
 research careers. PDRAs are eligible for pump priming opportunities, e.g. Reeksting was given
 PhD-supervisory responsibility to develop independent research. PDRAs are now also
 encouraged to be co-applicants on grants where possible. PDRAs are represented on most of our
 Departmental committees and have important, informal roles during academic staff recruitment
 processes. They have their own in-house Society, PostdocBio, enthusiastically developed and run
 by themselves, to encourage networking opportunities. The Chairs of PostdocBio and PGBio (see
 below) meet monthly with the HoD and the Department makes a financial contribution towards


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 their social events. We encourage PDRAs to select mentors outside of their research supervisors
 and have mentoring coordinators who assist them in finding suitable mentors.

 Research Students are a key component of our research strategy, which has resulted in an
 increase from 84 to 125 PhDs awarded in the REF period. Close connections within the GW4
 network with Bristol, Cardiff and Exeter Universities broadens the regional research network,
 enabling sharing of excellent research infrastructure, delivery of outstanding doctoral training, staff
 development and collaborative research, enhanced through joint doctoral training programmes,
 ensuring consistently high standard of recruits. Awards for the various GW4-focused Bioscience
 networks (BBSRC SWBio, renewed in 2020 (Kelsh, Bath lead); MRC Biomed DTP; NERC GW4+
 DTP (Wonnacott, Bath lead)) total more than £50M and play a vital role in our current and ongoing
 PhD student recruitment success. The Evolution Education Trust investment (£218K) in the MCE
 research programme, matched by University studentships (£350K), has funded seven students to
 date in the fields of evolution and evolution teaching. An international PhD programme with
 Monash University has begun and will continue to further enrich our graduate environment. A
 mixture of other sources funds other studentships, from alumni to international PhD programmes,
 adding further diversity to our cohorts. Stringent competition across schemes ensures that we
 recruit the highest calibre students from the UK and EU (internationally for the Evolution Education
 Trust); the University has recently committed to supporting international awardees for up to 30%
 of our UKRI studentship intake. Additionally, several excellent international students come to us
 through competitive government scholarships, often through our integrated MRes/PhD
 programmes. These include links with government studentship programmes in Mexico, Brazil and
 Paraguay (CONACYT), Taiwan, and China Scholarship Council, as well as formal MoUs with other
 institutions (e.g. University of Oslo, Monash University, UNAM, University de Sao Paulo, Nanjing
 University). Studentships are awarded independent of background or protected characteristics,
 based on academic achievement and self-motivation; progress is monitored though formalized
 procedures with monitoring at 6-month intervals by the Doctoral College. Those on formal DTP
 programmes receive an extensive bespoke training programme (with many aspects also promoted
 to other students). For example, the GW4 SWBio DTP has a strong emphasis on cohort building
 across the DTP, giving students numerous opportunities to make contacts in each of the partner
 universities and associated organisations, intensive generic skills-training sessions located at
 each of the partner institutions, annual symposia, and theme-based activities. An invaluable
 opportunity is provided by the Professional Internships for PhD Students scheme, during which
 students spend 3 months outside their research area, gaining novel experience and contacts in a
 career-relevant work-setting.

 PhD students are represented on most of our Departmental committees and contribute, informally,
 to academic staff recruitment processes. Networking is promoted through an in-house society,
 PGBio. Membership of a suitable learned society is funded to enable engagement with their
 national research forum (e.g. Biochemical Society, Microbiology Society) and all PhD students
 can apply for financial support to attend national and international conferences. Annual
 Inspirational Speaker Days, organised by PGBio, help inspire ECRs to pursue a career in science
 (speakers included Sir Paul Nurse and Maria Leptin (Director of EMBO)). Both Research Days
 and Research seminar series include seminars from ECRs. Training for outreach and MCE
 outreach activities is provided locally (e.g. by supervisors and the MCE Director of Outreach), but
 also extends to support from both within and outside the University. PhD students are encouraged
 to identify mentors outside of their research supervisory team. Finally, in recent years we have
 initiated an opportunity to celebrate PhD awards, through an informal seminar and social event,
 and through highlighting in the PGBio Newsletter.

 Our ECRs go on to a diverse range of careers, with a high proportion continuing to deliver impact;
 the generic skills training (e.g. numeracy and statistical competence, presentation skills, writing
 skills) available to them all ensures that all have a breadth of options. Thus, within the period, their
 destinations have included: academic research (e.g. Manchester MIB; WWU Münster), industry
 (e.g. Genomics England, Evonetix, LifeArc, Diamond light source, Isobionics, Liberty Produce)
 and other sectors (e.g. academic publishing; science communication consultancy; science funding
 agencies and charities). We have also recruited a small number of Clinical Research Fellows, who

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 often go on to prominent clinical positions (e.g. Colleypriest, now consultant gastroenterologist at
 the Royal United Hospital (Bath)).
 Technical and Support Staff The University participates in a national ‘Technician Commitment’
 initiative to support the visibility, recognition, career development and sustainability of technical
 staff. The UoA is supported by a team of specialist technicians, with representatives on the UoA
 Executive and Safety Committees.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity
 EDI is embedded in the culture of the UoA, from being central to our staffing strategy to active
 promotion of EDI by a departmental EDI self-assessment team. Progress in EDI was recognized
 by an Athena SWAN Silver award in 2020. Most of our staff have dual career families with
 childcare commitments and engage with the Athena SWAN charter in the interests of a healthy
 work-life balance. Flexible/remote working is accessible to all staff, with 70% reporting having
 used this in our recent Athena SWAN survey. In addition to an emphasis on gender balance,
 Athena Swan has raised awareness in the UoA of all protected characteristics, increased
 transparency in all our processes and motivates our aim for a fairly distributed workload;
 anonymous staff surveys report that 80% of staff agree that the UoA is inclusive, with transparent
 policies for promotion, probation and career support. We have begun to monitor racial
 demographics, with BAME constituting 31% of PGR students and 11% of Academics/PDRAs
 (2019); we are working with HR to attract as diverse a pool of applicants as possible to our posts.
 A standard of agreed professional conduct has been developed with input and definition by
 professional services and agreed by the whole Department. Department positions, committee and
 panel members are appointed after an open and transparent call for expression of interest. All of
 our staff are made aware of unconscious bias and completion of a series of online EDI training
 courses is mandatory before taking part in recruitment, promotion, grant pitching, advisory and
 evaluating panels; disproportionate committee burdens for women in the UoA have been reduced
 by our improved gender ratio. Promotion criteria used to judge all cases are clearly defined.
 Transparency is equally important when awarding internal funds, with members external to the
 UoA helping judge applications where appropriate. Scientific excellence, learning outcomes and
 impact for career development are the main criteria used in these evaluations. Mental health and
 wellbeing are high priorities and we have worked closely with both Professional Services Staff and
 the University Chaplaincy to support staff and students. Staff have access to the Employee Assist
 Programme, while Student Services provide advice to staff supporting students. Social events
 help create a collegiate atmosphere and are organized at numerous levels within the UoA and
 University (from individual lab socials, to an annual Department Away Day), with inclusivity and
 cross-cultural sensitivity to the fore.

 Specific examples of actions taken to support staff with varied protected characteristics during the
 REF period are diverse and individually tailored. Flexible working is available to all staff on
 request. Staff meetings and seminars are scheduled during core hours to accommodate staff with
 caring and other responsibilities. Staff returning from periods of sick leave are supported, e.g.
 through Occupational Health Counselling. Conference travel support has been provided for a
 colleague recovering from major health issues, whilst others have received financial support for
 visa applications for non-UK nationals to attend European Conferences. The UoA has a collegiate
 atmosphere, with those undergoing long periods of illness and rehabilitation actively supported,
 through continued visits, temporary supervision of research group and students, and a phased
 return to work, with accessibility support provided where necessary.

 This REF submission has been prepared under the University’s published Principles of Research
 Assessment and Management. Staff leading the REF process underwent specific EDI training and
 an extensive gender-balanced team has contributed to writing the Environment statement.
 Outputs and Impact Case Studies were selected by a representative team from the UoA, with
 attention paid solely to quality and impact of research.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Research awards secured have increased by 93% in this REF period to >£30.9M (numbers are
 funds awarded throughout). Our strategy recognises the need for a diverse funding portfolio,
 including income from research councils (£19.5M, 64%), major charities (£5.5M, 18%) and
 industrial partners (£2.5M, 8%). In addition to the extensive support gained through early career
 awards (detailed below), major sponsors are the BBSRC (28%, 19 PIs) and MRC (22%, 18 PIs),
 with further funds from EPSRC (6%, 8 PIs), Wellcome Trust (5%, 6 PIs) and Leverhulme (5%, 2
 PIs). Funding successes were spread across all of our research themes, and widely distributed
 across our academics.

 There has been distinct success with international awards, including an ERC Advanced Award
 (Hurst €2.5M); an ERC Periscope consortium on Pertussis vaccinology (22 partners from
 academia and industry; €28M, of which £0.4M to Preston); joint BBSRC-São Paulo Research
 Foundation (FAPESP)-funded projects, one aiming to develop greener, cheaper fuels and
 chemicals from plant matter (Leak: £1.83M), and two on genetic architectures in evolution (Wolf:
 £855K); funding to understand environmental transmission of AMR (JPI-AMR, Feil €1.86M; MRC
 (AMR in a Global Context - Consortia Call Feb 2018) One Health Drivers of Antibacterial
 Resistance in Thailand £3M, Feil £744K).

 Many projects are interdisciplinary, with cross-Department teams (and other partner institutions),
 e.g. with Civil Engineering (Gebhard EPSRC, total awarded £4.8M (UoA5, £0.6M), with Cardiff),
 Chemistry, Civil Engineering, Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Feil, EPSRC £1.1M (UoA5,
 £0.2M)), Mathematics (Kelsh BBSRC, £1.2M (UoA, £1M), with Surrey), Chemical Engineering and
 Chemistry (Leak/Henk/Crennell BBSRC-FAPESP, £1.5M (UoA5, £0.7M), with Imperial,
 Aberystwyth, and Brazilian partners), Mechanical Engineering and Chemical Engineering
 (Henk/Leak/Scott, EPSRC £3.2M (UoA £0.5M)).

 In the charitable sector, CRUK Career Establishment and Pioneer Awards have driven Mason’s
 peptide inhibitor research, and awards from Alzheimer’s Research UK (Williams/Licchesi, Mason,
 van den Elsen), Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (Beeching), British Heart Foundation (Bagby
 project grant and PhD studentship), Skin Cancer Research Fund (Vance) and BRACE
 (Mason/Williams/Subramanian/D.Brown) have been important in diversifying our research
 funding.

 Core to our strategy is supporting early career academics gain research funding, with many
 acquiring early career grants and fellowships: e.g. Diezmann (Marie Curie Sklodovska Fellow,
 MRC and BBSRC New Investigator Grants), Cowley (Academy of Medical Sciences Springboard
 & Leverhulme), Walko (Academy of Medical Sciences Springboard & British Skin Foundation,
 BBSRC New Investigator), Taylor (Royal Society grant), and Nützmann (Royal Society grant),
 Gebhard (BBSRC and EPSRC) and Vance (BBSRC New Investigator).

 Further income is generated from external use of our core facilities. Our recent investment into a
 new Genome Sequencing Facility generates income (>£113K 2017-2019) which funds the facility
 manager. Our Manduca facility is one of the world’s premier resources, providing insects for
 toxicity studies and other research to companies and research laboratories in the UK, EU and
 globally (Israel, USA, Mexico, Paraguay, and China).

 Underpinning our annual intake of about 20 PhD students/year (0.4/FTE/year) are studentships
 funded through diverse sources, including many DTPs involving collaboration with our GW4 (and
 other academic and industrial) partners:
     • BBSRC Southwest Biosciences
     • EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Statistical Applied Mathematics
     • MRC GW4 Biomed DTP
     • NERC GW4+ DTP and GW4 FRESH CDT

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     •   Evolution Education Trust PhD Studentships
     •   Other charities (e.g. Alzheimer’s Society, ARF, ARUK, Bath Institute for Rheumatic
         Diseases, BRACE, MNDA, British Skin Foundation)
     •   Bath Alumni funds
     •   University of Bath University Research Studentship Awards, including those co-funded
         with external partners

 Infrastructure and facilities
 Biosciences was originally housed in one building, with a second completed just before this REF
 period. Through construction of the MCE, we now occupy a cluster of three large adjacent
 buildings. With a total floor space of >1700 m2, the MCE has expanded the research space (nearly
 370 m2) and houses our E&B and some I&I theme members. The new building boasts state-of-
 the-art labs, and a meeting and outreach space designed to promote research creativity and
 communication of the excitement of research to a new generation. Support for our
 palaeontologists included a purpose-built fossil preparation and storage facility nearby. The MCE
 provides a new seminar room, meeting rooms and a social hub purpose-designed for outreach
 activities (see below) and for hosting national and international conferences. Other strategic
 investments have enhanced the support for neurosciences and developmental biology (animal
 facilities, microscopy), commercializing therapeutics, and through spin-out companies (Pudney,
 BLOC Laboratories). We additionally benefit from the cross-faculty bioprocessing facilities in
 Chemical Engineering and have access to facilities of industrial partners for antibody (UCB-
 Celltech) and vaccine production (GSK, Sienna; Birmex (GCRF) and Porton Biopharma).

 Strategically, we identified bioinformatics/computing and bioimaging as two vital areas of
 investment. The recent establishment of the Isambard supercomputing network (£3M), an
 EPSRC/GW4/Met Office funded tier 2 high performance computing facility in collaboration with
 Cray, expands on and complements our in-house HPC facility Balena (£1M). This facility garnered
 international recognition as winner of the 2017 HPC Wire Readers’ Choice Awards in both ‘Best
 Use of HPC in Life Sciences’ and ‘Best HPC Collaboration in Academia, Government and
 Industry’. Further investment by this consortium to create Isambard 2, with double the capacity,
 has been announced this year and will ensure our ongoing competitiveness in this area. We co-
 lead the MRC CLIMB consortium (Co-I Sheppard £7.7M), providing cloud infrastructure for
 microbial bioinformatics. This has allowed the recruitment of a full-time facility manager of the
 associated sequencing facility who works closely with Sheppard on epidemiology and microbial
 evolution. Alumni and university investment has funded the construction of the new Tarr lab for
 bioinformatics (£200K), a front-end facility for multi-user server interface, further expanding our
 on-site genome analysis capacity.

 Strategic investment (EPSRC, BBSRC, Wellcome Trust, plus University; £5.6M within period) by
 the Faculty has enhanced a facility (MC2) bringing together state-of-the-art microscopy (TEM and
 SEM, Confocal, Multiphoton, and the new Light Sheet and hypoxia-imaging suite) and cell sorting
 (FACS) with our proteomics, mass spectrometry, and biophysical and chemical characterisation
 capabilities. This facilitates close collaboration between researchers and dedicated facility staff,
 enabling the rapid adoption of new technologies. Our suite of microscopy instruments has been
 expanded to include Light Sheet Microscopy, accommodated within the Bioscience cluster of
 buildings in space freed-up by the construction of the MCE. We benefit from embracing equal
 access to shared facilities of our GW4 partners. Of particular note are the distinctive imaging
 facilities at each partner institution, including the new state-of-the-art GW4 shared Cryo-Electron
 Microscopy facility (Wellcome Trust, £2.3M), located in Bristol. Co-applicant van den Elsen, is a
 member of the facility’s steering committee. Local investment in CryoElectron Microscopy within
 MC2 has provided a crucial feeder instrument for the GW4 high-end cryo-EM facility. Finally, UKRI-
 funded national facilities (including BBSRC synchrotron and Diamond light source (Harwell)), as
 well as international facilities (e.g. EMBL small-angle X-ray scattering facility, Hamburg) are widely
 utilised by our structural biologists.




                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Biological Services Unit (contribution from UoA projects £0.75M (2014-2020)) provides
 outstanding facilities supported by a dedicated team of skilled animal technicians, for maintaining
 rodent and fish models underpinning in vivo research. Indeed, these facilities underpin ~15% of
 our research income. Recent investment (£135K) has doubled the size of our zebrafish facility and
 enabled the recent recruitment of Nikolaou, with a further recruitment in this area occurring just
 outside the REF period.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations, networks and partnerships (Fig. 1 and 2)
 Research in Biosciences is vibrant, collaborative, and interdisciplinary, enabling the highest
 quality outputs and impact. In addition to numerous national collaborations, 63% of our REF
 outputs (up from 59% in REF2014) involve collaborators from outside the UK (data from Scopus).
 These collaborations involve partners at leading institutions throughout the world (e.g. EMBL, Max
 Planck and Pasteur Institutes, Stanford, UCSC, Nagoya, Melbourne and Stellenbosch)(Fig. 2).
 The I&I theme has links with major international consortia with access to samples from diverse
 locations, providing understanding of microbial relationships and the topography of a disease
 outbreak. For example, Sheppard is a core member of the CLIMB network (across >20 countries,
 e.g. Thailand, Gambia, Peru, USA, Australia) on pathogen genomics. Feil is the lead of SpARK,
 a JPI-AMR funded consortium with partners across UK, Italy, France and Norway and is a member
 of multiple international networks (SOLIDNESS, KLEBNet, OH-DART, ReNEW, EDGE) focussing
 on AMR. Likewise, in the E&B theme, collaborative networks are especially important for our
 behavioural ecologists. Szekely is a member of the B10k consortium that targets sequencing of
 all bird species, and manages Élvonal, a shorebird research network involving 14 countries (6
 continents), focussing on uncovering the causes and implications of sex role behaviour. Focused
 networks linking internationally renowned researchers are prominent for those in ‘omics and
 evolutionary theory areas, e.g. Nützmann’s involvement in two EU COST Actions, and Wolf’s
 ongoing projects with Brazil and USA examining multivariant quantitative genetics and the
 genetics of social evolution. Within the MIB theme, Leak leads a large BBSRC-FAPESP funded
 consortium of UK and Brazilian Universities, and Mason is a key member of the Australian Centre
 of Excellence for Innovations in Peptide and Protein Science network. In CDB, Williams
 contributes to a European network, ILSI Nutrition for the Ageing Brain. In a broader context, the
 COVID crisis presented an opportunity to build broad, research-based grass-root links with other
 universities; e.g. Universities for Science Consortium (Urrutia, founder) links Bath with 25
 institutions in Mexico, USA, and Brazil, organizing international seminar series (live audiences of
 c 500; 5000 views). At a national Level, Gebhard provides the microbial component of a major
 interdisciplinary consortium (RM4L) looking at natural repair of damaged concrete structures
 (Cardiff, Cambridge, Bradford); Leak has been PI of, and CoI in numerous, multi-university
 interdisciplinary projects involving industry, with a focus on renewable resources and the circular
 economy. Many of our staff have been invited lecturers on advanced level international courses,
 e.g. Wolf (Latin American School on Evolution), van den Elsen (EMBL Hamburg, Small Angle X-
 ray Scattering Course), Williams (Montevideo, 4th Latin American School of Neurochemistry).




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 2 Biosciences collaborative network extends worldwide

 As well as these individual-dependent groupings, our researchers are prominent in a variety of
 open groupings. The GW4 Partnership between the key research institutions of SW England
 provide a natural opportunity for networking, often resulting in research collaborations. GW4
 workshops focusing on AMR and Climate Change have developed into formal GW4 Strategic
 Alliances (Climate and AMR), the latter involving leadership from this UoA (Feil, Gebhard).
 Crucially, the GW4 partnership feeds into the various DTPs (BBSRC SWBio, MRC GW4 BioMed,
 NERC GW4+), and brings a clear emphasis on collaborative teams, interdisciplinarity, and impact-
 focused activity.

 Groupings around specific societal audiences have brought basic researchers, clinicians and
 patient groups into direct contact. For example, Departmental involvement in the Bristol and Bath
 Alzheimer’s Research UK Network underpins our links to the GW4 Ageing and Dementia
 community, fostering collaborations within the region and providing a platform for outreach.
 Combined with membership of the ARUK GRB (Mason, Williams), it has significantly enhanced
 our visibility and reputation in the molecular basis of neurodegeneration. The Cancer Research @
 Bath Network and the GenSoc-funded annual Mammalian Genetics and Development meetings
 achieve similar aims, bringing our researchers into contact with related academic and NHS
 specialists in Bath and beyond.

 Finally, investment in diverse research centres provides the strongest strategic input into
 developing partnerships at a local level. Most prominent amongst these in this REF period has
 been the very substantial investment in the MCE, but other long-standing (e.g. Centre for
 Mathematical Biology, Centre for Sustainable and Circular Technologies) and new centres (e.g.
 Centre for Therapeutic Innovations, Institute of Mathematical Innovation) continue to play vital
 roles, providing the greatest opportunities to establish and support interdisciplinary research, as
 documented in Section 1 (p. 4) and Fig. 1.

 These diverse networks enrich the research environment at all levels, e.g. building networks for
 ECR researchers, and invigorating our seminar series.

 Contribution to the Research Base
 Prizes, Awards and Fellowships The excellence and significant contribution of individual
 members of staff has been recognised externally through the award of fellowships and prizes.
 Hurst became both FRS and FMedSci, while Wonnacott is FBPS and Szekely is a foreign member

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and was awarded the Hungarian Order of Merit. Szekely
 was awarded a Royal Society Wolfson Merit Award (£75K) and an ELVONAL Award from
 Hungarian government to elite research leaders (236M HuF). Subramanian was short-listed for
 an Asian Women of Achievement Award 2020. Younger staff and students have also received
 recognition with Cowley being awarded an Ebola Medal for Services in West Africa and also a
 junior award for Microbiology. Jones was invited to participate in the Rank Prize fund symposium
 (2020). Feil was recognised by ISI as being in Top 1% most highly cited in Microbiology (2015).
 Our students have also won prestigious prizes including Chinese Government Award for
 Outstanding Self-financed Students abroad (XianMing Wu, 2016), Sir Howard Dalton Young
 Microbiologist of the Year 2014 (Ali Hussein, First Prize), STEM for BRITAIN 2017 (Natalie
 Vaughan, Bronze Award), and Sir Kenneth Mather Prize for best PhD in UK in evolution (Rosina
 Savisaar, 2019). Hurst was awarded Paper of the Year by German Society for Stem Cells (2016).
 Research Fellowships were awarded to four members of staff, and an 1851 Fellowship to one
 further ECR. Hurst was awarded the Vice Chancellor’s Research Medal (Bath, 2016). Ten
 academics have held 18 Visiting Professorships during the period, including at Universities of
 Cape Town (Acharya), Szeged (Hurst), Chang Mai (Sheppard), Debrecen, Groningen, and Berlin
 Institute of Advanced Studies (Szekely).

 Learned societies and Government agencies Eighteen staff have occupied major roles within
 17 national and international learned societies/government agencies. As President of the Genetics
 Society, Hurst joins an impressive rollcall of such Presidents (e.g. Haldane), and served on the
 Royal Society’s FRS Appointment Committee. Sheppard was chair of Genetics Division of UK
 Microbiology Society. Acharya served on the Royal Society’s Equality and Diversity Panel. Wolf is
 an invited nominator for the Kyoto Prize. As part of the UK’s COVID response, Cowley has been
 seconded as an Embedded Scientist to the International Comparisons Joint Unit, within the
 COVID-19 Taskforce at the Cabinet Office.

 Journal editorships and editorial board memberships All staff contribute through refereeing of
 academic publications and/or research proposals. More significantly, 28 staff have been members
 of the editorial boards of c. 60 journals (including PLoS Biology, Genome Biology & Evolution,
 Trends in Genetics (Hurst)), with 9 staff having held journal editor positions (e.g. Wonnacott, Editor
 at British J. Pharmacology; Sheppard as Deputy/Acting Editor-in-Chief, Microbial Genomics; Leak,
 Managing Editor at Biocatalysis and Biotransformation).

 Grant funding panels and institutional reviews We are widely involved in national (including
 BBSRC (9 individuals), MRC (5), NERC (2), EPSRC, NC3Rs, Royal Society, Wellcome) and
 international funding committees (e.g. ERC) (30 staff, some sit on multiple panels). Of particular
 note, Hurst sits on the Royal Society URF and the Academy of Medical Sciences AMS
 Springboard panels. Our academics have assisted with institutional reviews, e.g. quinquennial
 reviews of the Mammalian Genetics Unit (Harwell) and the Stem Cell Institute (Edinburgh)(Ward),
 mid-term reviews for both Pirbright and Babraham Institutes (Wonnacott), and review of
 Epigenetics Section of MRC London Institute of Medical Sciences (Murrell).

 Conferences and seminars Our academics organised a total of 45 major national and
 international conferences during the period, in addition to organising/chairing 75 sessions. We
 gave 209 invited talks and 47 plenary talks at conferences. In total, therefore, we gave on average
 5.5 conference talks/FTE, indicating the scale and reach of our academics. Hurst helped organise
 Royal Society Fellows conference (2016). Our academics have given >215 seminars at
 institutions across UK and the world (including Universities of Cambridge, Edinburgh, Vienna,
 Zurich, Columbia, Texas A&M, Wisconsin-Madison, Toronto, Beijing, Brisbane, and at Max Planck
 and Pasteur Institutes, The Jackson Laboratory, and Institute for Advanced Study (Berlin)).

 ECR training makes a major contribution to the research base with our students and PDRAs
 being sought-after, going on to contribute in many science-related areas, as noted in Section 2 (p.
 11). In this way, they make an expansive contribution to the research community and wider
 economy. Our staff also contribute to training of PhD students in other institutions (e.g. 110 PhD
 vivas as external examiners).

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research reproducibility is an important consideration in all our research, but sometimes forms
 the specific focus. A prime example is a study comparing 23 laboratory strains of Campylobacter
 jejuni that identified the effect of even small genomic differences on the validity and reproducibility
 of experimental work (Sheppard: Microbial Genomics). Our academics also use their editorial
 positions to provide a platform for promoting reproducibility (e.g. Wonnacott: Brit. J.
 Pharmacology). Finally, a key impact of the CiteAb impact case (Chalmers) is reproducibility of
 research using antibodies.

 Contributions to the Economy
 Wealth generation is a hallmark of successful bioscience research, and UoA staff work closely
 with industry and national agencies in response to national and international priorities/initiatives,
 through grant (e.g. Innovate, IB Catalyst, EPSRC Sustainable Feedstocks, NIBB) or direct funding
 and CASE studentships (see section 1, p. 5). As a result, 9 staff have sought patent protection (13
 applications) within the REF period, on IP resulting from their research, ranging from a
 methodology for extracting naïve human stem cells (Hurst), through to protein structure analysis
 (Pudney). Some of this IP has been successfully licensed (e.g. van den Elsen licensed glycation
 detection kit to Abcam, Kerafast and Ximbio) or developed via a spin-out company (e.g. Pudney
 established BLOC Laboratories Ltd, for rapid assessment of protein stability and dynamics).
 Chalmers established CiteAb, a company based on an antibody search engine, to which (following
 a part-time arrangement) he has recently moved full-time. The latter has become the primary
 source of information on antibody reagents (see Impact Case Study). Sapience Therapeutics Ltd
 is applying Mason’s peptide-based inhibitors technology to develop therapeutics for difficult-to-
 treat cancers (see Impact Case Study). At an organisational level, Leak was Director of P2P, a
 BBSRC sponsored national Network in Biotechnology and Bioenergy which fostered Industry-
 Academic network development and funded partnerships through business interaction and proof
 of concept awards. P2P produced the scoping report “Building UK-Africa Partnerships in Industrial
 Biotechnology and Bioenergy” which formed a cornerstone in the 2018 GCRF call for developing
 partnerships in IB in developing countries.

 Several of our staff have contributed to activities supporting international development, benefiting
 both the local and national economy, and working alongside local partners. Notably, Szekely is
 Founder and Chairman of the Maio Biodiversity Foundation which supports conservation,
 biological research and development of employment through Eco-Tourism in Maio, Cape Verde
 (see Impact Case Study). Cooper was instrumental in developing and applying control measures
 for fungal disease of oil palm in Malaysia and Africa, while Scott and Beeching were executive
 board members of Crop Innovations, supporting improvements in agriculture with a focus on
 international development.

 Contributions to Society
 Many of our staff have been making significant contributions to society in general through their
 ancillary “community service” activities (e.g. school visits, workshops for teachers), and through
 focused outreach activities that together help both broaden the public’s understanding and
 ‘personalise’ our research to our communities. At a national (and, increasingly, international) policy
 level, the example of Perry is outstanding in illustrating the recognised expertise of Bioscience
 academics. Perry’s expertise on the editing of mammalian genomes resulted in invitations to sit
 on key expert panels, including Human Fertilisation & Embryology Authority (HFEA), leading to an
 extensive series of public engagement and public policy activities, ranging from House of Lords
 addresses to television and radio interviews (CNN, Fox, BBC, see Impact Case Study). Jones was
 involved in the Wellcome Trust and Department of Health working party on alternatives to
 antibiotics. Others whose work has led to media engagement include Danson (Discovery Channel;
 Life on Mars), van den Elsen (BBC Country File; TB vaccine), Gebhard (Discovery Europe; self-
 healing concrete), and Laabei (Daily Mail, BBC Radio; Cigarette smoke and emergence of multi-
 drug resistant superbugs). In addition, Biosciences staff are active in contributing to a series of
 online articles, TED-Ed Talks, Conversation, The Spectator covering topical issues, especially in
 Evolution (Hurst, Kover, Longrich, Priest, Wills) and epidemiology (Feil). These articles (averaging
 10-15 a year) have achieved impressive reach, with in excess of four million downloads to date,

                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Hurst’s TED-Ed animation on human evolution has had >1.0 million views. In response to
 COVID,        the       MCE        sponsored       a     COVID-focused          GeneticShambles
 (https://cosmicshambles.com/geneticsshambles), Hurst redirected part of his ERC funding to
 studying mutation patterns in SARS-COV-2 (Mol. Biol. Evolution), and Feil and Preston have
 carried out regular, at times daily, science communication work on local and national Radio and
 TV during the COVID crisis, including a regular, biweekly slot on Radio Bristol since March 2020
 (Feil), and >150 media interviews (Preston).

 We actively collaborate with the University Press Office and the Public Engagement Unit to deliver
 extensive outreach and public engagement activities. Three regional public outreach events are
 regularly attended by staff across all Themes. Bath Taps into Science is a week-long public event.
 attracting thousands of visitors every year. It focuses on enthusing school children and families
 about the world around us and the research performed at the University. The Bath Science Cafe
 programme (Scott/Priest), has provided a stimulating, informal opportunity for the public to gain
 detailed understanding of research within the biosciences community. Our researchers contribute
 regularly to the national A Pint of Science and Festival of Nature events. These events provide a
 platform for engaging with a diverse audience and stimulating interest among sectors traditionally
 disinterested in science. Our dynamic program of press releases averages two billion reach per
 annum with an advertising costs equivalent of approximately £20M. We have won two awards
 from the Genetics Society for our outreach and were runner up for the Guardian Marketing and
 Comms Award.

 Key in our societal engagement portfolio is the work done by members of our E&B and I&I themes
 organised through the MCE. The MCE has such outreach as one of its founding principles, has a
 dedicated Outreach Officer, and has made numerous wide-ranging contributions nationally and
 internationally. One of the MCE’s research focuses is the pedagogy of teaching evolution in both
 formal (school) and informal environments, funded by a dedicated PhD programme, with 2 PhDs
 completed, 1 current PhD and funding for 4 more secured. The MCE building was designed to
 host primary school visits for evolution-based outreach activities; to date over 200 school children
 have visited. Our MOOCs, facilitated by FutureLearn and endorsed by UK National STEM Centre,
 have gained significant international reach. The MOOC Understanding and Teaching Evolution
 (three runs to date, reaching 3,101 participants world-wide. The MOOC Inside Cancer: How
 Genes Influence Cancer Development (19 runs since 2014 with nearly 51,549 enrolments from
 >150 countries) represents a research by cancer researchers, clinical oncologists and teaching
 fellows from the UoA and Royal United Hospital in Bath, enabling the general public to better
 understand the challenges and opportunities in cancer therapy.

 In summary, academics within this UoA play a major role in Biosciences research, both within the
 UK and internationally, as demonstrated by the quantity and quality of their publications, their
 funding and the recognition they have received. With substantially increased investment over the
 REF period, a supportive community and a focus on some of the most important questions and
 challenges in our fields, we are well-placed to maintain and build on that success into the future.




                                                                                             Page 18
