Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Durham University

 Unit of assessment: Classics & Ancient History

 Covid-19 has caused significant disruption to the department and University. The plans outlined
 in this document are accurate at the time of writing and are expected to be realised unless the
 duration or effects of the pandemic exceed current assumptions. Further details are available in
 the Institutional-level statement on Covid-19.

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 The Department of Classics and Ancient History is one of seven departments in the Faculty of
 Arts and Humanities. Currently comprising 20 research-active staff (with further appointments in
 train), it is one of the largest Classics and Ancient History departments in the UK. Since 2014
 we have pursued an ambitious staffing strategy designed first to broaden and deepen our
 research in geographical, chronological, and disciplinary terms, and secondly to generate new
 opportunities for national and international collaborations, which so frequently inspire innovative
 research in the field. Alongside maintaining strengths in Greco-Roman literature and history from
 Homer and classical Greece to late antiquity, we offer a notably wide range of further research
 specialisms: ancient science, technology and architecture; ancient philosophy (both Greek and
 Roman from Plato to late antiquity); ancient religions; digital humanities; classical receptions;
 and the ancient near east (from Akkadian to Syriac). As a Department we foster experimentation
 and support evolutions and reinventions in career: Latin literature scholars become experts in
 classical reception; Platonists move towards Hellenistic philosophy; and Homerists take up
 Akkadian.
     Research clusters within the Department include Greek and Latin literature, Greek and
 Roman history, ancient technology and philosophy. Three inter-departmental Centres allow us
 to cut across these clusters and connect with scholars working elsewhere, within and outside
 Durham. Each Centre in which we participate has been restructured or established since 2014,
 with annual funding from Faculty of £5k (that can be rolled over), supporting a varied programme
 of seminars and workshops.

 Interdisciplinary Research
 The Centre for the Study of Ancient Mediterranean and Near East (CAMNE), run jointly with the
 Departments of Archaeology and Theology and Religion, places Greece and Rome within wider
 cultural contexts and addresses issues of cross-cultural encounters. The Durham Centre for
 Classical Reception (DCCR), which includes members from English, History and Modern
 Languages and Cultures, promotes the study of classical afterlives. The Durham Centre for
 Ancient and Medieval Philosophy (DCAMP), shared between the Departments of Classics and
 Philosophy and elsewhere, builds a community of interest in an unbroken philosophical tradition
 spanning ancient, late antique and medieval periods. A Classics representative from each
 Centre reports to our Research Committee (RC), the body that provides overarching structure
 for the Department’s research.

 Research plans and objectives since 2014
 In 2014-20 Faculty allocated just over £1.1m to support individual research and strategic
 research initiatives. To sustain and extend research that embraces the full breadth and
 diversity of the field alongside a commitment not to marginalise particular areas of study, we
 have since 2014 invested in posts and funded research in a very broad range of areas Section
 2 (hereafter S2). Our vision has been to help staff in all areas produce innovative and high-
 quality research: University and Faculty provide the Department with resources that guarantee
 autonomy and those that encourage creativity through co-action; we balance inclusiveness
 alongside nurturing an outward-looking department that is collaborative and intellectually
 ambitious. Institutional research leave and funds underpin this vision by creating opportunities
for projects and networks at home and abroad: Personal Research Allowance (PRA), Grant
Incentivisation Fund, Faculty Research Fund, Research Leave, Research Seminars (S3) and
annual Research Theme (S4) all represent initiatives introduced, revamped or sustained since
2014 between University, Faculty and Department. In REF2014 the Department identified four
objectives united by a vision to employ institutional support: a) to extend interdisciplinary
research in reception and the ancient near east; b) to enhance our profile in Digital Humanities
and Open Access research; and c) to allow staff to gain grants and create networks essential
to sustaining an external-facing Department. The 2014 objectives were:

1. To restructure the Department’s two Research Centres.
Since REF2014, CAMNE has positioned itself at the cutting edge of research in the field.
Members, including PhD students and ECRs, have been involved in a continuing series of
pioneering workshops which have brought together leading scholars from across the world (e.g.
Keeping Watch in Babylon, 2016; Linear B: Beyond Bureaucracy, 2018; Aramaic and Syriac
inscriptions and Literature, 2019). This has led to ground-breaking publications (e.g. Kaizer ed.
2016; Haubold, Steele and Stevens eds. 2019). The research focus of the Centre has shifted to
support emerging synergies and strengths within and across CAMNE’s member departments:
the imperial/late antique near east (Kaizer, Leone, Rigolio, Wilson), the formation of literature
and identity in multicultural and multilingual settings (Dochhorn, Gazis, Heath, Kaizer, Rigolio,
Stevens); the development and interaction of Greek and Mesopotamian ideas of world structure
and order (Gazis; Haubold; Horky; Stevens), and the relationship between material and text
(Draycott, Gazis, Kaizer, Stevens, Wilson). All represent current growth areas in the broader
fields from which CAMNE draws membership.
    DCCR’s restructured focus on decentring current models of classical reception has generated
significant publications (Richardson Classics in Extremis 2018, with contribution from Ingleheart)
and to associated impact activity (Graziosi, Goldschmidt, Richardson: ICS Living Poets). DCCR
has been energised by permanent appointments (Capra, Jackson) and ECRs (e.g. Bryant-
Davies) with interests in classical reception. Concomitantly, DCCR is now home to one of the
largest communities of postgraduates in the field: e.g. seven PhD students working on
nineteenth-century classical reception alone. A new annual postgraduate-led conference aligns
postgraduates, ECRs and senior scholars from across the world, helping to set the agenda for
the field. Further investment from University and Faculty facilitated (e.g.) the postgraduate-led
'Classical Encounters' conference in 2019 (£5k). The Centre’s leadership role has been
recognised by national awards: Goldschmidt’s AHRC Leadership Fellowship, Richardson’s
AHRC/BBC New Generation Thinkers award.
    DCAMP was established as a third cross-departmental Research Centre in October 2017,
sponsoring 16 international conferences in Durham and a range of distinctive projects including:
Project Academy, an ongoing collaboration with the University of Tübingen (Horky, Rigolio,
Gilbert: S4); Plato on Comedy (Capra, Gazis, Miles, Hooper); and Britain’s Early Philosophers
(Uckelman, Horky, Ciola). DCAMP currently has 13 associated postgraduates, as well as 5
associated postdoctoral fellows. Projects are focussed on the intersection of Greek literature and
philosophy, dialectic amongst philosophical schools, and the transformation of philosophy in
Rome. The chronological range of PhD topics runs from the Presocratics to Late Antiquity across
most philosophical schools: an indication of the range of research training and support. Doctoral
and ECR training is at the core of the agenda, as evidenced also by the weekly DCAMP Reading
Group and various conferences and panels organised by PhD students. DCAMP’s growing
importance is indicated by the number of PhD students formally visiting since its establishment
(5), from France, Italy, and the United States.

2. To develop our research strength in the area of Digital Humanities.
Faculty support has enabled Heslin to develop and market the world-leading Diogenes software:
an Open Access environment for reading and searching texts in Latin and Greek. It consists of
two connected projects: the Diogenes desktop application, which underwent a major rewrite in
2019, and the new DiogenesWeb webapp, which launched in 2019 (see ICS Diogenes.) With
the support of an ERC Proof-of-Concept award, the Department also developed and launched

                                                                                             2
a spin-off company, Rescribe, incorporated in 2016, which aims to solve one of the most pressing
problems confronting the massive digitisation projects currently underway in libraries across the
world: the difficulty existing Optical Character Recognition (OCR) software encounters, when
dealing with early printed books, especially those written in Latin. Rescribe has begun to develop
OCR software specifically designed for historical texts (S4). Digital Humanities are an important
part of future plans: see below in S3.

3. To expand and diversify sources of research income.
In the current period, research income has increased by 76%; the REF2014 figure itself
represented an increase of 36.9% on the RAE2008 figure (S3). Support from University and
Faculty has allowed the Department to achieve a holistic approach to grant capture, including:
revised approaches to recruitment and promotion; substantial seedcorn funding; rigorous
departmental and Faculty peer review; accelerated research leave and workload remission (S3).
For grants gained and ongoing projects in which staff participate (a Departmental vision), see
below in S1 and S3, 4. For future grant plans, see below in S1.

4. To develop new international research collaborations.
International collaborations are facilitated by a staff profile that features 60% non-UK staff (S2).
Since 2014, a range of University schemes designed to foster international collaborations have
supported the Department, including: the IAS, International Engagement Fund, and Durham-
Tübingen seedcorn fund (S4). The Department bid successfully on eight separate occasions to
the IAS Senior Research Fellowship scheme: scholars from the US, Europe, Australia and
Russia worked for three or more months with Durham staff (S4). Nine overseas postdoctoral
fellows worked in the Department under an IAS scheme funded by the University in partnership
with the ERC (Durham International Fellowships for Research and Enterprise [COFUND]): many
have gone on to secure permanent positions (S2). See below in S1 for continuing plans.

Impact Strategy since 2014
The Department's success in fostering impact from our research since 2014 has been driven by
the centrality of impact in our research process and research culture. All of our submitted ICS
arise directly out of longstanding research projects undertaken by staff and reflect established
and evolving strengths in classical reception and Greco-Roman literature (S1, 4). To ensure the
sustainability of research impact, staff are encouraged to develop relevant long-term plans
through the annual Personal Research Plan (PRP) (S2) and through the recruitment and
promotion processes. Facilitating research impact is a holistic process: funds provided by
Faculty enable travel, materials, and impact assistants (S2); the Department offers significant
flexibility in personal timetabling. Faculty and Department offer similar support to staff developing
pathways to impact, whether organising exhibitions (Graziosi, Ingleheart), participating in media
interviews and commenting on breaking news (Goldschmidt, Ingleheart, Kaizer, Richardson),
working with production companies on media programs related to their research (Graziosi,
Richardson), or collaborating with theatre companies (Jackson). To support future impact work,
we are exploring more systematic adjustments to workload allocations and an increased use of
dedicated institutional leave.

Research and Impact Objectives 2021-25
Faculty and University resources will support the Department in pursuit of the following
objectives in the next five-year period:
   • to publish world-leading research across all subject areas in the Department;
   • to play a leading role in international and collaborative research projects;
   • to form new collaborations with the potential for valuable social and cultural impact;
   • to expand dissemination of our research through open media;
   • to continue to nurture EDI across all areas of research and identify areas for improvement
   using the Council of University Classics Departments (CUCD) Equality and Diversity Report
   as a starting point;
   • to continue to integrate ECRs, including postgraduates, in our research environment;

                                                                                                3
   • to continue our record and diversify our sources of grant capture.

In the context of the current pandemic, plans for the achievement of these objectives must
remain fluid. Specific initiatives currently include:
    • to develop a funded initiative on the Platonic tradition with the University of Tübingen
      (Project Academy: S4) and enhance the international profile of DCAMP;
    • to develop a funded Reading Latin Text Collections project with the University of Tübingen
      (S4), and to join and make use of the connections provided by the European Augustan
      Poetry Network, and enhance the international reputation of Latin literature in the
      Department;
    • to strengthen the Department’s profile in Greco-Roman history with new appointments in
      these research areas;
    • to enhance the profile of Digital Humanities by creating synergies with interdisciplinary Data
      Science projects across the University (via Durham’s new Institute for Data Science), and
      to embed Digital Humanities research skills in the training of our postgraduates via the new
      Master of Data Science in Digital Humanities;
    • to expand the Department’s portfolio of Digital Humanities research projects via grant
      applications in the areas of neural machine translation and machine learning approaches
      to stemmatics and dating texts, and to continue to develop Open Access OCR technologies
      for reading early printed Latin texts via Rescribe (S4);
    • to develop strength in the generation of impact in and around the performance of ancient
      drama and enhance the profile of DCCR (S2);
    • to bring to fruition and disseminate via workshops the results of ongoing funded projects on
      (e.g.) Greek epigraphy, ancient letter collections, fragmentary modernism and the religious
      life of the near east (S4).

Open Research Environment
University policy (REF5a/2.4) allows the Department to maximise the potential for engagement
with our research, by making use of Durham’s open access repository (DRO) for publications,
beyond the requirements for REF. Our commitment to an open research environment is
demonstrated by ICS Diogenes (widely used in the developing world to access Greek and Latin
texts) and by our investment in Digital Humanities (see above). Researchers are encouraged to
publish in OA journals and have received funding for Gold OA publication (e.g. Bexley for a
forthcoming CUP monograph). OA is built into grants: e.g. Low is Co-I of the AHRC ‘Attic
Inscriptions in the UK’: a series of OA and Creative Commons publications is integral to its
design. As Chair of the Classical Association (2013-20), Gibson has taken part in OA
negotiations with CUP, contributed to debates amongst learned societies at a national level on
the future of journals, and sits on the University’s Plan S working group.

Research Integrity
A newly established University ethics policy (REF5a/2.3) has allowed the Department to access
an online ethics toolkit, plus system and training programme for both Ethics and Research
Integrity. The Department is further supported by the Faculty Ethics Sub-Committee and the
University Ethics Committee: ethical approval is routinely required (e.g.) for impact activities and
grant applications. Ethics are a standing item on the departmental RC’s agenda.

Section 2. People
The Department has 20 staff on research contracts (up from 15 in REF2014). New staff have
moved the Department in fresh research directions and enhanced existing assets (see below in
S2). Our profile in Greco-Roman history will be extended by appointments in the next period
(S1). Alongside a notable proportion of younger scholars, we have also attracted high-quality
scholars to replace departing members. We have nurtured leading figures within the discipline
who developed their work with the support of the Department. In turn, these staff members
contributed to building strengths now being continued across specialisms in philosophy,
reception, the near east, and literature.

                                                                                               4
Staff Development
University and Faculty support the Department in developing staff (REF5a/3.3). i) The University
has replaced self-nomination (a pathway known to disadvantage women) with an annual review
for staff by a Departmental Progression and Promotion Committee. Members recommended for
promotion are reviewed by Faculty and University. The process identifies development needs
for colleagues to progress and provides feedback on research submitted. ii) Staff submit PRPs
annually to the Department’s Director of Research (DoR). Alongside a review of achievements,
these Plans lead to discussions with the DoR and Head of Department (HoD) about research
funding support, workload balance and leave patterns, and support for impact (with our Impact
Officer). iii) The University introduced a new academic mentoring policy in 19-20: staff are
provided with a named mentor. Each department has an identified mentoring contact to oversee
mentoring arrangements and training. iv) DCAD (Durham Centre for Academic Development) is
a new body consolidating training and development opportunities: all staff have access. Durham
is a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and has held
the HR Excellence in Research Award since 2011. (For processes supporting ECR and
temporary or part-time staff, see below in S2.)

Staffing and recruitment policy
Our recruitment priorities have been: (i) to promote new and developing research areas; (ii) to
enhance existing areas of research strength; (iii) to foster a departmental profile that includes
the ‘rising stars’ who will shape the subject, alongside experienced scholars to mentor them, and
mid-career scholars who can succeed to leadership roles; and (iii) to create new opportunities
for links beyond the academy. Evidence of success includes:
   • the recruitment of Rigolio (2018) and Gazis (in 2019) to permanent lectureships. Rigolio
   extends near-eastern interests and opens up new fields with specialisms in Syriac, the late
   antique empire, early Christianity and Greek philosophy of the imperial period. Gazis
   maintains the Department’s distinctive strength in Homer and the near east, including
   Akkadian (the Akkadian expert Stevens was recruited to a permanent lectureship in 2014);
   • the recruitment of Capra (2017) to a readership, and Gilbert (2017) and Bonasio (2021) to
   permanent lecturerships: Gilbert introduces to the Department the developing research area
   of Roman philosophy (Cicero) and Italian Epicureanism. Capra and Bonasio add to strengths
   in Greek philosophy and offer fresh perspectives of the literary study of Plato (Capra) and
   virtue ethics and aesthetics (Bonasio).
   • the recruitment of Ziogas (2016), Bexley (2017) and Jackson (2019) to permanent
   lectureships: Bexley and Jackson bring a research area (Roman and Greek theatre) that is
   new to the Department within the period; Bexley complements strengths in Latin poetry, while
   Jackson brings fresh opportunities for impact through links with theatre. Ziogas strengthens
   Augustan poetry and adds the new research field of intersections between law and literature.
   • the recruitment of external professorial appointments (Cuomo 2017, Gibson 2018, Low
   2018), alongside internal promotions to personal chairs (Heslin, Ingleheart, Kaizer), and to
   Associate Professorships (Goldschmidt, Horky, Richardson, Stevens, Ziogas, Bexley): a
   pattern that facilitates balance in the Department alongside recruitments to lectureships.
   External professorial appointments have brought expertise in new or developing research
   areas: ancient science and technology (Cuomo), late antique Greco-Roman epistolography
   (Gibson), and Greek epigraphy (Low).
Of the 20 submitted staff, 19 have permanent research contracts.

Support for ECR researchers
The University has reduced the probation period for ECRs to one year (REF5a/3.2). This has
given ECR staff a greater sense of security and reduced the risk of delayed progression for staff
who take maternity leave or work part-time. Alongside University and Departmental support, we
have put in place for ECRs a system of mentor-review that addresses (e.g.) publication strategy.
ECRs are given decreased teaching workloads to allow them to take the Postgraduate Certificate
in Academic Practice: a course leading to FHEA. New staff introduce their own research-led

                                                                                            5
modules as soon as possible after appointment: research-led teaching is prioritised for all staff.
All teachers receive supportive peer review annually: particular care is taken to match ECR and
temporary staff with experienced teachers. ECRs are able to start PhD supervision with the
collaborative support of a more experienced supervisor straightaway (see below in S2).

Support for fixed-term and teaching-only staff
In partnership with other Departments we successfully lobbied the University to end its practice
of recruiting to 9-month contracts, and gained its support for offering 12-month contracts to
temporary teaching staff, in recognition of the fact that they need time for professional
development, including paid research time (REF5a/3.4). Teaching-only staff have access to
DCAD (Miles was promoted to Associate Professor in 2019). From 2018 the Department
earmarked funds (£3k per annum) for use by Teaching Track colleagues and Teaching Fellows
specifically for ‘professional development’. PDRFs are encouraged to design and teach a module
of their choosing, based on their own research (e.g. Bryant-Davies, Hooper, Simonetti). Funding
has been made available from our teaching budget to cover costs of teaching these modules.
For temporary staff, our mentoring scheme includes interview coaching and CV advice.

Staff leave, impact, reward, and exchanges with third sector bodies
The Department supports staff to develop pathways to impact through the annual PRP process
(see above). A new University research impact fund (REF5a/2.5) has offered support to the
development of our ICS and other impact activities, including financial outlays (e.g. £2.7K in
2018-19), administrative support and funding for dedicated Impact Assistants to gather data,
support and advertise projects. (The incorporation of Rescribe as a company is detailed in S1,
4; see also S4 on ICS Living Poets and Diogenes.) The University recognises and rewards
research and impact achievements: both are criteria in promotion and progression (REF5a/3.2).
Excellence in impact is recognised in annual University Impact awards (REF5a/2.5).
Departmental flexibility in teaching timetables and strategic workload relief / allocation support
impact activities (S1) as well as other areas of our offering (S4). Provisions for equal access to
research and impact leave are outlined in S3: leave is awarded to both temporary and permanent
staff on research contracts. Staff are also given one ring-fenced research day every week. For
procedures embedded in our impact agenda to facilitate exchanges with public and third sector
bodies, see S3, 4.

Recruitment of doctoral research students
Alongside funding from the University and the major UK bodies (see below in 2), our PhD
students have received funding from (e.g.) the Fulbright Foundation, IKY State Scholarships
Foundation in Greece, and Regione Toscana. This reflects an initiative to utilise the
Department’s non-UK staff profile (see below in S2 and S4). Within a cohort of 30-40 of PhD
students (including visiting students) at any one time, numbers are split c. 60 / 40% between UK
/ EU & International students and closer to 50 / 50 in the last 4 years. As part of recruitment, we
support Centre and Departmental panels at the CA, SCS and Celtic Classics conferences and
co-host an annual social event at the SCS. Recruitment is further nurtured through University
partnerships with Tübingen (REF5a/4.1 and S4) and PKU (Durham works with the China
Scholarship Council), and departmental partnerships with (e.g.) Bologna, Pisa and the Scuola
Normale Superiore. Nationally, we use Northern Bridge Doctoral Training Partnership (NBDTP)
to recruit PGR students and foster collaboration across institutions (particularly Newcastle), and
to widen the pool of co-supervisors. As a result ECRs (e.g. Hellstrom) have been able to gain
early opportunities for PGR supervision. We monitor diversity in postgraduate application
processes and promote it through (e.g.) flexibility in supervisory arrangements or supporting
part-time study. Part-time students are not required to reside in Durham: an enabling factor
particularly for those with caring responsibilities. The success of our initiatives can be measured
from a gender balance among our PGR students of close to 50 / 50 for several years and 60-
63% women in the years 2019-21 (with c. 15% identifying as BAME or Other).



                                                                                              6
Evidence of PhD Studentships
For REF2014 the Department reported 19.5 completions: a nearly 100% increase on RAE2008.
Since 2014 there have been 32.55 doctoral completions (REF4a): an increase of 67% on 2014
and a tripling of the rate since 2008. These figures document our initiatives to recruit good quality
national and international students and reflect the Department’s successful bids to a range of
funding schemes: the AHRC-funded NBDTP, Leverhulme, various international bodies (see
above), and the University’s own programme for PhD funding (Durham’s Doctoral Fellowship
scheme).

Monitoring and support mechanisms for doctoral students
Our Faculty-funded Centres are key resources for supporting PhD students (S1). The broader
support and training of PhD students are overseen by the Director of Postgraduate Research
(DPgR), who reports on progress to each meeting of our RC. A supervisory team of two
academics is provided to each student, with a flexible split of 50/50 or 80/20 responsibility,
including cross-institutional supervision. The University‘s Code of Practice enables the further
monitoring of student progress: a rigorous Progression Review at 9 months in front of the RC; a
Confirmation Review at 21 months; and a further Completion Review at 33 months (or equivalent
for part-time students). The success of these measures can be gauged from the number of PhD
completions in the current period.

Skills development and career preparation for doctoral students
The University’s ECR review form is used throughout a PGR’s career: it identifies support
needed to complete and progress into employment, including mock interviews and tackling job
applications. PGR students complete the Faculty’s annual ‘Training Needs Analysis’: a basis for
discussion with supervisors to ensure access to training needed for work and employability. The
University’s DCAD (REF5a/3.3) and NBDTP provide research training for PGR students
alongside other ECRs. An NBDTP placement scheme allowed our students to take temporary
positions at (e.g.) Seven Stories (Newcastle), British Library (London), Hoover Institution
(Stanford). University and departmental support enabled our students to take visiting
studentships abroad, including two at Harvard (supported by the Durham-Harvard Research
Exchange), and one each at Princeton, Stanford, and Toronto. All PGRs have the opportunity to
be paid as teaching assistants on our UG modules, leading seminars and marking formative
work. Mandatory training is provided by the University and supplemented by departmental
training for teaching on language courses. The Postgraduate Work in Progress (JWiP) seminar
and DPgR act together to provide training sessions for writing cover letters and CVs (academic
and non-academic), applying for postdocs, submitting journal articles, digital tools for classicists,
digital publishing, and how to make your research accessible to a wider public. The Department
organises an annual programme of graduate Master Classes, drawing on the expertise of staff
and visiting academics to extend the range of perspectives: topics include publication strategy,
impact, and applying to different job markets, with recent external contributions from colleagues
in Stanford, UCLA and Oxford. Supervisors aid students with publication of research during their
PhDs (e.g. Martorana) or publish with them afterwards (e.g. Fögen and Warren).

Alongside the involvement of PGRs in our Centres (S1), evidence for the integration of research
students and their empowerment to take initiatives is found in (e.g.) an entirely postgraduate-led
Latin reading group, and DCCR’s postgraduate Misreading Group, which attracts postgraduates
from across the Faculty. PGR students are involved in workshops as participants, as assistants,
and as primary organisers, supported by funding from the NBDTP, our RC, and Research
Centres. Recent evidence of the success of these initiatives includes: ‘Metaphysics and
Epistemology in Plato’s Academy’; ‘Becoming and the Roman World’; ‘Classical Encounters’,
‘Water and religious life’. Postgraduate students, along with postdoctoral researchers, also
played a role in the running of the Theoretical Roman Archaeology Conference 2017, which was
jointly hosted by the Classics and Archaeology Departments at Durham. Our students are active
in the Annual Meeting for Postgraduates in Ancient History and organised the 2015 meeting in
Durham. Facilities for postgraduate study (a well-resourced space with hot desks) are located

                                                                                                7
next to staff offices, supplemented by a Faculty hub and study centre just a few doors down from
the Department, and a dedicated postgraduate space in the University Library. (See also S3 on
the departmental Library).

Equality and diversity in recruitment, promotion, study leave and flexible working
Our commitment to improving equality and diversity in the Department is evidenced by our
receipt in early 2019 of an Athena Swan ‘bronze’ award: well in advance of a University plan for
all Arts Departments to receive one by December 2020 (REF5a/3.3). The University supports
staff involved in search committees with mandatory training in recruitment and unconscious bias,
and provides an equality champion for each post (REF5a/3.1). We have removed the traditional
expectation of the ability to teach both Latin and Greek from our ‘essential’ criteria for
recruitment, and specify only one of the languages, as appropriate to the recruitment: we
recognise that the traditional expectation potentially privileges male applicants, who are
statistically less inclined to modesty about competences. All job candidates are asked to
evidence their commitment to EDI at interview. Of 13 staff members offered permanent positions
with research contracts since 2014 (including Bonasio 2021), 46% are women. Our current FTE
of 20 features 40% women (up from 33% for REF2014) and a notably high proportion of non-UK
staff (60%) from three continents. A slight predominance among research staff of men and of
women among teaching-only staff features within a larger context of a growing prominence for
women in senior and leadership roles. In REF2014, 1 out of 3 professors was a woman; for
REF2021, 3 out of 6 professors are women. Women are serving as HoD for the first time
(Graziosi, Ingleheart). Within the period, six women and five men were promoted (including
external professorial appointments). Staff are automatically considered annually for a
Discretionary or Merit Award: the University has removed the gender bias of self-nomination
(REF5a/3.2). For equal access to study leave and flexible working, see S3 and below in S2.

Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff
In addition to eight IAS postdoctoral fellows (S1), the Department has since 2014 secured seven
postdoctoral fellowships across the range of our disciplines from a series of funders, including
British Academy, Leverhulme, Marie Curie and Newton. Our success in mentoring these and
other fixed-term ECRs is evident from the range of permanent academic posts secured by them
nationally (at Queen Mary, Kent, Nottingham, Durham), and internationally (Turin, TCD,
Wollongong, Copenhagen), or from their success in securing further postdoctoral posts
(Harriman, Simonetti, Bartels, Ciola, Zilioli, Fane-Saunders, Gullo). Durham research students
have secured permanent posts at Durham, Edinburgh, St Andrews, Winchester; and overseas
at Kyoto, Peking National University, and Chungnam National University. Durham ECRs have
been recruited to significant educational and outreach roles in the wider Classics community:
e.g. as a teacher at Newcastle Grammar School; at Classics for All; and as a Research Impact
Officer at Oxford. PDF applications are monitored for equality and diversity: the statistics are
presented to RC and used to inform decisions on candidates for submission for selection by
Faculty: e.g. women represented 50% of candidates put forward to Faculty in the 2019-20 round
of externally funded PDFs and 75% in 2020. The Department supports part-time and fixed-term
staff in applications for flexible and part-time working contracts.

Equality and diversity in funding, training, leadership
All staff served on our Athena Swan application committee to ensure universal understanding of
principles and significance. We are working on feedback received from Athena Swan and on
implementation of the Action Plan: a dedicated committee reports on progress to Board of
Studies quarterly. Overlooked inequalities in workload are major obstacles to equality as regards
funding opportunities and promotion: we monitor gender balance in lower-level language classes
(versus the teaching of final-year ‘specialist’ courses) and reassign teaching on that basis. Staff
list on their webpage topics for schools talks or public events: a measure to address the
historically disproportionate engagement with outreach by women. (For the monitoring of gender
balance in PDF applications, see above.) Hidden imbalances in formative marking workloads
are currently under scrutiny. For equal access to internal funds, see S3. Research and

                                                                                              8
conference attendance are facilitated by a PRA for all staff (S3), which can be supplemented
with further departmental and University funds. The University has ensured early provision of
leadership training for early- to mid-career researchers (e.g. Goldschmidt, Horky: who designed
new provisions for the University Sexual Violence and Misconduct policy as a project).

Support for staff and research students: parental leave, illness, caring responsibilities
Staff returning from parental and long-term sick leave meet with mentors and the HoD to consider
how the Department can best support their research. Those returning from parental or adoption
leave are entitled to one additional term of research leave (REF5a/3.3), while those returning
from long-term sick leave benefit from a phased return to work. Staff suffering from long-term
illness are given reasonable adjustments so that they can manage their research, and they
benefit from additional support from mentors and the HoD. Staff with caring responsibilities can
apply for flexible working so as to balance their commitments. The Department supports
applications by research students to funders for sick leave and parental leave.

Support for staff with protected characteristics and approach to wellbeing
The University provides specific staff networks to provide support and mentoring for BAME,
LGBT+, women, and disabled research staff (REF5a/3.3). Durham is a signatory to the Race
Equality Charter (see IS for REC action plan), is a Stonewall Diversity Champion and a Disability
Confident Employer, and offers extensive provision for the mental health of its staff and students.
As a Departmental we offer (e.g.) annual support to LGBT+ History Month, inaugurated in 2019
the LGBT+ History Month Public Lecture, and our ICS Romosexuality is evidence of focused
staff engagement with issues of gender, sexuality and equality. A Race Reading Group, meeting
fortnightly throughout the year, is run by a collective of permanent and temporary staff in the
Department, and encourages reflection on issues relevant to both research and teaching: (e.g.)
the decolonisation of the curriculum. A new email policy has dramatically reduced the volume of
emails outside normal working hours, particularly at weekends. Attention to pastoral care for
research students is essential to successful completion: the PGR director encourages students
to access Durham University Counselling Service.

Equality, diversity and REF
The University’s Equality Impact Assessment framework assesses impact on protected
characteristics throughout the processes of identification of eligible staff, selection of outputs and
special circumstances appeals (REF5a/3.6). In accordance with the University’s code of
practice, staff with responsibility for REF are provided with bespoke training on REF guidance,
including unconscious bias, and all outputs are graded anonymously on the basis of quality. All
research members of staff participate in the grading process. 36% of our submitted outputs were
authored by women against a current FTE of 40% women. One of our ICS is led by a woman; a
second has been largely developed and led by women (two out of three collaborators).

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Strategies for generating research income
Our vision of sustaining a vibrant and outward-facing Department (S1) is underpinned by grant
capture: innovative and collaborative research attracts funding. We work in partnership with the
University’s expanded Research and Innovation Support office and the opportunities it gives to
all staff, both permanent and temporary, for training and one-to-one support (REF5a/4.4).
Together we have developed a ‘hands on’ management of activity. 1) Staff outline potential
applications in their PRPs (S2) for discussion with the DoR. 2) Plans are coordinated in a
‘pipeline’ document (held on a shared drive and reviewed at RC) with the twin aim of ensuring
steady flow and enabling the Department to plan strategic support. 3) The University’s Grant
Seedcorn Fund facilitates accelerated research leave and workload remission to support the
writing of applications (REF5a/4.1; this fund also supports pilot events: a workshop on ‘Creating
the Emperor’s Image’ led to Russell’s successful AHRC bid). 4) Dedicated feedback on larger
grant proposals is given by the Work in Progress (WiP) seminar (see below in S3) and through

                                                                                                 9
anonymous peer review within the Department, alongside the on-line availability of repositories
of successful grant applications (both Departmental and Faculty). 5) Personal advice on
schemes, IT and finance is provided throughout by RIS and CIS ; further peer review is supplied
by Faculty, plus specialist advice from the Faculty’s Impact Support Officer on impact grant
capture. 6) The University’s ‘grant incentivisation’ scheme (see below in S3) rewards grant
winners with a percentage of the grant. A range of new grant applications is currently at the
planning or drafting stage (S1).

Research funding
Increases in grant capture are evidence of the success of this support: since 2014, income from
external sources has totalled £2,387,110.07 (REF4b/c): an increase of 76% on the £1,356,789
recorded for REF2014 (which itself represented a 36.9% increase on RAE2008). Just over half
of this income derived from EU government sources. More significant for the future is the rise in
UKRC funding attracted by the Department: up from £223,393 in REF2014 to £557,063 in
REF2021: a rise of 149%. Patterns of individual grant capture from UKRC and Charities point to
success in spreading funding across the Department within the period (REF4b/c). Highlights
include two AHRC standard grants (Gibson, Low); two AHRC Leadership Fellowships (Russell,
Goldschmidt); a Leverhulme Research Fellowship (Boys-Stones); a Major Leverhulme Research
Fellowship (Kaizer); a Philip Leverhulme Prize (Russell); a Leverhulme ECR fellowship
(Hellstrom); and two British Academy Small Grants (Gilbert, Russell). Impact funding highlights
include BBC / AHRC New Generation Thinkers award (Richardson); AHRC Cultural
Engagement Fund (Graziosi); and Classics for All (Wolfenden). Recent successes for projects
continuing into the next REF period (Gibson, Gilbert, Goldschmidt, Low: S4) point to vitality and
sustainability.

Links between research funding and high-quality research output or impact
External grants acquired on a competitive basis are evidence of innovative research projects:
funding of this sort enabled the writing of (e.g.) Boys-Stones, Platonist Philosophy; Gibson, Man
of High Empire; Hellstrom and Russell, Social Dynamics of Roman Imperial Imagery; Horky,
Cosmos in the Ancient World; Ingleheart, Masculine Plural; and Kaizer, ‘Empire, community and
culture’. An ERC starting grant, an AHRC Cultural Engagement Fellowship and Classics for All
together provided funding for ICS ‘Living Poets’; the BA provided funding for the academic
underpinning of ICS ‘Romosexuality’. Grants currently in operation (S1, 4) or planned are
scheduled to produce further high quality outputs over the next decade.

University and Faculty infrastructure supporting research and impact
Annual Faculty funding supports our three interdisciplinary Centres (S1). University and Faculty
funding supports two distinctive research collaborations with the University of Tübingen (in
ancient philosophy and Latin literature: S4) and digital humanities project Rescribe (S4). Further
Faculty and University resources have enabled development of our vision to help all staff to
produce high-quality research (S1): three initiatives designed to create or increase access for all
to research opportunities, have been introduced or maintained since 2014:
i) Personal Research Allowance: we no longer bid for these funds: in 2017 the University
introduced an automatic personal annual allowance of £1k (REF5a/3.3) for conferences, archival
work, etc. (These funds can be rolled over.) Consequently, the departmental RC has been
empowered to channel annual research funds provided separately by Faculty (usually £7.5k)
towards strategic initiatives. Priority is given to the annual Research Theme (S4).
ii) Grant Incentivisation Scheme: the PRA initiative was accompanied by a University scheme to
credit winners of external grants and their departments with rollover funds equal to 10% each of
the net overheads (REF5a/3.3). The AHRC grants of Low, Gibson and Goldschmidt (S4) are the
first beneficiaries of the latter: (e.g.) Gibson funded an epistolography workshop (with
participants from three continents) aimed at a future grant project.
 iii) Faculty Research Fund: separate and additional Faculty funds for travel and holding
conferences are available: staff regularly gain awards totalling £6k annually. Researchers
applying for Departmental funds (on top of their PRA) are asked to apply to the Faculty Research

                                                                                            10
Fund: a stipulation that normally sees researchers double their money. A total of £69,278 won
since 2014 has funded workshops and conferences annually, including – in addition to those run
by Centres (S1) - (e.g.) History of Sexuality and Translation; Aspects of Death and the Afterlife;
Roman Law and Latin literature; Ancient Revelation; Approaches to the Anonymous Iamblichi.
See S4 for external collaborations funded by the FRF.

Departmental infrastructure supporting research and impact
In support of departmental research objectives (S1), leave arrangements are maintained at
generous levels: all research staff have one term of research or impact leave after six of service
(the equivalent of two years). Terms in which duties are fully paid for by external schemes are
counted as ‘service’: a measure designed to encourage applications to external fellowships and
the opportunities they provide for additional periods of research leave, for external collaboration,
and for fixed-term employment for early-career staff. Staff have taken up fellowships across
Europe and north America (S4). Research Seminar provision has been maintained: three
seminars run weekly (or regularly). The ‘Research Seminar’, supported by annual funds from
Faculty, brings in scholars from outside Durham, including regular visitors from continental
Europe. (The shift to Zoom seminars during the pandemic has extended international reach both
for speakers and audience.) The ‘WiP’ seminar is an engine for generation of ideas and staff
collaboration, including grant and impact projects. It runs as a regular, shorter-form seminar at
lunchtime, so as to enable all staff, including those with caring responsibilities, to attend. The
parallel J (Junior) WiP seminar run by and for graduate students offers a supportive peer
environment for testing ideas and training opportunities for both academic and non-academic
careers.

University facilities: research and impact
The expanded University Library provides printed and electronic resources for classical research
and rich holdings of archive and manuscript material (REF5a/4.3), which have played a role in
departmental research projects since 2014: e.g. Heslin and manuscript holdings for Rescribe
(S1, 4), Rigolio and numismatic collections, Horky and the Midgley archive, Low and rare books
in the Cathedral library. The Library works closely with colleagues in Classics to ensure that
researchers have access to a comprehensive range of sources, from the classical texts in Bishop
Cosin’s Library to the latest online publications from the major international publishers. New
research sources are purchased on request: this enables the Library to respond to evolving
research interests by developing holdings in new areas, e.g. in classical reception, Syriac and
ancient science and technology. Durham cathedral offers further resources, e.g. for Thomas and
the IAS architectural project ‘Shedding light on the Galilee [chapel]’. The Faculty Impact Support
Officer provides advice and funding for outreach and impact activities, and support for
appropriate venues, including the University’s Oriental Museum (which hosted an exhibition
involving our staff in 2016 on ‘Daily Life in Ancient Lebanon’). Significant elements of our
outreach included materials for schools developed by the Durham University Heritage
Collections Learning Team. A new exhibition space on Palace Green in the centre of Durham
(REF5a/2.5.1) is an important venue for public exhibitions linked to research in the University,
including the early stages of our ERC-funded ‘Living Poets’ project and development of the
methodology behind an associated ICS. For cross-institutional use of research infrastructure,
see S4.


Major benefits in kind
An independent Department library is maintained as a resource above University provision.
Funded by donations and legacies (alongside departmental subvention), it contains a collection
of c. 5,000 books, including up-to-date reference works and a complete collection of Loebs.
Since 2014, its holdings have been significantly improved by donations of books and journals
from emeritus professors, and by a gift of £10k from an alumnus to upgrade its facilities: this
made possible a renovation of the space, and maximised its use for teaching, working, and
events such as reading groups.

                                                                                             11
Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Research collaborations, networks, joint projects
The development of international research collaborations is a key part of our Research Plans for
the current period (S1: Objective 4). In addition to the work of our three Centres in these areas
(S1), an array of University and Faculty resources support distinctive partnerships and networks:
i) Durham-Tübingen seedcorn fund: University investment in links with Tübingen (REF5a/4.1)
enabled Horky and Gibson each to win £20-25k grants from this seedcorn fund for projects with
partners in ancient Philosophy (‘Project Academy’) and Latin (‘Latin Text Collections’) at
Tübingen. The seedcorn funding is ultimately directed at facilitating grant applications between
the two institutions, and both projects have a role to play in our 2020-25 Objectives (S1). Project
Academy develops an initiative in the study of the Platonic tradition with a series of translations
and commentaries on the fragments and testimonia of members of Plato’s Academy. The LTC
project examines strategies used to design literary collections assumed to be without order or
narrative from the classical to the early medieval.
ii) Institute of Advanced Study supported the launch of Russell’s interdisciplinary ‘Who are “We
the People”? project involving colleagues from Australia, the USA and Europe. The IAS Senior
Research Fellowship scheme brought a range of international collaborators to Durham for
extended stays, including scholars from Chicago, Turin, Macquarie, SC Milan, Brown, and
Moscow. As a result (e.g.) Bronwen Neil is currently collaborating with Gibson on a grant
proposal on the transition between classical and late antiquity.
iii) Faculty Research funds: the University’s introduction of a PRA (S3) enabled RC to redirect
annual funds provided separately by Faculty towards strategic initiatives in Classics. Priority is
given to the annual Research Theme: a scheme focused on innovative projects emerging at the
intersection of staff working in diverse areas. The Research Theme now carries with it £2k of
primer funding for a dedicated conference, in addition to first call on a number of Research
Seminar slots. The Research Theme is ultimately directed at publication opportunities with
external collaborators as well as our own postdocs and graduate students; six edited volumes
have appeared in the current REF period.
iv) The Faculty Research Fund: a separate Faculty Research Fund (S3) has supported
collaborative research workshops with colleagues in Leeds (Classics and the First World War),
Milan (Post-Hellenistic Philosophy), and Dartmouth (Cicero); conference panels (e.g. at the CA
and SCS); and meetings in Durham of learned societies (e.g. British Epigraphy Society Spring
meeting). Staff are encouraged to apply to this annual fund to top up their PRA and travel abroad
to present their work. Evidence of the success of this strategy can be seen in the regularity with
which Department members are invited either to give named lectures (the Steven MacKenna
Lecture, TCD: Horky and Boys-Stones; the Michael Frede Lecture, Athens: Boys-Stones; the
Guangqi Lecture, Shanghai: Russell), or to offer keynote addresses on both research (e.g. the
UNESCO Lecture at TRAC 2017: Kaizer) and its place in the community (WCC 2018, LGBT+
Classics: Ingleheart).
v) Our research grants enable the construction of cross-institutional links, including those with
Cardiff and Manchester (Low, AHRC) and Manchester (Gibson, AHRC): see further below.
Nathan Gilbert’s BA small grant is currently developing a project on the Epicurean Metrodorus
in collaboration with Naples and Cologne. Research networks are facilitated by our engagement
with international fellowship schemes (S3): staff have taken up fellowships (e.g.) in Germany
and the Netherlands (Fögen), the National Humanities Centre (Horky), Princeton IAS (Low), and
Rome (Russell), in addition to further visiting scholarships at institutions from Sydney to Toronto.
We also support an ERASMUS programme, which we review to identify promising new
partnerships.

Impact and relationships with research users, wider audiences and diverse communities
Faculty and departmental services and funding (S1, 3) support a range of impact activities and
engagements with a variety of users:
1) Rescribe enhances the digitisation infrastructure for early printed books (pre-1800), and builds
upon the Living Poets project (S3). Faculty enabled Rescribe to digitise a number of ancient

                                                                                             12
Greek texts, for which we developed training data for modern typefaces of ancient Greek,
feeding them back to the open-source Tesseract OCR engine. The latter was founded by
Hewlett-Packard (and is now funded by Google), and currently includes the Durham training data
and can already deal with ancient Greek. It is our future aim to expand the service by adding
support for the Latin language, which would enable us to enhance the experience of the
thousands of users who download early books from Google Books and similar sites. We aim
also to cater for libraries that want bespoke, low-cost digitisation for early books.
2) Impact Case Studies: our ICS, supported by the University and national and international
grants (S3), are part of a strategy to use our research to engage with educational disadvantage
(borne in on us by the contrast between Durham as a University city, and the economic hardship
of the surrounding region), and inequalities resulting from prejudicial perceptions of gender and
sexual diversity. Our Living Poets ICS has opened up space for socioeconomically marginalised
readers in schools across the North East and North West of England to make their voices heard,
by encouraging them to recognise the value of their own life-experiences as tools for
understanding the classical past, and by fuelling an interest in literacy and learning. It has
demonstrated that readers ask new, vital questions of ancient texts because of, not in spite of,
their own life experiences. ICS Romosexuality - with its emphasis on Roman sexuality and its
reception in erotica, marginalised books and authors, and censorship - enables LGBTQ
audiences to gain a better understanding of LGBTQ history, influences curatorial practice in
libraries and museums, and increases public understanding of censorship of sexualised works
and the policing of sexuality. As noted in S1, Diogenes is widely used in the developing world to
access Greek and Latin texts.
3) Wider contributions beyond ICS: the Department’s impact strategy (S1) and our mission to
make a societal contribution through participation in national conversations based on research
expertise, have enabled staff to taken part in television productions (Ingleheart, Gibson,
Graziosi), and radio programmes including The Essay (Graziosi), Sunday Feature, and Free
Thinking (Richardson) on Radio 3, and In Our Time (Cuomo, Graziosi, Gibson, Woolmer) on
Radio 4, as well as appearances as experts on BBC news (Kaizer), alongside local contributions
to International Women’s Day (Miles) and LGBT History month (S2). Staff have also written and
consulted for popular publishers (Low, for Road Publishing) and amateur film productions
(Stevens co-produced the Babylonian-language ‘Poor Man of Nippur’). DCCR (S1) is central to
co-ordinating much of this work now and for the future. Future impact work is also embedded
within ongoing major research grants (see immediately below in S4), including partners in
museums, libraries and galleries (Goldschmidt) and schools (Gibson).

Interdisciplinary research and contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
The funding by Faculty of our three cross-departmental centres enables our initiative to promote
interdisciplinary research (S1). We contribute to the vitality and sustainability of the discipline
through innovative projects supported by Faculty (see above on Rescribe) or funded by research
grants. In addition to large projects completed within the period (e.g. Graziosi’s ERC-funded
Living Poets), several extend into the next REF period. Attic Inscriptions Online (Low Co-I,
AHRC) aims to locate, edit and publish all 250 inscriptions from ancient Athens and Attica now
in the UK; scattered across museums and private collections, most have not been studied for
over 100 years. Ancient Letter Collections (Gibson PI, AHRC) unites the vast corpus of Greco-
Roman classical and late epistolography as a single field for the first time. Fragmentary
Modernisms (Goldschmidt PI, AHRC) provides the first integrated picture of the combined impact
of classical scholarship on the literary and visual aesthetics of modernism and its legacy. The
Religious Life of Dura Europos (Kaizer PI, Leverhulme) aims for a comprehensive and
systematic study of the many cults of Dura in order provide a methodological framework for the
study of cultural life outside the main cult centres of the Roman empire.
    We facilitate service and leadership in the discipline by allowing staff personal flexibility in
the arrangement of their teaching timetable and through strategic workload relief and allocation.
The success of this initiative can be judged from service by staff members on national
committees, including the Councils of the Classical Association (Gibson as Chair 2013-20),
SPHS, and SPRS; CUCD Standing Committee; the Women’s Classical Committee UK (Russell

                                                                                             13
as a founding member and Co-Chair); the ICS Advisory Board; and the BSA Council. Staff also
serve on international committees, including, in Italy, Classici Contro and Associazione Italiana
di Cultura Classica; in China, the Academic Council for the Comparative Study of Antiquity
International (Center for the Study of Ancient Text Cultures, Renmin).

Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base
Flexibility in timetabling and recognition of ‘service’ in promotion procedures support and
encourage a contribution to the discipline more broadly through work as editors or as members
of editorial boards for important academic presses nationally and internationally (see S2 on the
non-UK staff profile), including: Brill, I. B. Tauris, Historiographia Linguistica, Leonida editore,
Liverpool University Press, and Routledge; and for major journals, including: Annali della Facoltà
di Studi Umanistici di Milano, BMCR, Bulletin of the Rylands Library, Ciceroniana, Dionysus ex
machina, Phronesis (Boys-Stones as Managing Editor), American Journal of Philology, JRS,
Linguistik Online, International Journal for Ancient Philosophy, and Archai. Staff regularly act as
peer reviewers for major presses and journals of Europe and north America, and sit on grant-
awarding bodies. Within the current REF period they served on the AHRC Peer Review College,
and advised research councils and similar bodies internationally (e.g. HERA; the Newton Trust;
the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Institute of Canada; the Czech Academy of
Sciences; the Israel Science Foundation; Research Foundation Flanders; the German Academic
Exchange Service (DAAD); the University of Missouri Research Board; the Netherlands Institute
for Advanced Study; the Studienstiftunig des deutschen Volkes), and have participated as
assessors in the UK REF, and similar processes overseas (including the Hellenic Quality
Assurance and Accreditation Agency, and the Italian VQR). Their expertise is called on for
doctoral examinations in the UK (e.g. Birmingham, Cambridge, Leicester, Oxford, St Andrews,
UCL), and abroad (e.g. Copenhagen, Macquarie, Maynooth, Princeton, Sydney, Trondheim,);
and to advise on appointment, promotion and tenure in HEIs in the UK (Cambridge, Edinburgh,
KCL, Oxford) and overseas (Maynooth, Pittsburgh, Princeton, UC Santa Barbara, Yale,). They
also widely engage in all forms of outreach (including schools talks: see above), as well as writing
for non-specialist readerships (e.g. Omnibus).




                                                                                             14
