Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Cambridge

 Unit of Assessment: 17 Business and Management Studies



 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and Introduction

 As laid out in the REF2014 submission, Cambridge Judge Business School (CJBS), over the past
 seven years, has developed and consolidated its deep engagement research strategy. The key
 premise is that excellence in research, impact and teaching are best approached as an integrated,
 holistic strategy. Research builds knowledge, which can fruitfully develop from ideas sparked
 through dialogue with practitioners and policymakers, with direct experience of the complexities of
 practice. This research strategy builds on the University’s vision of “contributing to society through
 education, research and learning at the highest level of excellence” and aims to promote
 responsible business research with social impact.


 The key elements of structure to facilitate research are Subject Groups, Centres, Executive
 education, and recognition and reward for impact. Researchers are organised in eight Subject
 Groups with affiliations to nineteen Centres, which are grouped into four clusters to enable research
 collaboration on cross-disciplinary topics. Centres promote impact through practitioner
 engagement and outreach, and facilitate research funding. They provide collaboration opportunities
 for early career researchers (ECRs), including PhD students, as well as mentorship and internal
 funding opportunities.


 CJBS engages with the wider context of the University and the Cambridge innovation ecosystem.
 CJBS collaborates and shares research services with other departments within the School of
 Technology, including Engineering and Computer Science. Examples of collaborations and
 networking, further detailed in Section 4, range from working with Computer Science on Machine
 Learning through CJBS’s Regulatory Genome project, which has made financial regulations
 machine readable and available for benchmarking globally, to working with the Medical School on
 rapid COVID-19 modelling support for Public Health England via the Cambridge Centre for Health
 Leadership and Enterprise, and working with Engineering to track the success factors of start-up
 companies originating from applied departmental research via the Entrepreneurship Centre. More
 broadly, CJBS has made important contributions to nurturing and scaling up of these and other
 companies in the Cambridge innovation ecosystem through incubators (e.g. Accelerate
 Cambridge and Social Incubator), engagement and public outreach (e.g. Enterprise Tuesday).




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2 Structure for Promoting Research: Subject Groups and Centres

 CJBS has eight Subject Groups: Finance, Marketing, Operations and Technology Management,
 Strategy and International Business, Organisational Theory and Information Systems,
 Organisational Behaviour, Business Economics and Policy, and Accounting. Each researcher is
 a member of one Subject Group, which is their primary institutional base.


 CJBS aims to foster excellence across groups by facilitating diverse conversations, collaborations
 and training. CJBS has 19 Research Centres, which typically draw faculty from multiple Subject
 Groups. Their mission is to combine research, impact and outreach through engagement with
 practitioners and policymakers. A number of the Centres have successfully attracted substantial
 research funding from philanthropy, government and corporate sources. For example, Cambridge
 Social Innovation (CSI) was awarded £3.5M as a major gift in 2016, Cambridge Centre for
 Alternative Finance (CCAF) was awarded £5.6M from the Department for International
 Development (DfID) in 2019, while Cambridge Centre for Risk Studies (CCRS) was established
 through company sponsorship. Funded activities include: doctoral students and postdoctoral
 researcher support, conferences, courses, company engagement through workshops, and
 contract research (“business intelligence”). This portfolio of activities corresponds to the impact-
 oriented research mission of the Centres.


 Centres are formed through a rigorous application process and subsequently monitored through
 processes overseen by the CJBS Research Office and Director. Centre applications are approved
 by the Faculty Board, which requires them to outline their research and business plan for how they
 will contribute to fundamental and applied research. Centres annually report on engagement
 activities, impact and funding. Representatives of the Centres, along with university-wide network
 representatives (which has included the Strategic Partnerships Office and University Research
 Office), are invited to an annual Centres summit. The summit offers a forum that promotes
 collaboration and knowledge exchange between the Centres and across the university. A plan has
 been approved to review Centres on a rolling basis every three years to assess and further
 develop their impact. In some cases, a remediation plan may need to be developed, Centres put
 on probation, and eventually closed.


 Figure 1 shows how the 19 Centres (by date established) are organised into four clusters: Finance
 and Regulation; Innovation and Sustainability; Operations, Risk and Policy; and International
 Business and Workplace Studies. Clusters encourage collaboration across centres around
 common, complex challenges to advance knowledge development and dissemination. For
 example, Centres in the Innovation and Sustainability cluster (Cambridge Social Innovation (CSI),
 Entrepreneurship, Cambridge Digital Innovation (CDI), and Circular Economy Centre (CEC)),

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developed and shared knowledge on areas including digital business models, sustainable growth,
 technology-enabled social inclusion and environmental sustainability. Cross-Centre collaboration
 in this cluster led to the development of modules on research programmes (MPhil, PhD); CDI and
 CSI developed new courses on digital and social innovation that covered different areas of current
 research including poverty alleviation (Stott), mobile payments for financial inclusion (Barrett) and
 hybrid business models for social enterprise (Tracey). Centres also provide a base for networking.
 Researchers in the Innovation and Sustainability cluster have participated in the University
 Strategic Research Initiative on Cambridge Global Challenges and have contributed nationally as
 members of the Steering Committee of ESRC Grand Challenges and external evaluators on
 UKRI’s Grand Challenges Call on Digital Innovation for Development (Barrett).


                      Figure 1: Organising the 19 Centres into 4 Clusters




 1.3 Research and Impact Strategy: An Integrated Approach

 The mission of CJBS is to be a leading global research-based business school with exceptional
 research and education programmes, where research and teaching together deliver
 transformative impact, at the heart of one of the world’s top-tier universities. CJBS faculty lead a
 number of research networks across the University and beyond. Figure 2 depicts connections and
 key collaborations between CJBS, the wider university and the Cambridge Innovation Ecosystem.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Figure 2: Connections between CJBS Clusters, University-wide Centres and Initiatives
 and the Cambridge Innovation Ecosystem




                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Broadening Deep Engagement Strategy with Social Impact
 This section outlines the logic behind the deep engagement strategy and discusses how it has been
 developed to achieve social impact. As shown in Figure 3, deep engagement involves creating
 synergies between research and teaching as an impactful two-way dialogue. This takes place
 through engagement with senior students (on the MBA, EMBA, MFin, MAcc, MSt and BusD
 programmes), executives and entrepreneurs on executive programmes, and organisational
 affiliates to centres that offer access to innovative practices, novel experiments and deep practical
 knowledge.


 Figure 3: Deep Engagement as a CJBS Research Strategy Embedded in the University
 Vision




 Since 2014, we have focused our research impact strategy to increasingly address issues of
 environmental and social impact, as detailed more comprehensively in section 4, in our
 contribution to the economy and society. For example, finance research by CEAM focuses on
 incorporating Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) principles into investment practice
 through what they term Active Engagement (Dimson and Karakas). This complements integrated


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 climate modelling and economic assessment (Hope) and other initiatives on climate action and
 energy transition in (inter)national markets (Pollitt, Reiner). The Centre for Alternative Finance
 worked with finance regulators, DFiD, the Bank for International Settlements and the World Bank
 to develop a benchmark for regulation and support training for global financial services regulators
 and policymakers (with over 140 participants from 53 countries). Research on frugal innovation at
 the Centre for India and Global Business and the Circular Economy Centre has developed and
 applied principles of frugal innovation in doing more with less in social enterprise, business and
 government settings in Asia, UK and Europe.

 Beyond direct engagement with practical challenges and practitioners through research Centres,
 CJBS realises the impact side of its deep engagement approach through three additional activities:
 Executive Education, intra-university collaboration, and building researcher incentives and
 orientation towards achieving impact.



 1.3.1 Research Impact through Executive Education

 Reflecting CJBS’s emphasis on engaging research and teaching, and academia and practice,
 Executive Education brings researchers, senior practitioners and businesspeople together to
 share knowledge and experiences. Through this, research Centres have become increasingly
 involved in promoting teaching programmes, for example, the Entrepreneurship Centre’s
 (Kavadias, Loch) SME growth programmes, the Barclays Scale-Up programme and the Centre
 for Alternative Finance’s (Wardrop, Rau, Zhang) course for global regulators based on research
 on alternative finance, including financial channels and instruments. The Centre for Risk Studies
 (Ralph, Tuveson, Coburn) has shared its knowledge on systemic risk and cyber risks with financial
 service clients, while gaining insights in the process on commercial risk management. The Health
 Leadership & Enterprise Centre (Scholtes, Erhun, Jiang, Barrett) equips hospital consultants and
 more recently General Practitioners across the East of England with clinical leadership training
 and develops in-house capacity through cutting-edge health improvement projects.


 Executive Education has been a primary channel for facilitating and disseminating research with
 economic and social value. It has augmented research activities by enabling case study
 opportunities (e.g. from companies such as LEGO) and research grants (e.g. from the Prime
 Minister’s Office in the UAE). Faculty, from early career to senior researchers, are encouraged to
 engage in Executive Education as, inter alia, an effective test bed for gauging research’s wider
 value and relevance. Faculty can also interrogate the application and meaning of their research
 with practitioners and identify research questions.




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.3.2 Intra-University Collaboration as a Pathway to Impact and Public Engagement

 Summarised in Figure 2, CJBS contributes to, and in some cases leads, a number of University-
 wide research initiatives. It is part of the Energy Policy Research Group (EPRG), which joined the
 new University-wide climate change initiative – Cambridge Zero – in 2019. This draws from the
 sciences, engineering, humanities and social sciences – and policy expertise – to respond to
 climate change and support the transition to a sustainable zero-carbon future. Newer CJBS
 Centres, such as Cambridge Digital Innovation (CDI), collaborate with the Cambridge Centre for
 Digital Built Britain, an initiative spanning CJBS, Engineering, Architecture, Computer Science and
 Technology and Land Economy. It works with national bodies, including the Manufacturing
 Technology Centre (MTC) and the Construction Innovation Hub (CIH). Collectively, they aim to
 digitally transform the construction industry. CDI leads on the Smart Hospital of the Future,
 studying how digital technologies, including telemedicine, can help in the redesign of hospitals
 and community care across the UK.


 Over this REF period, CJBS has, in line with its mission to be at the heart of the University,
 increased research collaboration with colleges, which are a crucible of multidisciplinary
 scholarship. Their interdisciplinary foundations and wider networks can help to catalyse and scale
 the capacity of research to achieve policy and practitioner impact. Cambridge colleges provide
 financial support for small-scale research activities including field trips and offer a convening
 environment for researchers. The CJBS Wo+Men’s Leadership Centre and Newnham College
 launched the annual Women in Tech Challenge (2018) in collaboration with prominent global
 companies including Microsoft, GSK and Amazon. This challenge facilitated close working with
 senior executives from these companies on real world challenges, helping female graduate
 students, postdocs and research associates build critical career skills in tech. Cambridge Digital
 Innovation worked with the Bridge Initiative at Hughes Hall College to convene translational
 workshops to assist academics in widening research impact.


 1.3.3 Support for Impactful Researchers

 CJBS support for academics has been important for achieving, prioritising and recognising
 impactful research. Discussed in Section 2, our probation system encourages early-career faculty
 members to value impact as well as publish in high quality academic journals. This strategy allows
 faculty to develop significant academic contributions and have a research impact on practice
 and/or policy. In 2015, CJBS established a set of annual impact awards to recognise and reward
 impactful work contributing to society and the economy (Ralph and Soufani were 2020 winners).
 Faculty have been nominated for the Vice-Chancellor’s (VC) Impact and Public Engagement with
 Research Awards schemes at University level. In 2017, Dimson won the VC Impact award for the


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Active Ownership initiative. Finally, bottom-up structures for supporting impact have emerged,
 such as the doctoral student-initiated Impact Forum, and faculty-led Research Impact and
 Contribution to Knowledge workshops.


 1.4. Support for Research


 Administrative Support
 In addition to all research bids being subject to peer review at the School of Technology level,
 CJBS provides specialist support in framing bids for some large and prestigious grants (e.g. Future
 Leaders Fellowship, Leverhulme, ESRC). We strengthened research administration with
 increased capacity to support workshops, conferences, visiting programmes and speakers. An
 Impact and Engagement Manager was hired to support faculty in developing impact elements of
 research projects, connect with University-wide Strategic Research Initiatives and promote
 multidisciplinary research.



 Ethical Practices and Open Access
 At the early stages of research project development, those leading projects involving human
 participants submit a request for ethical clearance. They are required to identify potential ethical
 concerns and outline how they will be addressed. The application and supporting documentation
 are stored for audit purposes. The Departmental ethics review group is comprised of three faculty
 members and the Research Manager. Complex cases are referred to a University-level Research
 Ethics Committee. The University professional development team provides online research ethics
 and integrity training, and the Research Manager offers face-to-face workshops to postgraduate
 research students.


 Enabling research dissemination, CJBS actively encourages the ethos of open access (OA) and
 provides dedicated resource to help and support OA compliance. We also recognise the
 importance of facilitating third-party access to datasets and other research outputs. For example,
 CCAF makes their Global Alternative Finance Data Repository publicly available to practitioners
 and academics, while CRS makes publicly available their Global Risk Index.


 1.5. Research Objectives: REF2014, REF2021 and Future Strategic Aims

 Table 1 below summarises CJBS’s progress against its objectives. It sets out how strategic aims
 translated into impact, new initiatives and interdisciplinary activities. The first column outlines
 objectives set out and achieved for REF2014. The second column identifies objectives and
 activities within this REF cycle. The third column outlines objectives and plans for the next REF
 period. The current period has focused on consolidating and expanding deep engagement


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategy and structures, and developing social and environmental impact. Going forward, we will
 expand interdisciplinary activities across the university, and engagement with stakeholders in
 policy and practice, to further integrate and broaden the social impact of research.


 Table 1 REF 2014, REF 2021, REF 2028


  Research strategy and impact              Research strategy and impact               Research strategy and impact


  Initiate CJBS strategy for research and   Embed deep engagement strategy             Accelerate deep engagement to
  impact                                    across subject groups to strengthen        Increase visibility of thought leadership
                                            research and impact                        in academic and business practice
  Early stages of development of
  Research Centres                          Widen research impact to include Social    Strengthen and deepen social and
                                            and Environmental Impact                   environmental impact on policy (e.g.
  Interact across University and                                                       regulatory genome project), markets
  Cambridge on innovation and               Develop Research Clusters as hubs for      (e.g. circular supply chains), practices
  entrepreneurship                          research excellence, impact and            (e.g. ESG mission) and wider society
                                                                                       (e.g. inclusive capitalism)
                                            engagement


                                            Expand entrepreneurial and social          Extend contributions to entrepreneurial
                                            innovation research and engagement         and social innovation ecosystems
                                                                                       nationally and internationally
                                            beyond Cambridge region


  New strategic initiatives                 New strategic initiatives                  New strategic initiatives


  Agreed deep engagement strategy           Strengthened accelerator development       Increase collaboration across university-
  across CJBS and enhanced CJBS             and created a social incubator             wide centres (EPRG, CBR), strategic
  implementation capacity                                                              research initiatives (Cambridge Zero),
                                                                                       Colleges (CDI), and policy (CSaP,
                                            Expanded impact across Cambridge
                                                                                       Bennett Institute)
  Strengthened research on innovation       ecosystem and across regions in the UK
  and entrepreneurship, and extended
  support through an accelerator and                                                   Develop capabilities and thought
                                            Extended research into sustainability,
  work on sustainability                                                               leadership on social and environmental
                                            and contributed to the university
                                                                                       issues in a post-COVID world
                                            initiative, Cambridge Zero


                                            Extended CJBS’s international reach        Strengthen engagement and outreach
                                                                                       with Big Science and technology
                                            through collaborations in Shenzhen,
                                                                                       organisations in Cambridge (Wellcome
                                            China, and through the “Regulatory
                                            Genome” project with regulators globally   Genome Campus, Silicon Fen)


                                                                                       Interdisciplinary activities
                                            Interdisciplinary activities
  Interdisciplinary activities

                                            Fostered collaborative research and        Increase multidisciplinary research with
  Centres developed across                                                             other university departments
                                            engagement across:
  Entrepreneurship, Innovation,
                                            • Social and digital innovation
  Sustainability, and Policy
                                            • Entrepreneurship                         Sustain and grow research programmes
                                                                                       across subject groups, centres and
                                            • Environmental social and governance
                                                                                       university-wide initiatives, e.g. THIS
                                              externalities such as Grand Challenges
                                                                                       (medicine), Cambridge Circular Plastics
                                              climate change, SDGs)
                                                                                       Centre (chemical engineering); CDBB
                                            • Alternative finance, technology and      (architecture, land economy,
                                              regulation                               engineering, Trust & Technology
                                                                                       (humanities, political studies)




                                                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People

 2.1 Staff Profile

 Our staff profile has expanded and diversified since REF2014. At that time, we had 59 academics
 (including 15 Professors) and planned to introduce management practice faculty. Management
 practice faculty are primarily responsible for providing teaching and knowledge sharing. This often
 reflects their significant practical experience, and helps to realise our impact strategy. In July 2020,
 through recruiting and successful promotion, CJBS had 64 academic faculty members including
 26 Professors, 10 Readers, 13 University Senior Lecturers, 12 Lecturers and three Senior
 Research Associates within its REF eligible staff. Additionally, CJBS has 11 management practice
 faculty and an international network of distinguished associates.


 2.2 Staffing & Appointments Strategy

 Our staffing policy aims at modest growth in faculty numbers, with a focus on senior appointments
 to ensure we have experienced staff to provide leadership to junior colleagues in our Subject
 Groups. Since REF2014, this included restructuring to achieve critical mass in two additional
 Subject Groups: Accounting (originally part of Accounting and Finance) and Organisational
 Behaviour (evolving from Organisational Behaviour and Information Systems). We have sought to
 ensure vitality and diversity in research, and recruited staff from 26 countries who are at different
 career stages, and with a collaborative ethos to work across disciplinary boundaries.



 Careful management of the promotions pipeline is key to our strategy. The promotions committee
 works closely with Subject Group heads to provide advice and support nominated candidates for
 promotion to maximise the likelihood of their success. CJBS has had a 100% success rate of
 promotion applications in the last five years: six to Professor and seven to Reader.


 We have made a number of new appointments in Subject Groups across different levels, including
 eight junior to mid-career faculty. We work closely with search consultants to recruit outstanding
 individuals and strengthen equality and diversity. In this REF period, CJBS took active steps in
 recruiting, retaining, and promoting seven female faculty members, five (Erhun, Nadkarni,
 Howard-Grenville, Kor, Sah) at senior levels. As part of our recruiting process, we support and
 advise prospective candidates on issues including housing and schools, engaging a Property and
 Schools Adviser for this purpose.




                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3 Career Tracks for Management Practice Faculty

 A key feature of CJBS’s people strategy since 2014 was establishing its management practice
 track. CJBS successfully developed and mentored a high-calibre track of management practice
 faculty, and increased the number from three to 11. They bring significant practical experience to
 their teaching and are important to CJBS’s practitioner engagement, impact strategy and thought
 leadership. CJBS developed this career track with progression paths (to Reader and Professor
 levels). This has been important in recruiting, developing and retaining a high-calibre cadre of
 individuals who are excellent in teaching and programme direction, and often active in Centre
 management and knowledge dissemination.


 2.4 Cultivating Knowledge Exchange Through an International Network of Associates

 An international network of distinguished associates forms part of our research staffing strategy.
 This includes associates on long-term part-time contracts who play leadership and mentoring roles
 (Heide from Madison Wisconsin; Orlikowski from MIT), and support our engagement with
 international academic networks and research collaborations. Others hold visiting fellowships at
 CJBS (e.g. Reed from North Carolina and Subrahmanyam from UCLA), and some hold Visiting
 College appointments (e.g., Lukomnik as Pembroke Visiting Professor). Others are College
 Fellows (e.g. Williamson) or Associates (e.g. Prince) who have been active in knowledge
 development and exchange with our research community (e.g. Williamson co-authored with Yin
 and developed research-based executive development for Chinese firms investing in the UK;
 Prince is Director of Cambridge Digital Innovation, co-authored with Barrett, and has developed
 research-based executive development on digital innovation and transformation).


 2.5 Staff Development and Support


 Support mechanisms for researchers at different career stages


 Postdoctoral Fellows
 The number of postdoctoral Fellows associated with CJBS is growing, primarily through funding
 brought into the Centres. Fellows are part of the University-wide community and the CJBS Postdoc
 Forum, which organises seminars on career progression, networking events, and coordinates
 activities with the University’s Postdoc Academy.


 Early career researchers as University Teaching Officers
 The probation process for University Teaching Officers (the Cambridge category for Assistant
 Professors or Lecturers) involves annual reporting and substantial feedback for the first five years
 of a new appointment. New appointees are often explicitly encouraged to work with senior co-


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 authors. Departmental small grants prioritise probationary faculty. Travel funding to visit co-
 authors enabled Stella Pachidi to publish her work in the journal Organization Science, while Jenny
 Chu and Joon Kim were supported to visit co-authors to develop papers, either under review at
 Accounting Review or published in the Academy Management Journal. Funding for transcription
 and casual research assistance enabled another young faculty member, Jochem Kroezen, to
 publish in Research in the Sociology of Organizations.


 Support for senior academics
 In close collaboration with the promotions committee and Subject Group heads, feedback and
 advice are offered to support academics in the senior academic promotions process, and
 academics are encouraged to widen the impact of their work beyond the field to practice and
 policy. Each faculty member has annual funding of £5k for conference attendance or other forms
 of research assistance. Faculty can also apply for seed funding through the Departmental Small
 Grants to initiate new research or develop grants. Larger grants (upwards of £10k) are available
 through the School of Technology to support cross-departmental research.


 2.6 Recognition and Reward for Impact and Public Engagement

 Faculty were successfully nominated for the Vice-Chancellor’s Impact and Public Engagement
 with Research Awards. Neil Stott & Belinda Bell received the Award in 2017 for Cambridge Social
 Ventures (venture spun off from Disease Dynamics Unit at Cambridge), which embeds research
 around social innovation into a practical workshop to support emerging social entrepreneurs.
 Since 2014, they have reached almost 500 people seeking to create social change by starting and
 growing a business. Their team has made considerable efforts to include participants from non-
 traditional backgrounds, and ensure workshops are accessible to a wide public by incorporating
 online engagement and work in the community.


 Our communications team assist faculty in disseminating research findings and engaging via
 digital and print media (e.g. Research Insights on the CJBS website). They work with the central
 University communications team on dissemination and pathways to impact, for example, a video
 by Pollitt on behalf of EPRG. To maintain connectivity during COVID-19 virtual working, a series
 of engagement and impact webinars were developed (Dimson on Financial Market History &
 COVID; Taylor on How to Survive and Thrive in a Post-COVID World).


 2.7 Postgraduate Students: Recruitment, Training and Supervision


 Recruitment
 On 31 July 2020 we had 30 PhD students. They are recruited through two main routes: 1)
 admission to one of our research MPhils; and 2) a direct route to the PhD. The latter option begins


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with an MRes for students with a research foundation usually developed through an external
 Master’s programme. The purpose of the PhD programme is to train future academics and place
 them in leading business schools. We ensure all students are sufficiently funded for four years in
 full registration. All our students are fully funded and none are self-funded. Sources include four
 ESRC quota scholarships per annum, Departmental funds, and awards from external grant bodies
 and donors, including Cambridge Trusts.


 Formal training and support
 The PhD programme admission requirements, cohort size and ratio of supervisors to supervisees
 all contribute to a programme that emphasises quality in every aspect. We have developed and
 deliver a suite of 26 graduate coursework modules. All PhD students take a minimum of 12
 modules as part of an initial two-year training following a foundational research Master’s
 programme. All students have a committee with at least two supervisors and a minimum of
 fortnightly one-to-one supervisions, termly reports and subject-specific weekly reading groups.
 The PhD programme structure encourages students to develop a co-authored paper with the help
 and mentoring of their primary supervisors, for submission to a top academic journal in their field.
 Faculty are encouraged to prioritise the development of papers with their students where
 synergies exist.


 PhD students participate in research Centres, and benefit from access to supporting organisations
 and mentoring by Centre faculty and collaborators. For example, doctoral student Lidia Betcheva
 worked with Feryal Erhun of the Cambridge Centre for Health Leadership & Enterprise on a project
 “International value comparison for CABG surgery” with Dr Stephen Webb, Papworth Hospital,
 while Isabel Bruggeman worked with Paul Tracey and Jochem Kroezen at the Centre for Social
 Innovation on a project examining the translation of “sustainable livelihoods” from the UK to
 Indonesia. Students also have the opportunity to work with University-wide centres and initiatives.
 For example, doctoral student, Geoffroy Dolphin, has worked with Michael Pollitt and David
 Newbery through the Energy Policy Research Group on a project investigating the political
 economy of carbon pricing.


 The CJBS doctoral conference includes a keynote from a renowned scholar (Bob Hinings in 2019)
 and active faculty involvement as discussants, judges for the best paper award and student
 coaches on presentation and Q&A skills. The COVID-19 crisis provided opportunities to PhD
 students to participate in project teams of faculty (Howard-Grenville, Kattuman, Scholtes, Jiang,
 Erhun, Munir) and former PhD students (Wessendorf, Pape, Kajaria-Montag, Ebert, Betcheva)
 working with Public Health England and the NHS in the East of England on projects (e.g. capacity
 planning, disruptive innovation) related to COVID-19 responses. The impact of COVID-19 on PhD
 student research has varied. Whilst a number of students have been supported by participating in


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 these exciting emerging opportunities, others have postponed scheduled fieldwork and pivoted to
 online and secondary data approaches. COVID-19-related support for PhD students included
 extensions where needed and extra supervisions.


 Building academic networks: international scholars and visiting opportunities
 Doctoral students interact with prominent academics via research seminars and in 1:1
 engagements. International scholars also have worked closely with PhD students by offering
 advanced methods workshops on building theoretical contributions (Wanda Orlikowski) and
 publishing research (Karen Golden-Biddle). These initiatives have helped to build a vibrant PhD
 research community. This community has also sought to develop research impact. In 2018, PhD
 students initiated their own Impact Forum and invited Andrew Van de Ven (University of
 Minnesota), an authority on engaged scholarship, to present insights on crafting impactful
 research.


 PhD candidates have spent time as visiting students at major universities, expanding their
 networking and learning opportunities (including Polykarpou at McGill, Hampel at Northwestern,
 Bruggeman at Yale, Claus at Alberta). Visits have led to opportunities for students to develop their
 work and co-author with faculty. For example, Christian Hampel, while at Northwestern, developed
 a paper with Professor Klaus Weber and his CJBS supervisor, Professor Paul Tracey, which was
 published in 2020 in the Academy of Management Journal.


 Recognition and external placement
 The strength of our PhD programme and support is evidenced by the quality of our graduates,
 their preparation through the programme and the collaborative research culture. The positive
 impact of our PhD programme is evidenced in students across different management fields
 submitting doctoral research, and achieving either a Revise and Resubmit decision or publication
 of papers in outlets including Management Science, Academy of Management Journal,
 Information & Organization, Organization Studies. Many students have been recognised for their
 work through prizes at highly regarded international conferences in their field, such as the
 Academy of Management, EGOS, INFORMS, Strategic Management Conference. For example,
 Laura Claus’s co-authored paper with Greenwood (one of our CJBS Fellows) and Mgoo (2017)
 was selected for the Best International Paper Award, OMT Division of the Academy of
 Management Conference, and the prestigious Carolyn Dexter Award across all divisions. Corinna
 Frey’s co-authored paper with Barrett was nominated for two best paper awards: the European
 Group of Organizational Studies Best Student Paper Award and the Max Boisot Award (for
 honours papers on the knowledge-based study of complex organisations and systems). Luna
 Luan received a Best Paper award at this year’s AOM (jointly with Joon Kim) from the diversity
 division of Gender and Diversity in Organizations. Shi Tang published a paper on Gender


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Diversity, Psychological Safety, and Firm Strategic Orientation in the Academy of Management
 Journal with Nadkarni.

 The success of the CJBS’s PhD training and environment is further evidenced in students’ ability
 to secure academic posts at highly regarded institutions on graduation. Graduate placements
 during this REF period include:


 London Business School | Francisco Brahm 2018
 UCL | Laura Claus 2018
 Rotterdam School of Management | Corinna Frey 2018
 Cass Business School | Maima Aulia Syakhroza 2018
 INSEAD | Michael Freeman 2017
 Warwick Business School | Rene Wiedner 2017
 INSEAD | Melanie Milovac 2017
 UCL | Angela Aristidou 2017
 Imperial College London | Christian Hampel 2016
 UCL | Blaine Landis 2015
 Rotterdam Erasmus | Stefano Tasselli 2015
 McGill University | Anna Kim 2014


 2.8 Support for Leave

 The UoA provides research staff with short academic leave, sabbatical leave, maternity and
 paternity leave, sickness leave, annual leave and study leave. We encourage all academic staff
 to use sabbatical entitlements to focus on their research. Faculty are required to provide a report
 to the CJBS Faculty Board detailing activity and outputs from their sabbatical, enabling them to
 share achievements and encourage productive use of leave entitlements. The introduction of
 Shared Parental Leave (SPL) in April 2015 was well received and taken up by academic staff. The
 University also offers up to 20 ‘Keep in Touch’ or ‘SPL in Touch’ days for which staff receive a full
 day’s pay for each day they attend work. The HR team reassures staff that cover will be put in
 place before SPL is taken, and that there will be handover periods prior to and on return from
 leave. Staff have the option to return to work part-time initially (with cover retained until they
 resume normal working hours). Since 1 October 2019, staff can take five working days’ paid leave
 (pro-rated for part-time staff) in any rolling 12-month period to deal with emergencies involving
 dependants (spouse, civil partner, child, parent or someone who lives with the staff member as
 part of their family excluding a lodger or boarder). The aim is to provide a flexible framework that
 enables employees to request time off for a wide range of personal and professional reasons.




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.9 Equality and Diversity

 In line with the Equality Act 2010, which highlights the importance of being cognisant of different
 protected characteristics, CJBS builds upon the University-wide provisions for E&D, most notably
 through commitment and engagement from all senior colleagues, and a dedicated HR department
 to support and promote equality, diversity and inclusion. HR oversees all recruitment, probation,
 promotions and rewards to mitigate bias and champion equality. It organises training and
 participates in committees in order to address staff and students concerns, specifically around
 gender, racial and LGBTQ+ equality. CJBS strives to ensure full engagement of staff in training in
 E&D and unconscious bias. New starters are required to complete online E&D training. Training
 needs to be refreshed on a regular cycle, particularly for those involved in recruitment. REF UoA
 committee members completed E&D training, and a commitment to E&D is reflected in the UoA
 Working Methods for identifying eligible staff, output selection and case study development.


 Specific initiatives have been developed to improve awareness and practice around gender- and
 race-based equality. The creation of the Wo+Men’s Leadership Centre in 2017 was central in
 raising awareness of gender inequality internally, and focusing attention on opportunities and
 barriers around recruitment, career progression, academia and senior leadership. CJBS
 developed an Action Plan to support and promote gender equality, linked to its Athena Swan
 application. CJBS is in the process of making an application for the Athena SWAN bronze award
 in 2021 and co-ordinating the delivery of the targets developed in the Athena SWAN action plan
 and inclusion strategy. Key focus areas are recruitment and retention, career progression and
 raising the profile of women.


 To address concerns about race equality, the University joined the Advance HE's Race Equality
 Charter (REC) in 2016 and received the REC Bronze award in November 2019. The University
 has instituted a new set of mechanisms and processes to address racial inequalities. In October
 2018, it created the “End Everyday Racism” platform, where individuals can report incidents of
 everyday racism to help inform anti-racism activities at the University. CJBS actively engages in
 University efforts; for example, Kamal Munir is a University’s equality champion for Race and
 Inclusion and Rabia Dada-Oughton is the co-chair of the University of Cambridge BAME network.
 CJBS remains committed to diversity and inclusion and supporting BME staff and University-wide
 initiatives at a time of heightened public awareness of BME issues.


 Internationally, researchers (Barrett, Prabhu) developed collaborative projects through
 Cambridge-Africa grants mentoring younger academics in Kenya (Liyala on mobile payments) and
 Uganda (Yawe on financial inclusion and innovation) to jointly address inequality and poverty
 alleviation for financial inclusion and access to clean energy in very poor rural communities.


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Implementing and building upon the University-wide Equality & Diversity Strategy 2016-21 is a
 priority looking forward. CJBS has applied to the University Diversity Fund to undertake a
 research project to identify the make-up of its staff to improve our support for diversity and
 inclusion. This close assessment will enable us to better understand the ‘lived experience’ of
 BME staff and assess staff’s diversity awareness. This will inform a plan to improve promotion
 and compensation structures with respect to race, and to hold workshops to help build a culture
 that supports equality and diversity. This would be the starting point for identifying areas where
 CJBS falls short regarding the diversity of its staff in order to set priorities and focus efforts,
 resources and activities.




                                                                                                  Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income

 Grants activated in this REF period totalled £9.3M. Grants include multi-HEI collaborations,
 demonstrating faculty engagement in international thought leadership. This included the EPSRC-
 funded Carbon Capture and Storage Research Centre (£956K), where Reiner leads the policy,
 economics and finance research stream. Soufani is part of a multi-partner EPSRC project (£43K)
 examining creative approaches to eliminate plastics waste. Stiles works with colleagues at
 Lancaster on a five-year EPSRC project (£321K) on digital infrastructure. The Health Foundation
 supported Jones and the Papworth Trust to assess critical care quality improvements through the
 use of Clinical Information Systems data.


 A programme of targeted fundraising supported the creation of research Centres, including major
 donations to the Centre for Social Innovation (£7M over five years) and the Centre for Strategic
 Philanthropy (£2.7M over four years), and supported the growth of established Centres, such as
 the CME Group Foundation’s US$1m donation to CCAF. Several awards were made to research
 Centres to facilitate impactful research, such as Wardrop’s Cambridge Alternative Finance
 Collaboration Network, which secured £5.6M from DfID for accelerating knowledge creation and
 transfer in fintech and global regulatory reform.


 Major funding came from Research Councils, particularly EPSRC (£1.23M) and ESRC (£436.9K),
 as well as smaller amounts from a range of grants such as BBSRC (£125.9K), and NERC
 (£237.1K).


 The European Commission continued to be a major source of funding, such as Reiner’s NEGEM
 project assessing the efficiency of negative emission technologies, and Soufani’s project
 assessing the application of circular economy thinking to the defence sector. Other sources of
 funding included the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, Health Foundation,
 British Council, Leverhulme Trust and NESTA. The largest single UK source is the grant of £5.6M
 from DfID to CCAF.


 In addition, CJBS funds research through its small research grant scheme of £100K per year,
 where (especially junior) faculty can easily get seed funding for studies without having to go
 through lengthy external research grant applications. Although not classed as research income,
 £15.9M was raised in this period for the building expansion programme, described below, which
 greatly strengthened research facilities.




                                                                                         Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Infrastructure


 Physical infrastructure: building development to enhance research facilities
 In 2014, some of our research groups were located outside the main building. As a result of the
 significant fundraising effort, a major family trust committed a donation to develop and execute a
 master redevelopment plan, including an award-winning new building: the Simon Sainsbury
 Centre.


 The redevelopment was designed to build community and collaboration through co-location of all
 research staff and proximity to research students. The building extension and redevelopment of
 parts of the existing building were completed in 2018, successfully bringing all faculty and research
 support staff on to one site. This has enhanced communication across and between Subject
 Groups, research Centres and Executive Education, and has secured a physical infrastructure
 that enhances our research strategy and our approach to community and collaboration.


 The standard of office accommodation for research staff was enhanced through the
 redevelopment. New seminar rooms were added, which are used by the research centres and
 Executive Education programmes. Two new dining rooms were created to foster collegiality and
 facilitate more opportunities for engagement between faculty and student researchers, and with
 executive programme clients.


 Organisational infrastructure supporting research
 As mentioned earlier, research is organised through Subject Groups and research Centres.
 Facilities and infrastructure support research impact via venture creation weekends, Enterprise
 Tuesday (outreach on entrepreneurship and networking), and our social incubator and
 accelerator.


 Faculty research is supported by a seminar series, subject-specific reading groups to help younger
 researchers finalise papers, and larger conferences. Some of these focus on ECRs, such as the
 annual Doctoral Winter Symposium or the Corporate Finance Theory Symposium. Others seek
 synergies between academics and practitioners, such as the annual Innofrugal conference on
 frugal innovation and the circular economy, or the CFRA conferences on Climate-Related
 Financial Reporting and Accounting for Cyber Risk.


 Regular internal seminars stimulate sharing of early-stage research findings. Subject-specific
 reading groups allow in-depth analysis and peer review of papers for journal submission. In
 addition to termly faculty meetings, an annual faculty Away Day encourages all staff to engage in
 discussions about research strategy direction and execution.



                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research support team size and roles
 The research support team has grown. Major changes include increased administrative support
 (from a headcount of three in 2014 to eight in 2020) for research operations, grant developments
 and applications, an experimental lab manager and an impact and engagement manager.


 Departmental and University grants staff work together to support the entire funding life cycle:
 identifying opportunities and proactively contacting faculty to encourage applications (University
 Grants Officer, working part-time at CJBS), facilitating submissions and costing bids (Senior
 Grants Facilitator), peer reviewing of case for support (Director of Research and faculty
 colleagues), contracts and invoicing (central University grants team), and financial administration,
 audits and funder reporting (Research Finance Administrator).


 The Research Manager’s responsibilities increased in response to growing requirements for
 research ethics and data protection review for faculty and research students. Events, travel and
 casual research staff facilitation are handled by two full-time Subject Group Administrators.


 A dedicated Experimental Lab Manager facilitates behavioural research across the School,
 advising researchers on methodology and research design, supporting them in statistical and
 other data analysis and providing logistical support in running experiments in the CJBS lab and
 online. A dedicated pool of volunteer participants is managed via SONA software. Further, in
 response to growth in the number of interdisciplinary research centres and the need to secure
 external funds for their work, a new post was created to support research grant holders, working
 alongside the Senior Grants Facilitator. Also, the University appointed two Grant Support Officers
 to work directly with PIs on proactively identifying funding and developing new proposals, one of
 whom hot-desks once a week within the research support team at CJBS.


 Infrastructure supporting impact activities
 In line with our deep engagement research strategy, the role of Research Engagement and Impact
 Manager was created in 2019 to facilitate faculty interactions with practitioner and policymaking
 bodies. This role facilitates the submission of case studies to the CJBS Collection at The Case
 Centre, administers awards for the development of case studies and practitioner articles, and
 leads workshops for faculty on practitioner engagement and impact. She also facilitates faculty
 participation in University initiatives such as the Centre for Digital Built Britain (Barrett) and at
 practitioner-funded arrangements such as BT-Huawei (Howard-Grenville) and Aviva (Kattuman),
 and provides support for writing impact-related grant documentation.




                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.3 Facilities

 Research student facilities
 The office workspace offered to research students was upgraded in 2015, providing desk space
 for all students. Students also share communal areas in one location, to create a greater sense of
 collegiality and community.


 Library and information services
 Alongside college resources and the University’s legal deposit library of over seven million
 volumes, our 24/7 Information and Library Service offers access to business information
 databases, (including Business Source Ultimate, ABI Inform, Factiva, Bloomberg, Euromonitor
 Passport, EIKON and Investext) and classroom sessions and one-to-one training on literature
 searching and bibliographic resources, presentation software, social media and Qualtrics
 software, and GDPR compliance. These services are augmented with blogs, instant chat service
 and support tutorials. Researchers can also take advantage of bespoke quantitative and
 qualitative analysis software training, delivered in person or online. A dedicated research support
 librarian supports student and faculty researchers in person and over Zoom/Teams.


 IT support
 The UoA has 4.5 FTE for IT support and 2.5 FTE for AV support. We have developed new tools
 for research staff collaboration within the University and with external partners, for example using
 Office 365 over the past few years and ensuring staff are GDPR compliant.


 In response to COVID-19, IT support has changed markedly since March 2020. We built five pop
 up studios for teaching, live streaming and webinars. These are used by faculty to share their
 latest research as well as by Executive Education to deliver programmes online. Faculty all have
 laptops/webcams for teaching on site or at home, and our PhD students access their data and
 apps through VPN to the School computer systems.


 How infrastructure, facilities and expertise support impact and cross-HEI collaboration
 The building expansion has provided more lecture theatres, seminar rooms and dining/socialising
 areas on site which are used to host conferences and other events. Recent examples include the
 Frontiers of Social Innovation Conference (January 2020) and Wo+Men’s Leadership Conference
 (June 2019).


 The digital learning studio enables the production of podcasts and webinars that highlight research
 findings and their relevance to practitioners and policy makers, thereby facilitating engagement
 with multiple audiences. During the COVID-19 crisis, many planned workshops and conferences
 took place virtually, such as the Risk Centre’s Annual Summit “The Resilient Company – Managing


                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Business Risks” in June 2020, which addressed practitioner responses to the crisis, and Subject
 Group seminar series.


 Looking externally, CJBS jointly sponsors sharing of research infrastructure for impact and
 outreach activities with partner HEIs. Of note, CDI collaborates with Warwick Business School on
 digital health and provides outreach by engaging with the healthcare ecosystem through research
 forums at the Shard in London, and research impact forums across the Cambridge innovation
 ecosystem.


 Significance of major benefits-in-kind (for example, donated equipment, sponsorships
 secured, or other arrangements directly related to research)
 Sponsorship to research Centres enables research dissemination through reports and events,
 e.g. the World Bank supported CCAF’s Global Regulator Survey and Goldman Sachs and the
 China Women’s Development Foundation sponsored the Wo+Men's Leadership Conferences.
 The Women in Technology Challenges events were sponsored by Amazon, GSK and Microsoft.




                                                                                         Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Contribution to the Research Base within Subject Groups

 Below, we highlight key contributions of Subject Groups to the field of management through
 scholarship, editorial roles, keynotes and other major markers of distinction.


 Economics and Policy
 The Economics and Policy group’s contributions to the research base have focussed on three
 interconnected areas: sustainability; business performance; and technology and innovation. Their
 work has had national and international influence on energy policy, the circular economy and
 technology and innovation policy. Pollitt provided leadership as Fellow and Joint Academic
 Director of the Centre on Regulation in Europe and as elected Vice President for Publications,
 International Association for Energy Economics (IAEE). Pollitt also gave the keynote for the IAEE
 European Meeting 2019 and the Beesley Lecture in 2018 and 2016. Researchers also contributed
 to the field through editorship roles in leading journals, including the Cambridge Journal of
 Economics (Kitson, Runde); Cambridge Journal of Regions, Economy and Society (Kitson);
 Economics of Energy and Environmental Policy (Pollitt); Review of Industrial Organization (Guest
 editors – Special Issue 2019) (Genakos and Pollitt); California Management Review (Guest Editor
 Circular Economy Special Issue 2018) (Soufani).


 Finance
 The Finance group has made internationally recognised contributions to research in corporate
 finance, asset management and fintech. Rau became President of the European Finance
 Association in 2014, and Chambers, Kirilenko, Lambrecht and Sarno were made Research
 Fellows of the Centre for Economic Policy Research. Lambrecht gave several prominent keynote
 lectures, including: XXVII International Conference on Money, Banking and Finance, 2018;
 International Symposium in Finance, 2018; Scottish Conference of the BAFA, 2015; Annual Real
 Options Conference, 2015; and Belgian Financial Research Forum, 2014. Awards include: Best
 Paper in Asset Pricing and Investments, 2018 FMA European Conference (Chambers); Best
 Paper, FIRN Annual Conference, CFA Institute, 2017 (Sarno); Graham and Dodd Best
 Perspectives Award, Financial Analysts Journal, 2016 (Chambers and Dimson); FMA Best Paper
 in Corporate Finance, 2015 (Rau); and International Finance and Banking Society best paper,
 2015 (Rau). Faculty held editorships in major journals including Financial Management (Rau:
 Editor; Lambrecht: Associate Editor (AE)), Journal of Investing (Dimson: AE), Journal of Corporate
 Finance (Lambrecht: Editor; Rau: AE), Journal of Banking and Finance (Lambrecht, Rau, Sarno:
 AE), and Review of Finance (Lambrecht: AE).




                                                                                           Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Accounting
 The Accounting group contributed across a number of areas including: examining how US insurers
 can obfuscate underlying financial health (discussed at the International Accounting Standards
 Board); guiding UK audit regulators on identifying potential financial reporting fraud; and revealing
 the potential for politically-connected insiders to exploit private information about government
 bailouts (awarded a Wharton research prize). The group convened specialised conferences
 (supported by IASB, FRC, FCA, amongst others), and frequently contributed to meetings and
 research discussions with regulators and standard-setters. Jagolinzer was also editor for the
 Journal of Financial Reporting, and provided the Teaching Effectiveness Lecture, Deloitte &
 American Accounting Association Doctoral Consortium (2019-20). In 2018, he was awarded the
 Jacobs Levy Equity Management Center, Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research
 Paper Prize.


 Marketing
 The Marketing group’s contribution to the research base has primarily been in econometric
 modelling of behaviour, marketing strategies especially around innovation, and the behavioural
 study of decision-making. A distinct feature is their emphasis on developed and emerging
 economies. Researchers achieved numerous awards. Prabhu won the Award for best 2019 paper,
 Journal of Marketing; AMA Global Marketing Research Award 2019; Gerald E. Hills Best Paper
 Award 2018; and the Chartered Management Institute's (CMI) Management Book of the Year
 Award, 2016. Mak received the third prize, Innovation Management Best Paper Award, EBS
 Business School, 2015. Khwaja received an Honourable Mention, Ken Arrow Award for best paper
 in Health Economics 2015. Prabhu was recognised as Best Reviewer, Journal of Marketing, 2019
 and 2018. Editorships and board memberships include the Journal of Marketing (Associate Editor,
 Prabhu); BMJ Innovations (Associate Editor, Prabhu); Journal of Management Studies (Editorial
 Advisory Board, Prabhu); European Journal of Marketing (Senior Advisory Board, Prabhu);
 Production and Operations Management (Editorial Review Board, Mak); Management Science
 (Associate Editor 2016-18, Khwaja); Marketing Science (Editorial Review Board, 2016-18,
 Khwaja). Leadership roles in convening scholarship include: Program Committee Member, Asia-
 Pacific Association for Consumer Research Conference, 2015 (Mak); and INFORMS Marketing
 Science session organiser and Doctoral Consortium Faculty 2017, 2015 (Khwaja). The group also
 invested in practitioner-focused outputs in Chinese. Mak contributed to Chinese-language
 publications with Fudan University Press, and Yin in New Fortune (equivalent of Fortune
 Magazine) and the 21st Century Business Herald (leading Chinese economics newspaper).


 Operations and Technology Management
 With methodological expertise in empirical work, laboratory experiments and mathematical
 modelling, the Operations and Technology Management (OTM) group contributed to the research


                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 base in innovation, healthcare operations, operations strategy, and supply chain management and
 risk. Notably, Erhun co-chaired the POMS International Conference, Brighton 2019, and Scholtes
 gave the keynote lecture. Recognition of the group’s contribution includes: 2019 International
 Journal of Operations & Production Management Best Paper runner up (Lawson); 2018 INFORMS
 TIME Best Working Paper (Kavadias, Oraiopoulos); 2017 EurOMA Harry Boer Best Student Paper
 (supervisor: Lawson); 2016 MSOM Best Student Paper (supervisor: Scholtes); 2015 MSOM Best
 Paper (Erhun); Healthcare Application Society Distinguished Scholar, INFORMS 2018 (Scholtes);
 2017 Production and Operations Management Outstanding Reviewer (Lawson). Editorship roles
 include: Management Science (Kavadias, Scholtes - Founding Department Editor for Healthcare
 Management); MSOM (Erhun, Kavadias); Operations Research (Ralph – Department Editor of
 Environment, Energy, and Sustainability of Operations Research); OR Letters (Associate Editor,
 Jiang). Editorial board membership includes Production and Operations Management (Davies,
 Erhun, Hutchison-Krupat, Kavadias).


 Organisational Behaviour
 The Organisational Behaviour group contributes to fundamental and applied understandings of
 individual and group behaviour within organisations. They are distinct in their diversity of methods
 (e.g. big data, psychometrics, experiments, surveys, etc.) and topics (e.g. leadership, creativity,
 personality, emotions, teams). The school’s Psychometrics Centre is run by a member of the
 group (Stillwell). Recognition is evidenced in prizes: Menges won the Annual Prize for the Best
 Leadership-related Article, Institute for Leadership, Ivey Business School, 2019; the Best
 Reviewer Award, Academy of Management Journal, 2017; and the best Annals Article of the Year
 Award, Academy of Management Annals, 2015. Sah achieved the Social Science Research
 Network Top Ten Paper Download List in 2018, 2016, 2015 and 2014 and was a Finalist, Best
 Paper Award in the Fields of Experimental Economics, Behavioural Economics and Decision
 Theory, Exeter Prize, 2014. Sah held a series of prestigious fellowships at Cornell University
 (Institute of Social Sciences, 2018-19, Half-Century Club Faculty Research Fellowship, 2017-19,
 Balen Sesquicentennial Faculty Fellowship, 2015–20) and a Russell Sage Visiting Scholar
 Fellowship (2019-20) Editorships include: Applied Psychology: An International Review (Richter);
 Journal of Applied Psychology (consulting editor: Richter); and Editorial board memberships on:
 Leadership Quarterly (Menges); Academy of Management Journal (Menges, Richter) and
 Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes (Sah). Sah was Commissioner on the
 National Commission of Forensic Science (U.S. Department of Justice 2015 – 2017) and wrote a
 pivotal report for the Australian Royal Commission into Misconduct in the Financial Services
 (2018).




                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Organisation Theory and Information Systems
 The Organisation Theory and Information Systems (OTIS) group are committed to qualitative
 methods to investigate grand challenges, including environmental sustainability, social change
 and entrepreneurship, child sexual exploitation, digital health and use of data analytics.
 Contributions have been made to Research Councils. Barrett is on the ESRC's Expert Advisory
 Group on the Global Challenges Research Fund and was an external evaluator on UKRI Digital
 Innovation for Development. The group’s research has been recognised through numerous
 awards, including: 2018 Leverhulme Award (Haugh); 2016 Distinguished Scholar Award, OCIS
 Division, Academy of Management (AoM) (Barrett); 2016 Academy of Management Journal Best
 Article Award (de Rond); 2017 IACMR Presidential Awards for Responsible Research in
 Management (Howard-Grenville, Grimes); 2017 Best Paper Award, RM Division, AoM (Roulet);
 2018 Academy of Management Annals Best Article Award (de Rond); 2018 Academy of
 Management Discoveries Best Article Award (Haugh); 2018 EGOS Best Book Award (de Rond);
 Finalist, 2019 George R Terry Book Award, AoM (de Rond); Honourable mention, 2018,
 Outstanding Qualitative Book Award, Society for Qualitative Research (de Rond). Several
 members received Best Reviewer Awards from AoM divisions (Roulet, Grimes, Howard-Grenville).
 Members held editorships for Academy of Management Journal (Deputy Editor; Howard-
 Grenville), Information & Organization (Co-Editor-in-Chief, Barrett, Senior Editor; Jones); MIS
 Quarterly (Senior Editor 2013-15; Barrett), Organization Studies (Senior Editor; Jones). Barrett
 gave the 2019 Changing Nature of Work Keynote at International Conference on Information
 Systems and the 2016 OCIS keynote at the AoM Annual Meeting, and Howard-Grenville gave the
 2020 EGOS keynote. Editorial board membership included: ASQ (Grimes, Howard-Grenville,
 Tracey) and AMJ (Howard-Grenville, Tracey).


 Strategy and International Business
 This subject group has advanced understanding on critical competitive, economic, social and
 environmental issues facing organisations, and gender diversity amongst senior leadership and
 corporate boards. It has distinguished itself in producing leading research on how corporations
 achieve and sustain competitive viability, and on the social and environmental footprints of
 governance systems. Their contribution has been affirmed through awards, including Best Paper
 Award EGOS Colloquium, 2018 (Ansari); CK Prahalad Best Paper Award, SMS, 2018 (Paolella);
 Best Paper Award, EURAM, 2016 (Ansari); Emerald Citation of Excellence Award, 2016 (Kor,
 Paolella); Best Paper Award, AoM, 2019 (Kroezen); Finalist, Hunt/Maynard Award, 2019 (Hadida);
 and Associate Editor Academy of Management Journal (Nadkarni 2018-19). Ansari was also
 made an Honorary Fellow, UCL. Notable keynotes include Ansari at the AoM 2019 and SMS 2019,
 and Hadida at the Mallen Film Conference 2016. Supporting early career research, Hadida chaired
 the AIMAC Doctoral Symposium 2020, and Kor co-chaired the SMS Doctoral Workshop 2017.




                                                                                         Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2 Approach to Research Collaboration, Networks and Partnerships


 Cambridge cross-departmental collaboration
 A foundational part of CJBS’s research strategy is participation in multidisciplinary research
 initiatives and collaborations across Cambridge, as highlighted in Figure 2. The Finance Group,
 with Cambridge Endowment for Research in Finance (CERF) based at CJBS, has facilitated
 collaborations across Mathematics, Economics, Land Economy and CJBS. CERF has an annual
 research budget of c.£0.8m which in this period has supported interdisciplinary research at
 Cambridge through research grants and the CERF Fellowship scheme. It also organised a regular
 series, “CERF in the City”, which showcases research to practitioners in the City of London. CERF
 organised external networking through two-day research workshops for faculty and research
 students in collaboration with the Blendheim Center, Princeton (2014, 2015, 2016),
 Duisenberg/Tinbergen Institute (2014), and University of Lausanne and École Polytechnique
 Fédérale de Lausanne (2018, 2019).


 The Centre for Risk Studies (CRS) has worked with cyber initiatives across the University including
 Cambridge’s Centre for Financial History, Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security
 Research, and Trust and Technologies Strategic Research Initiative. CRS organised “The Future
 of Cyber Risk” conference, July 2019, with the Cambridge Computer Science Department and
 Cambridge Cybercrime Centre. CRS wrote two cyber disaster scenarios in 2019 with the
 Insurance Risk and Finance Research Centre at Nanyang Technology University. CRS
 collaborates closely with Cambridge Zero (climate change initiative across Cambridge), which
 cites CRS’s Cambridge Global Risk Index for economic assessment of climate risks.


 Research collaboration with universities (inter)nationally and with users and beneficiaries
 The Organisation Theory Research Group (OTREG) is a collaboration between CJBS and
 Imperial College. It brings together organisation theorists and scholars from related areas across
 UK and European universities to discuss and advance research on organisation theory. The group
 provides developmental support of scholarly research for publication and provides a community
 of scholars which extends to include an increasing number of North American researchers.


 The Energy Policy Research Group developed longstanding collaborations between University
 departments (Economics, CJBS) to tackle big challenges in energy regulation, decarbonisation
 and climate change across physical and life sciences and the humanities and social sciences
 (Pollitt, Reiner, Ritz, Mohaddes, Taylor). It also linked with nine corporate sponsors (EdF, RWE,
 Centrica, National Grid, Shell, UKPN, Enedis, Engie and Macquarie) and three sponsoring
 government bodies (Ofgem, BEIS, NAO). Internationally, it networked with universities through
 the HKU-Cambridge Clean Energy platform and supported project-based researcher exchanges,


                                                                                            Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as part of its In Search of Good Energy Policy initiative, which led to collaborative research,
 publication and grant applications.

 The Centre for India & Global Business links to the University-wide Global Energy Nexus in Urban
 Settlements Research Group on energy innovation for low-cost housing in India and South Africa.
 At Cambridge it included academics from Geography, Architecture and Engineering. Beyond, it
 comprised a consortium of universities and organisations in South Africa (Energy Research Centre;
 African Climate and Development Institute, University of Cape Town) and India (Indian Institute for
 Human Settlements, Bangalore; Indian Institute for Technology, Bombay; Doctors for You;
 Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority).


 The Circular Economy Centre (CEC) has been an active member of the inter-departmental
 Cambridge Circular Plastics Centre, developed by seven Cambridge departments to respond to
 challenges posed by plastic waste, and supported by the EPSRC. CEC partnered with two
 European academic institutions and three industry bodies: Écoles des Ponts ParisTech (France);
 Foundation for Research and Technology (Greece); telecoms firm Cablenet Communication
 Systems (Cyprus); consultants BlueSoft (Poland); and Deloitte (Belgium). It was supported by a
 European Union grant (€1.7m 2018-22) to exchange expertise on the circular economy and the
 Internet of Things.

 Lu, in Marketing, collaborated with the Institute for Sustainable Innovation and Growth, Fudan
 University School of Management, and Penn State University on artificial empathy studies. This
 generated new collaborative research on how to use AI and consumer data to improve customer
 value and business performance while preserving privacy.


 De Rond, in Organisation Theory and Information Systems, conducted a two-year field study of
 paedophile hunting as a problematic form of social organising. This project built international
 research collaborations with Macquarie University (Australia), MIT Sloan School, and forensic
 linguists at Aston University. In fieldwork, de Rond worked closely with a national task force
 comprising Police Chiefs for England, Scotland and Wales, the Home Office, National Crime
 Agency, Crown Prosecution Services, and College of Policing.


 Collaboration and engagement with policy makers and practitioners
 As part of the CJBS approach to deep engagement, faculty frequently work directly with policy
 makers and practitioners on policy relevant research. Examples include:

 Accounting: Jagolinzer and co-authors engaged with US bank regulators, the Department of
 Justice, and the Securities and Exchange Commission on whether their findings on insider trading
 implied a need for enforcement actions.


                                                                                            Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Cambridge Centre for Financial Reporting and & Accountability: Chu worked with the
 Financial Reporting Council and Financial Reporting Lab to develop guidelines for informative
 financial reporting and effective enforcement of financial reporting quality.

 Cambridge Centre for Alternative Finance: collaborated with the UK Department for
 International Development and with a corporate partner (Invesco) to develop and disseminate
 knowledge on alternative finance and regulatory compliance for global regulators. They also
 collaborated with the World Bank to develop the Global Market Ranking & Regulator Survey.


 Centre for India and Global Business: engaged with the Commonwealth Secretariat (2018-19)
 to develop a frugal innovation report and toolkit for policy makers across all Commonwealth
 countries. The report and toolkit helped educate policymakers on using ubiquitous tools and
 resources to innovate faster better and cheaper within government and across their wider
 ecosystem and economy.


 4.3 Contribution to Economy and Society

 CJBS seeks to be responsive to new and urgent challenges and national and international
 priorities, including climate change and challenges linked to COVID-19. This section highlights
 regular and sustained contributions by CJBS research groups to economy and society.


 4.3.1 Contributions in Health Care
 The Cambridge Centre for Health Leadership and Enterprise (CCHLE) works closely with
 secondary and primary care providers to build health system capacity and provide quality and
 inclusive healthcare across Cambridgeshire. The Centre has become an established platform that
 promotes joint learning between academics and healthcare leaders. Since 2014, joint faculty and
 PhD student teams worked closely with the Cambridge University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust
 to improve care capacity and accountability (published in Management Science, 2017).
 Collaboratively, they identified a need to clarify and develop Clinical Directors’ roles and
 capacities. Subsequently, the hospital commissioned a Clinical Directors Leadership Programme
 from CCHLE. In 2019-20, CCHLE developed the Cambridge Primary Care Innovation Academy
 to help develop the next generation of primary care leaders. They plan to scale the programme to
 other regions in the UK, engaging other primary care practices and universities.


 From March 2020, CJBS rapidly expanded health care engagement to support local, national and
 international responses to COVID-19. East of England NHS and PHE leaders approached CJBS
 to request support in collecting evidence and intelligence for regional pandemic response planning
 and operation. The Centre for Health Leadership & Enterprise put together a team of four faculty

                                                                                           Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and four PhD students who formed the nucleus of a new East of England Joint Evidence and
 Intelligence Cell (JEIC) between the School and NHS and PHE partners. A regional complement
 to SAGE, the team provides modelling support and contributes weekly data analytics, fast-tracked
 ad-hoc research projects and continuous advice in weekly meetings of the Regional Leadership
 Team of the NHS/PHE. The NHS and PHE provided funding to rapidly scale up to improve health
 data analytics capabilities to support the 6.5M people in East of England region. CCHLE
 collaborated with Cambridge Centre for AI in Medicine and Università della Svizzera Italiana to
 develop rapid COVID-19 modelling support. They helped the regional health system to develop
 capacity plans that incorporated policy impacts and local dynamics in the short term, and built
 systems-based, systematic modelling capabilities in the medium to longer term (Kattuman, Scholtes,
 Jiang and Erhun). A highly effective cross-organisational mode of working evolved, founded on
 regular discussions with regional and local decision-makers responsible for COVID-19 responses
 about how the analysis could be tailored to meet changing needs during the pandemic. These
 new ways of working have contributed to research on organising health care under crisis (Munir,
 Howard-Grenville).


 4.3.2 Contribution to Business Economy and Public Services
 CJBS contributes to business and the economy by encouraging practice-based research and
 through the delivery of executive programmes that draw heavily from the research Centres and
 their emerging insights. Executive Education draws expertise from across the University, including
 Criminology, Education, Computer Science and Engineering. For example, a programme for the
 Indian Police Service was developed collaboratively with the Centre for India & Global Business
 and Criminology, and programmes for the Delhi State Schools were developed with the Faculty of
 Education.


 The deep engagement approach positioned CJBS to readily support businesses at the onset of
 COVID-19. The Centre for Risk Studies provided briefings to support businesses in triaging
 epidemiological data, providing insight on government and public health responses, and offering
 economic     measurements    and forecasts.     Executive   Education    collaborated   with   The
 Entrepreneurship Centre and Barclays and introduced an online programme on “Getting back to
 business”. This provides SMEs with the needed resilience to look for growth in a radically changing
 business environment.


 On an individual basis, CJBS faculty also provided thought leadership in business research on
 COVID-19, aimed at enabling effective policy responses. Howard-Grenville gave the keynote
 speech at the European Group for Organizational Studies conference (July 2020), on viewing the
 world as systems of interdependent activity in light of COVID-19. CJBS and Pembroke College,
 Cambridge, co-hosted a moderated conversation on COVID-19 and economic policy between


                                                                                            Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lord Chris Smith and Baroness Shirit Vandera (Chair of Prudential). Recent publications
 contributed to the knowledge base on COVID-19 and business studies, including de Rond in
 Journal of Management Studies on COVID-19 and understanding of risk; Sah in Nature Human
 Behavior on effectively managing the COVID-19 transition and Boisseau-Sierra in The
 Conversation on common flaws in public health and economic data in basic accounting.


 4.3.3 Contribution to Society and Global Challenges


 Research and engagement on Grand Challenges and the SDGs
 Grand Challenges and SDG related research featured across Subject Groups on issues including
 climate change, poverty, IT and development, displacement/refugee crises, frugal innovation and
 technology-enabled social and financial inclusion. Specific centres, e.g. the Circular Economy
 Centre (Soufani), Cambridge Digital Innovation (Barrett) and the Centre for Social Innovation
 (Tracey, Stott), focused on Grand Challenges.


 CJBS management researchers engaged in research to support a more socially inclusive society.
 Howard-Grenville co-authored two significant pieces on grand challenges (George et al., 2016;
 Howard-Grenville et al., 2014) which have been pivotal in building conversations in this area in the
 Academy of Management Journal. She was also guest Co-Editor of a highly successful special
 issue (with an unprecedented number (60) of submissions) in Academy of Management
 Discoveries on the UN SDGs and sustainable development (2019). Grimes was a Finalist for the
 Third Annual Award for Responsible Research in Management for his work published in Journal
 of Business Venturing on B Corp certification.


 PhD students have been encouraged to pursue research related to Grand Challenges. This
 included research on the opioid crisis (Bobroske); environmental waste (Systke); socially
 responsible investing (Vaska) and refugee crises and homelessness (Claus and Frey). Since
 2019, the Organisation Theory & Information Systems subject group has provided a MPhil seminar
 in “Field Research in the Era of Grand Challenges.”, which was well attended, highly rated by
 students, and spawned a research workshop on the topic.


 Climate change and the Cambridge Zero Initiative
 CJBS provides foundational research and collaborations to address climate change. Early work
 by CJBS research (Hope) with other researchers and policymakers combined the science and
 economics of climate change to develop the Policy Analysis of the Greenhouse Effect (PAGE)
 model. Simply put, this Integrated Assessment Model calculates the social cost of carbon dioxide
 emitted today, or the amount each additional tonne of carbon dioxide emitted today will cost the
 global economy in the future. PAGE was used in a landmark economic study into the impacts of


                                                                                             Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 climate change published by the UK government in 2006, the Stern Review. During this REF
 period, the PAGE model was used by the UK Met Office, UK BEIS and US Environment Protection
 Agency, among others. This led to further research by Hope with international collaborators, which
 used PAGE to predict permafrost thawing rates.


 From November 2019, expansion of CJBS work on climate change took place through the EPRG,
 alongside a new University-wide Centre for Climate Repair and Cambridge Zero, a Cambridge-
 wide initiative aimed at harnessing research and policy expertise to develop solutions for
 livelihoods, society and economy. CJBS researchers (Howard-Grenville, Reiner, Pollitt, Soufani)
 and centres (Energy Policy Research Group; Circular Economy Centre; Centre for Risk Studies)
 have been central in supporting Cambridge Zero. Reiner helped to lead the University’s
 engagement with the Global Alliance of Universities on Climate (launched January 2019), while
 the Centre for Risk Studies ran an event on ‘Business Risk from Climate Change’ (Feb 2020) with
 speakers from the UK Met Office, Nestlé, Citi and HSBC. This kind of collaboration on key societal
 and global challenges is expected to be a focus through into 2028.


 Going forward, CJBS is well positioned to contribute to management research, and to wider
 economy and society by growing its strategic, innovative and multidisciplinary initiatives. CJBS’s
 leadership, institutional support, collaborations and networks, as outlined in this statement, provide
 key foundations and strengths for realising this next stage in the School’s growth in a post-COVID-
 19 world.




                                                                                               Page 32
