Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Oxford

 Unit of Assessment: 26A Modern Languages and Linguistics: Modern Languages

 [NB REF2014 submitted UoA 26A and 26B as a single unit; comparisons with REF2014 figures
 disaggregate where that is possible]

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 Research in the Faculty of Medieval and Modern Languages (which is cognate with the Unit of
 Assessment) encompasses seven main language groups and cultures, from late antiquity to the
 transnational and multilingual world of today. Diversity, dialogue, and creativity are central to our
 research and to the structures which support it. This historic and geographic range within a large
 and increasingly interdisciplinary research community underpins the delivery of our mission: to
 articulate multilingualism’s creative potential. Since 2014, we have made strategic
 appointments recognising the increasingly global reach of European languages, enhancing our
 linguistic and geographic diversity and building transdisciplinary capacity. 21 new colleagues have
 consolidated and broadened our reach. The Faculty thus offers unrivalled chronological depth
 and intellectual range.

 As the largest Modern Languages Faculty in the English-speaking world (2019/20: 768 FTE
 undergraduates; 188 FTE graduates; 77.3 FTE permanent academic staff, we have the critical
 mass to combine language-specific projects, both individual and collaborative, with clusters of
 scholars focused on cross-linguistic and/or interdisciplinary research. The Faculty’s seven Sub-
 Faculties, (French, German, Spanish, Italian, Russian and Slavonic Languages, Portuguese,
 Modern Greek), rooted in deep knowledge of individual languages and cultures, bring together
 researchers at every career stage, and ground our plurality of perspectives. The Sub-Faculties
 are the basis for cross-linguistic and interdisciplinary collaborations within the Faculty’s own
 administrative and organisational structures, as well as with other Oxford Faculties and beyond.
 Thanks to these intersecting structures, our capacity for contextualisation and understanding
 of regional nuance offers an increasingly important counterpoint to global monoculture.




 Our REF submission covers 109 academic/research staff (105.6 FTE). Our research community
 brings together academics at different career stages from ECRs to permanent academic
 postholders (Statutory Professors, Professors, and Associate Professors) whose posts are often
 shared with one or more colleges, and research-active Faculty members including departmental
 lecturers and language teachers. We have developed inclusive formats to involve them all in our
 research activities; new and important work has been done since REF2014 to champion ECRs
 (see People), and we support the research of retired colleagues. Colleges offer academics an
 interdisciplinary community in addition to language-specific research groups and contribute to the
 vitality of our research culture by funding ECR posts, grants, and libraries. Over the review period,
 we have hosted 19 externally funded postdoctoral fellows (including 4 British Academy, 6

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leverhulme, and 6 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellows), over 30 college-funded fellows, and
 awarded 118.5 doctorates. There are approximately 100 doctoral students within the Faculty at
 any time.

 The Faculty is part of the collegiate University’s Humanities Division. The Division provides
 cross-Faculty strategic oversight, resource allocations, and budgeting, but Faculties retain
 considerable authority. REF2014 assessed our Faculty together with the Faculty of Linguistics,
 Philology and Phonetics (LPP) as UoA 26; for REF2021, UoA 26A only comprises the Faculty
 of Medieval and Modern Languages, a strategic decision taken to reflect each unit’s research
 activity. The Faculty sets its research and teaching strategy, maintains the public profile of the
 subject, oversees undergraduate and graduate activities, shapes syllabus development alongside
 research strategy, supports external and internal project and fellowship applications, handles
 corresponding funding, and distributes grants to support individual and collective research (e.g.
 for seminar series, conferences and research trips).

 We use the University's unparalleled resources to drive our research profile and supports the
 breadth and depth of our research at all levels: the Bodleian is the world’s oldest legal deposit
 library and also the largest university library system in Europe, with 13 million printed items and
 an extensive collection of rare books and manuscripts. Its 28 different library sites include the
 Taylor Institution, the largest research library dedicated to Modern Languages in the
 English-speaking world. With more than 750,000 volumes, manuscripts, and digital resources, the
 Taylor Institution, complemented by Faculty and College libraries. University museums and
 galleries offer opportunities to engage with material culture, explore the transnational movement
 of ideas through objects, and act as catalysts for public engagement with our research. The new
 Stephen A. Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities (expected opening 2024/5), will bring
 together seven of the ten Faculties in the Humanities Division physically for the first time; it will
 offer outstanding opportunities for Knowledge Exchange and public engagement activities and
 give our researchers and graduate students a physical space in which to forge interdisciplinary
 collaborations. Its state-of-the art auditoria will take our research on drama, film, translation, and
 dance to new audiences.

 Within the Division, the Faculty is a key participant in ‘The Oxford Research Centre for the
 Humanities’ (TORCH): TORCH provides a hub for interdisciplinary research activities, enabling all
 staff and doctoral students to collaborate with researchers across other disciplines and with public
 and private institutions. Since its creation (2013), TORCH has raised over GBP3,000,000 in grants
 and philanthropy to support researchers and their projects. Bringing together academics, cultural
 industries and the performing arts, TORCH nurtures interdisciplinary research networks and
 projects. The Faculty’s own experience with multi-stranded transdisciplinary research has helped
 shape TORCH.

 Our Faculty structures build up communities at all levels and career stages: Representatives
 from each Sub-Faculty form the Faculty Research Committee. It meets every term to discuss
 strategy and allows each Sub-Faculty to feed into the overall strategic aims, overseeing individual
 and collaborative funding bids, developing support for ECRs. The Research Director chairs
 Research Committee and has oversight of research strategy, organising annual Faculty research
 away days, helping to publicise and support funding applications, developing specific support
 mechanisms for ECRs, and acting as a point of contact and dialogue for all colleagues throughout
 the Sub-Faculties. Since REF2014, we have systematically embedded impact in our research
 culture: the Impact Coordinator (position created in 2015) holds workshops and drop-in sessions
 open to all Faculty members, whatever their career stage. The aim is to develop ideas for
 maximizing the beneficiaries and audiences for their research. We value the vital contribution
 ECRs make to research and recognise their role in the Faculty (21.3%; university average: 9%).
 A notable achievement since REF2014 is the increased emphasis on supporting our ECR
 community: the new ECR network gives them assistance and guidance, and they are encouraged
 to apply for research opportunities suited to their project and career stage. An ECR representative
 is a full member of the Research Committee. The annual Research Away Day has a dedicated
 section for ECRs.

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    “It's fantastic to be a member of one of the largest and most prestigious centres for the
    study of Modern Languages in the world: it brings a lot of opportunities for
    collaboration, networking, access to research resources and funding. My colleagues both
    at my Faculty and in my College are very welcoming and interested in my work, and I
    receive a lot of support – financial, social, and academic.” [current ECR]


 Breadth of interests and plurality of perspectives were the centre of the Faculty’s strategy in
 REF2014. Since then, we have enhanced and extended existing research strengths, while
 simultaneously developing new initiatives. By appointing 21 colleagues from across the world
 during the census period (25% of permanent staff), we have developed and enhanced our core
 research strengths in linguistic diversity, performance-based art forms, and pre-modern culture,
 and have forged new approaches in transnational and global literatures. Four of our eight
 Statutory Chairs/Professors have been appointed since 2014, providing leadership in a range of
 areas–the Chair in Medieval German (Lähnemann, 2014) is our first Impact Coordinator; the
 Marshal Foch Chair in French (Seth, 2015), as Director of Research, has enhanced the structures
 underpinning our research strategy and coordinates a network of ECRs working on Enlightenment
 Studies; the Agnelli-Serena Chair in Italian (Gilson, 2018) led one of the UoA’s largest
 collaborative research projects on Petrarch commentaries; the King Alfonso XIII Chair in Spanish
 (Thacker, 2018) maintains Oxford’s eminent position in Spanish Golden Age studies. Posts have
 been re-configured strategically: newly-created positions in Hispanic Linguistics (Acedo-
 Matellan, 2017); French Linguistics (Wolfe, 2017) and Russian Linguistics (Eckhoff, 2016),
 shared with LPP, increase expertise in synchronic and diachronic linguistics; recent appointments
 have consolidated our strength in early modern Spanish and Portuguese (Choi, 2017, Park, 2017,
 Brooke, 2018); in response to current interest and the development of the sector, specialists in
 postcolonial and Francophone literatures and cultural studies (Morisi, 2016, Ibbett, 2017, Garrod,
 2018) and the Spanish-American world (Vázquez-Medina, 2015) joined the Faculty. We will
 appoint a further colleague in contemporary non-metropolitan literatures in 2021 (Covid-delayed);
 other posts have broadened our offering in comparative approaches and global perspectives in
 German (Neilly, 2017) and medieval Italian (Southerden, 2016).

 Our seven Sub-Faculties underpin the Faculty’s research and teaching structures. We use them
 systematically to foster research interaction and community: each Sub-Faculty runs regular
 research seminars, bringing together ECRs, established researchers and graduate students, as
 well as visiting scholars from across the world. This organisation reflects the core importance of
 linguistic expertise and detailed engagement with cultures in teaching and research. The
 Sub-Faculties facilitate exchange with institutions and individuals within and beyond the UK.
 Cross-linguistic or interdisciplinary seminars led by Faculty members complement these
 language-specific structures—e.g. Morgan and Rokotnitz (English)’s ‘Fiction and other minds’ sits
 at the interface between literary studies, cognitive science and phenomenology; Kenny’s
 ‘Literature, learning, and social hierarchy in early modern Europe’ attracts speakers and audiences
 from across the humanities. Thematic research networks and centres foster collaboration between
 scholars across languages and Faculties, like the Besterman Centre for the Enlightenment or
 looser networks on global literatures and transnational approaches (e.g. the ‘Global South’ cluster
 brings together colleagues from Spanish, Portuguese, French, English, History and Anthropology).
 This generative matrix means the Sub-Faculty’s architecture and thematic research strands
 productively overlap, cross, and support each other, adding value and dimensionality to our
 research.

 Regular series of high-profile lectures like the Taylor lectures (Jonathan Bolton, 2020; Yanis
 Varoufakis, 2019; Neil MacGregor, 2018), Ilchester lectures in Slavonic studies (e.g. Kiril Tomoff,
 2020; Simon Franklin, 2018) or Zaharoff lectures by leading French writers (2020 Scholastique
 Mukasonga;; 2017 Tiphaine Samoyault; 2016 Marie Darrieussecq) foster research interests and
 attract audiences far beyond the Faculty. We support numerous one-off initiatives welcoming


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 major cultural figures (e.g. Mariano Siskind, Astor Visiting Lecturer, 2020) from across the world
 to share their experience.

 We aim to be a national voice for Modern Languages research in all its diversity: Kenny is the
 British Academy’s lead fellow on languages; Park represented ECRs at the University Council for
 Modern Languages workshop; Kohl engages with OFQUAL and the DfE on policy of Modern
 Language (ML) education. The depth and breadth of colleagues’ creativity is evidenced by our
 263 outputs—including 84 monographs, accounting, with double-weighting, for 36% of selected
 publications. Collaborative projects span all levels of size and funders: the 4-year multi-stranded
 AHRC-sponsored ‘Creative Multilingualism’ has produced an evidence base as well as richer
 vocabulary for articulating language learning’s social and educational benefits; multiple AHRC
 networks and major grants, from ERC and Leverhulme fellowships to BA Rising Star workshops
 demonstrate the vibrancy of research and have allowed us to reach diverse audiences. Recent
 graduates have received prestigious awards for their research and proceeded to postdoctoral
 fellowships (e.g. Claussen, Cambridge; Carlucci, Bergen; Celati and Pavlova, Warwick;
 Gedgaudaite, Princeton; Hartley, Bardazzi, Arnaldi, Watroba and Sciuto, Oxford; Taylor,
 Exeter; Bowe, Cork; Crisafi, Berlin) or hold tenured or tenure-track positions in leading
 institutions.

 Strategic aims
 In REF2014, our strategic aims were: (i) to maintain ‘a wide range of languages and
 specialisms’, (ii) ‘to develop and strengthen emerging research areas’, (iii) ‘to continue to build
 up PGT and PGR numbers’, and (iv) ‘to increase grant income’. These have been largely met
 (see below). Since 2014, we have also developed strategies to refine and underpin these aims. In
 particular, we have consolidated our impact activities, and built on our interdisciplinary strengths.

 We have maintained our strong tradition of both interdisciplinary research and collaborative
 projects with academics and institutions beyond academia. Current research covers a wider range
 of subjects, methodologies and approaches than anticipated in REF2014. Over the current REF
 period, we have therefore extended and refined these aims to
      sustain our culture of world-leading research, individual and collaborative, in a diverse
         range of formats, across all periods and drawing on diverse methodologies, thereby
         allowing certain periods and topics to be preserved and developed;
      secure the next generation of ML experts through research training and distinctive small-
         group dialogue-based mentoring at graduate and postdoctoral levels, and by offering
         strong and inclusive support for ECRs;
      consolidate research grant income to lead, promote and develop major collaborative
         projects and to attract external funding and philanthropic support for graduate studentships
         for a sustainable future;
      engage with national and international audiences and other beneficiaries, and convey the
         transformative power of cross-cultural and multilingual competence through our research;
      build on established interdisciplinary research networks and develop them towards new
         strategic partnerships, pushing forward the boundaries of transdisciplinary research.

 Implementation of strategic aims and achievements
 REF2014, aim (i): Our structures ensure coordination across Sub-Faculties and promote
 sustainability. Our Research Committee, led by the Research Director, co-ordinates policies and
 initiatives and serves as a forum for exchange of good practices while maintaining the creative
 energies of devolved communities. Our strength in depth has allowed us to bring specific strands
 into focus across the broadest historical and disciplinary range. REF2014 highlighted the plan to
 develop and enhance research areas like cultural history, life-writing and world literature. Recently
 appointed colleagues have spearheaded considerable expansion in global literatures and cultural
 history (Choi, Counter, Garrod, Gilson, Morisi, Seth, Vázquez-Medina) as well as in fields as
 diverse as history of the emotions (Ibbett), ecocriticism (E. McLaughlin) or medical humanities
 (Murnane). Fields like editing, translation, theatre and performance studies, reception studies,
 intellectual history and creative writing still count amongst our core approaches. We continue to
 support individual scholarship, to protect endangered fields and subjects.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our success in sustaining this activity is documented by the number of submitted monographs as
 well as many awards—e.g. since 2014, three Gapper Book Prize winners (Kenny, McGuinness,
 Pearson) and two runners-up (Jefferson, Swift), a winner and a runner-up of MLA Scaglione
 Prizes (Counter, Kahn). Leeder’s translations received the Austrian National Prize for
 Translation, Living Now Book Award, American PEN award, John Frederick Nims Memorial Prize
 and other distinctions. McGuinness won the 2014 Duff Cooper Prize and 2020 Encore award. M.
 McLaughlin received the 2017 British Academy Serena Medal, Choi the Association of
 Hispanists of Great Britain and Ireland thesis prize, Park the 2020 Juan Facundo Riaño Essay
 medal. 12 Faculty members (Kahn, Kelly, Kenny, Robertson, Seth, Volfing; emeriti Cave,
 Jefferson, Palmer, Pearson, Reed and Watanabe-O’Kelly) are FBAs. Scholarly distinction is
 also recognised by Academia Europaea fellowships (Seth, Watanabe-O’Kelly, Leeder) and
 election to other prestigious international bodies. It is a measure of our success in developing
 excellent research that our postdocs and graduates frequently receive awards for articles and
 conference papers (e.g. Carlucci’s Gramsci prize).

 REF2014, aim (ii): A community of ECRs, often supported by external funding (BA, Leverhulme,
 Marie Skłodowska-Curie), continuously broadens the scope of our research. We champion
 emerging clusters in fields like ecocriticism, migration studies, health and disability
 studies and take part annually in Black History Month with dedicated research events e.g. 2019
 seminars with Olivette Otele, Prof. of History of Slavery (Bristol) and David Diop, Goncourt des
 Etudiants prizewinner or ECR Berruezo-Sanchez’s 2020 international workshop on Black
 Africans’ Agency in Early Modern Spain. Building on REF2014 activities, impact, knowledge
 exchange and public engagement are now embedded at all levels of our activities, and for all our
 researchers.

 REF2014, aim (iii): PGR applications remain at 2014 levels while PGT ones have increased
 notably (119 in 2015/16; up to 152 in 2020/21). Numbers of PGRs on course have ranged from
 20 to 33, and from 46 to 75 for PGTs. In total, 188.5 doctorates have been awarded since 2014.
 Funding is a key factor in converting postgraduate research offers into acceptances, and the
 national context remains challenging. Until 2017/18, the Faculty had been able to offer up to 33
 studentships a year. We have made concerted fundraising endeavours to increase the number of
 studentships funded from non-AHRC sources. Thanks to this, for 2020/21 entry, we were able to
 offer 13 fully funded PGR (one for BME students) and 7 PGT studentships. We will intensify
 efforts to maintain graduate numbers and increase the number of funded studentships, so that the
 best can accept their places irrespective of their background.

 REF2014, Aim (iv): Since 2014, we have drawn on the university’s John Fell Research fund (JFF),
 supported by an annual transfer from the University Press, and other internal sources of funding
 to provide pump-priming for 114 projects, large and small (totalling GBP1,278,225). The JFF is
 the University’s main means of seed-funding innovative ideas and new research programmes and
 projects. It has been particularly important for ECRs – 75% of the ECRs who responded to a recent
 survey identified access to internal funding schemes as a key benefit of working at Oxford. In
 addition to supporting applications to the Leverhulme Early-Career Fellowship scheme (2014-20,
 6 fellowships awarded: GBP339,569 of match funding), it also offers opportunities to pursue new
 ideas at an early stage of development. Several JFF-supported projects have led to further
 external funding and ongoing collaborations (e.g. Kahn’s CATCOR, ‘The Correspondence of
 Catherine the Great’).

 We have been successful in obtaining externally-funded awards to support research, individual
 and collaborative, at all levels: Creative Multilingualism (AHRC: Kohl et al.); Fifteenth-Century
 Book-trade (ERC: Dondi); Petrarch Commentary and Exegesis (AHRC: Gilson); AHRC networks
 (Counter, Seth), BA Rising Star (Goodman); BBC ‘New Generation Thinker’ (Reza), 15 funded
 research fellowships, including 5 Leverhulme fellowships (Warman, Nye, Louth, Rothwell,
 Counter), two BA mid-career fellowships (Blanco, Bullock).



                                                                                           Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Achievements beyond those identified in REF2014:
     Sustainability: Our culture is highly inclusive. Our strategy of ensuring sustainability for
       Modern Languages nationally and internationally through training and supporting ECRs
       has developed notably since REF2014. The Research Committee’s programme of
       innovations considerably strengthened this culture of inclusivity by implementing structures
       which give all ECRs full access to Faculty career development initiatives. These include
       setting up the ECR network (2019), which welcomes all ECRs, whether employed by the
       Faculty, elsewhere in the collegiate university or visiting from other institutions (V. section
       2: People).
     Embedding Impact: To embed impact into our research culture, we have drawn on
       Divisional resources and structures, especially the Impact and Evaluation Officer, to
       disseminate awareness and good practices Faculty-wide. We have established pathways
       leading from individual events or use of social media, engaging large audiences and
       widening our range of beneficiaries, in order to track impact. The Research Committee
       receives regular reports from Sub-Faculties and the ECR network. Meetings involving all
       Faculty members are likewise important channels of communication.
     Interdisciplinarity: We are excited about our forthcoming move to the Schwarzman
       Centre for the Humanities, which will give us space for interdisciplinary encounters as
       well as public engagement. Faculty-supported Research Centres situate our research in
       an interdisciplinary context. The internationally renowned Voltaire Foundation (est.
       1976) provides the academic leadership of Oxford University Studies in the Enlightenment,
       available online and in print, publishes the Complete Works of Voltaire (newly completed
       in 200 volumes), is undertaking an ambitious research programme of digital scholarly
       editing in the field of Enlightenment Studies, and runs the interdisciplinary Besterman
       lecture series (Cronk). European Enlightenment studies are a particular strength thanks
       to the expertise of Cronk, Goodman, Kahn, Murnane, Nye, Robertson, Seth, Tandello,
       Tunstall, Warman, and numerous ECRs, several funded by overseas awards (Fondation
       Wiener Anspach; Chilean CONICYT; Humboldt-Stiftung; Swiss National Science
       Foundation).
       Beyond TORCH, we foster interdisciplinary initiatives in various formats—e.g. the 200-
       strong Oxford Medieval Studies Centre (director: Marnette, 2015-2017; Lähnemann,
       co-chair 2017-); Italian Studies at Oxford (established by Bonsaver), an interdisciplinary
       network of Oxford scholars working on Italy fosters dialogue and collaboration,
       coordinating interdisciplinary research and offering a forum for scholars, intellectuals and
       policymakers from Italy and elsewhere. The Maison Française d’Oxford hosts numerous
       Faculty-led research seminars and conferences, and provides an auditorium and library. It
       is a meeting-place for researchers at all levels in French but also for transdisciplinary
       endeavours (e.g. ECR Oliver’s seminar with visiting CNRS historian of science Thébaud-
       Sorger: ‘Writing Technology/The Technology of Writing’). Oxford Comparative Criticism
       and Translation (OCCT), a research programme based jointly at TORCH and St Anne’s
       College, brings together experts from ML but also Classics, English, and Oriental Studies
       and draws in collaborators from Music, Visual Art, Film, Philosophy, and History.

 Impact Strategy and implementation
 Since 2014, our aim to focus more strongly on impact, to increase collaboration with museums,
 galleries, libraries, theatres, and policymakers, and engage non-academic beneficiaries has been
 implemented by structures at Faculty and Divisional level. These afford support and training for
 all, including ECRs, in design, collection and evaluation of impact. The Research Committee offers
 a central forum for discussion of impact throughout the Faculty and ensures coordination across
 Sub-Faculties. Led by the Research Director and supported by the Research Facilitator, it ensures
 that impact activities are embedded and sustained within emerging research plans. Impact
 Coordinator Lähnemann holds weekly informal drop-in sessions where colleagues (over the REF
 period, c. 150) explore ideas and engage in networking with researchers from other languages or
 other Faculties. To encourage and support colleagues at all career stages, we have involved
 current ECRs (including doctoral students), creating part-time roles for them to support impact
 case studies. We regularly alert colleagues to ways impact can enrich and diversify research.
 Small ‘visibility awards’ from the European Humanities Research Centre enabled projects to

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 enhance the reach of their initiatives, e.g. by subtitling for the ‘Vintage Film Club’ platform
 (Malinovskaya), integrating interactive tools on websites (Kahn) and developing open access
 strategies for the multilingual blog ‘Transferre’ (Gosetti). At Divisional level, access to a
 professional Impact and Evaluation Officer (Medland), has helped colleagues translate initial ideas
 into viable impact projects, e.g. by establishing structures for students and local schools to
 collaborate in the ECR-led ‘White Rose’ project. Knowledge Exchange fellowships have
 developed public engagement activities into impact case studies: five of the submitted ICS have
 grown from activities supported by KE fellowships. We expect certain current projects to create
 future impact activities, notably Bullock’s ‘Connections across Time’ with Oxford Lieder Festival,
 or Murnane’s ‘Discourses of Colonialism in German Studies’.

 The transformative effect of engaging beneficiaries (schools, writers, performers, heritage
 institutions, creative industries) is integral to our research. We enable and empower them by
 addressing central human concerns as refracted through the lens of literature and culture, making
 contributions to society in the UK and beyond (e.g. Papanikolaou’s ‘Queer Politics / Public
 Memory’ project influenced government discussions in Greece, and Rothwell’s work gives
 Angolan women writers visibility). Since 2014, we have leveraged internal funds for further bids,
 developing a rich variety of engagement activities: 4 Public Engagement with Research (PER)
 funding awards (e.g. ‘A New Church for the Red State’, Levitsky; ‘Uncovering Language Lives’,
 Kohl) as well as 15 Knowledge Exchange projects totalling GBP106,367 (e.g. ‘Pharmacy as a
 Laboratory of Modernity’, Murnane) and 4 TORCH Humanities Cultural Programme awards have
 allowed us to reach a diverse range of stakeholders, within the UK and beyond. Our research has
 had an impact upon the lives of a range of beneficiaries through a variety of structures and events,
 including research-based podcasts and radio/TV programmes (Morisi on Camus, Pazos-Alonso
 on Pessoa, Suerbaum on Hildegard of Bingen, one of ‘In our Time’ Listeners’ Top 10); initiatives
 at libraries and galleries like ‘Babel and Beyond’ (Kohl et al.) or ‘Linguamania’ (e.g. Park on
 recovering Portuguese presence in Oxford for heritage-language Lusophones), and ‘Curiosity
 Carnival’ on legacy and inheritance (Swift, Goodman); the ‘Theatre and Performance’ network
 addressing issues of disability or marginality (W. Williams, Kuhn); Seth with Vanderslott (Oxford
 Martin School) and Angela McLean (Ministry of Defence Chief Scientist/Government Deputy Chief
 Medical Officer) on a ‘Voyage in Vaccines’.

 We have led the development of interdisciplinary structures like TORCH to reach new audiences:
 research strands on voice and performance attract both traditional concert-goers and hip-hop
 fans (Bullock; Curtis; Leeder); collaboration with a theatre company and the vulnerably-housed
 in performing Brecht gave those who might otherwise not be heard a voice (Kuhn). TORCH
 provides a platform for blogs and podcasts, through which research is accessible to the
 community. Research on gender and gay rights (Rothwell, Papanikolaou), health and disease
 (Arnaldi, Troscianko), motherhood and childhood (Worth, Seth) or European citizenship
 and voting rights (Seth) informs policy and public discussions within and beyond Britain.
 Researchers on the ‘Creative Multilingualism’ project draw from the Faculty’s expertise in linguistic
 diversity within and across languages and use Oxford’s convening potential to create debate
 about creativity and languages.

 Warman led over 100 Oxford students and academics to provide an English translation of (mainly
 French) Enlightenment texts on ‘Tolerance’. Published on the first anniversary of the ‘Charlie
 Hebdo’ attacks in paper and open-access forms with QR code links to original editions of texts, it
 has been downloaded over 44,000 times, including in countries with repressive regimes. It was
 the object of articles in the mainstream press across the world, reports on the BBC, the subject of
 a keynote conference event (BSECS 2016—Seth and Tunstall with Timothy Garton Ash and
 Karma Nabulsi), awarded as a prize, in a specially-commissioned edition, to participants in the
 2017 International Philosophy Olympiad and provoked impassioned debates in the UK and
 abroad. Zorin coordinated a course of 56 audio-lectures on 1,000 years of Russian culture with
 an ensuing video ‘History of Russian Culture in 25 minutes’ (nearly 1,500,000 views and 50,000
 likes).



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Through the Faculty-run Sir Robert Taylor Society, a national platform for exchange between
 academics and school-teachers, we contribute to the sustainability of the subject; attendance
 at the annual conference has risen since 2014 with the percentage of State-school attendees
 increasing from 33% to 53%, up from contact with c. 75 schools in 2011 to 450 in 2019. This
 enhances the basis of linguistic training from which future modern languages research can grow.
 At the 2019 conference, a roundtable on ‘Languages in Performance’ introduced 95 teachers to a
 range of projects highlighting the potential of the performing arts for enhancing language learning:
 ‘Storming Utopia’ (W. Williams), the ‘White Rose’ project (Lloyd), as well as ‘Slanguages’ (Kohl;
 Creative Multilingualism). Our activities reach out to schoolchildren as well as educators.

 Future research objectives and plans for vitality and sustainability of impact
 Building on the steps already taken, we see the following as central to supporting the vitality and
 sustainability of our research in what will be a period of greater uncertainty:
      Research excellence: we will sustain our commitment to outstanding research, both
        individual and collaborative, in all periods and across a broad spectrum of methodologies
        and subjects. Research across different periods, as well as different languages, is a
        distinctive aspect of our culture. We will continue to promote an intellectual climate which
        fosters the production of monographs. We will build on successes in collaborative networks
        (e.g. the partnership with the John Rylands, Manchester, on the AHRC-funded Petrarch
        commentary project) to ensure they are sustainable and encourage new research.
      Income: Strategic planning and assistance from a dedicated Research Facilitator have
        enabled us to streamline and support processes. Applications are reviewed by the Faculty
        Board Chair and Research Director, who facilitate further conversations with relevant
        colleagues to share expertise. We initiated all-Faculty meetings to showcase successful
        projects and plan to share successful applications more systematically, e.g. in regular
        workshops. We will strive to diversify income streams further through international sources
        and build on our success in attracting philanthropic support for posts and graduate
        scholarships.
      New themes: We plan to develop individual projects (e.g Arnaldi’s ‘Translating Illness’;
        Troscianko on eating disorders; Murnane on literature and pharmacy; Worth on
        pregnancy and birth) into research clusters (in this instance around Medical Humanities).
        We see these as a means to apply our expertise in translating between languages and
        cultures to address contemporary challenges. We envisage the move to the Schwarzman
        Centre as an opportunity to expand our work on translation as a creative process, bringing
        together initiatives from different languages and enhancing collaboration with creative
        industries. We aim to strengthen interdisciplinary research by forging stronger links
        between individual researchers working on decolonising, critical race studies, and
        diversity, building on initiatives and publications such as ECR Conquer’s ‘Expanding
        German Studies’; Lombardi’s ‘Imagining the Woman Reader in the Age of Dante’;
        ‘Intersexualidades’ (C. Williams with the Instituto de Literatura Comparada, Porto and poet
        Ana Luísa Amaral); Yee’s ’Colonizing the Canon’.
      New networks: We have secured important international partnerships, e.g. within the
        Oxford-Berlin partnership (Cronk, Duttlinger, Murnane, Paul, Suerbaum) seed-funding
        for informal workshops will constitute the basis for grant applications to sustain
        collaborative research. We have established bilateral research partnerships, either at
        graduate level (e.g. with Universidad de San Andrés/Argentina, Université de Fribourg/CH,
        Università di Padova), as networks of researchers (e.g. COMUN-ES, co-financed by
        Spain’s Ministry of Culture, a collaboration between Oxford and Salamanca, aims to create
        a transnational online community of Hispanist researchers) or in dialogue with international
        media. We will continue to host researchers at all levels from across the world, and
        consolidate existing partnerships through the recognised expertise of Faculty members,
        who are often sought out as mentors for postdoctoral researchers (e.g. Leverhulme, BA,
        FNRS) and indeed for faculty elsewhere (e.g. Oslo), and by applying for grants to develop
        new partnerships (e.g. with ULB and the CNRS).
      Public engagement and impact: With dedicated spaces for drama, music, and
        broadcasts as well as exhibitions, the Schwarzman Centre will enhance our ability to
        engage with audiences beyond the university. In advance of its opening, the ‘Humanities

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Cultural Programme’ allows us to expand our virtual and physical activities. UoA
        researchers have succeeded in winning 3 of the 12 project grants awarded as part of the
        Programme (Leeder, Lloyd, Seth). During lockdowns, we have used online formats to
        increase our reach, bringing collaborations with local cultural partners to international
        audiences and involving the world’s leading organisations, performers, and film-makers,
        e.g. the TORCH Big Tent live events ‘Celebrating Tchaikovsky’ (Bullock), ‘Voices from the
        Wings’ (Leeder in conversation with poet Almut Ulrike Sandig), on which we expect to
        build. The ECR-led video conversations ‘Translating COVID’, conceived as an emergency
        response to the pandemic, will shape the ‘Translating Illness’ project by engaging diverse
        beneficiaries whom the move to digital format enabled to participate.
       Open-Access: The Faculty is committed to the University Open Scholarship policy. All
        relevant submitted outputs are available through the Oxford Research Archive/Symplectic
        Elements. All colleagues, including postgraduates and ECRs, are offered training in open-
        access issues and tools. Modes of dissemination include cutting-edge open-access
        publications like Tunstall and Warman’s multimodal Neveu de Rameau (2015 BSECS
        prize for Digital Resources) or the collaborative Tolerance and Idea of Europe volumes
        and Warman’s 2020 monograph The Atheist’s Bible, all published by Open Book. Seth
        sits on the cross-sector international cOAlition S group working on the challenges of open-
        access. Rothwell is a contributing member of the laabst.net project which provides open-
        access contemporary translations of work from the Portuguese-speaking world.
       There is a growing appetite for open-access initiatives across staff (34% contributed during
        the period). We will continue to develop new forms of open-access publications. Our
        research into pre-modern networks of publication pre-printing, as well as contemporary
        modes of dissemination beyond commercial print will be supported by new initiatives (e.g.
        the Taylor series, making manuscript and early print holdings of the Taylorian Library
        available open-access in editions and translations; the Voltaire Digital lab; web-
        publications).
       Culture of research integrity: We expect high standards of research integrity, and require
        staff to adhere to ethical, legal and professional frameworks implemented University-wide.
        The University is a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment
        (DORA). Research involving human participants and personal data is subject to review by
        the University’s Research Ethics Committee.

 Developing inter- and transdisciplinary perspectives for the future
 Since 2014, the Faculty has taken a leading role in establishing inter- and transdisciplinary forms
 of research in multiple formats within and beyond Oxford. The most recent Directors of TORCH
 (Bullock, 2017-2020; W. Williams, 2020-2023) are from the Faculty as is the first TORCH
 Academic Champion for Networks and Partnerships (Blanco, 2020). 9 of the 27 current TORCH
 Networks are led jointly or exclusively by Faculty members (Oxford Song Network; Theatre and
 Performance; Oxford Comics Network; Life Itself in Theory and Practice; Image and Thought;
 Gender and Authority; Diplomacy in the early-modern Period; Conversations on Identity, Ethnicity
 and Nationhood); many others have significant ML involvement.

 Within the Faculty and beyond, interdisciplinarity, realised in creative exchanges rather than
 rigid structures, is an important research principle. Sub-Faculties form communities of researchers
 across different periods and methods. Research seminars, e.g. on Medieval Studies, Romance
 Linguistics (with LLP) or Creative Translation, provide interdisciplinary dialogue across languages.
 Over the current REF period, we have underpinned them with new Masters courses, all hosted at
 Divisional level and involving other Faculties (e.g. Medieval Studies, Enlightenment Studies,
 Women’s Studies, Film Aesthetics). The recent MSt. in Comparative Literature and Creative
 Translation is training a new generation of students in transnational research and associates
 colleagues from across languages and disciplines.

 Collaborations between the Faculty and individual Colleges are another way of forging inter-
 and transdisciplinary links e.g. the ‘Translation Exchange’ (est. 2019) hosted by Queen’s, supports
 both research presentations and outreach activities at local schools; Somerville’s interdisciplinary
 Medieval and Early-Modern Research group brings together researchers from the Faculty

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Southerden, Suerbaum) with ECRs, many of whom have gone on to permanent positions
 around the world (e.g. Freiburg, Harvard, Wellesley). Regularly attended by members of other
 Faculties and drawn from other universities, the Montaigne reading group hosts conferences and
 workshops funded by Colleges and the JFF and was the seedbed of the 2016 Montaigne in Transit
 volume.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy
 We seek to appoint the most able and talented colleagues, whatever their background and
 nationality. Positions are advertised nationally and internationally and have allowed us to increase
 diversity: 35% of staff are from outside the UK, representing at least 15 different nationalities, and
 native-speakers of 13 languages. Having identified global and trans-national literatures as an
 emerging research theme, we have sought to expand and reconfigure new posts to include
 diasporic and migrant literatures. This has offered opportunities to attract a diverse field of
 applicants.

 We have managed to keep staff numbers stable, and have had consistent success in attracting
 top-level researchers, from those starting in the field to holders of named chairs, and have
 consolidating our position and that of Modern Languages against an increasingly challenging
 background for the subject.

 The University’s Strategic Plan recognizes Oxford’s ‘outstanding expertise in languages ancient
 and modern’. This expertise in a wide range of languages in regional as well as historical variation
 underpins our research culture. Over the last five years, we have made strategic appointments
 including Acedo-Matellán (2017), Eckhoff (2016) and Wolfe (2017), each appointed jointly with
 LPP, and enhanced existing strengths in historical and diachronic linguistics (Fellerer, Hoge;
 Maiden); Vázquez-Medina (2015) in the Global South; Chitnis (2019) in Slavonic Languages;
 Neilly (2017) and Whidden (2016) in creative translation, join Gardini, Leeder, and Kuhn.

 Career development for ECRs
 In setting up an ECR network (2019), we are leading the way in implementing the University’s
 Strategic strategic aim of ‘enhancing the opportunities and support for early-career researchers’.
 This dedicated network brings together ECRs employed by the Faculty, the various Colleges, and
 visiting researchers including Marie Curie-Skłodowska Fellows (currently Camboni, 2019; Perk,
 2019; Banella, 2020), BA and Leverhulme postdocs. ECRs are represented on our Research
 Committee, given a specific showcase as part of the annual Research Away Day and encouraged
 to take part in termly seminars, workshops, and conferences. ECRs are eligible to apply for
 research and conference funding within the Faculty (up to GBP500) and from central university
 funds (e.g. TORCH and JFF). Several have convened TORCH interdisciplinary networks (e.g.
 Arnaldi, Park, Sciuto) and seminars. 3 of the 12 Knowledge Exchange fellows were ECRs. As
 part of the British Academy Rising Star programme, Goodman has established a UK-wide network
 of ECRs working on research-based Modern Language outreach activities with schools.

 Our inclusive approach to funding and support has led to notable successes: ECRs (including
 Research-Council funded postdocs, non-tenured early-career lecturers and college-funded post-
 docs) have full access to Faculty research resources (e.g. conference and workshop funding),
 receive advice on grant applications and career development, and benefit from individually tailored
 support from the Research Director and Research Facilitator. In a survey of ECRs in post during
 the census period, 75% of respondents identified the access to advice on applying for research
 grants as a key benefit of pursuing research at Oxford. Successful ECR initiatives are backed by
 internal (GBP64,845 grants secured) and external (e.g. British Academy; Leverhulme) funding,
 including for
      Lloyd’s ‘White Rose’ project (an exhibition, translations, a concert, and an international
         symposium with considerable outreach and impact).
      Arnaldi’s ‘Translating Illness’ project, with Wellcome Institutional Strategic Support Fund
         and COVID-19-specific funding, involves primary research in several countries (e.g.

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        convening an international interdisciplinary seminar which will lead to collaborative policy
        recommendations in the field of healthcare). It adapted to the pandemic with very
        successful online international podcasts on ‘Translating COVID’.
       Penafiel’s BA/Leverhulme small grant will enable him to document every copy of the
        original edition of The Lusiad, affording innovative details about Portugal’s national epic,
        but also the circulation of books and editorial practices.
       Reza’s ‘AHRC New Generation Thinker’ award (2020).

 Specific training modules are aimed at ECRs at Divisional and University level, e.g. on how to
 supervise, or on enhancing public engagement with research. Colleagues in the Faculty have set
 up and/or taken part in numerous ECR mentoring workshops whose range extends far beyond
 Oxford (e.g. via professional bodies like the British Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies) on
 questions as diverse as media involvement or applying for tenure-track jobs in the US. By creating
 REF part-time impact-evaluator roles, we have enabled ECRs to experience teamworking with
 colleagues at all levels and form contacts with internal and external partners. ECRs received
 training in evaluation methods, engaged in impact activities, and gained insight into opportunities
 for their future career, applying new skills to projects with both academic and support staff. Each
 evaluator was invited to consolidate newly-acquired expertise through self-reflection and interview
 practice.

 Staff development through dialogue
 Our staff development principles rest on dialogue and inclusivity. We offer staff on temporary
 contracts and ECRs membership of the Faculty and relevant Sub-Faculty, opening all research
 activities to them. We encourage everyone, including ECRs, to engage in annual confidential
 ‘Research Conversations’ with a colleague of their choice, facilitated by the Research Director.
 Conversations touch on future projects as well as areas in which the Faculty member may need
 support or advice. By ascertaining possibilities for future collaborations (e.g. across languages or
 periods), conversations have led to individual and joint grant applications. The annual Research
 Away Day includes presentations on funding bodies by the Research Facilitator, on opportunities
 (e.g. support for impact and evaluation), on current projects by grant-holders and on future plans.
 In addition, one of the termly all-Faculty meetings is earmarked for research questions, allowing
 colleagues at different career stages to present successful applications and lead by example.

 All staff, whether permanent or on temporary contracts, have a mentor. Those in the Initial Period
 of Office (IPO), i.e. staff on permanent contracts serving a probation period (29 during the period,
 16 women, 13 men), also have an assessor who, with two external experts, carries out a formal
 review. During the IPO, staff are encouraged to articulate research plans in dialogue with their
 mentor and the Faculty Chair. At an initial first-term meeting, they formulate an outline plan, then
 review progress and identify support needs (e.g. travel grants; research assistance) annually.
 During the IPO, examining and administrative duties are limited to enable colleagues to focus on
 establishing a productive balance between teaching and research. Formal reviews take place at
 the end of the second and fourth year, in line with University processes. Because these stages
 currently focus exclusively on publications as research outputs, we have encouraged the
 University to revise the guidelines and embed impact activities within the IPO review.

 Inclusive policies on research leave and funding
 Regular sabbatical entitlement is one term for every six worked, in line with University policy. This
 generous research leave policy may contribute to the high proportion of monographs completed.
 The Faculty supports externally-funded research leave applications (including where Full
 Economic Costs are not covered). 16 colleagues have received individual fellowships
 (Leverhulme, British Academy, Institutes of Advanced Studies) and thus extended their research
 leave. While teaching is intense, flexibility in scheduling lectures enables colleagues to set aside
 research time; the new ‘Career Conversations’ will encourage exchanges of ideas about best
 practice in balancing teaching and research. All researchers can apply for grants to attend or
 organise conferences, or for research-related travel, e.g. archival trips. Our collaborations with
 local institutions sustain and enhance research exchanges (e.g. the Maison Française d’Oxford
 plays host to French researchers at every career stage). We welcome researchers from all parts

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the world, and have offered association to over 140 visiting academics, from ECRs to senior
 scholars. They are granted access to libraries and other facilities, and have given lectures or
 seminars run jointly with postholders. Specific agreements with institutions (e.g. the Cini
 Foundation in Venice; the Freiburg Institute for Advanced Studies; Sorbonne-Nouvelle, Tours and
 Amiens Universities in France) allow members of the Faculty to extend their international
 networks, and to welcome guests who enrich the Faculty’s research culture. Cultivating such
 networks is our pro-active response to the challenge which Brexit and its impact pose for a Faculty
 so deeply rooted in European collaboration and exchange.

 Recognition and reward
 Research is an important element of recognition of distinction, a process which enables
 colleagues to be granted the title of Professor. The faculty addresses its EDI commitment by
 carrying out an annual review to identify and mentor potentially eligible colleagues in advance of
 the start of the University process. They are invited to discuss the possibility with the Faculty Chair
 and Director of Research and are given support and encouragement. For colleagues in temporary
 posts, there is a lighter-touch annual exercise: Sub-Faculties play a key role in putting forward
 eligible researchers for awards in the form of one-off payments or salary increments.

 Integrating research students into the research environment
 Our 188 graduates on course form one of the largest ML research student communities in the
 English-speaking world. We offer them both critical mass for interdisciplinary exchanges across
 languages and disciplines, and individual support. Over the review period, 111 have held PGR
 studentships and 61 PGT studentships. Against a background of shrinking research awards, we
 have been proactive in seeking funding sources via business, alumni and earmarked sources like
 doctoral training programmes.

 All our graduates, both PGT and PGR, have a supervisor who oversees their research, as well as
 a College advisor, sometimes from a different discipline, who acts as an independent mentor. Our
 agreed framework articulates expectations: supervisors meet PGT students fortnightly and PGR
 students at least twice a term. Research seminars, in individual languages or on cross-Faculty
 themes, offer fora for dialogue and exchange. Graduates are encouraged to take part in convening
 and chairing research seminars and, where appropriate, to set up informal workshops or reading
 and discussion groups (e.g. Leggere Boccacio con Boccaccio); these are supported by advice
 from established colleagues as well as small grants. PGR student progress is monitored by
 milestone assessments at the end of the first and second year of research; each involves
 submission of an extended piece of writing and the opportunity to discuss it with two colleagues
 who are neither supervisor nor mentor, followed by a formal report. As a result, completion rates
 are high: 72% of students submit within 48 months; average completion is within 44 months, which
 compares favourably with other Faculties. 188.5 doctoral degrees were awarded during the
 period.

 To support systematic training for graduates, the Faculty Research Skills Advisor offers a
 range of informal methodological seminars. A fortnightly seminar encourages students to discuss
 difficulties they encounter and considers strategies for overcoming them. This helps develop
 confidence and enhances constructive discussion. Graduate research training provided by the
 Faculty includes:
      An induction day, featuring a range of speakers and talks from across the University, giving
           students the opportunity to familiarise themselves with practical skills (IT support, library
           tours) as well as the range of training and development opportunities;
      Regular writing workshops, including one-to-one training, led by the Royal Literary Fund
           Fellow;
      An annual lecture series delivered by graduates, addressing issues and methodologies
           arising from their research. Participants receive feedback and the opportunity to repeat
           their lecture the following year;
      Seminars on research methodologies;
      Regular research seminars in the relevant languages, as well as across languages (e.g.
           Medieval Studies; Film Aesthetics; General Linguistics) and Faculty-funded graduate-led

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        research seminars which offer opportunities to gain valuable experience in presenting
        scholarly work;
       A Graduate Network of which all graduates are members; it holds a Faculty-funded budget,
        has seven student-elected posts and hosts both academic and social events (e.g. the
        student-organised annual Graduate Conference). The Network plans to establish a
        buddying scheme for new graduates;
       An annual workshop on career options.

 The Faculty warmly encourages its PGRs to make the most of the training and personal
 development opportunities offered by the University’s Learning and Teaching Training
 programme. Additional training opportunities include courses on ‘English for Academic Writing’
 (Language Centre), the Taylor Institution’s Digital Editions Course and sessions provided by the
 Humanities Researcher Development and Training Programme as well as the ‘Preparation for
 Teaching and Learning’ modules at the end of postgraduates’ first year. The CTL offers routes to
 a Postgraduate Certificate in Teaching and Learning in HE and an accredited Teaching
 Recognition Scheme.

 A wide range of resources is available on the Faculty’s Virtual Learning Environment (Canvas),
 and graduates participate in training events run by the Bodleian Library. The ‘50 years of Spanish
 and Portuguese’ celebration (2020) included poster presentations in which current graduates
 showcased their doctoral and masters’ projects. We plan to build on this successful collaboration
 with the Careers Service in offering poster development sessions to all graduate students.

 Disseminating research to the outside world is an important skill for graduates, and the Faculty
 supports a range of initiatives: e.g. German holds an annual symposium at which students present
 work in progress at partner universities in Freiburg, Fribourg, and Geneva; French hosts regular
 events with Fribourg. Faculty Grants enable graduates to undertake research trips or convene
 workshops and conferences (e.g. the Medieval postgraduate symposium on ‘Deviance’ 2019, co-
 organised by Modern Languages and History graduates, which highlighted the significance of
 intersectional approaches to concepts of disability).

 In collaboration with the University’s Careers Service, we run an annual careers workshop,
 supplemented by individual advice from supervisors, advisers and the Director of Post-Graduate
 Taught courses. The Director of Research and Research Facilitator support graduates in
 developing projects and applications for postdoctoral positions. The success rate is impressive–
 in the review period, we estimate that at least 50% of our doctoral graduates successfully obtained
 substantive post-doc or permanent academic positions in the UK or abroad.

 Equality and diversity
 The Faculty provides a supportive and inspiring environment, encouraging all staff to reflect on
 equality and diversity by embedding EDI issues in Sub-Faculties and Faculty Board meetings. We
 plan to apply for Athena Swan Bronze accreditation and are setting up a Race Equality working
 group to draw on our research about gender and racial equality and evaluate critically where
 change is needed.

 Compared to the wider University, the Faculty’s staff profile has a high and increasing proportion
 of ECRs (2014: 16.6%; 2020: 21.3%) and is more gender-diverse: 46.3% of the UoA are women
 (University: 29%); 17.9% give no detail or identify as non-binary. 50% of Statutory Professors
 appointed in the review period are female, taking the proportion of women amongst this group to
 25% (University: 19%). In line with the University’s overarching EDI objective ‘to increase
 representation of women in senior roles’, we have worked towards greater equality of senior roles:
 in 2020 three of the four senior faculty officers (Faculty Board, Chair, Director of Undergraduate
 Studies, Director of Graduate Studies, Director of Research) are now women. The high proportion
 of staff who do not identify along the binary BME/White (29.6%) correlates with our research,
 which problematises concepts of ethnicity.



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Faculty’s research is as diverse as its staff: 88% of staff address questions of gender,
 sexuality, race, LGBT+ communities and other protected characteristics in their research. These
 include individual studies (e.g. Hazbun on illegitimacy in medieval Spanish literature) as well as
 networks (e.g. Yee and Hiddleston’s collaboration with the Pitt-Rivers on ‘Oxford and
 Colonialism’), whole regions (e.g. Blanco’s projects on the Global South; Berruezo-Sanchez on
 ‘Revaluating minorities’, reversing the invisibility of the Black presence in early-modern Spain;
 Boulanger on postcolonial Africa) or countries (e.g. Rothwell on women authors in Angola;
 Pazos-Alonso on women journalists in Portugal) as well as key figures from underrepresented
 groups (e.g. Choi’s work on the Sephardic diaspora’s literary communities; Counter on servants
 in 19th-century France).

 Equality and diversity are also the principles informing Faculty staff policies. We have been
 proactive in recognising that caring responsibilities fall on individuals irrespective of gender or
 sexual orientation. Over the REF period, 12 colleagues (12% of FTE staff) have been granted
 between 6 and 12 months of parental/adoption leave and have been supported to maintain
 research activity; we have supported eight colleagues through periods of returning carers’ leave
 as well as compassionate leave. In certain cases, this has enabled colleagues to complete double-
 weighted monographs despite challenging circumstances. 1.9% of staff have a declared disability;
 supporting them, as well as those with life-limiting illnesses, requires a careful balance between
 preserving confidentiality and proactive advice provided through the Faculty Chair and/or Head of
 Administration. With flexible working and appropriate adaptations (e.g. variations to administrative
 and examining duties), all are research-active and fulfil Faculty roles. They are encouraged to
 apply for funding and recognition of distinction. Where requested, dedicated mentoring is
 available.

 Mental health awareness is the subject of research within the Faculty (e.g. Aloisi on melancholy,
 Troscianko on eating disorders). We also strive to support colleagues in their daily research
 activities, e.g. by making them aware of University resources on well-being. During the pandemic,
 while libraries were closed, the Faculty developed digital means for colleagues to stay in touch
 about research activities. Concerns about the environment and the post-human (Conquer,
 Lübecker, Morgan, Southerden) as well as ecocriticism (E. McLaughlin) will feed into
 discussion about new spaces for research in the Schwarzman centre.

 We foster a culture of respect for the distinctive conditions in which colleagues from different Sub-
 Faculties and at different career stages undertake research. Permanent staff receive leave in line
 with University provisions; all are encouraged to apply for externally-funded additional research
 leave (Leverhulme; British Academy etc.). Those who have held significant offices within the
 Faculty receive an allocation of special paid leave. Recent information sessions on research grant
 programmes have highlighted that some large grant programmes, whose funding includes
 employment of research assistants and post-docs, may be particularly suitable for staff with caring
 responsibilities (e.g. progression from a small project involving extensive fieldwork to a larger
 application involving a postdoc gathering data abroad suits the academic trajectory as well as
 personal circumstances); we have showcased successful examples to encourage members of
 staff at appropriate career stages to consider such applications. We plan to use the Athena Swan
 application to develop further structures to ensure that staff with protected characteristics are
 encouraged to put themselves forward and that success rates for applications are equally
 distributed. We are acutely aware that Athena Swan applications often place the burden on
 particular categories of staff and will strive to mitigate this.

 Where their research or caring responsibilities require this, we enable staff to work from outside
 the UK for part of the time, e.g. through supporting flexible and/or remote working. This, together
 with the intellectual environment, results in high retention rates (only 2 FTE members of staff
 accepted a post elsewhere in the review period; both were promotions: Chairs in Durham and
 Paris). During the Covid-19 outbreak, the Faculty’s accommodating attitude towards flexible
 working came to the fore: more than a third of staff identified caring responsibilities as impacting
 their ability to teach and carry out research, yet fast and effective IT support of remote-working,
 and proactive HR advice on adapting working practices helped colleagues to remain productive,

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 enabling them to complete scheduled publications, organise engagement events, and continue to
 submit grant applications.

 Precarious employment is a concern across the sector; our proportion of staff on fixed-term
 contracts (currently 25.9%) is lower than in the Division (32.7%) or University (38.2%). We strive
 to improve their situation by including them in all career development opportunities. As a result,
 our track record in ECRs gaining permanent jobs is strong: 38 ECRs went to academic posts in
 the UK, EU, US, and Canada (e.g. Kirakosian, Harvard and Freiburg; Rushworth, UCL; Ippolito,
 Bristol; Wehling, Durham; Rubin-Detlev, University of Southern California; Knox—in English—,
 Cambridge; Choi, Goodman, E. McLaughlin and Park, Oxford; most recently, Berruezo-
 Sánchez won the prestigious Ramón y Cajal award and a tenure-track position at the University
 of Barcelona).

 Equality and Diversity in the REF submission
 Guided by the University’s Code of Practice and DORA principles, decisions were based on the
 eligibility of outputs and their research quality, defined as ‘originality, significance, and rigour’.
 Following discussion with their Sub-Faculty Research director, colleagues were invited to submit
 between one and five outputs. These were graded by specialist reviewers, many external, to aid
 calibration. Grading was systematically moderated by a second reviewer. Each individual’s best
 piece was entered (and double-weighted where appropriate as evidenced by the supporting
 statements). Sub-Faculty Research directors nominated other outputs that were also graded and
 moderated to reach the required figure. The Director of Research, who chairs the British
 Academy’s diversity panel and has received requisite EDI training, supervised the final choice,
 paying attention to the representation of all categories of staff, from ECRs to recently retired
 colleagues, and of linguistic and thematic approaches. The final selection was checked against
 Faculty statistics e.g. on gender ratio, career progression, sub-faculty size etc. to ensure it was
 broadly representative. This process of selecting through review led us to include outputs from
 members of the Faculty across the board, including ECRs whose research was fostered here and
 recently retired colleagues whose publications reflect their work during their period of tenure.
 Some ECRs are already making a clear mark in the field with double-weighted monographs or
 notable productivity, which we consider an encouraging sign for the discipline.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding and strategies for generating research income
 The Faculty’s research income derives from HEFCE research income allocated to
 Faculties/departments on an ‘as earned’ principle, external research grant income, trust funds for
 specific areas of research (e.g. funding for posts, travel, graduate studentships, or research
 assistance), as well as philanthropic donations to fund individual activities (e.g. graduate travel;
 outreach). Success in winning external grants, coupled with strategic use of internal research
 funds as seed-funding have allowed us to grow our research income.

 Between August 2013 and July 2020, 48 of the Faculty’s 174 grant applications for external
 research funding were successful, receiving a sum of GBP5,974,961. Our total research income,
 including grants in collaboration with other parts of the University, amounted to GBP9,230,001, a
 significant increase (REF2014: just under GBP3,000,000). We have diversified the sources of our
 income and increased our grant capture, especially from BIS Research Councils and EU
 Government funds. Along with traditional funders of humanities research (AHRC, Leverhulme
 Trust, British Academy), our list now includes Foundations, Trusts, Agencies and Societies e.g.
 the Royal Society, the Australian Research Council, the Carlsberg Foundation, the Volkswagen-
 Stiftung.




                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                     Table 3: Source of external research income


                                                             Research Councils
                     6%                                      EU Government
                                                             UK Charity (QR)
               11%
                                                             Non-EU Charity (QR)
                                       41%
                                                             UK Charity (no QR)
             12%                                             RDEC
                                                             Other Sources
                                                             EU Other
                                                             Non-EU Other
                       27%                                   EU Charity (QR)




 For larger awards, we give grant-holders a reduction in their teaching even where this is not built
 into the funding model, an example of good practice in the University. The success rate for external
 applications over the period is around 27.5%, with about 10 successful applications each year.
 The average value of awards has increased over the period from GBP21,447 to GBP54,423.
 Diversification into small grants from foundations and networks, often from outside the UK, has
 been notable. While the contribution of such grants to overall research income is relatively small
 (GBP771,214), in a number of cases they acted as proof-of-concept, were the first step towards
 a larger application or a means to consolidate collaborations with external partners, in particular
 foreign universities. We are committed to supporting even small awards as recognition, for the
 confidence boost, and for the capacity building they promote.

 Since the last review, we have created a systematic pipe-line encouraging externally funded
 applications and ensuring their success. Applicants are mentored by the Research Director;
 feedback is provided by both the Faculty Research Director and the Division’s Research
 Facilitator; internal approval mechanisms ensure supported applications are well prepared. As a
 result, we have increased applications while maintaining success rates. Our Research Committee
 provides top-level strategy; representation from all Sub-Faculties on the committee ensures
 bottom-up dialogue and exchange of ideas and best practice. Colleagues receive informal
 mentoring at all stages, from Sub-Faculty Research Coordinators to the Research Director and
 Divisional Research Facilitator. In turn, the Research Facilitator provides the Research Committee
 with termly reports about emerging projects for dissemination to Sub-Faculties. Impact and
 Knowledge Exchange staff advise throughout the process and during the project’s life-time. The
 Research Facilitator offers tailored support and expert advice on all aspects of the application,
 including strategy and planning for obtaining funding, reading and commenting on the draft case
 for support, costing budgets, and securing institutional authorisations. The Facilitator and
 Research Director collaborate as appropriate with other University and Divisional colleagues to
 provide training and other events for academic colleagues, encouraging all, from graduate
 students (for internal JFF applications) or ECRs to emeriti, to feel part of a research community.

 Our overall aim is to offer information and support for any prospective applicant, and to be as
 inclusive as possible. This approach helps individuals develop plans appropriate to their stage of
 career and circumstances, and, within a supportive context, has begun to show strong results.
 Many who had never before sought funding have done so in this REF cycle. Individual fellowships
 are particularly attractive to colleagues, but there has also been growth in network and project
 applications. We have made increasingly good use of internal funds, in particular the JFF, which
 awards pump-priming grants on a competitive basis—e.g. Seth’s CAT19/NOVCAT catalogue of
 pre-1830 French novels, launched by one year Faculty postdoctoral funding, led to three more
 years of postdoctoral (and additional conference) funding from both internal and external sources
 (the JFF and the Fondation Wiener Ansprach) and a collaboration with ULB (Brussels). We have

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 also secured 11 International Project and Fellowship grants, building collaborations with Berkeley,
 Maputo, Sao Paolo, as well as European universities.

 The most prestigious grant in this cycle, the AHRC-funded collaborative ‘Open World Research
 Initiative (OWRI) project ‘Creative Multilingualism’ (GBP1,425,597, July 2016 to June 2020—
 then the highest ever research award in the Humanities Division), investigated the
 interconnection between linguistic diversity and creativity across 6 universities; Kohl is overall PI
 and led one strand (‘Embodying Ideas: The Creative Power of Metaphor’); Faculty members were
 co-investigators and senior researchers on two others: ‘Languages in the Creative Economies’
 (Bullock; Curtis), and ‘Creativity and World Literatures: Languages in Dialogue’ (Hiddleston;
 Lonsdale). As part of this project, the Faculty hosted the conference ‘The Creative Power of
 Metaphor’, accessible as a multimedia output (films, interviews, poster presentations). Activities
 from the ‘Languages in the Creative Economies’ strand informed impact and public engagement
 events with diverse audiences from theatre practitioners to schoolchildren for whom English is an
 additional language. Curtis, Bullock and ECR Birksted-Breen were also involved in the
 University of Manchester’s AHRC/OWRI project; Gilson transferred his collaborative AHRC
 (GBP695,991: January 2017-December 2019) project, ‘Petrarch Exegesis in Renaissance Italy’
 (PERI), from Warwick: this created an open-access searchable database (with records for 300
 prints and over 450 manuscripts) and established a major digital library of print editions and
 commentaries on Petrarch based on Manchester’s John Rylands Library collections. The project
 reaches a world-wide audience of researchers via enhanced local catalogue records uploaded to
 national and international union catalogues. Dondi’s ERC project ‘15th-Century Book-trade: An
 Evidence-based Assessment and Visualization of the Distribution, Sale and Reception of Books
 in the Renaissance’ (2014- 2019, EUR1,999,172), the largest ever project to unlock historical data
 on pre-1500 printed books, processes data from over 450 libraries and collaborates with over 200
 librarians and researchers. It built new digital tools to collect (and allow refined interrogation of)
 data on incunabula worldwide, and piloted advanced image recognition technologies. The project
 corrected library entries, produced a major volume Printing R-evolution (2020) and a catalogue of
 the Venice Marciana Library and Museo Correr exhibitions (2018-2019, 194,728 visitors). Kuhn’s
 AHRC grant (GBP420,127: 2013-2017) enabled completion of four volumes on Brecht’s writing in
 English, a major new edition of The Collected Poems, and the first-ever UK-based conference of
 the International Brecht Society (Oxford 2016). Kelly completed the AHRC-funded project ‘The
 Soviet Cine-Underground’ (GBP193,589), a unique window onto the inner workings of Soviet
 film studios, and, with Papanikolaou held an event on cultural economies and the contemporary
 moment. British Academy and Leverhulme postdocs are shaping the future contours of the
 discipline, often taking it in exciting cutting-edge directions (e.g. Boulanger researching literary
 legacies of revolution and internal conflict in postcolonial Africa).

 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
 In addition to their large and diverse holdings (see section 1), the Bodleian Libraries offer
 exhibition spaces for public engagement and impact activities (e.g. Kohl’s ‘Babel’ or Lloyd’s
 ‘The White Rose’). We support library acquisitions in specialised areas within the remit of the
 Faculty through specific Trust funds (e.g. purchase of Naziraddolé et Zulica, ou: La constance
 aisée: Histoire traduite de l’Arabe (1746), the only UK copy, for the Taylorian).

 Though space is at a premium, the Faculty buildings incorporate a graduate common room, desk
 space for visiting researchers, and shared rooms for post-docs and research projects. The
 Schwarzman Centre will offer added synergies with other disciplines as well as performance
 spaces. This will transform our ability to engage with new audiences and support doctoral and
 postdoctoral students.

 Sharing IT staff with the Department of Linguistics, Phonetics and Philology offers the specialist
 support of experts familiar with the Faculty’s research needs and structures. This has been
 instrumental in developing database projects, e.g. CATCOR and digital humanities research
 projects like born-digital editions. The Faculty is involved in new digital humanities initiatives, led
 by the Bodleian and the Humanities Division (e.g. Muñoz-Basols’s, ‘Portal de Lingüística
 hispanica).

                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Significant investments have been made to create key posts, e.g. the Impact Co-ordinator
 (Faculty-based), the Research Facilitator and Impact and Evaluation Officer (Division). Because
 networks promoted by individuals or groups of individuals form an important part of our research
 culture, we support them by small research trip, conference attendance, and research assistance
 grants. Our administrative team facilitates conference and workshop organisation, assisting with
 budgeting, registration, travel arrangements, and disbursement of expenses.

 Over the review period, support from the Faculty as well as external sources has enabled us to
 set up and sustain several Research Centres:
      Having completed the Voltaire Project, a major editorial landmark, The Voltaire
        Foundation (VF) is developing a pipe-line of grant applications for Digital Humanities
        projects. Leverhulme-funded ECR Sciuto is working on ‘Digital D’Holbach’ with the VF and
        Chicago.
      The Instituto Camoes Centre (reconstituted 2010), part-funded by the Portuguese
        government, offers a vibrant space for research and knowledge exchange in the areas of
        Portuguese (including Lusophone African, Brazilian, and Macanese) language, history and
        culture.
      The European Humanities Research Centre (est. 1994) expanded activities in 2015-17:
        GBP50,000 from a strategic pot funded 9 research fellowships for Oxford-based staff, and
        co-financed a conference on ‘Prismatic Translation’. This resulted in successful
        applications for follow-on projects (3 external grants and 3 monographs).
      Created after the last REF, Oxford Medieval Studies (OMS) has grown into one of the
        largest fora in the world for interdisciplinary research on the Middle Ages. Hosted by
        TORCH, co-led by Modern Languages (Marnette 2015-2017; Lähnemann 2017-) and
        English, it is instrumental in developing wide-ranging research expertise, from codicology
        and archaeology to medievalism and film, organising two annual interdisciplinary lectures
        and the Medieval Roadshow, a showcase for new and ongoing projects (e.g. the Anglo-
        Norman reading group, the Medieval Mystery Cycle, the Old Frisian Summer School—held
        annually with Groningen, the Teaching the Codex conference, the Oxford Medieval
        Graduate Conference). Evidence for the group’s reach includes the c. 3000 followers of
        @OxMedStud which feeds into the active medieval twitter ‘scene’ with accounts including
        Bodleian Rare Books (@RareBooksOfBod: 23,259 followers). OMS’ Small Grants scheme
        supports graduate-student and ECR-led events, including conferences, exhibitions and
        performances.
      Generous philanthropic endowment of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation Bywater and
        Sotheby Professorship of Byzantine and Modern Greek Language and Literature
        (Lauxtermann) has allowed us to plan for a Greek Studies hub in the future Schwarzman
        Centre, bringing together expertise in Medieval and Modern Greek.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships support
 Our interdisciplinary research has forged creative alliances with other faculties and departments
 in Oxford, the UK, and across the world. We frequently take the lead in engaging with other
 faculties and disciplines and actively facilitate trans- and interdisciplinary research.

 Since 2014, the Faculty has broadened the base of its collaborations with museums, libraries,
 and galleries: the ‘Taylor editions’ of Taylorian Library resources link translation projects in
 different languages, bring together researchers, students, and the wider public, and host
 exhibitions and open access publications. Within Oxford, TORCH has allowed experts to form
 networks and engage with wider audiences using podcasts as well as events: ‘Marie Antoinette:
 A Life in Objects” (Seth) uses objects relating to Marie-Antoinette from public collections to reach
 a wide audience through podcasts with Waddesdon Manor, the Wallace Collection and the
 Conciergerie in Paris; ‘Pharmacy as a Laboratory of Modernity’ (Murnane), in collaboration with
 the Science Museum and the Wellcome Medical Collection, engaged lung-disease stakeholders
 as well as education specialists; ‘Birth through History’ involves working with the Library and

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Archives of the Royal College of Gynaecologists and Obstetricians along with doctors and nurses
 (Worth).

 Collaborations with the creative industries in the UK have involved theatre companies (Kuhn;
 W. Williams); the South Bank Centre: events exploring modern European poetry and its
 transmission (Leeder); as well as music venues and festivals (Bullock, Curtis). Colleagues have
 curated exhibitions at home and abroad and contributed research-based ground-breaking articles
 to catalogues e.g. for the Royal Academy of Arts (UK), Musée Lambinet and Conciergerie
 (France), Museo Correr (Italy), Fondation Bodmer (Switzerland) and Metropolitan Museum of Art
 (USA). Public engagement is systematically achieved through writing and broadcasting:
 colleagues contribute to specialist and mainstream journals with major non-academic readerships
 (The Conversation, national and international broadsheets, the TLS, the LRB and equivalent
 foreign journals); and take part in radio and television programmes broadcast throughout the world
 e.g. In Our Time or The Essay (BBC), Les Nouveaux Chemins de la Philosophie (France Culture),
 La Grande Librairie (France Télévision), Superquark (Italy’s pre-eminent science and technology
 documentary series). We have systematically used opportunities afforded by Knowledge
 Exchange programmes to turn public engagement into a two-way dialogue. Successful projects
 have involved graduate and undergraduate students as well as schools and include e.g. a
 partnership between a local theatre and academic colleagues, exploring ways of making
 contemporary theatrical sense of Thomas More’s Utopia (W. Williams); a partnership with BEAT,
 the UK’s leading eating disorder charity to investigate connections between literary reading and
 mental health, with a focus on eating disorders (Troscianko).

 Relationships with key research users and audiences
 We engage with research users through the publication of widely-read translations, editions for
 theatre productions, exhibition catalogue and programme notes; 5 major database resources
 (CATCOR, CAT19/NOVCAT, Tout d’Holbach, PERI, 15C-Book-trade) provide insight into the
 materiality of books, leading to revisions in cataloguing, curriculum and canons and make new
 types of research possible through reliable open-access resources. Beneficiaries of research
 include libraries, museums, schools and universities (through the production of textbooks;
 engagement with curriculum design, policy work and examination frameworks) as well as
 mainstream publishers and general readers. A book like Gardini’s Long Live Latin (orig. Italian,
 2016) is an international bestseller, translated into several languages. Through public engagement
 we reach large and diverse audiences including disabled or vulnerably-housed groups (e.g.
 Tandello’s contribution to 2016 ‘Leopardi e i suoi Fratelli: Le Marche e la letteratura italiana’ in
 support of central Italian towns devastated by earthquakes) and in cooperation with local theatres
 and community groups.

 Several current initiatives should reach their full potential in the next REF cycle. They provide new
 direction in the global reach of languages and include a study of science publications in relation
 to Spanish-American modernism (Blanco), revealing correlations between scientific
 modernisation and nation-building projects; Muñoz-Basols’s collaboration with the University of
 Alicante on ‘Innovaciones lingüísticas del humor: géneros textuales, identidad y enseñanza de
 español’; ‘Catherine the Great and the Art of Epistolary Networking’ (Kahn), comprising a series
 of podcasts; RÊVE, a virtual exhibition on Romantic Europe (Seth with Watson, Open University)
 is already influencing curatorial practice on Romanticism Europe-wide, and a project on
 ‘Recovering the 19th-century Portuguese woman journalist’ (Pazos-Alonso). Gilson with
 Manchester John Rylands is shaping a project using advanced machine-reading technologies to
 investigate materiality/design features of Renaissance Dante editions, to digitize their world-
 leading collection of such prints, and curate an exhibition.

 Public engagement with research
 Our researchers use visual as well as audio and tactile media to engage with diverse communities:
 ‘Creative Multilingualism’ empowered local audiences to understand their own knowledge of
 languages other than English as a creative asset, encouraging them to experiment with creative
 forms (rap; hip-hop; poetry slams). Exhibitions (e.g. ‘Babel: Adventures in Translation’ at the
 Weston Library) have attracted large audiences (35,000 visitors). Events like the Ashmolean

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Museum Nights’ use artefacts to introduce visitors to new languages and unfamiliar cultures; a
 V&A ‘Late’ event on Argentina (Bollig) collaborated with the Argentinian Embassy; round-table
 presentations have recovered memories of migration (Murnane); ‘Bringing Kafka’s Castle to Life’
 (Duttlinger, Murnane) collaborated with a contemporary playwright and resulted in a series of
 broadcasts.

 Exchanges between academia and business
 Researchers are closely involved with the creative and heritage sectors. Faculty members have
 served as advisers for films or TV series (Jones), have curated exhibitions (Kohl, Seth, Lloyd),
 music festivals (Bullock) or prepared programmes with public broadcasters or professional
 producers (McGuinness, Seth) and theatres (Curtis, Kuhn, W. Williams). Several research
 projects include collaborative presentations with prestigious cultural programmes (Bullock,
 Cronk, Curtis, Goodman, Neilly, Swift, e.g. with Oxford Lieder, Garsington Opera, the Wigmore
 Hall).

 Contribution to disciplinary sustainability
 Training the next generation of foreign language graduates is an essential contribution to the
 discipline’s sustainability. Researchers articulate the case for modern languages while also being
 advocates for the field with government and policy-setting bodies (Kohl, Kenny), act as expert
 witnesses, and give media commentary on the state of the discipline and the challenges faced
 (Seth, Kohl, Kenny). We bring little-known authors to greater prominence through events,
 translations etc. (e.g. Chitnis on Translating the Literatures of Small European Nations; Leeder
 on contemporary German-language poets). We have been proactive in influencing policy in areas
 of conservation and curation, teaching and curriculum (e.g. widening the canon), but also gay
 rights and disability (Papanikolaou, C. Williams). During the pandemic, we reached large and
 often new audiences in the UK and abroad through innovative use of online formats, e.g. Oxford
 Argentine Cultural Forum (Bollig) or the TORCH ‘Big Tent’ events (Bullock).

 Indicators of wider influence and contribution to vitality and sustainability of the research
 base
 Service to the profession is integral to our research activities, and almost all colleagues are
 involved. Offices held include: President of BSECS (UK), SFEDS (France), the Association for
 Slavic, East European, and Eurasian Studies, ASELE; Chair of the Society for Italian Studies;
 Secretary General of the International Society for 18 th-Century Studies. Experienced researchers
 serve as reviewers for funding councils in the UK and 15 countries as well as transnational bodies
 (ERC; EURIAS). Three members of the Faculty assisted Research England through the 2014
 assessment process and the planning for REF2021. McLaughlin and Parrish were REF2014 full
 panel members; Gilson assisted in planning for REF2021 (criteria-setting phase) and is a UoA26
 Panel Member.

  Colleagues served on 36 national and international appointment panels and academic
 review boards in the UK, EU, Canada, the Americas, and acted as judges for national and
 international prizes e.g. the Gapper Prize, Weidenfeld Translation Prize, Malcolm Bowie Prize,
 Gadda International Prize. Members are frequently examiners for PhDs and Habilitations
 across the Russell Group and research-active UK Universities (over 100) but also overseas (60 in
 11 countries). Beyond Modern Languages, their expertise is called upon in History, History of Art,
 Philosophy, and History of Science.

 Strong links are maintained with the editorial world. Gardini is president of Salani, one of Italy’s
 oldest and most prestigious publishing houses. Postholders are active as series editors or on the
 editorial board of 78 journals (e.g. Whidden is General Editor of Nineteenth-Century French
 Studies, Tunstall of the interdisciplinary Journal for Eighteenth-Century Studies) and 19 series
 of editions or monographs or consultants to presses both for specific linguistic and literary
 collections and broader publications which serve as references in fields like anthropology, urban
 studies, history of art, cultural history. Service to the discipline includes regular contributions to
 peer review which are highly valued (e.g. C. Williams and de Ros hold Liverpool University Press
 awards for Outstanding Journal Reviewers). As General Editors of monograph series colleagues

                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contribute to the vitality and future of the subject: e.g. Gilson for ‘Italian Perspectives’, which
 published 17 titles in the census period, many interdisciplinary (anthropology and urban Studies)
 or with a global reach; Robertson for Legenda Germanic Literatures (18 titles in the review period,
 many first monographs of ECRs); Duttlinger for ‘Visual Culture’, a new series for monographs and
 edited collections on any aspect of global visual culture from the Middle Ages to the present day,
 and a home for research which explores the interaction between visual culture and verbal text.

 Membership of Learned Societies marks the high esteem in which colleagues are held nationally
 and internationally: 12 British Academy Fellows; Fellows of the Academia Europaea; the
 Académie Royale de Belgique; the Medieval Academy of America; the Göttingen Academy of
 Sciences; the Académie de l’Ile de la Réunion. Many hold Trusteeships (e.g. Deutsche Schiller-
 Gesellschaft, Deutsches Literaturarchiv, Vinaver Trust).

 Postholders lead HE lobbying of national qualifications regulator OFQUAL about severe grading
 of language examinations (Kohl), address the All Party Parliamentary Group for Modern
 Languages, and liaise with the University Council of Modern Languages (Kohl, Kenny). As British
 Academy Lead Fellow for Languages, Kenny chairs the Academy’s Language Advisory Group
 and coordinated the BA, AHRC, ASCL, British Council and UUK Towards a National Languages
 Strategy document. Others serve on similar bodies at the AHRC, the British Council, and IMLR.
 Our researchers are involved in policy-making for homosexual rights, electoral reform and
 Children’s Rights.

 These activities indicate our contribution towards:
     Sustaining a research environment for Modern Languages
     Making the case for the importance of languages and language research in the UK and
       beyond
     Maintaining the vitality of Modern Languages expertise beyond the academy.

 In reaching out to diverse groups of beneficiaries and audiences, we demonstrate that research
 in Modern Languages requires linguistic skill, but also involves sympathetic engagement with
 other cultures, critical reflection on our own, and creative adaptation. We are confident that our
 robust structures will continue to support the freedom of thought and creativity of all researchers,
 whether individual or working collaboratively. In challenging times, we will contribute to the
 sustainability of the discipline by fostering dialogue, generating creative exchanges, and providing
 new impulses.




                                                                                             Page 21
