Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: Imperial College London

Unit of Assessment: 17 – Business & Management Studies

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Imperial College Business School

Imperial College Business School (hereafter “The School”) was established as the fourth faculty of
Imperial College London in 2003, alongside world-class faculties in science, engineering and
medicine. The School is a leading institution driving global business and social transformation
through the fusion of business, technology and an entrepreneurial mindset.

The College and School are institutions that care not only about knowing, but also about doing. As
such, the School has been consolidating a position of distinctive research excellence, with
relevance to industry, policymakers, funders and students alike. It offers staff, students and
partners a research environment differentiated from that of its competitors. Business schools
typically research primarily within the underlying social science disciplines and on core business
and management topics. While the School is anchored in excellent social science and
management topics, it embraces the College’s mission to foster interdisciplinarity, with many of its
research activities conducted in partnership with other faculties.

The School has identified a set of key interdisciplinary themes aligned with the College’s Academic
Strategy (to which the School directly contributed). These are supported by leading research
centres that collaborate across College in areas such as climate change (Centre for Climate
Finance and Investment), corporate social responsibility and sustainability (Leonardo Centre),
health management (Centre for Health Economics and Policy Innovation) and Digital (Centre for
Financial Technology and Imperial Business Analytics). Entrepreneurship has long been an
important focus of the School, with leading research work in the area and an important
engagement with College’s activities. The School is also leading a new Initiative on Deep Tech
Entrepreneurship in the context of the College’s Academic Strategy, which aims to become an
institute that will change our understanding of how these ventures are funded and successfully
develop.

How Research is Structured

Academic Departments and Areas

The School’s research has at its core four academic departments. They play the central role in
ensuring the vitality and sustainability of the School’s research and supporting its translation into
significant impact on social and economic well-being. They do this through the recruitment and
development of outstanding talent, fostering a strong and inclusive research culture, and
supporting broader societal engagement. They identify research priorities within their disciplines
and alongside overarching research themes set by the School and College. Heads of Department
(HoDs) ensure the highest quality of faculty and researchers are recruited and promoted, and that
they find a diverse and supportive environment, with meaningful interactions with colleagues
across the School, College, and broader community, so they can produce research of the highest
quality and impact (see Section 4). There are four departments in the School.

Analytics, Marketing and Operations (AMO) HoD Eisingerich


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


AMO has 17 faculty researching across the marketing and operations areas, with a common
emphasis on the areas of analytics, quantitative methods and digital transformation, including
crossover relations with other areas of the School and College. Operations focuses more on the
management of processes across manufacturing and services, with prominent results in health,
energy and transportation. Marketing research has particular strengths in marketing analytics and
has made significant contributions to topics such as aggregating and understanding diverse
information sources in decision-making, the nature of purchase decisions across settings and
contexts, differing notions of brand attachment and managing employees, and customer behaviour.
The research offers valuable insights and solutions for firms and organisations in a range of
industries.

Economics and Public Policy (EPP) HoD Valletti

With 14 faculty, EPP focuses on applied economics and its connections to public policy. They
investigate a diverse range of topics with connections to the strategic priorities of the School and
College. These include leading international results related to the effect of energy and climate
change policies on business, the contribution of knowledge assets to economic growth, fairness
and competition in the telecommunications industry, competition policy, and how to improve the
quality of service in the public sector. It has a focus on health economics and policy, studying
incentives for individuals and health organisations. The Impact Case Studies by Green (Informing
Decisions and Debate on Low-carbon Electricity) and Valletti (Innovation Theory of Harm and EU
Merger Policy) exemplify the reach and significance of this work.

Finance (FIN) HoD Michaelides

The 28 Finance faculty have been at the forefront of international research, ranging from core
areas of asset pricing, corporate finance, financial intermediation and risk management, to new
and important topics such as climate and investment, entrepreneurial finance, and financial
technology (fintech). There is a strong analytical dimension underpinning the work of the
department, and important connectivity across the School and College to explore how digital and
technology are shaping the future of finance. Engagement and dissemination to peers,
practitioners and policymakers is key, with several high-level academic and practitioner
conferences occurring at the School, offering unique opportunities to students, alumni and faculty
alongside external organisations and academics.

Management and Entrepreneurship (M&E) HoD Zollo

The main areas of research of the 30 M&E faculty include innovation and entrepreneurship (I&E),
as well as strategy and organisational behaviour (OB). I&E research has made significant
advances in our understanding of topics such as identifying and leveraging entrepreneurial
opportunities, managing the innovation process, building and operating entrepreneurial
ecosystems in both developed and emerging economies, and commercialising science
innovations. The Impact Case by ter Wal and Criscuolo (Management of Top Technical Talent in
Corporate R&D) is but one example of the application of this work. Research in strategy and OB
has made key contributions to the management of platform leadership, the social dynamics of
technology adoption, the link between senior managerial style and firm strategy, and the effect of
team selection processes on success. The advent of new technologies, together with ongoing
social, environmental and organisational changes, results in important emphases and results on
sustainability, digital transformation and social entrepreneurship. There is strong M&E engagement

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
effort across the College in promotion of innovation and entrepreneurship, including the
development of the new White City Imperial campus (see Section 4) as a major London tech hub.

Research Centres and Interdisciplinarity

Alongside the School’s departments, several excellent research centres support the in-depth
pursuit of thematic areas and interdisciplinary perspectives. They serve a critical complementary
role in ensuring the vitality and sustainability of the research environment within and across
disciplines. They are also strategic structures to assure the development, vibrancy and impact of
the key strategic themes identified by the School and College (see further below). In addition to the
cross-College centres and initiative mentioned above, the School centres in the REF period were:
the Brevan Howard Centre for Financial Analysis (led by Allen); the Centre for Management Buy-
Out Research (CMBOR) (Wright, until 2019); the Centre for Responsible Leadership (Moore); the
Gandhi Centre for Inclusive Innovation (Chaturvedi); and Imperial Business Analytics (Kennedy).
Kennedy is also the Co-Director of the cross-College Data Science Institute.

The Centres act as instruments of engagement across departments, the broader College and
outside partners. They also have an important role as attractors for public and private research
project funding, and a key means to develop corporate sponsorship and collaboration within and
beyond academe in the UK and abroad. The Centres are further described in Section 3.

Striving for Impact

The College and School care not only about knowing, but also about doing. Thus, the relevance
for, and impact of, our research on business and society is central to the School’s approach. It
influences the establishment of centres and research programmes, the faculty we recruit,
expectations in terms of projects and initiatives that are encouraged, the support structures that are
in place, and expectations for promotion. The importance of impact in the School’s research
strategy is recognised by its inclusion in the annual process of staff assessment and reward (see
Section 2).

The School’s approach to impact recognises that reach and significance require a long-term
integrated process. Connections with potential beneficiaries must be made, a successful means of
delivery identified, and actual impacts secured. It also recognises that the primary attraction of
external organisations to interact with the School arises from the excellence of individual
researchers and groups, the originality and relevance of the ideas and research, and the
receptiveness of the institution for which they work.

The School as a whole and its departments and centres run a wide range of policy and corporate
events showcasing research where such connections may be made. There is also an annual
flagship industry-focused conference showcasing the School’s research. These activities are
supported by the School’s Institutional Communications and Marketing function, which strategically
promotes our research efforts (see Section 4). The School also supports staff secondments to
national and international policy agencies, promotes the acceptance of public-sector-funded
projects and celebrates the appointment of individuals to major external advisory bodies. It
supports the development of knowledge exchange and impact delivery through advisory and
consultancy roles with public and private bodies (see Section 4).

The overall objective is to develop impact of international reach and significance across the public
and private sectors. This is exemplified in our REF case portfolio. Valletti (Innovation Theory of

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Harm and EU Merger Policy), and Miles and Ramadorai (Household Finance and Mortgage
Market Regulation in UK and India) are each associated with periods of secondment to national or
international agencies, or chairing major review bodies (respectively, EU Competition Commission,
Bank of England and HM Treasury, Reserve Bank of India).
Moreover, as discussed in detail in Section 4, the School encourages the development of
corporate sponsorship and collaborative research projects with public and private sector bodies.
These are also reflected in our case study portfolio. For example, ter Wal and Criscuolo
(Management of Top Technical Talent in Corporate R&D) is based on long-term research with
Neptune; Wright (Impacts on the Early-stage Business Financing Eco-system of the UK) is
based on long-run sponsorship for CMBOR from Equistone Partners and Investec, and specific
project funding from BVCA and NESTA; Green (Informing Decisions and Debate on Low-carbon
Electricity) was part-sponsored by the European Commission and DRAX; Biffis and Chavez
(Financial Inclusion – Supporting Africa’s Poorest Farmers) was part-funded by the African
Development Bank; and Buraschi, Distaso and Kosowski (Risk Measurement and Portfolio
Construction) derives from collaboration with Barclays Bank, Fideuram Asset Management and
Unigestion.

COVID-19

The international excellence of the School’s research, its embeddedness in the College’s context,
and its commitment to address problems of pressing global significance is captured by its response
to the COVID-19 pandemic. To date, it has produced a body of work that comprises over 20
academic papers, policy briefings and articles. These cover issues such as: contact tracing;
hospital capacity; educational challenges; and the adverse impacts on the economy and financial
markets. In doing this, our faculty have collaborated with colleagues from national and international
public and private institutions, while further strengthening the School’s connections across
Imperial. The School’s faculty has participated in the discussion and policy participation process
based on this work. For example, Propper has given evidence to the UK Parliament’s Science and
Technology Committee on the Economics of COVID-19. Her work was also cited in an October
2020 report by the Scottish Government on mental health aspects of recovery from COVID-19.
Haskel’s work on COVID-19 has informed his contributions as a member of the Bank of England
Monetary Policy Committee. Ramadorai discussed the Indian economy’s recovery from the
pandemic on the BBC World News in April 2020. Miraldo was co-author of four reports by the
Imperial College COVID-19 Response Team for SAGE: two covered scheduling rules for elective
care; a third covered criteria to keep schools and universities open; the fourth was concerned with
developing and using a hospital capacity planning tool. Based at CHEPI and the EPP Department,
her collaborating co-authors included Wiesemann of the AMO Department and colleagues at the
College’s School of Public Health, alongside researchers at the MRC Centre for Global Infectious
Disease Analysis, the WHO, the Health Foundation, Umeå School of Business, and the
Universities of Oxford and York.

Research Position Relative to the 2014 REF Assessment

In the REF 2014 Environment Statement, a 5-year high-level research strategy was outlined with
three objectives: To pursue a distinctive niche, and achieve recognised excellence, in areas
aligned with the strength of Imperial; to establish important collaborations and produce significant
research with other College departments and faculties; and to do so with a view to translating
research outcomes to achieve wide-ranging impact for the benefit of the economy and society.

To support these goals, we indicated there would be: significant growth in our capabilities in terms

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of faculty numbers and the PhD programme; mobilisation of necessary resources to support our
growth through grants, sponsorship and other means; and a significant increase in our presence in
elite academic journals, while continuing to strive for impact on business and society.

The evolution of the School and its research met the strategy and objectives outlined in 2014 in
most dimensions. First, the School and its research capabilities have grown significantly since
2014. In particular, the number of Category A FTE staff increased by 59% from 58 FTE (2014) to
92 (FTE) (2020). An important part of this growth was achieved through hiring new assistant
professors. There was also an effort to attract senior researchers who could bring experience,
visibility and leadership to important areas and an active policy of faculty promotion (see Section
2).

At the time of the last REF, there were four departments: Finance; Innovation and
Entrepreneurship; Health Management; and Organisation and Management. The latter hosted a
large set of diverse academic areas, from economics to organisational behaviour, marketing and
operations. As the School grew, this structure became unbalanced. Following a major strategic
review in 2018, led by the new dean, there was an important reorganisation to the current
structure. This is clear and cohesive, creating a more supportive environment for researchers and
enabling the evolution and impact of their work, while still retaining the distinctive elements of the
School.

To implement the REF 2014 strategy, important initiatives were launched to bolster the distinctive
elements of the School and achieve recognised excellence in areas aligned with the strengths of
Imperial. An important element was the launch of research centres to further support the
development of School capabilities around key themes. These were established in three stages.
The first saw the creation of the Imperial Business Analytics Centre, with support from KPMG in
2014, the Centre for Financial Technology, created with support from Citibank in 2016, the Centre
for Climate Change, Finance and Investment, with support from Quinbrook Partners, as well as
CHEPI, both established in 2017. In 2020, the Leonardo Centre, focusing on sustainability, and the
Centre for Responsible Leadership were also launched. The Initiative for Deep Tech
Entrepreneurship that was developed during 2020 will also play an important role in aligning the
School with Imperial’s strength in technology commercialisation. All of these have important
elements of connectivity to other parts of Imperial and engagement with business and society.
More details on each of them are presented below and in Section 3.

The growth in faculty and researchers, and a change in leadership of the School led to decisions to
shift the balance on some dimensions towards excellence and distinctiveness rather than volume.
This included realignment of our PhD strategy to focus first on quality by keeping a stable intake
and adopting a new structure that involves students beginning with an MRes pre-PhD year (see
Section 2). Another aspect of this evolution was a greater emphasis on higher visibility and
prestigious grants, rather than a wholesale increase in research funding from the already very high
levels pertaining at the end of the last REF period. By 2020, the faculty had been awarded seven
prestigious ERC grants across starter, consolidator and advanced levels. The income and
expenditure streams from some of the more significant recent grants are not yet fully reflected in
the annual flows within the current period. Still, the School continues to be consistently among the
top 3 in the UK in terms of the research income it obtains, despite our smaller size compared with
some competitors (see Section 3).

The 2014 REF included important growth expectations, not only in terms of active researchers, but
also in terms of outputs and particularly their quality. The College is a signatory to DORA and the

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
School accordingly does not assess output quality in terms of journal impact factor. But external
entities do assess performance against journal lists, including the Financial Times, through its
annual rankings. It is thus possible to have an element of comparison for the School’s publication
performance since 2014 by looking at outputs in the FT 50 list of journals that it provides to the FT.
Between 2011-2014 and 2017-2020, the number of papers published by School faculty in these
journals grew by 32%, alongside a 5% improvement in the average number of publications per
eligible faculty.

Aims and Strategy for the Next Five Years

Following his appointment in 2017, Dean Veloso led a strategy review for the School which
resulted in a new 10-year strategy for the period 2018-28. It includes: a plan for supporting and
developing the vitality and sustainability of research in the School; aspirational strategic goals for
research and for the reach and significance of wider impact based upon it; and key metrics for
measuring progress towards our strategic goals.

The increased importance of research in the School, and the level of our aspirations, are clear in
the new strategic vision, which is to be “a world-leading business school with a diverse, engaged
and supportive research and learning environment that leverages technology and entrepreneurship
to benefit business and improve society.”

The 10-year strategy to achieve this vision is based around four pillars: research and intellectual
leadership; learning and teaching; people and resources; and College collaboration and external
relations

The first pillar includes a set of key priorities, as well as strategic interdisciplinary research
engagement themes.

Key Priorities and Strategic Goals

First, increasing the size to around 110-115 FT world-class faculty is key to becoming a leading
business school with sufficient depth and impact in key disciplines such as marketing and
operations, together with the capacity to address the key strategic themes noted below.

Second, the School will strengthen its PhD programme, expanding it when applicant quality is high
enough, since excellence here is a key part of developing a strong research culture and increasing
the research productivity of faculty. The goal is to be recruiting among the best international
candidates and providing a strong academic placement for most of the graduates.

Third, it will balance and strengthen academic research areas, assuring academic excellence,
while further developing interdisciplinary engagement themes focused on real world problems. This
is fundamental to both the impact of our research and our unique focus as a business school
embedded in a STEM-based university.

The fourth element is to provide an inclusive, collaborative and rewarding culture. To accomplish
this, the School will increase accountability through transparency, evidence, assessment and
training, as well as commit to increasing gender diversity to at least a third and BAME
representation to at least a quarter of faculty.

Interdisciplinary Engagement Themes

                                                                                                     Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


These are central to our interaction with the broader College and with our external stakeholders
and impact agenda. They will build on strengths currently in place and be further developed to
focus on important problems that cut across multiple traditional areas of research with impact
potential, mobilising donors and funding agencies to support them.

The strategy includes interdisciplinary themes that are also at the heart of the strategy for Imperial
College as a whole (see the Institutional Environment Statement). As such, they connect to and
benefit from a variety of cross-College academic initiatives. They are listed below, with the related
College themes in brackets.

   1)   Sustainability: climate change & social responsibility (Sustainable Society)
   2)   Digital transformation (Smart Society)
   3)   Entrepreneurship (Entrepreneurial Capability)
   4)   Financial and institutional resilience (Resilient Society)
   5)   Health management and policy (Healthy Society)

The School’s five strategic themes cut across traditional departments and academic areas and will
be supported through the centre structure, both existing and new (see Section 3). These themes
are already very salient in the life of the school, as all but one of the impact cases are connected to
one or more of them.

During the next 5 years, we expect the School, with its centres, to be internationally reputed across
the five strategic themes, and at least two recognized as leading global knowledge and impact
hubs.

To support our engagement and impact aspirations, there will be a strong effort to develop a
leading-edge digital presence that will become an important resource for UK and international
decision and policy makers.

2. People

A core component of the strategy to improve the research environment since 2014 has been to
hire and nurture an excellent and diverse pool of faculty at all levels across the School, with an
emphasis on the strategic themes. As documented below, we believe we have been successful in
this regard. A deeper pool of talented people has allowed us to improve the quality and relevance
of the research the School produces, as well as the quality of the PhD programme, of the
conferences, seminar series and other events we hold, and the other aspects of a vibrant research
environment. As a result of these improvements, we have been able to expand the activities of
research centres in the School as well as the number and significance of recent major research
projects. This has been associated with the highest quality, and important impact of, research
outputs.

Recruitment, Development and Promotion of Academics

To sustain its development goals and meet expansion targets, the School has been both actively
hiring at all levels and supporting the progression and promotion of its academic staff. Every year,
the School interviews and recruits recently minted PhDs who can be the intellectual leaders of
tomorrow. This ensures a flow of new talent who contribute to the vibrancy and sustainability of our
research environment. At the same time, the School protects and nurtures junior talent, so they

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
can develop their research agenda and progress in their academic careers. The support and
promotion of junior faculty is seen by the School as essential in ensuring a strong and supportive
research culture.

In addition, because of its youth, the School did not have an established and diverse cadre of
senior faculty who could adequately support the development of the growing number of juniors,
take on the relevant administrative roles required for its activity, and lead critical engagement
efforts. As a result, a significant effort has also been placed on attracting leading senior faculty to
help build a stronger school at all levels.

Full Professors

The School has hired 13 excellent faculty at full professor level since 2014 who are still at the
school. These include Allen (Pennsylvania) 2014; Anderson (Sydney) 2020; Bolton (Columbia)
2019; Hughes (Cambridge) 2014; Moore (Bocconi) 2019; Nanda (Harvard) 2019; Peydro
(Pompeu Fabra) 2018; Ramadorai (Oxford) 2016; Röell (Columbia) 2019; Sassi (OECD) 2016;
Talluri (Pompeu Fabra) 2014; Tucci (EPFL) 2020; and Zollo (Bocconi) 2019.

Among them, two have been President of the American Finance Association, one has been
President of the European Academy of Management, one is a Fellow of the American Academy of
Arts and Sciences, one is a Fellow of the British Academy, one is a Corresponding Fellow of the
British Academy, two are Fellows of the Econometric Society, and one is a Fellow of the Strategic
Management Society. The group includes individuals who have been Managing Editor (or
equivalent) of the European Management Review, Organization & Environment, Journal of the
European Economic Association, Review of Economic Studies, Review of Finance, and Review of
Financial Studies. In addition to their intrinsic quality and recognition, most are bringing important
skills and experience directly relevant and connected to the strategic drive of the School. For
example, Zollo is leading the new Leonardo Centre in sustainability, Tucci is launching a Centre
for Digital Transformation, Nanda is heading the College’s Deep Tech Entrepreneurship Initiative,
Bolton became the Academic Director of the Centre for Climate Change, Finance and Investment,
and Moore is developing a Centre in Responsible Leadership.

Associate Professors

Similarly to the recruitment of full professors, the attraction of associate professors brings
seasoned researchers to the School, allowing it to accelerate particular research agendas. A set of
8 outstanding associate professors were hired; Haugh (Columbia), Iyer (MIT), Hansen (Oxford),
Seiler (Stanford), Custodio (NOVASBE), Rogan (North Carolina), Rosa Dias (Sussex) and
Wadwha (EPFL).

Assistant Professors

Since 2014, the School has hired 26 assistant professors. This has involved very competitive
processes, many of them with well over 100, and sometimes 200, applications for a given position.
Faculty were recruited with PhDs from a wide range of universities including Columbia, INSEAD,
KU Leuven, LBS, Northwestern, British Columbia, Cambridge, Chicago, Oslo, St. Gallen, Toronto,
Western Ontario, and Vienna.

Faculty Support and Development Structure


                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The School expends considerable effort on developing the research skills of its research staff,
monitoring their evolution and rewarding their research successes. First, a new faculty member
receives at least a 25% reduction in teaching load during the first one or two years after their
arrival. The School also tries hard to reduce the number of preparations for different courses during
the first few years and to concentrate the teaching period. Second, every faculty member, including
juniors, has access to an annual research budget of at least £7,500 to support their research
efforts with a possibility for more funds from their HoD or the centres.

There are three main mechanisms for helping to develop, assess and help the progression of
faculty. These are the Adviser/Mentor programme for new assistant professors, the Personnel
Review Committee (PRC), and the Personal Review and Development Process (PRDP).

Each assistant professor is assigned a mentor when they join the School. The mentor and advisee
meet at least once a term and discuss any advice that is needed or how to deal with research,
teaching, service or other issues that have arisen. The mentor provides input to the PRC each
year.

The PRC is a faculty committee chaired by the Vice-Dean for Research and Faculty and has
members from each of the four departments as well as a representative for the teaching fellows
who are appointed with the help of advisory ballots. The HoDs also provide input to the committee.
Research faculty are assessed each year on three dimensions over the past three-year rolling
period: research, teaching and service. Assessment of research is also based on three elements:
quality of published output including journal articles and significant monographs; research grants
obtained; and research impact. The three dimensions of research, teaching and service are
weighted differently according to rank and administrative duties. Except for people with heavy
administrative loads such as HoDs and vice-deans, research is a majority of the weighting. Impact
is explicitly recognised in the research evaluation to fit with the School and College impact mission.
The PRC scores of individuals are the primary determinant of their annual salary increase.

While the PRC focuses on the past three years, the PDRP is mostly a forward-looking progress.
This is conducted by each staff member’s line manager every year. For most people, this is their
HoD (for some it may be the director of a research centre or the Dean). The line manager and staff
member discuss past performance, incorporating the results of the PRC, as well as future plans,
including guidance for areas where performance can be improved and suggesting the tools to do
so. This is an important part of everybody’s development, and for staff with research duties
includes both research and impact development.

Career Progression

In 2015, we introduced an associate professor career-track in which new assistant professors have
a six-year fixed-term contract. This was done because junior faculty are typically recruited as they
finish their PhDs. Given the lengthy publication cycles in social sciences, there is limited evidence
on how successful they will be as academics in early stages of their career. After six years, a much
better assessment can be made. Progression from assistant to associate professor is not
automatic and requires review by School and College committees. The decisions are based on the
candidate’s research quality and impact, the quality of teaching, relevant service, and other
measures of international esteem, including outside letters. Of the four people in the first cohort
with the fixed-term contract who came up for promotion in 2019-20, two were promoted and given
open-ended contracts. This model is the norm at international business schools.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
There is no timing established for progression from associate to full professor. Faculty apply when
there is perception that their experience, contribution and especially their international recognition
for research output and impact are commensurate with that of a full professor in leading
international business schools and Imperial College. There is an assessment process at the
School and College level, which can lead to a decision to promote an associate professor to full.

The School regards its support and promotions structure as an essential factor, alongside
recruitment, in ensuring we maintain a vibrant and sustainable research environment. During the
period since the last REF exercise, there have been 17 people promoted to associate and 5
associates promoted to full professor. This is testament to the importance the School has been
placing not just on attracting talented faculty but also creating the conditions that allow their
careers to progress.

Secondments and Sabbatical Leave

Individuals approached to serve on external public sector bodies or who wish to apply for such
positions discuss them with their HoD and, where secondments are full-time, with the Dean. The
School supports and celebrates such activity and provides replacement teaching and
administrative cover where that is required. Individuals are also encouraged to foster research and
impact relationships with the private sector, including board memberships and advisory roles.
There are at least 17 faculty with such roles during the REF period, including very visible recent
positions such as Haskel in the MPC, Propper as President of the Royal Economic Society and
Valletti as Chief Competition Economist, EU DG COMP, among many others discussed in Section
4.

Faculty can also apply for six months’ sabbatical leave for each three years of qualifying service.
Sabbaticals must be for research purposes and applications that involve visits to other academic
institutions, or that are connected to a research grant, are prioritised. These are an important way
for faculty to extend their research abilities and horizons. Six people took sabbaticals during the
REF period.

PGR Students and Research Fellows

MRes and PhD

The School is fully committed to developing the next generation of academics and increasing the
number and quality of its placements. To strengthen the students’ training and skillset, the Doctoral
programme introduced in 2015 a new one-year Master of Research (MRes) prior to the PhD
component. The programme provides a solid foundation in theory and research methods within the
finance, economics, management, marketing and operations disciplines. To achieve the
programme’s objective, the cohort target intake was fixed at 15 students, and the quality of
candidates admitted to the programme has increased. While in 2015 there were 153 applications
for 15-20 slots, in the past year we had 245 applicants to these 15 slots. The proportion of students
with a postgraduate distinction equivalent rose from 50% in 2014 to 64% in 2017 and 73% in 2020.

Of the current 47 PhD students, approximately 8% are from the UK, 26% are from the EU and 66%
are other overseas. The School provides full funding to its Doctoral students, through the Business
School Graduate Teaching Assistant scholarship, but there are other scholarship opportunities
available. Among the current students: three are fully funded through the EPSRC Doctoral Training
Partnership; two receive funding through the London Interdisciplinary Social Science Doctoral

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Training Partnership, which is in collaboration with King's College London and Queen Mary
University of London; seven have been awarded the College's highly competitive President's
Scholarship; one has a full scholarship through the Brevan Howard Centre; and one has their own
funding.

The MRes students are evaluated during the programme and most proceed to the PhD. In the five
years of entry from 2015-2019, out of 60 students, two left for industry, one transferred to
Mathematics, and one to another institution, with the remaining 56 going on to the PhD. Students
in this phase have structured annual reviews to make sure satisfactory progress is being made in
their research. Departments require every student to participate in a PhD seminar series. Each
student needs to present their research at least once a year. The programme also provides an
annual research fund ranging from £1,000 to £1,800. The faculty community is highly involved in
support and supervision to the students during their PhD and help in their placement. In addition,
students also benefit from the strong pastoral care that the business school offers, aiming to
support their wellbeing alongside their academic success.

Our aim in the MRes/PhD programme is to place our students at top universities and we expect
them to take a similar amount of time to complete as students at leading international schools. As a
result, business PhDs often take longer than 4 years to complete their programs, which is a more
common length in STEM disciplines (hence a 57% completion rate in 4 years reported in the data).
Among the people we hired as Assistant Professors in 2018 and 2019, 6 completed their PhDs in 5
years and 1 took 6 years. The most recent cohort that has been largely unaffected by Covid,
entered in 2014 and has completions consistent with this pattern. Of the 14 students who entered,
2 withdrew, 3 submitted in 4 years, 5 more in 5 years, 2 in 6 years, and 1 in 7 years. The remaining
student has not submitted yet due to interruption of study.

The improvement in quality in the programme is visible, among other ways, in the placement of the
graduates. Out of 9 graduates in 2019, 4 had faculty placements at UCL, Sussex, Tsinghua and
Renmin, and another was placed at the Bank of England. Other notable placements in recent
years include assistant professors at University of Alberta, Université Laval, Queen’s University
(Canada), and post-doctoral fellowships at ETH, the LSE and Mannheim. Most others had senior
placements in finance and consulting or became entrepreneurs.

Pre- and Post-Doctoral Research Staff

These staff are on research-only contracts. Research assistant is a pre-doctoral training grade for
staff with a first degree who are registered and studying for a higher degree within the College or at
another institution. There are currently 5 such assistants. Research associate is the most junior
post-doctoral position and there are 21 of these employed. The College career structure for fellows
has four grades: Research Fellow, Advanced Research Fellow, Senior Research Fellow and
Principal Research Fellow. Currently, there are 6 such fellows, mostly integrated and contributing
to the various research centres of the School and primarily funded through research grants. We
aim to support our research staff and provide continuous appointment and career progression at
the School and elsewhere. Out of the 82 researchers employed by the School during 2014-20 who
have left, 56 are in academia, 7 in policy/research, 11 in business, and 8 are unknown. The
universities include Cambridge, Erasmus, ETH, Goethe University Frankfurt, IESE, Imperial,
Oxford, Shanghai Jiao Tong, and Trinity College Dublin. The policy/research category includes the
Bank of England and OECD.

Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The School aspires to provide an inclusive working environment that empowers all staff to reach
their full potential. To meet this aspiration, the School Diversity Committee (DC) was established in
2014 (initially as the Gender Equity Committee). The purpose of the DC is to provide direction,
challenge and advice to the Dean and the Management Board in relation to all aspects of equality,
diversity and inclusion. The remit includes diversity-related matters including, but not limited to,
issues and challenges for individuals who fall under any of the protected characteristics, i.e. gender
and gender identity, religion, sexual orientation, race, age, and disability. It is currently composed
of 5 faculty and 4 professional staff. The DC reports to the Dean and the School’s Management
Board via the Chair of the Committee, who sits on the Management Board. The core strategic
priority related to diversity and inclusion has been developed by the DC. The Chairs of this
committee, Miraldo and Kosova, were given Julia Higgins Awards in 2019 in recognition of their
work. These awards are given annually to recognise people who have significantly contributed to
the support of academic women at Imperial.

The School’s aspiration to sustain a vibrant inclusive research culture is reflected in a range of
policies. All faculty are asked at the beginning of each academic session if there are any
considerations such as childcare that they wish to be considered during the construction of
teaching timetables. Consideration is given to those with caring responsibilities and part-
time staff by ensuring School meetings and social gatherings typically fall within a 10am –
4pm window. The College will reimburse a member of staff for additional child-care
expenses when attending work-related events outside the normal place of work.

Another important benefit offered through central College is access to an outstanding
nursery, in which many research and professional staff enrol their children.

In addition to the standard 16 weeks paid parental leave all staff and research students are eligible
for, faculty can apply for the Elsie Widdowson Fellowship Award, which is described in the
Institutional Environmental Statement. Overall, 17 Elsie Widdowson Fellowships were granted
to Business School faculty during the REF period.

The School offers Unconscious Bias and Active Bystander training sessions for all staff. This
training is strongly recommended for all staff and is required for staff in managerial positions or
who have responsibilities or make decisions in the areas of hiring, supervision, performance
evaluation or promotion.

The School also monitors the membership of all School committees and advisory boards, including
recruitment panels, to try to ensure a minimum of 30% representation of both males and females,
without overloading certain people who have heavy committee loads. It also carefully monitors
recruitment shortlists to make sure that they include appropriate diversity across protected
characteristics.

The College has a Conference Organisation Policy to ensure diversity of participants in
conferences organised by Imperial staff or students, or conferences held on College premises. The
School has also drafted a set of good practice guidelines for chairing and asking questions in
research seminars to ensure equity of treatment for female speakers and participants.

Gender and Ethnicity

The Athena SWAN Charter was established in 2005 to encourage and recognise commitment to

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
advancing the careers of women in science, technology, engineering, maths and medicine
employment in higher education and research. In 2015, Athena SWAN was expanded to
recognise work undertaken in arts, humanities, social sciences, business and law. Building on its
work to support gender equity, the School successfully applied for Bronze in 2016. It was the first
business school to formally receive an award under this scheme. Since then, the School has been
implementing its 41-point action plan and remains committed to the Athena SWAN Charter
principles and will be applying for Bronze renewal in 2021.

The School and its DC have been working on a more comprehensive set of policies to support race
equality at the level of the School and College. There are specific aims and practices being
adopted with the goal of achieving tangible results and a School staff member is co-chairing the
College work group that has been preparing application to join the Race Equality Charter.

Despite its efforts, the progress of the School in terms of attracting and securing a diverse
community has been uneven, with some areas progressing more than others. Although we have
worked hard to attract female faculty, the overall share has not improved, with 27% of the of staff in
2019-20 being female. The highest share is among the associate professors (33% female) and the
greatest progress has been among full professors, with 15% females, doubling from 2015. The
PhD programme is quite balanced with 49% female students.

The School also wishes to have a diverse staff in terms of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic
(BAME) staff. Limited progress has been made within this category: Asian staff increased between
2014-15 to 2019-20, from 11% to 13%, while White staff fell from 79% to 70%.

The School will continue to work very hard to foster a more inclusive culture by increasing the
diversity of its staff, including those in more senior roles. As noted above, changing culture and a
set of actions to support this commitment is one of the strategic priorities for the next five years.

Outputs and Quality

The School aims for the highest level of quality and impact for its research initiatives. With College
being a signatory to DORA, the School accordingly assessed research excellence in terms of the
intrinsic quality and significance of individual outputs. As measures of overall quality from an
external viewpoint, we can refer to journal reference points that are relevant in a business school
context. For example, the British Chartered Association of Business Schools publishes a journal
guide with assessments of journal quality, and international business school rankings specify
research output metrics based on selected journals (e.g. the FT 50 Ranking, as noted in Section
1). Taken alongside journal ratings, output citations data for individual outputs are also a frequently
used to generate comparative quality metrics.

Clarivate InCites (https://clarivate.com/webofsciencegroup/solutions/incites/) shows that, between
2014 and 2020, the Web of Science (WoS) recorded 1,001 outputs from the School’s staff, in
journals that it has assigned to UoA 17. Of these, 38 papers were in the top 1% of papers in the
WoS UoA 17 based on citations, and 213 (21% of all our outputs) were in the top 10%.

REF Eligible Staff Output Journal Profile and Citations

Following the College REF Code of Practice, staff were asked to nominate their choice of up to 7
outputs for assessment and potential inclusion in the final portfolio. As a result of this exercise, the
School reviewed 504 unique nominated outputs from 98 (92.15 FTE) staff for potential inclusion in

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
our required portfolio of 228 outputs.

In terms of gender, 24% of attributed outputs were by female faculty and 76% by male. Asian and
Chinese faculty members generated 15% of the outputs, with 8% coming from Others (including
undisclosed) and 77% from White faculty. These are broadly in line with the faculty distribution of
males and females as well as Asians and Chinese, albeit with a slight over-representation of
Whites. The distributions are affected by seniority and age profiles, which vary across the gender
and BAME groupings.

Quality indicators relating to the attributed outputs are set out Tables 1 and 2.

Table 1 Top Journals by Number of Attributed Outputs and Journal Rating
                                                   No. Attributed
                   Journal Name                                   AJG Rating                  FT50
                                                      Outputs
  ACADEMY OF MANAGEMENT JOURNAL                         19            4*                        
  JOURNAL OF FINANCIAL ECONOMICS                        13            4*                        
  MANAGEMENT SCIENCE                                    13            4*                        
  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STUDIES                           10            4*                        
  STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT JOURNAL                          10            4*                        
  AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW                               9            4*                        
  JOURNAL OF FINANCE                                     9            4*                        
  OPERATIONS RESEARCH                                    9            4*                        
  ORGANIZATION SCIENCE                                   9            4*                        
  RESEARCH POLICY                                        9            4*                        
  ADMINISTRATIVE SCIENCE QUARTERLY                       6            4*                        
  MARKETING SCIENCE                                      5            4*                        
  REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES                             4            4*                        
  ACADEMY OF MANAGEMENT REVIEW                           3            4*                        
  ECONOMETRICA                                           3            4*                        
  JOURNAL OF MARKETING                                   3            4*                        
  JOURNAL OF POLITICAL ECONOMY                           3            4*                        
  JOURNAL OF APPLIED PSYCHOLOGY                          2            4*                        
  JOURNAL OF CONSUMER PSYCHOLOGY                         2            4*                        
  JOURNAL OF MARKETING RESEARCH                          2            4*                        
  QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF ECONOMICS                         2            4*                        
  JOURNAL OF INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS                                                             
  STUDIES                                                1            4*
  JOURNAL OF OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT                       1            4*                        

Note* AJG: https://charteredabs.org/academic-journal-guide-2018/

Table 1 lists 23 journals in which our faculty publish. They are all in the group of highest 4* rated
journals in the Academic Journal Guide (AJG) and o in the separate list of key research journals
used in the research element of the Financial Times (FT50) global rankings of business schools.
These 23 journals account for 147 (64%) of the 228 attributed papers.

The attributed outputs produced by faculty are also widely cited.


                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Table 2. Attributed Outputs Cited over 400 Times by Citation Source and AJG Rating
                                                                  Google                   FT
         Author                       Journal                             WoS AJG*
                                                                  Scholar                  50
                 ECONOMETRICA
      Peydro                                                       1347     255      4*     
                 doi.org/10.3982/ECTA10104
                 RESEARCH POLICY
      Gawer                                                        1068     333      4*     
                 doi.org/10.1016/j.respol.2014.03.006
                 JOURNAL OF FINANCE
      Kirilenko                                                    1057     115      4*     
                 doi.org/10.1111/jofi.12498
                 RESEARCH POLICY
      Autio                                                        1050     359      4*     
                 doi.org/10.1016/j.respol.2013.08.016
                 JOURNAL OF POLITICAL ECONOMY
      Peydro                                                        584      58      4*     
                 doi.org/10.1086/694289
      Propper &  REVIEW OF ECONOMIC STUDIES
                                                                    543     112      4*     
      Seiler     doi.org/10.1093/restud/rdu045
                 OPERATIONS RESEARCH
      Wiesemann                                                     506     225      4*     
                 doi.org/10.1287/opre.2014.1314
      Peydro &   REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STUDIES
                                                                    497     120      4*     
      Iyer       doi.org/10.1093/rfs/hht056
                 MANAGEMENT SCIENCE
      Nanda                                                         434     128      4*     
                 doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2015.2207
                 ECONOMETRICA
      Kacperczyk                                                    402      67      4*     
                 doi.org/10.3982/ECTA11412

Note* See note for Table 1.

Table 2 shows 10 of the attributed papers published in the assessment period have over 400
Google Scholar citations. The table also shows 8 of these 10 have over 100 WoS citations. Two of
the authors are women and another two are Asian.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

The Pattern of Research Funding over the Assessment Period

Over the REF period, the School had total research income of £22.0M: £8.2M from UK Research
Councils, £5.4M from EU sources, £4.2M from UK industry partners, £1.2M from UK charities,
£1.6M from the UK Government, and £1.4M from other sources.

In addition to this external funding, over the REF assessment period, the School committed
significant internal funds to strengthen our research endeavour. For example, the total amount
spent by the School to fund personal research allowances was around £1.7M over the REF period
while the total cost to the School of providing funding for doctoral studentships rose from £375K in
2014-15 to £1.3M in 2019-20, and stood at £5M for the total period. New School research centres
that were yet to receive significant external funding were also provided with £1.5M in seed funding
to underwrite staff costs until they were self-sufficient. Finally, the School was awarded five
prestigious Imperial College Research Fellowships at a value of £0.6M. During this period,
research at the School also benefitted substantially from the £20M Brevan Howard donation

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
covering the period 2012-20.

The School’s external grant portfolio has changed considerably over the assessment period. We
have seen a reorientation away from UK research council grants and towards a greater reliance on
industrial and European funding. In the first year of the assessment period, research councils
accounted for 56% of our research income, but this figure fell consistently from 2015-16 and in
2019-20 stood at 15%. Council grants, nevertheless, represented a total of £8.2M over the period
and were the biggest single source.

The trend in UK research council funding is partly attributable to the end of a cycle of a set of very
significant grants. In the assessment period, four research council centre or large grants ended.
These had contributed to our previous high volume with a combined total value to the School of
around £12.5M.

Another important driver has been the growing proportion of foreign faculty and the recent
recruitment of overseas senior faculty with international funding horizons. Our European
Commission grant income has, as a result, risen year-on-year in absolute and percentage terms,
from 8% in the first year of the period to 60% in the last. This is mainly due to winning seven recent
prestigious European Research Council investigator awards, two at starting level (ter Wal €1.33M
2017-22, Custodio €1.36M 2019-24), three at consolidator (Hansen €1.65M 2020-25;
Kacperczyk €1.59M 2016-20; Nanda €1.59M 2020-25; and two at advanced (Propper €1.49M
2018-22; Bolton €1.74M 2020-25). Four of these are led by PIs who have joined us during the
period. Four are reflected in our income figures for this period, and three more, awarded in 2020,
will be evident in future spending.

In addition to these, we have won large collaborative grants as co-ordinator from the Horizon 2020
and Climate KIC programmes: the STOP consortium (on policy responses to childhood obesity)
brings together 24 participating organisations and has a total value of €10.5M (Sassi H2020;
€2.1M to Imperial), while the Climate KIC-funded ARISE programme (on risk management in
agriculture) has a total value of €5.48M (Biffis Climate-KIC €3.83M to Imperial).

Industry funding has not shown such consistent growth but has accounted for 21% of our research
income over the period, and this will rise when recently awarded grants (including four separate
grants for research centre funding signed in 2020 with a combined value of around £5.75M) start to
be reflected in our spending.

The changing levels of grant awards are shown in Figure 1. This is not spending against grants but
the total value of new awards each year without reference to spending. This overall profile makes
clear the recent significant upturn in grants awarded and the resulting positive implications for the
vitality and sustainability of our research environment.

                   Figure 1 Grant Awards to the Business School 2015-2020




                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
£8M

£7M

£6M

£5M

£4M

£3M

£2M

£1M

 £M
         2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 2018/2019 2019/2020



Infrastructure: Management, Bid Processes and Research Support

The School’s Research Committee is chaired by the Vice-Dean for Research and Faculty and
includes representatives from each of the School’s departments. The Research Committee advises
the School’s Management Board on research resource and infrastructure policy and acts as the
main conduit between the Management Board, staff and the wider College on research issues.
This includes overseeing research integrity, working with the researchers to address any ethical,
legal and professional dimensions of their work. It also helps promote and support open research,
including open data and open access whenever possible. The Vice-Dean and Head of Research
Support both sit on the College’s main research committee, the Vice-Provost’s Advisory Group for
Research.

The management of the grant application process is the joint responsibility of the individual
academics and the School’s Research Support Team. Usually, the Head of Research Support
liaises with the faculty member drafting the proposal and provides support on the costings, offers
additional useful guidance on the nature of the proposal, and fits the proposal to funder priorities
and the kinds of bids being funded.

Imperial College Library manages a data budget of £387K (2019-20) for the School. This is mainly
used for long-term subscriptions to data sets with wide usage across the School and is not
intended to be spent on resources with more limited use. The Library and School have a joint
working group to manage this budget, and the School Research Committee receives annual
reports on its expenditure. In addition to this, the Department of Finance has its own data budget of
£80K per year for the purchase of smaller and lower-cost resources for the use of smaller groups
of academics.

Research Centres



                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
As described in Section 1, the School’s research centres play an important role in the vitality and
sustainability of research in general through their role as sources of attracting funding for, and
intellectual locations for PhD students and post-doctoral researchers. They also embody and
sustain the development of our strategic research and engagement themes, with each of them
connected to one or several of the centres described below.

Centre for Health Economics & Policy Innovation (CHEPI)

CHEPI was established in 2017 and is led by Sassi. It performs cutting-edge research on
incentives and environments that encourage individuals and organisations to make health-
enhancing decisions. CHEPI supports the development of business and government policies that
embed those incentives and create those environments. As of June 2020, CHEPI was leading 8
and participating in over 14 large scale funded research projects involving faculty across Imperial
College London and other leading academic institutions totalling £13.5M, with an annual research
income of over £1.3M.

Brevan Howard Centre

This is led by Allen and was founded in 2012-13 with a £20M donation from the hedge fund
Brevan Howard. It has world-leading expertise in financial economics. Its main contributions span
three broad streams of research: financial stability and financial regulation, the design of financial
structures for countries, and “Finance for Good” projects such as financing development,
environmental protection and medicines. The impact case by Miles and Ramadorai (Household
Finance and Mortgage Market Regulation in UK and India) exemplifies the reach and significance
of this work. Interdisciplinary links span engineering, computing and mathematics and includes
collaboration with the Imperial College Centre for Cryptocurrency Research and Engineering in the
Faculty of Engineering. There is extensive international cross-disciplinary collaborative research
through the ARISE project spanning the Department of Physical Geography at Utrecht, École
Polytechnique (Paris) and CIRAD, the French Agricultural Research Centre for International
Development. This work is summarised in the impact case by Biffis and Chavez (Financial
Inclusion – Supporting Africa’s Poorest Farmers). Vibrant long- and short-term visitor programmes
have added to the vitality and quality of the research environment and helped us in recruitment.
Distinguished long-term visitors included Lubos Pastor (Chicago), Pietro Veronesi (Chicago),
Haresh Sapra (Chicago), Harrison Hong (Columbia), Antoinette Schoar (MIT) and Paul
Asquith (MIT), as well as Bolton and Röell, who were subsequently recruited.

Centre for Climate Finance and Investment (CCFI)

The CCFI, directed by Donovan (Professor of Practice) and with Bolton as academic director,
was established in 2017 with a donation of £525K over three years from Quinbrook Infrastructure
Partners, renewed in 2020. This has been supplemented with a grant of £1.4M from Standard
Chartered Bank covering the period 2020-24, enabling the Centre to expand its activities
considerably. The Centre’s principal contributions are around investigating the investment
opportunities in renewable energy, clean technologies, and climate-resilient infrastructure. The
Centre works in close collaboration with the College’s Grantham Institute for Climate Change and
the Environment, jointly running research activities and an MSc, as well as with a variety of
partners such as CityUK, the International Energy Agency and UN Environment.

Centre for Financial Technology


                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
This was founded in 2016 by Kirilenko, with a grant from Citibank of $1.2M (US). Since then, he
has moved to the University of Cambridge, and the Centre is now jointly directed by Chana
(Professor of Practice) and Chemla. Citibank renewed their funding for a further $1.2M in 2020.
Financial technology, or fintech, is developing at a rapid rate, disrupting sectors as diverse as
corporates, banking, trading and investment, personal finance, accounting, and insurance. The
Centre acts as a hub for the interdisciplinary research needed to develop innovations, reveal
insights and answer questions in this space; bringing together the activities of academics, start-up
companies, established industry and governmental organisations. The case study by Buraschi,
Distaso and Kosowski (Risk Measurement and Portfolio Construction) exemplifies the significant
impact of this approach.

Imperial Business Analytics (IBA)

The IBA was formed in 2014 in partnership with KPMG. Led by Kennedy, it is an explicitly
interdisciplinary research laboratory which spans departments within Imperial College Business
School and across the College through the Data Science Institute. IBA is at the forefront of data
science and business analytics, using cutting-edge technology such as the KPMG Data
Observatory, one of the world’s most advanced data visualisation spaces. The Centre’s research is
focussed on how business analytics, data and artificial intelligence will change business, and
society more generally. Funded by its corporate stakeholders KPMG and DLA Piper, the Centre
has brought in direct funding totalling £3.1M over the REF period.

The Leonardo Centre

This centre, directed by Zollo, is concerned with developing a sustainable society, where
companies pursue profit for societal impact. The Centre is pursuing several research programmes
to investigate how this vision can be implemented, collaborating with several other centres and
units across Imperial on this implementation. These include ones on purpose and governance,
leadership and culture, business model innovation, corporate and functional strategies, and control
and incentive systems. Its initial funding was provided by a grant from Huawei of £2.5M over five
years.

The Centre for Responsible Leadership

This is among the newest research centres and is directed by Moore, who joined the School in
2019. It is funded by Citibank for $1.4M (US) over three years from 2020. Drawing on academic
theory and business practice, it will focus on generating meaningful change in businesses and
organisations through evidence-based research that addresses the key ethical, economic, social,
environmental and technological challenges facing organisations today. It will help businesses and
organisations to identify practices that will improve their approach to leadership and boost overall
performance.

The Centre for Management Buy-Out Research (CMBOR)

CMBOR was launched at Nottingham University Business School by Wright in 1986 and moved
with him to Imperial College Business School in 2011. It operated throughout the REF period until
Professor Wright’s untimely death in 2019. With core funding from Investec and Equistone
throughout the REF period, CMBOR collected and aggregated quantitative international data on
buyouts by management teams and private equity institutions. The impact of this work is captured
in the Wright impact case (Impacts on the Early-Stage Business Financing Eco-System of the

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
UK).

The Gandhi Centre

This multi-disciplinary centre led by Chaturvedi has a focus on “innovation for inclusive growth,” as
the main theme for research and applied policy contribution to energy, infrastructure, health and
digital platforms. It provides research and executive education, and forms partnerships
with global companies to develop best practice in innovation and entrepreneurship. With extensive
national and international collaboration, the Centre has had a particular role facilitating interaction
between British and Indian executives to build business relationships and support local
development. Among other projects, it has been key in supporting the development of a very
successful new university in India.

The Deep Tech Initiative

Many of the world’s most pressing problems depend on the successful commercialisation of
fundamental science and engineering innovations or “Deep Tech.” Building on Imperial’s strong
research foundation in science, engineering and medicine, as well as our entrepreneurial culture
embodied in the Translation and Innovation Hub (I-HUB) in White City, this cross-College strategic
initiative is led by Nanda. It will support and reshape our understanding of what is required to
shape a thriving Deep Tech ecosystem across the UK and beyond, based on co-located cross-
disciplinary research and translational support.

Advancement: Donations and Philanthropy

The mobilisation of philanthropic support for research is of strategic importance to the School.
Advancement is a centralised activity at Imperial, with two advancement staff assigned full time to
the School; they are devoted to encouraging and mobilising philanthropy to support School
activities. The Head of Development for the School works closely with the Dean and the senior
leadership of the School to develop the School’s advancement strategy, identify fundraising
priorities, and to liaise with central fundraisers.

Philanthropic giving supports many different activities at the School but is particularly important for
new centres. The Head of Development spends a significant portion of time supporting fundraising
for them as well as for funding for supporting PhD students and hiring post-doctoral
researchers. Past donations have been transformative for research in several areas. For example,
the Brevan Howard Centre was made possible through a £20M donation for the period 2012-20. A
gift of £525K for a fellowship at the Centre for Climate Finance and Investment was secured in
2017 and renewed in early 2020 from Quinbrook Infrastructure Partners. The activity of
Advancement in supporting research is being facilitated by the establishment of new programmes
and additional staff positions to support a culture of philanthropy in the School and to reach out
more consistently to our alumni network in our fundraising.

Industry Partnerships

The External Relations team also supports research through the development of corporate
partnerships. These enable companies to co-develop and support research in areas of mutual
interest to them and School staff and help maximise the potential impact of the research
undertaken. To facilitate these partnerships, the School is supported by a director of industry
partnerships and commercialisation. This person reports to the College’s Enterprise Division,

                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
working across multiple faculties, but spends most of his time working to support research in the
School.

The recent £2.5M 5-year funding of the new Leonardo Centre by Huawei is a good example of a
corporate partnership that existed at the College level and was developed by the School’s Director,
resulting in significant funding for the School. Other partners include Alibaba Group; Barclays;
BDO; BP; Cisco; Citigroup, DRAX, EDF Energy; Facebook; Fideuram; Google; Hero Group;
HSBC; IBM; KPMG; Microsoft; Munich Re; National Grid; the NHS; Omnicom Media Group; Ping
An; Royal Bank of Canada (RBC); Standard Chartered; Swisscom; Unigestion; and Withings.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Engagement and Communication

It is critically important to engage with and communicate the results of our research to key
stakeholders. The School’s Institutional Marketing and Communications function was established
in 2014 to support the internal and external communication of the School’s research mission. This
work includes developing content (articles, videos, podcasts), and sharing it in the School’s
communications channels (such as its website, magazine and social media channels), and
coverage in external channels, including traditional and digital/social media.

Some examples that illustrate the reach of our communications over the period since 2014 are the
following. Our research translation hub, Imperial Business Knowledge, had 1.5 million page views.
Articles include Hansen on how CEO leader styles vary across types of business, which was
covered in Forbes, Irish Times, Start Up Magazine, Real Business, Executive Grapevine, CEO
Review and Relocate Magazine. Forbes also covered Propper and Phillips on decentralisation
and centralisation in managing public health COVID policy, Yip on COVID and globalisation, and
Moore on whether ethical leaders are good for business. The annual School magazine is mailed to
13.5K alumni, and corporate contacts. The School website contained research news and had
1.24M pageviews. There were 604 pieces of traditional media coverage.

Pathways to Contact and Engagement

Conferences and Collaborative Events

The School’s extensive programme of conferences serve two core objectives: they are a key part
of our contribution to the advancement of research across the global academic community of which
we are a part; and they serve as a key pathway to collaboration and impact through knowledge
exchange with the public and private sector user communities.

One very high-profile event is the Annual Business School Flagship Conference Series. It
combines contributions from School faculty with leaders of external organisations to address
issues of global significance. Inaugurated in 2016, successive conferences have focused on our
key strategic themes and priorities. They have covered: Acting on Climate Change; Acting on
Future Health; the Future of Finance; Digital Transformation; and Beyond Sustainability. To
maximise the reach of the conference, full proceedings are filmed and made available through the
School website along with a written summary and links to relevant School research. Speakers
have included distinct personalities of business and society, including the CEOs of Lloyds Bank,
MAN Group and Sainsbury’s, the Editor of Glamour, and M. Yunnus, a Nobel laureate. The 2020
Sustainability Conference, held virtually, included as speakers and panel members senior

                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
executives from Microsoft, Google, McKinsey, Blackrock, BP and Citigroup. It attracted 102 senior
executive attendees, and generated over 4K page views, 4K social media engagements and 857
livestream views.

The School hosts multiple conferences and events across it research fields. For example, the
Brevan Howard Centre Series places special emphasis on high-profile conferences to allow the
School’s research community to interact with and access the latest academic, practitioner and
policy views. They are often hosted in conjunction with other universities and some take place
overseas. Examples of keynote speakers include Blanchard (Former Chief Economist,
International Monetary Fund), Rogoff (Harvard University), Buiter (Citigroup), Carney (Former
Governor of the Bank of England), Bernanke (Former Chair of the Board of Governors of the US
Federal Reserve) Lew (Columbia SIPA, US Secretary of the Treasury 2013‐2017), Szabo (Global
Finance Access) and Jun (China Green Finance Committee).

Research based on cross-disciplinary collaboration are exemplified by two Digital City
Exchange (DCE) Conferences based on an EPSRC funded five-year multidisciplinary
research programme with researchers drawn from the Faculty of Engineering and Business
School. The conferences in 2014 and 2016 explored ways to digitally link utilities and services
within a city, enabling new technical and business opportunities.

We also aim to reflect the School’s commitment to fostering a diverse and inclusive environment in
our very public profile events. For example, in 2018, we hosted the world’s first live holographic
university lecture with the theme Women in Tech: The Inside Story. Guest speakers were
beamed into the College from Los Angeles, New York and London to give their accounts of the
challenges and opportunities they had experienced in their careers. This event generated very
significant media coverage and visibility. The path-breaking use of holography was also exploited
by the Centre for Climate Finance and Investment. In 2019, speakers in London and Toronto
discussed sustainable finance, renewables, infrastructure and long-term investing. Similarly,
Imperial Business Analytics held a very high-profile hologram event in SIBOS 19, a leading
global banking conference.

In the area of health, CHEPI had a variety of highly visible events, many of them collaborative. This
started with its launch, which was celebrated with a one-day conference, New Frontiers in Health
Policy: Innovation and Incentives in Public Health and Health Care, in 2017. Sassi also hosted the
second annual meeting of his Science and Technology in Childhood Obesity Policy (STOP) project
in Paris in 2018. Finally, a conference reflecting the interdisciplinary links of the School across the
College in the area of health research was held in 2020. It was hosted by CHEPI and the Centre for
Mathematics of Precision Healthcare and held within the Mathematics Department.

Conference Organisation

In addition to the above, School faculty organised, co-organised or were members of the scientific
committees of 30 academic conferences in the US, Italy, UK, Germany, Spain, Poland, Canada
and Greece for organisations including the World Bank, Academy of Management, European
Group for Organisational Science and the British Institute of Energy Economics.

Visiting Speakers

The School attracts numerous distinguished visiting speakers to its departmental seminars. For


                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
example, in the academic year 2019-2020 the School hosted 83 speakers from universities across
the globe, including Princeton, Stanford, Harvard, MIT, Toronto, Bocconi, Columbia, Duke, London
Business School, Cambridge, UCLA, Cornell, NYU, KU Leuven, Chicago, Pennsylvania, Illinois,
Warwick, Sao Paolo, Texas at Austin, Michigan, Zürich, Berkeley, Northwestern and Wharton.

Research Partners and Impact

Through its faculty connections, the School sustains a wide range of partners listed in Section 3.
They have contributed to impacts of major international reach and significance of which we list a
few examples below. The first two are drawn from our REF Impact Case Portfolio, the remainder
exemplify the wider context from which they are drawn.

Ramadorai’s 2017 Report on Household Finance for the Reserve Bank of India led inter alia to the
mandatory benchmarking of interest charges on the home loans market, informing the choices of
50 million mortgage applicants annually.

Research collaboration by Biffis and Chavez with Munich Re, the World Bank and Tanzanian
banks led to an innovative loan-insurance product that resulted in $13M of additional loans to
50,000 small-scale Tanzanian farmers, benefitting 400,000 household members and workers.

In collaboration with the Portuguese Ministry of Health, Miraldo and colleagues at CHEPI
assessed the effects of taxation on sugar sweetened beverages in Portugal. They showed that the
tax reduced sugar consumption and the decline was greater than for educational policies and
industry self-regulation. They advised the government to create an additional tax tier for the
products with higher sugar content. A team member joined the government task force to consider
the change and the evidence produced led the government to include the additional tier.

Research by Merlo on consumer transparency and participation had a major impact on the
marketing strategies and performance of a multinational manufacturing business (Velcro) and a
consulting services agency (D. Labs). Velcro’s eight years of collaboration led to the revenue of the
company doubling alongside expanded customer diversity. “I commend Prof. Merlo’s work as
having had a significant and instrumental impact on the strategic development of Velcro” said Dr
Fraser Cameron, then CEO, Velcro.

Haskel’s work on the measurement of investment in intangible assets has had a major impact on
the activity, behaviour and capacity of the UK Office of National Statistics (ONS) in this area. “….
Jonathan’s work on intangible assets has been extremely useful for the ONS, and we will continue
to engage with Jonathan and his co-authors into the future, to ensure we continue to stay at the
international frontier on this important agenda,” said Jonathan Athow, Deputy National Statistician
and Director General, Economic Statistics, ONS.

Collaborative research by Gann with Laing O’Rourke, Arup and Mace on innovation in major
infrastructure development led to the CEO of Crossrail (Europe’s largest civil engineering project,
with a budget of circa £14.8BN), to call on expertise from the School. Crossrail launched its
innovation programme Innovate18 in 2013 to support ideas from the project. By 2016, this had led
to over 450 recognised innovations, 60 funded trials, and over £750,000 of investment. “As
Crossrail’s Programme Director, I worked with Prof. Gann and his team to develop our world-
leading innovation process and system.... I am now Co-Chair of the Construction Leadership
Council, which has supported the roll-out of innovation processes originating from our work
together on Crossrail. These processes are leading to systematic approaches to innovation in what

                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
is often seen to be an uncoordinated and traditional industry,” said Andy Mitchell, CEO, Tideway.

Entrepreneurship and Commercialisation

Given the School’s distinctive location at Imperial, it is an essential feature of our impact that we
work towards the College’s vision for an innovation ecosystem based on the White City Campus
(see Institutional Environment Statement). The White City Campus already has a Translation and
Innovation Hub (I-HUB), dedicated to fostering technology transfer and translation and the
nurturing of small, high-growth, technology-based start-ups. To complement the I-HUB, Imperial
and digital business builder Blenheim Chalcot have created a new building called Scale Space
aimed at providing a highly supportive environment for technology-led businesses which are
"scaling up". The School has taken around 1,100 square metres of space in Scale Space to
occupy from March 2021.

The objective is to enhance and exploit the School’s research leadership in innovation and
entrepreneurship, particularly as it relates to digital businesses. It will also help foster linkage with
other parts of Imperial to strengthen understanding of the crucial interplay between technology and
business. This objective is being addressed through two main mechanisms.

The first is to locate research centres at Scale Space including: (1) the new Initiative on Deep Tech
Entrepreneurship, (2) the Centre for Financial Technology and (3) Imperial Business Analytics. The
first, explained in Section 3, seeks to understand and address the key barriers to the successful
commercialisation of deep tech ventures, while the second will develop productive relationships
with the many Blenheim Chalcot companies active in fintech. The third will bring to White City and
expand a variety of analytics project engagements with start-ups and larger corporates.

The second mechanism is to support and enhance the emerging Scale Space community, which
includes all resident companies, the School and interested external (business) entities. Scale
Space LLP is organising speaker-centric networking events which will be supported by School
faculty. As part of this engagement, three of our entrepreneurship researchers (Rogan, ter Wal
and Nanda) are also working on using Scale Space as a pioneering living research lab, exploring,
among other topics, how entrepreneurs form networks and connectivity when they establish
themselves in new locations.

Professional Contributions and Indicators of Esteem

Journal Editorships

In the REF period, 51 members of the School’s faculty held 114 editorial positions. These included
for the main editor: Allen, Managing Editor, Review of Finance; Perkmann and Phillips, Editor in
Chief, Innovation, Organisation and Management; and Zollo, Editor in Chief, Organisation and
Environment. For editors and equivalent: Kacperczyk, Editor, Review of Finance; Phillips, Co-
Editor, Innovation and Organisation; Propper, Deputy Editor, VOXEU; Ramadorai, Editor, Review
of Financial Studies; Talluri Department Editor, Management Science and Senior Editor,
Productions and Operations; Valletti, Editor, Journal of Competition, Law and Economics; and
Wiesemann, Area Editor, Operations Research Letters. In addition, the faculty held 26 associate
editorships, had positions on 34 editorial boards, 6 editorial review boards, and 3 advisory
editorships.

Esteem: Prizes, Awards, Professional and Advisory Contributions

                                                                                                Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The outstanding overall contribution made by the School through its impact on research
scholarship by the multiple pathways described above is reflected in the prizes and awards won
and the senior advisory positions to which our faculty are appointed. They reflect the
complementarity between academic distinction and impact activity.

School faculty have won multiple academic and industry awards and prizes for their research.
These include the Tjalling C. Koopmans Prize 2014 (Gann), Lloyd’s Science of Risk 2015 Prize
(Chavez), Arrow Award for best paper published worldwide in economics of health in 2016
(Propper), American Economic Association 2016 award for the best paper published in the
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy in the previous three years (Propper), António
Arnaut Prize for the best contribution to health systems research 2016 (Miraldo), Jürgen
Hauschildt Award for the best research publication in innovation management 2016 (Criscuolo),
FIRS Lifetime Achievement Award 2016 (Allen), the Indigo Prize for research on measuring
economic activity for the 21st century 2017 (Haskel), Casualty and Actuarial Society’s Charles A.
Hachemeister Prize 2018 (Biffis), INFORMS Society for Marketing Science Gary L. Lillen Practice
Prize for 2018 (Gokhan), Oliver Williamson Award for Best Paper, Society of Institutional and
Organizational Economics 2018 (Hansman), Paper of the Year, China International Forum on
Finance and Policy 2018 (Hansman), Joanne Martin Trailblazer Award of the OMT Division of the
Academy of Management to recognise opening a new line of inquiry in organisation theory 2018
(Phillips), and Best Crypto Economics Paper Award at the 2nd Toronto Fintech Conference 2019
(Pagnotta). In 2018 and 2020, three of the School’s academics were named in the annual
Poets&Quants competition as among the top 40 business academics under 40 in the world
(Stigliani in 2018 and Eisingerich and Noval in 2020).


Faculty hold senior positions in professional academic bodies and have other appointments
marking their distinction. For example, Propper (2014), Gale (2016), Wright (2016), Allen (2017)
and Autio (2020) were made Fellows of the British Academy. Haskel was awarded a CBE in 2018
for his public services to economics. Kacperczyk was President of the European Finance
Association in 2020, while Propper was President of the Royal Economic Society in 2020, elected
as an International Fellow of the US National Academy of Medicine and was made a Dame in
2021. Ramadorai is a Senior Non-Resident Fellow, National Council for Applied Economic
Research, New Delhi, and a member of the Governing Council, Society of Financial Studies.
Bolton acted as an International Advisor to the China Finance 40 Forum, Hughes served as a
member of the EPSRC Strategic Advisory Network. Phillips is a member of the Board of
Governors for the Academy of Management and serves as a Representative at Large. Yip was
inducted into the Academy of International Business Thinkers50 Hall of Fame.

School faculty have also served in multiple senior advisory and leadership roles in the public and
private sectors. For example, Gann was Chairman of the Smart London Board from 2012-2017
and is currently Chairman of the UK Atomic Energy Authority. Green became a council member for
the British Institute for Energy Economics. Hughes and Haskel were members of the BEIS
Committee to Review UK Manufacturing Metrics. Hughes is a member of the Independent
Strategic Advisory Panel of the UK Ministry of Defence. Haskel serves as a Non-Executive
Director of the UK Statistics Authority and as a member of the Monetary Policy Committee of the
Bank of England. Propper is a member of President Macron’s Expert Commission on major post-
coronavirus economic challenges. Sassi is a member of the Public Health England Alcohol
Advisory Group and the WHO Nutrition Guidance Expert Advisory Group – Subgroup on Policy
Actions and is also a member of the WHO Regional Director’s Advisory Council on Innovation for


                                                                                         Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
NCDs. Miles was a member of Monetary Policy Committee from 2009-15, was awarded a CBE in
2016 for services to monetary policy, is Chair of the Trustees of the Institute for Fiscal Studies, a
Board Member of the CEPR, and a member of the Commission of the Central Bank of Ireland.
Valletti was Chief Competition Economist, DG COMP, European Commission, Brussels 2016-
2019, is a member of the board of the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and of the academic
advisory board of the Open Markets Institute. He is also a Non-Executive Director on the Board of
Payment Systems Regulator (UK). Chana chairs the NATO Advisory Group to the Secretary
General on Emerging and Disruptive Technologies. Hansen is a member of the Scientific Advisory
Board of the Information and Forschung Institute, one of Germany's largest economic think-tanks.




                                                                                            Page 26
