Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of Derby

Unit of Assessment: 20- Social Work and Social Policy

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Overview
Social Work and Social Policy at the University of Derby (UoD) brings together researchers from
a range of academic subjects including sociology, international studies, criminology, criminal
psychology, policing and socio-legal studies, within the School of Law and Social Sciences and
the Social, Cultural and Legal Research Centre. The UoA sits within the wider College of Business,
Law and Social Sciences (BLSS), which also hosts UoA17: Business and Management.

UoA 20 represents a significant new development for the University in this REF period. Staff are
located in the new purpose built One Friar Gate Square Campus in the City Centre which was
opened in 2016 following a £3M investment. We aim to grow and support an inter-disciplinary
research community that makes significant contributions to research, social policy and practice for
a ‘Better Society’, locally, nationally and globally. We do this through a focus on four inter-related
research themes: (i) Social policy, politics and social change; (ii) Crime, policy and society; (iii)
Policing and investigation; (iv) International justice and legal ethics.

1.2 Developments since 2014
Of the 35 staff (32.8 FTE) in the UoA, only six (4.6 FTE) were returned in 2014 to two different
UoAs (UoA20: Law, and UoA36: Communication, Culture and Media) at UoD. The remaining 29
staff (28.2 FTE) represent a significant investment in research capacity. The current submission
represents a substantial trajectory of progress in the establishment of a new staffing base, support
infrastructure, and the realisation of outputs, impact and income from a ‘standing start’, following
the creation of the School for Law and Social Sciences in 2016 and the appointment of Nunn as
Research Director at the end of 2016 and subsequently of senior research staff, including Pease,
Farrall, Yusuf, Moss, Huang (UoA17), Best and Kemp.

1.3 Strategic Aims
Research in the College of Business, Law and Social Sciences is organised under two strategic
themes: ‘Better Business’ and ‘Better Society’, with a shared commitment to conduct research that
makes a real difference in our local area and region, across the UK and in the wider world where
we have a growing network of collaborations and partnerships. Our core strategic aim since 2016
has been to establish a staffing base and supportive infrastructure for research. This has involved
significant investment, the development of facilities and research culture. With these elements
now in place, we aim to develop research which informs policymaking, shapes best practice and
leads intellectual debates for a ‘Better Society’. The University’s Strategic Framework emphasises
a commitment to the locality of Derby and Derbyshire, and a strong cross-cutting focus of this UoA
is to have a progressive social impact on social policy and practice locally, while recognising that
this means leading on intellectual debates globally.

1.4 Current Priorities
(a) Social policy, politics and society
A significant priority within this theme is the political and social construction and impacts of
inequality. Farrall, Gray and Jones have an advanced understanding of the long-term political
construction of a society that tolerates increased levels of inequality. Their research (3 ESRC
grants, c£1M value, the latter delivered at Derby) on the long-term legacies of Thatcherism has
traced the ‘sunken’ outcomes of social and economic policies relating to housing, schooling, the
economy and justice on both UK society and the lives of individuals. This work has developed a
novel approach to researching, exploring and assessing political legacies. Nunn has also focused
on the political economy underpinnings of inequality in the UK, Europe, and internationally. Lee’s
research has expanded our understanding of the ways that institutional structures affect the
construction and reproduction of gender inequalities while Masters assesses the inequalities in
accessing institutions of foreign policy decision-making and the gap between domestic

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
constituencies and the political elites. Brocklehurst’s research uncovers inequalities in the
representation of children and has been central to an increased focus on children in International
Relations. Tkazky explores gender differences in homicide and violence. Best led a National
Institute of Health Research funded European collaboration containing a work package reviewing
the impact of policy change on addiction recovery pathways in England, Scotland, Belgium and
the Netherlands (completed in December 2020, total value of €750,000 over 3yrs). Further ESRC
funding has been secured for a follow-up study assessing the impact of COVID and lockdown on
recovery pathways (£131,248).

The second significant priority within this theme has been research on discrimination,
community cohesion and inter-community dialogue. Weller, Wilson and Henry work on
various aspects of community cohesion and inter-faith dialogue and religious discrimination.
Weller has continued to deepen understanding of religious discrimination and to better understand
contemporary populism (REF3, 20-2). Wilson advances understanding of White Nationalism and
apocalyptical ideology and Henry’s forthcoming monograph is a major step forward in
understanding institutional responses to populism and extremism. The recent addition of Rafferty
has strengthened this focus. Her award-winning PhD research advances understandings of ‘on
the ground’ conflict resolution practices in situations of inter-community conflict and the
deployment of research methods in these circumstances. Lennon’s research on cultural and
religious conflict focusses on how collective social identities are produced through cultural
phenomena and media debate, including satire. Belcastro’s research on intra-state conflicts
explores the interaction between external actors and the domestic drivers of conflict. Kerr’s
innovative use of evolutionary theory to understand political and social institutions has shone new
light on state-building and nationalism.

The third priority in this thematic area reflects how policies and institutions affect vulnerable
or disadvantaged groups, helping to reinforce or mitigate social harm. The addition of
Moss’s research on homelessness significantly strengthens our capacity. Her European
Commission-funded research into female homelessness across Europe has advanced knowledge
and understanding of how homelessness impacts women survivors of domestic abuse. Her
research on the history and context of the control of public spaces has advanced understanding
about the victimisation of, and public policy response to the homeless. Her research into
homelessness in HE was supported by the British Academy/Leverhulme and represents the first
UK study into this social issue, establishing that this is a more significant and far-reaching social
problem than imagined.

Best’s research on addiction recovery and reintegration focuses on practical interventions to
support excluded and vulnerable groups. Further, in projects with Aboriginal young offenders in
collaboration with the Australian National University, he has developed the concept of ‘Justice
Capital’. Best is also funded by a treatment agency in New Zealand, Odyssey, to provide partial
funding for a PhD student and to support work on recovery capital in Maori and Pacific Islander
populations ($NZ10,000 per annum). Cherkassky focusses on the rights and treatment of unborn
foetuses and, more recently, unconscious sperm donors. Sekol focuses on bullying among
incarcerated women and children. Furthering our inter-disciplinary approach, the recent additions
of Ekhator and Oriola within the Law team also bring expertise on the legal promotion of Women’s
rights in Nigeria and communities experiencing environmental degradation and the rights of
Indigenous peoples. This adds to expertise developed in this REF cycle by Hargreaves, Dodsley
and Nunn on the local dynamics of social harm and the role of frontline service delivery in
promoting ‘contingent coping’ among vulnerable communities, including families receiving support
from the Troubled Families Programme and Looked After Children. This research has also
focussed on nationally important social problems which have local resonance. Derby is marked
out by the government as a ‘Social Mobility Cold Spot’ and is a designated ‘Opportunity Area’.
Research by Hargreaves, Nunn, Dodsley and Bowers-Brown (UoA23) has sought to unpick
local dynamics in relation to inter-generational inequalities and to utilise this understanding to
support local initiatives to mitigate inequalities and promote a more equal society. Further, Best
is leading a new research collaboration with Derby County Community Trust (Team Talk) on
supporting depressed and socially isolated men.

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research in this thematic area has placed a significant priority on the application of our research
to real world social problems at multiple scales. Internationally our research has had significant
impact. Nunn’s research on testing the International Monetary Fund’s rhetorical commitment to
inequality was substantively utilised by Oxfam in their campaigning work (Mariotti et al, 2017) on
international inequalities and the Fund itself saw fit to respond to it (Gavira, 2017). Weller’s work
was taken up by the Office for Democracy and Human Rights to promote practical strategies to
contain anti-Semitism (REF3, 20-2). Lee was actively involved in the translation of research
including her own as part of the President’s Commission on an Ageing Society to develop a
proposal on reshaping care provision in South Korea. Brocklehurst’s research is informing the
development of the International Baccalaureate curriculum. Nunn’s research on labour market
institutions substantively influenced the development of European Commission guidance to its
member states and has structured policy advice from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
to member states in the Latin American and Caribbean regions.

Nationally, Ferrell’s research on Thatcherism has led public debate on understanding how
societies change, and the role played by politics in this, as well as being a learning tool for those
studying social science A levels. Building on previous award-winning films (Generation Right)
created before joining UoD, this has culminated in a new film (Society, Politics and Change:
Exploring the Legacy of Thatcherism) aimed as a teaching resource for those teaching A levels in
politics, sociology and history. This research has attracted much media attention and the grant
culminated in a workshop held at the British Academy in February 2020.

(b) Crime, policy and society
Research on crime and society has placed a specific emphasis on the ways in which the social
structures and individual agency interact to create particular life course pathways. Building
on his earlier Leverhulme Trust funded research, Farrall’s research on desistance from crime has
explored the roles of probation supervision and other social and economic influences on why
people stop offending. Best takes a similar approach to understanding recovery from addition,
developing Farrall’s insight in this specific context to introduce the notion of ‘recovery’ and ‘justice’
capital. Dodsley borrows from Farrall’s research on desistance to combine this with innovative
visual arts methodologies with young people about their fear of crime. Patton explores and
deepens our understanding of normalisation in drugs research and develops Farrall’s research
on primary and secondary desistance in innovative work using inmates’ diaries.

Best and Farrall’s research has contributed to both academic and practitioner perspectives on
reform following involvement in crime/substance use and has been employed widely in practice
settings. The treatment model in Odyssey’s residential rehabilitation unit is based on Best’s 2014
and 2019 books on addiction recovery pathways. In 2017, Best conducted a national Masterclass
in Rotarua, New Zealand, to teach addiction professionals about practical ways of supporting
recovery processes. The Social Networks and Recovery (SONAR) study has been the central
academic plank for the Association of Therapeutic Communities for Australia (ATCA) f or their 2018
and 2019 conferences. Best’s Family Connectors programme developed at HMP Kirkham is not
only being rolled out in three other UK prisons but also in Hassalts prison in Belgium. This has
resulted in a Families and Community Connectors Working Group convened by HM Prison and
Probation Service.

A further priority in this thematic area has been a focus on understanding the motivations
behind crime and particularly the interaction between structural, circumstantial and
agential factors. For instance, Ganpat has developed insights into the processes and factors
which shape murder rates whilst Sekol has explored the processes associated with bullying at the
individual and institutional levels in the only empirical study of care-homes in Croatia. Sekol also
completed a significant systematic review (with Farrington, Cambridge) of prison crowding and
bullying. Abreu and Tkazky have advanced our understanding of crime scene patterns, criminal
behaviour and psychopathology. Bergstrom’s collaborative research also with Farrington has
investigated and developed our understanding of the links between personality traits and disorders
and violence. Page’s research on psychopathology expands our understanding of gendered
differences in criminality, criminal and bullying behaviour, including in relation to arson and sexual

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
harassment. Taking a more structural approach to understanding violence, Cayli’s innovative
historical and contemporary research investigates the sociology of violence, expanding
understanding of how it emerges from social inequality with consistent characteristics in different
social and temporal contexts.

Research in this thematic area also focusses on the experience of victims of crime. Pease’s
research on modelling and predicting victimisation is world-leading and continues to develop
theory and understanding, including in relation to different types of crime and the crime drop.
Understanding the crime drop also features in both Farrall and Ganpat’s research. Farrall’s
research on the crime drop locates this in wider political changes. Further, Ganpat’s recent
research with collaborators at Nottingham Trent University reveals previously unknown inequitable
patterns in stranger violence, highlighting the need to better understand different forms of
victimisation.

Our research on crime and society has real world application and benefit. Best’s partnership
with HMP Wymott has been recognised by the Ministry of Justice leading to his invitation to be a
part of their expert advisory group and to Wymott being nominated as a trailblazer prison. The
research on family connectors in prison has also been recognised as innovative practice by the
Head of Reducing Reoffending at the Ministry of Justice. Best’s measurement tool – the REC-
CAP has been embedded into routine practice in the first UK recovery prison, HMP Holme House,
and his strengths-based research has been highlighted by HMI Probation in the second of their
Insights series in 2019. Best is also supporting international take-up of REC-CAP; for instance,
by the Massachusetts Probation Service and CARE drug court with support from the National
Institute of Drug Abuse, and the University of Stockholm and Florida Association of Recovery
Residences (FARR) are applying it as an outcome indicator in treatment services.

(c) Policing and Criminal Justice
We are one of the leading national centres of police training in the UK and our research informs
this curriculum. Bull and Pease lead in this area, alongside Hodgson, Moss and collaborations
with others. Pease is widely known as a leading scholar of police practice. His research on repeat
victimisation, predictive patrolling and self-selection policing has shaped police practice nationally
and internationally. Collaborations (with UCL, Leeds and Huddersfield) involves the development
of artificial intelligence approaches to crime-resistant dwelling design, optimal patrolling strategies
and models of demand for police services. The use of repeat victimisation research as a means
of priority setting in policing has enjoyed a resurgence in the last two years and is at the Centre of
the Home Office’s ‘Safer Streets’ initiative. Moss recently completed research on police
disciplinary processes and the mental health of police officers, with support from Pease. This was
funded by the Police Mutual Assurance Society (£15,000). The research is being used to support
the introduction of time limits on disciplinary cases.

Bull’s research on police and wider investigative interviewing is demonstrably world leading. His
research since 1990 has encompassed more than 100 outputs developing further understanding
and implementation of the PEACE method of investigative interviewing and the ways that both
suspects and offenders respond to police practice (REF3, 3-1). Having developed the PEACE
model, Bull’s research informs police practice throughout the UK but also in many other countries
such as the USA, Canada, China, Norway, Sweden, Japan, New Zealand. His research is being
used to develop the UN’s Universal Protocol on investigative interviewing as part of multilateral
efforts to reduce torture and to strengthen the security and integrity of criminal convictions.
Hodgson’s research on Body Worn cameras and police practice (funded by the Police Knowledge
Fund) offers insights into the realities of policing, charting the hopes and fears of police officers
during the introduction of new technologies.

(d) International justice and legal ethics
Research within this theme has focused on challenging issues in transitional justice and
conflict transformation, international criminal law, international regulation and legal ethics.
Focussing on Northern Ireland, Rafferty is breaking new ground in understanding the factors that
encourage or deter people in post-conflict societies from engaging in reconciliation processes. Her

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research explores psychological and sociological barriers that discourage locals from moving
towards reconciliation in post-conflict societies. Ekhator’s research on international
environmental law and natural resources governance has made important contributions to the
nascent study of African Union law.

Yusuf’s award-winning research on transitional justice has charted new ground on the need for
judicial accountability as a critical but much elided aspect of transitional justice in societies
recovering from a troubled period. His research on Commonwealth constitutionalism has drawn
attention to the continuing and powerful influence of colonial law in an era of (post) decolonisation
and Brexit. Moreover, his research on the regulation of transnational corporations has contributed
to the case for a shift from voluntary to enforceable accountability.

As with other themes, our research in international justice and ethics has a significant applied
focus and has achieved impact. Ekhator’s research has been cited by the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) and the Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada. Yusuf’s work
has been taken up Her Majesty’s Government of Gibraltar (HMGoG) which appointed him as an
Expert Adviser and Legal Consultant on Constitutional Review (2016 to date). He was also
appointed as a Research Consultant by the Centre for the Study of Violence and Reconciliation
(CSVR, South Africa) for a twelve-country, three-year comparative study of transitional justice in
Africa (2016-2019) and contributed to the African Union’s Transitional Justice Policy. The recent
recruitment of Kemp has strengthened our capacity in this area. His research on the material,
jurisdictional and procedural aspects of the crime of aggression is recognised by his peers and
judicial officers of the International Criminal Court (ICC) for its impact on ICC practice.

(e) Methodological innovation
In addition to these subject priorities, capacity building in methodological development has also
been a central priority. The need to strengthen quantitative methods was central to the
appointment of Abreu, Best, Farrall, Gray, Jones and Pease. This has strengthened our
expertise in specific software (e.g. in R: Abreu/Jones) and techniques such as structural equation
modelling (Farrall/Gray), Age-Period-Cohort analyses (Gray), longitudinal research methods
(Best/Farrall/Gray/Jones), times series modelling (Pease/Gray), secondary data analyses
(Farrall/Gray/Jones/Pease) and survey design (Farrall/Best/Gray). Jones has added specific
expertise in spatial and simulation modelling, spatial-microsimulation, spatial data manipulation
and visual presentation of data, utilising very large-scale datasets and GIS mapping. Sekol has
contributed to the already strong expertise on the use of psychometric scales (Bergstrom) and
colleagues returned in UoA4 (Spenser/ Fido). Pease has developed the use of Bayesian statistics
in police research and translated this into practice. Sekol has also contributed to our systematic
review capacity.

Methodological development is also conceptual and qualitative. Supported by PhD students and
external collaborators, Best has been developing a method of recovery capital mapping that is
linked to social identification assessment and asset-based community development as a model
for strengths building. This is currently being tested in the US, New Zealand and the UK. Further
methodological capacity-building has focussed on the interaction between arts and social
science. The recruitment of Dodsley added to our capacity in this area and he has subsequently
worked with Nunn, Hargreaves and Turner to develop a programme of work with cultural partners
in urban spaces. They have explored the scope for art as a methodological tool for data capture
and co-creation of research data through participatory arts activities. Working with Gray, he has
contributed to the use of visual data in criminology.

Rafferty’s research on community conflict in Northern Ireland has also led to methodological
innovations. Her reflections on research in these contexts offers considerable guidance to other
researchers approaching sensitive topics related to their own identity and positionality in the
community. Lennon’s use of critical discourse analysis has also explored researcher positionality
with innovative research highlighting and documenting the different ways that researchers define
meaning from qualitative exploration of interview data.


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Kemp’s research with political scientists and media studies experts resulted in an innovative
analysis of the domestic impact of the decisions and judgments by international criminal tribunals
in the Balkans and Africa, prior to joining UoD. His appointment will contribute to grant capture
and further innovation going forward.

1.5 Future Direction
Our priorities for future development are set out in our College Better Research Strategy. In
summary they include:
    a) Support for our thematic research focus and investing in strengths, establishing
        research groups and collaborations, with professorial leadership.
    b) Supporting and retaining talent including targeted support for research and
        promotion/career development.
    c) Establishing a stronger PGR community through an escalator model taking promising
        UG researchers through PGT, Doctoral studies and into post-doc positions in support of
        our research themes.
    d) Promoting equality and diversity- investment and targeted support will be aligned to the
        need to promote greater equality and diversity, particularly in senior research positions.
    e) Growing external research income via a coordinated and targeted approach linked to
        HR systems (e.g., workload management. mentoring and Development and Performance
        Review) and our thematic focus.
    f) Development of a ‘Regional Observatory’ using internal funds to establish systematic
        and regular social and economic data collection to create time series which can be used
        by researchers in UoA17 and 20. As part of the University’s Civic University agenda this
        will support local stakeholders with decision making, service design and the development
        of strategies in relation to inclusive growth, social inclusion and the mitigation/reduction of
        inequalities (e.g. currently in relation to the Derby City Recovery Strategy and Poverty
        Commission).

1.6 Impact strategy
(a) Context
Impact is a strong focus for our researchers. It is central to our College research strategy and to
the University’s Strategic Framework to be an Applied University of Today for Tomorrow. Impact
is now and will continue to be a major focus of our research strategy, beyond that highlighted in
our current Impact Case Studies. Our impact work (i) Supports staff capacity (ii) influences public
debate, (iii) shapes and informs policy, (iv) engages with practice and policy implementation and
(v) delivered via our applied and ‘real world’ curriculum. Impact related work derives from our
researchers but also operates in conjunction with colleagues whose main focus is teaching,
including many former legal, law enforcement and social services practitioners.

(b) Approach to impact
The College Director of Research and College Professoriate oversee the development of the
College Research Impact Strategy, focussing on the following:

(i) Supporting researchers- Our Researcher Development Programme (REF5a, 3.4.4) involves
a series of training and development activities around impact which are open to all researchers.
These include a focus on understanding impact and dissemination activities through to detailed
training on developing policy briefs or working in collaboration with stakeholders. The 2019 Annual
University Research and KE Conference was focused on knowledge exchange and impact. In
addition, all staff have a professorial mentor, and their mentoring meetings involve a structured
process which includes dissemination, partnerships and impact as specific topics to discuss.
These discussions result in an updated research plan which includes these structured headings
and influences workload allocation, target setting and the allocation of funding support. Impact
related activities may attract all three for specific individuals and teams. Finally, our research
support programme enables individuals to request financial support for research activity which
included partnership development and dissemination. There is also central university support from
QR funds (e.g., Global Challenges Research Fund (GCFR) as accessed by both Masters and
Nunn during this REF window) that can be used for this purpose.

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(ii) Influencing public debate- Understanding and influencing public debate is a significant
impact pathway for our research. For example, Farrall, Gray and Jones’ research on Thatcherism
has sought to understand public opinion and the legacy effects of politicians, political ideas and
ideologies at the same time as disseminating their findings to shape public discussion. This has
involved generating films and undertaking a large-scale programme of public talks, outreach to
schools, colleges and members of the public through festivals and public screenings. Generation
Right has had more than 4,000 views. Generation Right is shown to pupils living in former industrial
areas as part of their PSHE sessions and is used to provoke discussion about historical processes
of change and their effects on contemporary society. It has also been shown to politics, sociology
and history A level students to aid their learning on topics relating to Thatcherism and modern
society.

As part of the new ESRC UKRI grant, Best and colleagues will be establishing a MOOC, a website
and a blog to increase public and professional understanding of addiction recovery pathways.
Best is also a co-founder of the College of Lived Experience Recovery Organisations (CLERO)
who have submitted to the Dame Carol Black review of drug policy in the UK and subsequently
presented directly to Dame Carol. The CLERO group is currently developing quality standards for
Lived Experience Recovery Organisations across the UK, in part supported by a grant of £35,000
from the Big Lottery (managed by a voluntary sector partner).

(iii) Shaping and informing policy- We also focus on shaping policy. For example, Gray has
submitted evidence to Parliamentary Committees on Universal Credit as part of a doctoral
research project on the lived experience of Universal Credit. Farrall appeared before the Home
Affairs Select Committee and gave written evidence to the French Ministry of Justice on desistance
from crime and produced a commissioned paper on desistance for the US National Institute of
Justice.

(iv) Engaging practitioners and policy implementation- A distinctive feature of this UoA is
engagement with practice at a range of scales. Hargreaves, Dodsley and Nunn have worked
collaboratively to shape practice at a local level around arts, sports, education and social
mobility/inclusion as reported in the Impact Case Studies. This has been recognised recently in
these projects winning The Guardian’s ‘University of the Year’ award for social and community
impact. This has been supported by a strategy of encouraging staff to engage with local
stakeholders. For instance, Nunn was appointed to the Derby Opportunity Area Broadening
Horizons Board, the Local Authority’s Stronger Communities Board and the Coventry City of
Culture Expert Technical Reference Group. Moss’ research on student homelessness findings
have been used by the National Union of Students who are supporting a bid for a national study
and will be disseminated to practitioners and academics.

Regionally, our mix of academic staff which includes practitioners as well as researchers has
enabled engagement and impact on policing practice. Gray was invited by Cleveland Police to
contribute to the Serious and Organised Crime Working Group on young people involved in drug
networks who have a dualistic identity as both offenders and vulnerable minors who are
groomed/exploited by experienced adult criminals. She drew on the results of her study funded by
the ESRC and the Youth Justice Board, supported by workload allocation to enable this. Both
Hodgson and former practitioner Blockley attend the East Midlands Police and Academic
Collaboration (EMPAC). Hodgson was one of the original members of EMPAC which has now
become a consortium of all universities and police forces in the East Midlands. Its prime goal is to
drive research and innovation to improve policing in the East Midlands and in 2015 was awarded
circa £800,000 by the Police Knowledge Fund to undertake research projects which would seek
to improve policing practice. Hodgson was also the Derby lead for the University of Nottingham
led consortium (the Better Policing Collaboration), which was awarded circa £1.2M to undertake
research on national policing practices and we hosted the ‘Evidence Based Policing Society” and
Regional Policing Research events.

Internationally, Bull’s research on police and investigative interviewing has been taken up world-
wide (REF3, 20-1). Yusuf was supported via time and expenses to undertake engagement with

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the Chief Minister of Gibraltar regarding the dissemination of his report and engagement with the
Parliamentary Select Committee on the review of Gibraltar’s Constitution with the positive outcome
that her HMGoG is committed to ensuring that engagement later this year. Nunn’s research with
the European Commission and Inter-American Development Bank has influenced the
management and delivery of Public Employment Services across Latin America and Europe. He
was also supported to have this impact using QR GCRF funding to visit Ecuador and Washington
DC. These visits and the resulting policy advice resulted in a $500k IDB non-repayable grant to
support the development of the Ecuadorian Public Employment Service. Lee was supported via
workload allocation and research expenses to undertake a series of visits to South East Asia to
both undertake data collection and dissemination, helping her to secure a position on the South
Korean President’s Commission on Care. Best is a project advisor to the Centre for Court
Innovation in New York, a trainer for the United Nations Office of Drug Control drugs and justice
programme in Central America, a member of two PhD panels at the University of Ghent (Belgium),
a National Institute of Health (NIH, US) Career Mentor for a K grant held by Emily Hennessy of
the University of Connecticut, a research consultant at the University of Pittsburgh and a trainer
and advisor for the US National Institute of Drug Abuse (NIDA).

(v) Curriculum delivery and CPD- Our focus on real world practice and an applied curriculum
sees our research informing our and wider teaching curricular and CPD activities. Brocklehurst
is supported through workload allocation to be a curriculum development consultant on the
International Baccalaureate programme, enabling her to feed in her research on the
representation of terrorism, terrorists and children in the curriculum. The H2020 TAToDPR project
(Nunn and Yusuf) resulted in a Massive Online Open Course which has more than 7,000 learners.

The current REF period has seen the introduction of a requirement that new entrants to the police
service should all have UG degrees. While there are multiple routes available to realise this, the
task of designing curricula to confer applicable skills to trainee officers is central. At Derby, we are
experimenting with, among other approaches, using the critical incident technique developed by
Pease to identify events which new officers find most challenging to deal with. This will become
even more important given the changes in policing, which will follow the Covid-19 pandemic. Our
police training regularly attracts senior police officers from the Middle East and we have excellent
links with the Dutch Police and several US forces. Each year policing students participate in a visit
to the National Dutch Police Academy which includes an opportunity to participate in research
seminars offered by academics based at the academy and in the current academic year serving
Dutch Police Officers studied for a semester (ERASMUS) at the University on the undergraduate
Policing and Investigation Programme. UG students are also offered significant practical field trips
related to their studies (e.g., Criminology to the US, Sociology to Berlin, International Relations to
London (embassies) and Geneva (UN), Law to the Hague (ICC)) which strengthens their and staff
relations with practitioners. In 2018, the USA trip was awarded the British Society of Criminology
Teaching Excellence Award. In 2017 and 2019 the University hosted a ‘US Justice Conference’
which saw several senior academics and practitioners from the USA deliver sessions on
comparative justice to Derby students and local practitioners.

(c) Future plans
We will continue to develop work in the three Impact Case Studies submitted at this REF.
However, reflecting our staffing growth, we will integrate new colleagues’ work into these and
focus on additional impact work. For example, Moss and Best are already adding to our impact
to local policy and practice change. Abreu and Ganpat are both working on new research and
impact activities related to homicide and both Tkazky and Sekol are working on aspects of bullying
in secure settings. Best, Farrall, Gray, Lee and Nunn are also working on various aspects of
international impact in relation to practice and policy implementation and are collaborating on new
research, including significant funding applications. We have been supporting Brocklehurst’s
work on the development of the International Baccalaureate curriculum which will be realised in
the next REF window. Both Henry and Allwork (UoA34) are continuing to work on impact related
to discrimination and extremism.



                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2. People

2.1 Investment
Since 2016 UoD has invested heavily in the growth of UoA20. This has involved the following:
(a) Staff: Since 2014 we have invested in staffing growth in social sciences. This includes a mix
of senior staff as research leaders and more junior staff to build capacity and nascent research
groups. Since 2017 when the UoA started to take shape, research leadership has been developed
through professorial appointments of Nunn (December 2016), Weller (moved to this Unit in
January 2017), Pease (2017), Farrall (2018), Yusuf (2019), Moss (2019), Best (2019), Huang
(2020, UoA17) and Kemp (2020). We have also invested in ECRs over this period within our
thematic priorities through the appointments of Lee (2015), Cayli (2016), Bergstrom (2015),
Belcastro (2015), Ganpat (2017), Dodsley (2017), Jones (2018), Sekol (2019), Abreu (2019),
Lennon (2019), Page (2019), and Rafferty (2020) many of whom completed their PhDs within
this REF period. We also converted initially temporary research appointments into permanent
positions for Cayli (2017), Gray (2018) and Jones (2020), demonstrating our commitment to
supporting the development, retention, and career progression of talented researchers.

(b) Research Support: Around £375k of internal funds have been made available to support
research in this UoA since 2014. This includes both pay for research administration and support,
and non-pay costs for data collection, analysis and dissemination, including conferences.

2.2 Staff Development
Our approach to staffing is based around investing in all staff (early career and established) to
ensure that they have every opportunity to build, maintain and increase their research profile. As
we are a new university with a substantial practice-oriented teaching portfolio, the strategy also
includes investment, staff development and mentoring to enable former practitioners to make the
transition to SRR (e.g. Hargreaves). We have also supported staff to complete (Wilson, 2020,
Ita, 2019, now at De Montfort)) and commence PhD studies (Cherkassky).

To help staff manage their research effectively, a workload management system ensures that
research-led teaching is optimised, by balancing teaching and administrative tasks with research.
Formal research deployment focusses on research-active staff. However, former practitioners
receive mentoring and a smaller scholarly time allocation for personal development to make the
transition to research activity. All staff can apply for resources through a support fund (for
fieldwork, workshop, impact and conference costs) and all staff have access to local mentoring
support and through University-wide schemes (REF5a, 3.4.2). Deployment within the UoA is
adjusted to ensure that ECRs are given extra support. For example, additional relief from teaching
was focused on Ganpat, Bergstrom and Dodsley during 2018-19.

Staff development is undertaken at Unit level in four main ways:
(a) Mentoring: All staff are allocated a professorial mentor. Mentors meet with colleagues at least
once per semester to create and iteratively revise an Individual Research Plan (IRP). The IRP
structures a mentoring conversation in which progress since the last review is complemented by
the establishment of new plans, with recourse to outputs, funding, dissemination, impact and
exploitation of research in teaching. These discussions may result in the setting of formal targets
which are passed to line managers for inclusion in formal HR processes such as the annual
Workload Planning and Development and Performance Review process. The IRP also serves as
the basis for all staff to apply for support through the research support fund.

(b) Training: Recognising the need to support ECRs, PGRs and former practitioners we have has
hosted the development of a new cross-University research training scheme, the MRes in Social
Sciences and Humanities (led by Cayli and Nunn). The MRes operates via a series of taught
modules and more than 30 annual research development masterclasses which all staff and PGRs
are free to attend on a non-credit basis. Masterclasses serve a variety of functions: (1) to enable
inexperienced colleagues to buddy-up with experienced researchers so that they can begin to co-
publish/publish, (2) training on various methodological and theoretical research skills in hands-on
sessions and (3) a series of personal development masterclasses focused on research

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
management, applying for funding, project management, conference presentation and writing
skills. The MRes was developed during 2017, validated at the beginning of 2018 and ran from
autumn 2018 onwards. In 2019 the PhD framework was adjusted to ensure that students
progressing well on the MRes can switch to year 2 of the PhD programme, without collecting PGT
credits, helping to support the PGR pipeline.

(c) Culture: All staff are encouraged to present outputs from research and scholarly activity in the
weekly seminar programme and the annual University Research and Knowledge Exchange
Conference. This assists ECRs and less experienced colleagues to gain experience before
presenting at external conferences. It also enables less experienced colleagues to engage in
debates with experienced researchers who also present and include both internal staff and visiting
speakers.

(d) Financial support: All staff can apply for financial support for research activities. This is
aligned with their IRP and termly mentoring. Financial support is typically used for conference
attendance/dissemination but is also used for data collection, analysis and impact-related
activities. This is available through multiple channels, at UoA level through a dedicated budget
but also at College and University levels. Staff in the UoA are also encouraged to make use of
University-wide schemes such as the ECR Forum, two different mentoring programmes, the
Fellowship Development Programme, the Researcher Development Programme and the monthly
Research Cafes (REF5a, 3.4). Staff in the Unit continue to contribute to the delivery of these
programmes as mentors and our Masterclasses are a substantial component of the RDP.

2.3 Research students
Following strengthening of research leadership and staff capacity, developing the PGR community
is now a core priority. We have also invested in six research studentships. Increased academic
outputs and research income have latterly attracted (and supported) more PGR applications.
Reflecting this, the PGR community in the College (UoA17 and UoA20) has grown to 64 in 2020-
21, a very marked increase as can be seen from the completions data for the two UoAs.

Staff and PGRs are based in the dedicated Law and Social Sciences building in the City Centre.
We have a separate PGR office and a staff social area that PGRs can access to enable the
development of a community of researchers. Supervisory teams (Director of Studies and a second
supervisor) are appointed for PhD candidates based on research expertise, track record and
existing workload. Where possible, teams comprise both experienced and less experienced staff
as a means of encouraging ECR staff to develop their research supervision skills alongside
experienced supervisors. All staff with doctoral-level qualifications or who are research active are
required to attend the University research supervision training course. Following this, they can
join the pool of potential PGR supervisors but must have periodic refresher training. All PGR
students are encouraged to participate in central initiatives such as the PGR training programme,
regional doctoral network events and 3MT competitions. We have adopted the University’s revised
PGR framework and student progress is monitored at College level by the College Research
Committee which meets six times a year.

The new MRes programme will produce a throughput of new research students from UG, PGT
and into PhD- level study. The programme was launched in 2018-19 and by 2019-20 had fifteen
registered students. All PGR students can access masterclasses available through this
programme (n= 30 plus in 2019-20).

2.4 Equality and Diversity
The College and staff in the UoA support the University’s Equality and Diversity (E&D) initiatives
such as the Athena Swann, Race Equality Charter and the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index.
Equality and Diversity is also a central concern Social Work and Social Policy at UoD, being a
core focus of much of our research and the individual political commitments of many of our
researchers. Internally E&D concerns shape several aspects of our strategy. All members of the
internal and external quality review panels are expected to complete ‘Unconscious Bias’ training


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
prior to assessing the quality of outputs, following the UoD Code of Practice. The internal quality
assessment panels for all outputs are structured to ensure gender representation.

We have made progress on E&D, recruiting two new female professors in Law and Social
Sciences (Huang, UoA17 and Moss) and at all levels recent recruitment has increased ethnic
diversity. However, the E&D data (Table 1) shows that much more remains to be done. Men are
over-represented in the staff group overall and more so among those with Significant
Responsibility for Research (SRR) and in senior research posts. This is a priority area for
improvement. The staff group overall is diverse in terms of ethnicity, but this could be improved
in more senior research roles and especially where intersections with gender are accounted for.
Therefore, supporting promotion and progression for talented female and BAME researchers and
a continued emphasis on diversity in recruitment, especially for senior roles are our priorities for
the next 3-5 year period.

Table 1: Proportion of eligible and SRR submitted staff by E&D characteristics (%, FTE)
                                   Submitted             Eligible
  Gender
  Female                                       39                         45
  Male                                         61                         55
  Disability
  Disabled                                      0                         <5
  Not Disabled                                 100                        97
  Ethnicity
  Asian                                         6                         <5
  Black                                         9                          7
  White                                        76                         83
  Other                                         9                          6
  Contract Type
  Permanent                                    95                         98
  Fixed-Term                                   5                          <5
  Age
  25-34                                        15                         12
  35-44                                        43                         34
  45-54                                        27                         34
  55-64                                        13                         19
  65 +                                         <5                         <5

Our College plan to promote E&D across the two UoAs is set out in specific time bound College
level targets aligned to the Institutional Strategy. Key actions for the College are:
    a) Audit applications for research roles and shape adverts to attract diverse candidates.
    b) Celebrate the research of female researchers through marketing and web profile.
    c) To target support to ensure more women and BAME colleagues to apply for, and succeed,
        in internal promotions (to substantially reduce the gender gap in Associate Professor/
        Professor by 2023-4 academic year).
    d) To ensure gender parity in research outputs and internal quality ratings through targeted
        support.
    e) To ensure equality in workload allocation for SRR with regular monitoring and adjustment
        where necessary.
    f) To ensure gender balance in the next REF submission, through recruitment, targeted
        support and promotion.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Governance
Research is governed formally at the University level via the University Research Committee, its
College Research Committees and College Research Ethics Committees. There is also a

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
University Professorial Council (UPC) which meets six times a year and considers issues of
strategy. In its first two years of operation, UPC has created a significant new infrastructure for
research support including training, and a Peer Review Policy for funding applications. UPC
includes Professorial and ECR representation from each College (including from this UoA: Nunn
(until 2020, Lee 2019-) and Kemp 2020-) plus representatives from URKEO.

Following significant growth in research staff we have established a College Professoriate under
the leadership of Cowling (UoA17). This is supported by a College Research Leaders group in
which Nunn, Cowling and Foster (UoA17) as REF leads for UoA20 and 17 respectively, are
responsible for implementing the College Research Strategy. Research governance is organised
in Law and Social Sciences through the Centre for Social, Cultural and Legal Research,
membership of which includes all researchers in this UoA.

3.2 Research income
UoA20 at Derby is a new development, and there was no significant research income for this UoA
before 2017. Income and grant capture has grown substantially since that point based on our
three-point funding strategy, which has borne fruit over this period:

(a) Local research funding builds on local networks to develop a track record of research funding
for the Centre. Externally funded research projects involving local stakeholders in the Chambers
of Commerce, East Midlands Rail Forum (HS2 Skills and Employment, PI: c£25k), City Council,
Derbyshire County Council, Derby Theatre and Derby County Football Club, plus a range of local
arts organisations has helped to achieve this (4 projects totalling c£100k). The Strategy has been
to use experienced PIs to lead project teams of less experienced and ECRs to enable them to
gain experience and confidence in undertaking team-based externally funded research. With this
in mind, Nunn has led projects involving Cayli, Dodsley, Hargreaves, Hodgson, Turner and
ECRs who are reported in other UoAs.

(b) National research funding related to our core strengths: both Nunn and Moss have
secured British Academy Small Grant funding during this period for research on capturing
foundational scholarship in International Political Economy and student homelessness,
respectively. Turner received funding from the British Red Cross for research on homelessness.
Dodsley, Hargreaves, Nunn and Turner are currently collaborating on two Arts Council funded
projects.

(c) EU and UKRI research funding related to strategic staffing investments: the recruitment
of new senior staff has significantly boosted our grant capture performance and capacity for the
future. Nunn secured Horizon2020 funding (TAToDPR), Farrall, Gray and Jones secured ESRC
funding (worth £611k over three years and around half of which moved to UoD with them); Best
secured Horizon 2020 funding of E750k (c£100k moving to UoD with him in January 2019) and
an ESRC Covid grant of more than £130k for his innovative work on recovery capital. Further
UKRI proposals are now under review and we have recently strengthened our review processes
for these.

(d) Supporting new PIs: Farrall/Gray/Bergstrom/Ganpat formed a Secondary Data Analysis
Working Group, which meets regularly to develop, review, and redraft research applications
relating to the reuse of existing data sets. Sekol is also working with Farrall on Small Grant
application. Targeted support was provided to Lee with a recent grant success (Korean Studies)
and Belcastro to apply for funding on sports and diplomacy.
This Strategy has proven successful. Research income has grown across the College (UoA17
and 20). In REF2014 the previous UoA (Law) returned no research income. In 2014-15, 6
proposals for external funding were submitted (UoA17 and 20), totalling just over £500k. For 2018-
19 this had grown to 39 proposals, totalling £4M, (seven were successful). While the amounts
recorded in our HESA data (c£450k) represent significant growth, there is considerable income
that has supported research outside of this (e.g., where recorded as commercial) and this does
not reflect significant recent awards such as two Arts Council projects, Best’s ESRC and NIHR
funding and Lee’s Korean Studies Grant, further funding for local impact related research (e.g.

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Derbyshire County Council, Derby County Community Trust (now x3 projects)) which will support
our research going forward.

3.3 Research support
All staff can request funding for data collection, analysis, equipment or dissemination. This
scheme operates via four calls for proposals distributed equally throughout the year. A Committee
approves these requests and is made up of the College Director of Research Cowling (UoA17),
the Director of Social Science and Law Research (Nunn), line managers for the Social Sciences
(Hargreaves), Law (Jennings) and Policing (Blockley) teams and the Head of School
(Hodgson).

Additionally, during term time, SCaLR operates a weekly research seminar series which includes
visiting researchers from outside of UoD and offers colleagues an opportunity to share research
findings in a supportive environment. This is central to building capacity among less experienced
colleagues and facilitating collaborations. As an example, Nunn has worked with external
presenters to secure research funding such as Shields, (University of Manchester, British
Academy) and Price (Leeds Beckett, Derby County Community Trust). Similarly, Belcastro
worked with an invited seminar presenter (Durkan, Leicester) to apply for external research
funding. Following being invited to present her research at Derby, Professor Karen Heimer
(University of Iowa and former President of the American Society of Criminology) collaborated in
panels with Farrall, Gray and Jones at the ASC conference and have made a funding application
to the ESRC.

3.4 Research facilities
Staff in this Unit are based in the new social sciences building: One Friar Gate Square, a purpose-
built teaching and research facility, representing a £3M Investment and which opened in 2016. In
this building, there are dedicated research spaces and facilities, including:
    a) A simulated courtroom.
    b) A secure data store.
    c) A separate research office for PGR students, with computers, printer and secure data
         stores.
    d) Criminology labs incorporating a simulated police interview room and observation room.
         The interview room can also be used for focus groups and interviews.
    e) A board room facility which is used for funder meetings, small dissemination events, focus
         groups and interviews.
    f) A fully equipped computer lab which is used for teaching data analysis via programmes
         like SPSS, R, Stata, QGiS and NVivo. Staff and PGR workstations also have access to
         this software, and staff can download software for use offsite on University laptops or their
         own hardware.
    g) One Friar Gate Square is fully wheelchair accessible and has gender-neutral toilets, and
         accessible shower and changing facilities.
    h) A Café and social spaces are available for staff and students with separate breakout and
         pod spaces available to facilitate group working. Staff also have access to a separate
         dining/informal workspace to enable group meetings and collaboration.
    i) A free bus service operates between campuses, the city centre and rail station. An
         electric bike scheme is available at all campuses.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The University of Derby is committed to making ‘a practical positive difference to people’s lives –
regionally, nationally and globally’. Research in UoA20 has made a significant contribution to this
strategic agenda. The Unit benefits from long-standing collaborations throughout the City of Derby
and County of Derbyshire in furthering our Civic University agenda. Our researchers are well
embedded in the local public and third sector. In the local public sector, Nunn is a member of the
City Council’s Stronger Communities Board, the #ThisIsDerby and Creative Arts Network
partnership boards and the Opportunity Area’s Broadening Horizon’s Board. Hodgson sits on the
EMPAC Board which is chaired by the Derbyshire Police and Crime Commissioner and the

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Nottinghamshire Police Audit and Scrutiny Committee which is chaired by the Police and Crime
Commissioner and attended by the Chief Constable.

In the voluntary and community sector, Weller is a Trustee of the local Multi-Faith Centre and has
advised the Equality and Human Rights Commission, and Henry is a former Director and
undertook research on Hate Crime with the MFC during this REF Cycle. Nunn, Hargreaves and
Cayli also researched social inclusion for Roma young people during this cycle. Nunn,
Hargreaves, and Turner have all worked intensively with Derby Cultural Education Partnership,
and more recently also with Derby County Community Trust. This latter collaboration led to further
research now underway on adult mental health and gambling, being led by Best, which is now
being funded into a second year with the evaluation worth £10,000. This has led to a further
partnership with Staywell Derby, a local recovery organisation that has appointed Best to its board
of directors. Nunn has led substantial training (free) for various voluntary sector organisations in
the City and through Derbyshire Voluntary Action, including a week-long online training
programme on evaluation for the voluntary sector during the initial Covid-19 lockdown.

Kemp serves on the executive committee of the board of directors of the Institute for Justice and
Reconciliation, an organisation based in Cape Town, South Africa, that conducts post-conflict and
community-building projects in South Africa, Burundi, Kenya, Zimbabwe, Rwanda, South Sudan,
and Iraq.

An audit of strategic international collaborations showed that we have active research
collaborations in 13 Universities and 12 countries outside of the UK, and more than 21
Universities in the UK. For example, immediately prior to joining Sekol undertook a 12-month
Fulbright visit to John Jay College of Criminal Justice, NY. The TAToDPR project involved
University partners (Loughborough, Seville and Naples) and an SME in Bologna. The Horizon
2020 funded REC-PATH project involves partners in England, Scotland, Belgium and the
Netherlands. Moss’s research on homelessness across Europe involved partners in Hungary,
Spain and Sweden. Masters has sustained and ongoing collaborations with researchers at three
Universities in South Africa. Best also works with the Recovered Users Network in Bosnia as an
advisor and will present on their behalf at the United Nations General Assembly Special Session
(UNGASS) Commission on Narcotic Drugs (CND) in Vienna, Austria, in April 2021.

Our research user stakeholders are particularly diverse with active collaborations in more than
15 different countries. One illustration of our active collaborations includes our partnerships on
externally funded research projects. Bull has engaged with police forces in more than 18 countries
and several significant international police and investigative training agencies. Lee’s research has
had substantial engagements with the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports Science and
Technology in Japan, the President’s Commission on Ageing in Korea and the Korean Institute
for Health and Social Affairs. Nunn’s research with the European Commission has involved many
members of the EU and has led to guidance delivered to all Member States. His collaboration
with the IDB has led to significant user engagement in LAC countries. Moss’s research on
homelessness has engaged research users in eight EU countries. Weller has engaged with a
range of organisations in relation to his appointment, including the Dialogue Society and the
Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Kemp is the academic advisor to and co-
editor of the annual report of the Group of Experts on International Criminal Justice and Rule of
Law in Africa project, funded by the Konrad Adenauer Stiftung. The project is primarily aimed at
capacity building in the areas of international and transnational criminal justice in Africa.

Our researchers have also gained significant recognition. Pease was awarded the RV Clarke
Lifetime Achievement Award from the Environmental Criminology Association; he was also
made a Fellow of University College London, received a Commendation from West Yorkshire
Police. Best was made an Honorary Fellow in Regulation and Global Governance at the Australian
National University. He is also the external examiner for Masters in Addiction Recovery at Trinity
College in Dublin, Ireland. Rafferty’s PhD Thesis was awarded the Dean’s award for exceptional
theses at the University of Otago. Kemp was made a senior fellow of the Robert Bosch Stiftung
in Berlin, Germany and is a recipient of the prestigious Alexander von Humboldt Stiftung fellowship

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
for established researchers. Our research on #ThisIsDerby was part of the submission which won
the social and community impact award in the Guardian University of the Year awards (2020).

Ten UoD researchers gave invited Keynote Plenaries in more than 30 countries. These included
at events at the European Parliament (Moss), European Commission and the World Association
of Public Employment Services and IDB Conferences in Ecuador, Peru, Chile and Columbia
(Nunn) and to Government agencies in Brazil, Canada, China, Malaysia, Russia, Singapore,
Slovenia (Bull). Farrall has given nine keynote addresses for a range of organisations including
the British and European Societies of Criminology, the Ministry of Justice and the Annual
Conference of the Japanese Association of Offenders and Rehabilitation.

Contributing to the wider academic community, our researchers have acted as external examiners
on taught programmes at ten universities and examined PhD students at 13 Universities during
this REF window. They are members of Editorial Boards of 20 Journals and have acted as peer
reviewers for nearly 70 Journals. Kemp is a regional editor of Criminal Law Forum and serves on
the editorial boards of four Journals. Reflecting our researchers’ expertise, they have acted as
peer review college members for the European Commission (Marie Curie; Rights Equality and
Citizenship); AHRC, ESRC, GCRF and Qatar National Research Fund.

Derby researchers have also contributed to scholarly societies. Bull is President of the European
Association of Psychology and Law and Honorary member of the British Psychological Society.
Best is Chair of the British Society of Criminology Prison Research Network. Nunn was Co-
Convener of the International Political Economy Working Group of the British International Studies
Association and served on the Book Prize Committee Until 2020. Bergstrom is the
Treasurer/Secretary of the American Society of Criminology’s Division of Developmental and Life-
course Criminology. Belcastro is Scientific committee member at Mediterranea University,
Reggio Calabria and Nunn acts in a similar capacity at UNISOB, Naples. Cayli is a steering
committee member for the European Consortium on Policy Research - Standing Group on
Organised Crime, Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and Royal United Services Institute.
Hodgson is the co-Chair of the British Society of Criminology Midlands Region in partnership with
Nottingham and Wolverhampton Universities.

Reflecting our applied focus our staff also engage in external appointments to support policy and
practitioner organisations. Bull is a steering committee member for the drafting of the United
Nations Protocol on Investigative Interviewing. He is also an Assessor for the National Register of
Expert Witnesses in the Netherlands. Huang is a member of the Working Committee of the
Legatum Institute on the Global Index of Economic Openness and a visiting academic at the
Shanghai Stock Exchange. Weller is a Trustee of the Multi-Faith Centre in Derby, a member of
the Board of Advisors for the Dialogue Society and a member of the Inter-Faith Working Group of
the Baptist Union of Great Britain and a member of the Communities Forum of the Inter Faith
Network for the UK and a Trustee of the Blackley Centre. Pease is a Trustee of the National
Neighbourhood Watch Association and acts as an adviser to several Police Forces across the UK.
Gray is an academic adviser to the Youth Justice Board. Nunn was also expert reviewer to the
OECD and IDB Worlds of Public Employment Association project. Kemp serves on the Crimes
Against Humanity Advisory Council, supporting the drafting of the proposed Convention on Crimes
Against Humanity, currently considered by the Sixth Committee of the UN.




                                                                                           Page 15
