Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: York St John University

 Unit of Assessment: Sociology (UoA 21)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Entering REF for the first time, this unit comprises the most ambitious social science research at
 York St John University (YSJU), engaging with a variety of contemporary sociological research
 areas through a sustained focus on questions of social justice, one of the pillars of the
 university’s 2026 Strategy. Staff in the unit are young researchers with developing national and
 international profiles and extensive collaborative networks that connect the university’s research
 to some of the most vibrant research clusters and institutions across the UK and beyond.

 Context and structure
 Sociology was established as a discipline at York St John University (YSJU) in 2016 with the
 clear vision to contribute to the university’s social justice agenda through impactful research. As
 such, the Sociology UoA continues YSJU’s foundational mission to improve the education and
 wellbeing of disadvantaged, vulnerable and underrepresented communities. While YSJU has
 traditionally pursued these aims over its 180-year history by providing accessible teacher
 training and community engagement through the Church, the Sociology unit takes this mission
 forward by contributing with sociological knowledge, research and public engagement activities
 that are essential to understanding sociocultural diversity and social inequalities in the twenty-
 first century.

 In Sociology, we are submitting 14 staff (14.0 FTE) whose published research falls within four
 interlocking themes: (1) health, illness and mortality (Denham, Spokes, Smith, Ralston, Sointu),
 (2) media cultures and discourse (Denham, Hirschler, Mitman, Parker, Spokes, Hill, Moreh,
 Greenwood), (3) youth, education and employment (Formby, Ralston, Sointu) and (4) citizenship
 and belonging (Hill, Sotirakopoulos, Jarvis, Kirkland, Moreh, Hirschler, Parker).

 The majority (11.0 FTE) of the submitted colleagues are employed in the Social Sciences
 subject division (comprising Sociology and Criminology) which sits within York Business School,
 while three staff (3.0 FTE) (Jarvis, Kirkland and Greenwood) are employed in other schools and
 subject divisions (Politics and International Relations, and Media) and conduct sociologically
 relevant research which complements the research conducted within Social Sciences.

 The Social Sciences subject area is strategically led by a school academic leadership team
 (SALT), consisting of a dean of school, an associate dean for the subject area, a learning and
 teaching lead and a school research and knowledge transfer lead (SRKTL). At school level,
 research is managed through the School Research Committee and a School Research Ethics
 Committee, which monitor the implementation of our research strategy and guarantee the rigour
 and integrity of all research activities within the school. The SRKTL is responsible for strategic
 development of research within the school and by virtue of this position is a member of the
 University Research Committee (URC) that provides oversight of the university’s strategic plans
 for research, as well as issues pertaining to research integrity and research ethics. The chair of
 the School Research Ethics Committee is responsible for implementing the YSJU Research
 Ethics Policy at school level and is also a member of the University Research Ethics
 and Integrity Sub-committee. All research activities at York St John University are overseen by a
 pro-vice chancellor for research and knowledge transfer.

 Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact since 2015
 The unit’s five-year (2015–20) strategic aims since its creation were: 1) to establish itself in a
 variety of contemporary sociological research areas, 2) while promoting collaborations across
 themes and 3) enabling projects with a strong potential to achieve long-term social impact and
 advance social justice in various areas of life.



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The unit set itself five strategic priorities for achieving its aims, which have been surpassed in
 the four years since the unit’s establishment:

 1) Strategic and sustainable growth
 The unit started in 2015 with 2.0 FTE staff based in the Faculty of Education and Theology. Both
 staff had a background in education and sociology. In the proceeding four years, 15 new
 colleagues were recruited to the Social Sciences subject division as lecturers/senior lecturers in
 Sociology and Criminology, 11 of whom are still currently working at the university and have
 been returned in this REF submission. This initial expansion has enabled us to establish our
 core research areas in a sustainable way, through attracting outstanding early career
 researchers (ECRs) with active external collaborations and research in complementary yet
 interrelated areas.

 Since 2018 we have also put in place a strategy for attracting PhD students through graduate
 teaching assistantships (GTAs). This scheme provides a full fee bursary, as well as a three-year
 0.5 FTE employment contract for teaching related activities up to a maximum of ten hours per
 week: the result is that we were able to attract the strongest candidates to our institution by
 offering them an income stream in line with the level provided by Research Council scholarships,
 while at the same time guaranteeing them valuable teaching experience. Between 2018 and
 2020 we recruited six GTAs and aim to continue increasing our postgraduate research
 community through this highly successful initiative.

 2) Prioritising ECRs
 Our recruitment and growth strategy have been purposefully designed to prioritise those in early
 stages of their academic careers. We have a strong belief that building a new research unit
 mainly through the work of outstanding and highly motivated early career academics is the best
 path to achieving an exponential growth in exciting, timely and socially impactful research in a
 long-term and sustainable way. Of the 15 colleagues recruited to the Social Sciences team
 between 2015 and 2020, 12 (73%) had either gained their PhDs within the previous five years or
 were still completing their PhDs (eight colleagues were within five years of their PhDs and four
 colleagues were still completing their PhDs at the time of their recruitment). The three
 colleagues employed in other schools and divisions who contribute to research in the unit had
 also completed their PhDs less than five years before starting their employment at York St John
 (Kirkland in 2015; Jarvis in 2018; Greenwood in 2019).

 3) Prioritising collaborations
 Through prioritising ECRs we were also able to capitalise on their ongoing external
 collaborations with academics from other universities such as York (Spokes, Denham, Smith,
 Hirschler), Liverpool (Hill), Manchester (Jarvis), Leeds (Formby, Jarvis) and Southampton
 (Moreh), which have led to collaborative publications, grant proposals and conferences.
 Alongside external collaborations, we have focused on promoting collaborative work within the
 unit with the aim of strengthening key areas of research. These endeavours have resulted in a
 co-authored book (Spokes, Denham and Lehmann [2018] Death, Memorialization and Deviant
 Spaces. Bingley: Emerald) and six journal articles: Denham, Hirschler and Spokes (2019);
 Denham and Spokes (2018, 2019, 2020); Ralston and Formby (2020); Sointu and Hill (2020).

 4) Establishing areas of long-term social impact through research
 Our guiding aim during the first five years of the existence of our unit was to identify and support
 the development of research areas that have the strongest potential to achieve long-term social
 impact and contribute to the university’s mission of promoting social justice through research.
 Research taking place in our youth, education, and employment thematic cluster tackles some of
 the most concerning causes of social inequalities and disadvantage. Formby’s work on realist
 evaluation of widening participation strategies in higher education and Ralston’s work on
 developing pedagogical approaches that acknowledge and reduce statistical anxiety among
 learners have been highly successful in engaging practitioners and making an impact on their
 work and, thus, on the life outcomes of young people who are about to enter higher education
 and/or the workforce. These two projects have also been selected as our impact case studies.

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To promote the achievement of impact, impact case studies developed by staff in the unit were
 financially supported through school-level quality-related (QR) monies (grants of £1,000 per year
 were made available to impact case study leads) as well as through training sessions focusing
 on research impact (e.g. the externally commissioned “Fast Track Impact” training).

 5) Enhancing our recognition and gaining representation in national and international research
 Sociologists in our unit have taken leadership roles in regional collaborative research networks
 (e.g., Denham is co-director of the Death and Culture Network, University of York), sit on the
 editorial boards or associate boards of prestigious disciplinary journals (e.g., Sociology [Moreh]
 and Sociological Research Online [Hill]), specialist international journals (Central and Eastern
 European Migration Review [Moreh]) and book series (Emerald Studies in Death and Culture
 [Denham]).

 Colleagues have been invited to give talks and keynotes at various events; for example, the
 2018 Love Island and Sociology workshop at the University of Manchester (Hill), the Technology
 and New Media Research Seminar at the University of Cambridge (Hill, 2018), the Theory of
 Change workshop at the University of Sheffield (Formby, 2019), the British Sociological
 Association (BSA) Youth Study Group Workshop on Youth Labour Markets (Formby, 2020), the
 White Rose Workshop on Advanced Methods (Formby, 2020) and the workshop on migration in
 the Balkan region organised by The Kosovo Institute for Economic Development (Moreh, 2019).

 We have also aimed to reach beyond the confines of academia: almost half of the colleagues in
 the unit have engaged with The Conversation (Kirkland, Mitman, Moreh, Hirschler, Spokes,
 Denham) since the university became a partner with the public dissemination outlet in 2018;
 Sotirakopoulos is a recurring speaker in the annual Battle of Ideas Festival and a regular
 contributor to national television programmes such as Sky News’ Press Review; and Denham
 was interviewed by BBC Radio about video game violence in January 2019. Through such
 activities, York St John sociologists are increasingly gaining national and international
 recognition despite their early career stage.

 We have also taken significant steps to make our research accessible to the wider public and
 research funders. All new publications are immediately included on the university’s institutional
 repository (RaY), and all staff in the unit are registered on the researcher and contributor ID
 system ORCID, with ORCID IDs linked to their RaY profile. These measures have helped us
 progress towards an open research environment and compliance with the Concordat on Open
 Research Data.

 Strategic aims for the next five years (2021–26)

 The university strategy has three priorities: inspiring learning, impactful research, and enabling
 our students to be clear about careers. The research strategy emphasises interdisciplinary
 working, demonstrating greater research excellence through external recognition, and wider
 dissemination of research as key goals. Our four thematic clusters are the foundation for the
 unit’s future research and impact strategy (2021–26), which is aligned with the university’s
 Strategy 2026. The next five years will see the maturation of our unit, and this phase of our
 development will be guided by five main strategic aims:

 1) Consolidating our thematic research clusters
 In the first five years of the unit’s existence our aim was to build several interlocking research
 themes through attracting strong ECRs. During the next REF assessment cycle, we will focus
 our efforts on consolidating these themes into financially self-sufficient research clusters with a
 clear support structure. We aim to achieve this through a targeted recruitment strategy and
 support for competitive collaborative grant bids. This process is ongoing. We are currently
 working on establishing two research groups in Interactive Games and Realist Evaluation and
 Social Policy. These build on two existing research areas which have produced outputs in the
 highest-ranking academic journals (such as New Media & Society), attracted both internal and
 external funding and shown great potential for impact generation and collaboration with non-

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academic stakeholders, such as ongoing evaluation projects for Uni Connect (formerly known as
 the National Collaborative Outreach Programme [NCOP]) and planned collaborative projects
 with North Yorkshire Police and North Yorkshire County Council.

 2) Prioritising income generation through competitive external grants
 One major ambition for the next REF cycle is for all four research clusters to secure external
 funding, with at least two grants of over £10,000 and one above £50,000. These targets build on
 our previous successes with internal catalyst grants (six projects totalling £9,826) and external
 funding (Go Higher West Yorkshire, Uni Connect grant of £39,916; Durham Police grant of
 £14,700; Northumbria Police grant of £7,995), as well as positive feedback received on
 applications submitted in the past two years to funders such as the British Academy, Leverhulme
 Trust and the Foundation for the Sociology of Health and Illness. External grant applications are
 also supported at York St John via our Research Office (RO) and a streamlined allocation of QR
 funding through four funding schemes, one of which specifically supports “Grant Preparation
 Funding”. Furthermore, our new research continuing professional development (CPD) training
 programme includes training on grant writing and impact generation, with a focus on developing
 skills among early career researchers. Over the next five years, all colleagues in the unit will be
 supported in engaging with these training opportunities, and all staff will be required to either
 hold or be preparing a research grant. Thematic clusters will be required to submit at least one
 grant application each year. At unit level, work on grant preparation will be further supported
 through the Social Sciences “Work in Progress” seminar series and peer review network, and
 principal investigators (PIs) who have secured internal grant preparation funding will be able to
 take academic leave to prepare submissions.

 3) Generating traceable social impact in all four of our thematic areas
 We will pursue our commitment to impactful research by supporting all colleagues in the unit to
 participate in opportunities for external professional development related to research impact. All
 internal grant applications for QR funds require applicants to outline their pathways to impact,
 and those working on funding applications have access to research impact training sessions
 provided by Professor Mark Reed (Fast Track Impact). Our target is to develop traceable impact
 in all our thematic areas. Recently initiated collaborations with North Yorkshire Police, North
 Yorkshire County Council and City of York Council will be the starting points for this work. The
 recent establishment of the first university research institute, the Institute for Social Justice (ISJ),
 provides a supportive framework for impactful research in our unit, and we are already actively
 contributing to its work, with a member of our unit (Mitman) is representing York Business
 School on the ISJ’s steering group.

 4) Increasing the number of postgraduate research (PGR) students
 Currently, the unit contains 7 PGRs (four on the census date, with three starting in October
 2020) that have been recruited since YSJU was given research degree awarding powers
 (RDAP) in 2015. As part of our plans to consolidate our research clusters, we aim to further
 increase the number of research students in our unit so that each thematic cluster has at least
 one affiliated PGR student and all research-active colleagues are involved in supervision either
 as main or co-supervisors. For this purpose, we will continue investing in the GTA scheme and
 advertise GTA opportunities in selected thematic areas. In September 2020 we also started our
 first postgraduate degree (MRes in Social Sciences) with a strong focus on advanced social
 research methods. This further enhances the sustainability of our growth agenda by providing a
 bridge between undergraduate studies and PhD-level research.

 5) Professorship in Social Science
 Our fifth main strategic aim is to recruit the first full professor in Social Science at York St John
 University. This role will provide strong research leadership within the unit, especially given our
 ongoing focus on ECR appointments, and ensure the achievement of our strategic aims.




                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing strategy
 All 14 staff submitted for this REF cycle have been recruited to YSJU over the past five years.
 The sociology unit of assessment includes all the academics in Sociology and Criminology, as
 well as three staff who sit in other departments. All staff are employed on full-time permanent
 contracts that require research, scholarship, and teaching.

 Strategic decisions regarding recruitment are taken at school level, with a focus on future
 strategic ambitions in each subject area. The strategic ambition of our unit in its first five years of
 existence was to establish sociology as a unit from bottom up, building on the most vibrant new
 research and providing fast-track career progression opportunities. To achieve this, we relied on
 the academic leadership of senior colleagues in related and more established units, such as
 Education and Psychology, while focusing our recruitment of the core Social Sciences team
 members on young researchers either with recent PhDs or who were close to completing a PhD,
 with cross-cutting areas of research expertise.

 Spokes and Denham were the first to be appointed as lecturers in Sociology and Criminology in
 2015 and 2016 respectively and their research expertise has provided a firm grounding for the
 emerging unit in cultural sociology. Mitman, Ralston and Smith joined in 2017, bringing new
 expertise in urban sociology, quantitative methods, youth studies, the sociology of work, cultural
 criminology and media studies. With the appointment of Moreh, Parker and Sotirakopoulos in
 2018, the unit has expanded to the areas of migration studies, gender and sexuality, and political
 sociology. Joining in 2018 and 2019, Formby, Hill, Hirschler and Sointu have strengthened
 research in youth studies, social theory, migration and media studies, and brought in a new
 research stream in the sociology of health and illness. Apart from three colleagues who were
 recruited as senior lecturers to provide organisational leadership in general strategic areas such
 as postgraduate curriculum development (Poyser), qualitative methods (Sointu) and social
 theory (Hill), all those recruited had PhDs awarded in the previous five years (Spokes, Mitman,
 Moreh, Parker, Formby, Hirschler, Stockdale, Ralston) or close to completion (Denham, Smith,
 Parker, Lehmann).

 Newly recruited staff were assigned mentors from related units. The success of this strategy and
 the support networks put in place is demonstrated by the fact that six out of the eleven
 colleagues appointed as lecturers have already been promoted to senior lectureships in
 recognition of their active contribution to research and academic management. Consequently,
 our unit now includes eight senior lecturers.

 Our 2016–20 recruitment strategy has established the core areas of research within Sociology at
 YSJU, and as part of our future strategy we aim to strengthen these thematic areas and ensure
 their sustainability. Our latest recruitment round in May 2020 resulted in employing two further
 ECR colleagues (Biglin, Waistnage) who joined Social Sciences in September 2020 and will
 make a significant contribution to the area of migration, asylum and citizenship.

 Staff development
 Staff development is facilitated primarily by the following mechanisms: (1) career planning and
 workload management and (2) clear career pathways. Our approach to staff development is
 directly informed by the Vitae Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, of
 which York St John University is a signatory. Our staff development strategy is particularly
 focused on the needs of ECRs by identifying individual training needs and aspirations through
 annual performance development reviews (PDRs), setting achievable but increasingly ambitious
 targets, emphasising collaborations in order to achieve research aims and making the unit’s
 research trajectory focused and sustainable over time. Our staff development strategy is
 progressing from an emphasis on developing the skills required to 1) produce influential
 publications, 2) generate social impact from research and 3) develop new collaborative projects,
 towards an emphasis on securing more external grants.


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our career planning and workload management model guarantees that the maximum number of
 scheduled teaching hours for everyone in the unit is reviewed in line with the university’s upper
 limit of 450 hours per year and ensures a minimum amount of time dedicated to research.
 Acknowledging that conducting research often requires longer periods of sustained effort,
 colleagues are usually assigned one “light” semester each year, in which they can concentrate
 on their research outputs. Our PDR process empowers staff to apply for sabbaticals when
 working towards confirmed publications (book contracts) or on initial data collection rounds for
 large scale projects (providing that external funding has been sought in the first instance).

 As part of our career planning provision we host a staff research CPD programme aligned with
 the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. The programme provides 40+ training sessions
 delivered by senior academics across the university as well as training sessions provided by
 external providers. For example, the CPD training includes externally commissioned sessions on
 research impact (Fast Track Impact), public engagement (National Co-ordinating Centre for
 Public Engagement [NCCPE]) and grant writing (Scriptoria). At school level, research skills
 development is also facilitated by schemes such as the research skills development fund, which
 supports participation in external training.

 As part of our commitment to provide clear career pathways to our early career academics, we
 introduced an accelerated promotions route in 2016–17. This route allows staff to apply for
 senior lectureship up to three years prior to reaching the top grade of the lecturer scale.
 Promotion is awarded based upon exceptional performance in research (alongside other criteria
 including teaching and administration), and it has proved a particularly successful reward
 mechanism for motivating ECRs. Accelerated promotion is actively encouraged through the PDR
 process, during which colleagues are supported in developing realistic but ambitious targets for
 meeting the scheme’s requirements. Colleagues achieving the senior lecturer level are further
 supported through the PDR process to progress towards an associate professorship, which is
 achieved based on further demonstration of excellence in research.

 PGR students
 The first intake of two PhD students within Social Sciences was in 2018 (RDAP was first granted
 in 2015, see section 1), followed by a further two in 2019. In October 2020, a further three PhD
 students and one MA by Research student joined us. This development is in line with the
 university’s growth strategy (the YSJU PGR community has doubled over the REF period) and
 has two main local aims for our unit: to strengthen the research activity in our emerging thematic
 areas and to provide staff with opportunities for research supervision and collaboration. We
 expect to award the first PhDs in Social Science in 2021–22.

 Despite only starting postgraduate research provision recently, our PhD students are already
 contributing to the national recognition of our unit; for example, one PhD student has gained an
 internship opportunity at the House of Commons through a joint Political Studies Association
 (PSA) and UK Parliament scheme aiming to provide social science PhD students with real-life
 policy-making experience.

 YSJU has well-established processes for induction, training, and monitoring of PGR students.
 Formal reviews of PGR student progress are conducted every six months by academics external
 to the supervisory team. Progress is monitored centrally four times a year (by Research Degree
 Committee). All supervisory meetings are logged. Supervisory teams are made up of multiple
 academic staff from the PGR student supervisory register. To be added to the register, staff are
 required to meet stringent criteria for PGR supervision eligibility pertaining to engagement in
 research, continual professional development and formal YJSU training. Endorsement from
 Heads of School or School Research Leads is also required. Applications are assessed by a
 central committee of senior research staff (again, by Research Degree Committee). It is
 mandatory that all supervisory teams have at least one member of staff with experienced
 supervisory status (have previously supervised a PhD student to successful completion). In
 addition, all PGR students have a PGR tutor who is available to provide support outside of the
 supervisory team.

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All students undertake needs analysis periodically and an individually tailored training
 programme is created. The needs analysis is based on competencies in the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Support is provided by supervisory teams and via a centralised PGR
 training programme that includes core and supplementary workshops at each year of study. Like
 our staff training programme, our PGT training programme aligns with the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Core parts of the programme include Research Ethics and Integrity,
 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for Research, Data Management, and Copyright
 and Intellectual Property rights. These sessions are compulsory for all PGR students.
 A range of other central and local support is available to PGR students that include (1) access to
 centralised services (e.g. Student Services, Chaplaincy, Library and Learning Services,
 Careers); (2) access to a stipend of up to £900 (£450 part-time) to support travel and
 consumables associated with their research and professional development; (3) access to the
 YSJU Graduate Centre providing study space and remote access to a range of specialist
 software; (4) opportunity to complete a postgraduate certificate in academic practice to achieve
 associate fellowship of the Higher Education Academy (HEA); (5) administrative support
 provided by the School and Research Office and (6) various PGR events held throughout the
 year (e.g., Three Minute Thesis (3MT), Bake Your Thesis, and the annual PGR conference).

 Six of our current PhD students were recruited as part of our GTA scheme. The scheme
 provides a full fee bursary and a three-year 0.5 FTE employment contract for teaching-related
 activities up to a maximum of ten hours per week. The value of financial investment in this
 development in the unit currently amounts to £79,200 in fee waivers and £87,000 in salary costs.

 As with all new staff, GTAs are also required to obtain professional recognition and are
 supported in this through our Postgraduate Certificate of Academic Practice (PCAP) scheme
 and our new CPD Framework, which brings together all our academic staff development into a
 single scheme that is mapped to the various descriptors of the sector-recognised UK
 Professional Standards Framework. This means that we can assess staff in-house, process their
 application free of charge and award fellowship recognition at three of the descriptor levels:
 associate fellow (D1), fellow (D2) and senior fellow (D3). All GTAs are expected to obtain
 recognition as associate fellows.

 The GTA scheme is part of a broader PGR pathway that aims to increase the number of PGR
 students at YSJU. Another element of the pathway are the alumni fee remissions that provide a
 10% discount on all PGR degrees undertaken by YSJU alumni, and as of 2020–21, MSc/MRes
 students can also receive a scholarship that reduces course fees based on undergraduate
 performance at YSJU (50% reduction first class honours, 35% reduction upper second-class
 honours). We have started the first MRes in Social Science postgraduate course in September
 2020, with nine exceptional recent Sociology and Criminology graduates benefiting from alumni
 fee remissions to continue their studies with us. The course is aimed at developing advanced
 skills in quantitative and qualitative research methods, while pursuing a piece of research of
 individual interest that falls in the area of expertise of our staff. We expect the course to become
 a vital component in our PGR pathway in two ways: first, by providing the necessary skills and
 experience required to progress into a funded PhD role at York St John or another institution;
 secondly, by opening up the advanced methods modules to existing PhD students as part of
 their professional development programme.

 Equality and diversity
 UoA 21 sits within a broader context of support for equality and diversity at YSJU which has
 implemented several initiatives which ensure policies and practices relevant to researchers are
 inclusive, equitable and transparent. This is formalised in the YSJU Equality, Diversity and
 Human Rights Policy and the targets within the YSJU 2026 strategy (e.g., 10% BAME student
 and staff population; all staff are engaged in equality and diversity training and development
 appropriate to their role; median gender pay gap below 10%; 95% of staff think the university is
 a good place to work). Equality impact assessments are a routine part of annual monitoring and
 progress towards YSJU targets are reported to executive board and the governing body on a
 yearly basis. Of additional note, YSJU is a member of the Athena SWAN Charter (and is

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 currently applying for a Bronze Award), a Stonewall Diversity Champion (ranked 49th place on
 the 2020 Top 100 Employers list) and Top 20 Trans employer, a Disability Confident employer,
 and a Mindful Employer. There are also several active staff networks available for staff to join
 that align with these awards and this agenda including the LGBT+, BAME and Disability staff
 networks.

 In the first four years of its existence the unit has been particularly driven by the aim to provide
 career development opportunities and a thriving work environment for young researchers. All
 staff in the unit are employed on permanent academic contracts that include research,
 scholarship and teaching, and staff are provided with opportunities for flexible working as suited
 to individual circumstances and family commitments.

 In the next phase of our development as a unit, we aim to advance the diversity of our staff more
 broadly. At the time of the REF 2021 census the unit was disproportionately represented by
 male researchers (10 FTE vs 4 FTE females). The first steps towards rectifying this gender
 imbalance have already been made in the latest recruitment round in which we filled two
 September 2020 start vacancies with two early-career female academics with impressive
 research portfolios. The unit is now in a good position to target future recruitment at exceptional
 female academics and other currently under-represented groups.

 UoA 21 complied fully with the YSJU institutional code of practice in selecting research outputs.
 The UoA lead also undertook Advance HE training on equality and mitigating bias as part of the
 role. Due to the small size of our submission, it is not possible to report a profile at UoA level
 here while also complying with HESA guidelines on anonymous reporting when presenting
 Equality and Diversity data (e.g., all our percentages would be based on less than 22.5 FTE).
 However, equality and diversity data for the UoA was reviewed internally following the
 completion of output selections and reported to both the SALT and Athena SWAN development
 groups as part of promoting greater diversity and inclusion at UoA, school, and institutional
 levels. Our data was also included as part of an equality and diversity impact assessment at
 institutional level.

 Apart from our commitment to ensuring and improving equality and diversity in respect to the
 staff constitution of the unit, our research is also at the forefront of advancing the better
 understanding of the lives of underrepresented and vulnerable social groups and advancing their
 rights and opportunities. Our research on widening participation in higher education for pupils of
 disadvantaged backgrounds, on the lives and rights of migrants, asylum seekers and sexual
 minorities, on ways for improving life outcomes for young offenders, is actively contributing to
 enabling a more equal, diverse, and fair society.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 External grants
 Colleagues are strongly encouraged to prepare and submit bids for external research funding as
 PIs and co-investigators (CIs) as part of their professional development reviews, and are
 supported in this task by a dedicated team of grant advisors located in the central RO
 established in 2018. Between 2017 and 2020, staff in Social Sciences have applied for external
 funding as PIs or CIs to funders such as the British Academy, Leverhulme Trust, UKRI and the
 Polish National Agency for Academic Exchange. External funding was secured from Durham
 Police and Northumbria Police, totalling £22,695 (not reported as HESA research income), and
 through existing collaborations, such as work on realist evaluation with Go Higher West
 Yorkshire, Uni Connect (£10,000 for the period Sept 2018 to Aug 2019, and £39,917 for the period
 2020–21; PI: Formby [£19,958 reported on HESA research return for 2019-20]).

 Internal research funding
 Staff in Social Sciences were also supported in developing new research projects and
 collaborative activities through the university’s catalyst funding scheme and school-level pump
 priming funds, through which staff in our unit have benefitted from £9,826 in funding since 2017

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for projects such as “Aesthetics, Art, Agency and Aggression: Players' Experiences in Violent
 Video Gaming” (£1,800, Denham and Spokes) or “Beer and Authenticity” (£1,543, Mitman,
 Denham, Spokes).

 Staff are also supported to attend academic conferences to disseminate their work and create
 new collaborative opportunities. Since 2017, staff in Social Sciences have been successful in
 securing a total of £18,591 towards conference attendance costs. Colleagues working on
 developing impact activities and tracing tools for their research projects have also received a
 total of £8,000 to support their work.

 One innovative university-level funding initiative is the Students as Researchers (SaR) scheme,
 which has a long history at York St John, having been first introduced in 2006 to provide
 opportunities for staff and student collaboration. An example of sociology staff successfully
 engaging with the initiative is the SaR project on “Migrant experiences of Brexit Britain:
 Analysing qualitative textual data” (2018–19, £943.35, PI Moreh). This engaged a third-year
 undergraduate student and has led to a co-authored policy briefing paper published in the ESRC
 Centre for Population Change Policy Briefs Series.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 The Sociology unit is integrated within a wider university-level research support structure. We
 have benefited from a new central RO, which includes a head (1.0 FTE) and 5.15 FTE staff. The
 RO is responsible for overseeing research governance and compliance, supports grant
 applications, manages PGR student experience, coordinates staff research training and
 monitors research performance. This has relieved academics in the UoA of substantive
 administrative duties associated with research supervision, allowing us to maintain a high-quality
 experience as we expand our PGR cohort numbers. The RO directly improved the quality of
 support for research grant applications, as evidenced in the increased number, range and type
 of the UoA’s grant applications.

 The new Business Development and Knowledge Exchange Office (BDKEO), which includes a
 director (1.0 FTE) and 13.5 FTE staff, supports schools in increasing the range and scope of
 applied research, business development and knowledge exchange and is our main conduit for
 impact and public engagement. It helped gain accreditation for Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
 (KTPs) and registered YSJU with Innovate UK, as an approved KTP knowledge base deliverer.
 It was integral to YJSU achieving Silver Watermark accreditation from the National Co-ordinating
 Centre of Public Engagement (NCCPE). Going forward, the BDKEO will be central to our unit’s
 increased engagement with stakeholders beyond academia. An example of the synergy
 between our unit and the BDKEO is the latter’s successful application to the NCCPE which has
 led to the university being awarded a silver charter mark; work on widening participation
 engagement with schools carried out by Uni Connect in collaboration with Formby was
 mentioned in the successful application.

 Material infrastructure
 Social Sciences have their offices on the main campus on Lord Mayor’s Walk in central York.
 Our offices are shared by two staff rather than being large open-plan spaces, and all are situated
 on a quiet corridor, which provides a conducive working environment. All staff have access to
 high-speed internet connection and specialist research software (such as SPSS, Stata or NVivo)
 in their offices. Software is also available for off-campus use through a cloudpaging service,
 making remote research work possible. A 50-user network license for the latest version of
 Stata/MP 16 (two cores) has been purchased by the university to support our unit. The unit also
 has a dedicated research space available for multi-purpose data collection. To date this has
 been used as an interview room for two pump-primed projects, which led to three journal article
 outputs being submitted to this REF return.

 Library resources
 The library provides university wide support for scholarly communication through their academic
 liaison librarians, repository librarian and copyright and licensing officer. This includes input to

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the induction programme for PhD students. All PhD students are eligible for one-to-one bespoke
 advice and support from their named academic liaison librarian. Completed PhD theses are
 uploaded to the institutional repository, in open access format, embedding the principles of open
 research early. The university has made a commitment to support open access research, which
 can be demonstrated by our open access policy and data management policy. The library
 underpins this commitment with the provision of the university’s open access repository
 Research at York St John (RaY) and open data repository Research at York St John Data
 Repository (RayDaR). Outputs on RaY are harvested by CORE and Google, further widening
 access to the university’s research outputs. These measures go beyond current open access
 requirements for REF2021.

 Within the REF period, Library and Learning Services has increased investment in information
 resources by 44%, ensuring facilities and resources are appropriate to enable research at all
 levels. This has resulted in a 93% increase in journal titles. The level of investment in databases
 and journal packages relevant to Sociology (excluding some direct journal subscriptions) has
 gone from £12,140.43 in 2016–17 to £58,790.52 in 2020–21. Subject specific subscriptions
 include SocINDEX with Full Text, ProQuest Sociology Collection (includes ASSIA, Sociological
 Abstracts, Sociology Full Text, Social Services Abstracts, IBSS) and Criminal Justice Abstracts.
 There are also packages of databases, journals and tools that support research activity such as
 Web of Science, Sage Premier, Elsevier Freedom Collection, Taylor and Francis OA Offset,
 Qualtrics, Altmetric and several others.

 Research events
 New external research collaborations have been promoted not only through staff participation in
 external conferences but also by hosting visiting speakers as part of the School Seminar Series.
 Among the guest speakers whose research aligns with those of staff in our unit we could count
 Professor Philip Whitehead (University of Teesside), who presented on “The triangular trade of
 neoliberal polity, social insecurity and penal expulsion” (2017); Dr Sarah-Jane Walker (University
 of Bristol), who presented on “What does justice mean for victims and survivors of domestic and
 sexual violence” (2018); Professor Anne White (University College London), who presented on
 “Invisible Poles: Second-generation migrants in the EU 'mobility laboratory’” (2019); Dr. Rachel
 O’Neill (University of Warwick), who presented on “Men on #MeToo” (2019) or Dr. Cristian
 Tileaga (Loughborough University), who presented on “Misogyny and antisemitism online”
 (2019). For a new unit at a new university, such opportunities to invite established academics
 from leading research institutions provide invaluable advantages; for instance, Professor Anne
 White provided useful comments and served as referee on Moreh’s 2019 Leverhulme Research
 Fellowship grant application.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Participation in collaborative networks, honorary positions and contributions to society
 Increasing internal and external collaborative research is a priority for the Sociology unit and has
 been promoted by research support structures at both unit and school level. For example, the
 competitive Interdisciplinary Small Grants Initiative invites collaborative bids from research
 teams that include members from at least two different broad subject groups within the school,
 and the Social Sciences Work-in-Progress seminar series, encourages colleagues to present
 and receive feedback on a planned publication. As a sign of successful collaborative activities,
 since 2018 staff in the unit have published ten REF-able outputs co-authored with another
 colleague from York St John and have submitted four external grant applications in collaboration
 with other York St John staff.

 Our staff also actively participate in national and international collaborative networks and are
 making valuable contributions to the profession. Examples include: Hill’s recognition as honorary
 research supervisor by the University of Liverpool in 2018; Moreh’s continued collaboration with
 colleagues at the University of Southampton as a visiting research fellow at the ESRC Centre for
 Population Change and CI on the ESRC-funded project “Transnational healthcare and well-


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 being among Polish migrants in the UK” (2019–22); Moreh is also an affiliated researcher at the
 Făgăraș Research Institute, Romania.

 The research expertise of colleagues in the unit is increasingly sought out by external
 collaborators. For example, Moreh contributed to the Făgăraș Research Institute’s 2019 report
 on the potential of diaspora implication in communities in the Făgăraș region of Romania; he
 was also an invited academic expert in the Brexit and Extremism Risks strategic foresight
 workshop run by the Extremism Analysis Unit (Home Office) on 10 May 2019 at King's Manor,
 University of York; Formby has served as research consultant for TASO (Centre for
 Transforming Access and Student Outcomes in Higher Education), has produced three reports
 for Go Higher West Yorkshire as part of his realist evaluation work of widening participation
 initiatives, and his earlier co-authored “Cost Analysis of the Legal Declaratory Relief
 Requirement for Withdrawing Clinically Assisted Nutrition and Hydration (CANH) from Patients in
 the Permanent Vegetative State (PVS) in England and Wales” has been noted by House of
 Commons Science and Technology Select Committee report series.

 Our increasing engagement with stakeholders beyond academia is also the basis on which we
 have developed sustainable pathways to wider social impact. Our two impact case studies offer
 excellent examples. The first case study (led by Formby) aims at improving the outcomes of
 higher education Widening Participation initiatives by designing and implementing realist
 evaluation strategies in partnership with stakeholders such as Go Higher West Yorkshire (Uni
 Connect). The second case study (led by Ralston) focuses on developing a “layered
 pedagogical model” for reducing statistics anxiety among school pupils and university students
 preparing to embark on further studies and careers in the social sciences. Through engaging
 with stakeholders and end users such as the National Centre for Research Methods (NCRM),
 Uni Connect and schools (e.g. John Leggott College), the project contributes to strengthening
 the skill base of UK social science professionals.

 Wider activities and contributions to the research base

 Publications
 Although we are a small unit of young researchers, during the REF assessment period we have
 collectively published over 70 REF-able outputs, including ten authored books and articles in
 leading journals such as New Media and Society; Media, Culture & Society; Theory, Culture &
 Society; The British Journal of Sociology; The British Journal of Criminology; The Sociological
 Review; European Journal of Social Theory; Sociology of Health and Illness; The Lancet Public
 Health; Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies; International Migration Review and International
 Affairs. Formby has edited a special issue on youth transitions in People, Place and Policy
 (2020) and Denham co-edits the Emerald Studies in Death and Culture series.

 Invited talks and conference attendance
 Since joining York St John University, staff in the unit have given invited talks at nine events,
 including at the University of Manchester, University of Cambridge, University of Sheffield,
 University of Copenhagen (Denmark), Pacific University (USA), the British Sociological
 Association’s Youth Study Group conference, the Palace of Westminster and The Kosovo
 Institute for Training and Economic Development. They have attended a further 26 academic
 conferences both in the UK and abroad (including in Amsterdam, Zagreb, Madrid, Kyoto and
 San Francisco).

 Organising and awarding committees
 Denham and Smith have played a key role in organising three editions of the Death and Culture
 conference, which takes place every two years and alternates between the University of York
 and York St John University as a key event of the Death and Culture Network co-directed by
 Denham. Moreh was a member of the judging panel for the 2020 SAGE Prize for Innovation and
 Excellence for the BSA journal Sociology.

 Media/public engagement

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff in the unit have also actively engaged in reaching a wider audience for their research.
 Examples of public engagement include: 14 articles in The Conversation attracting 184,657
 readers from around the world (at the time of writing) and features in news outlets such as The
 Independent; public contributions and appearances in events such as the Battle of Ideas Festival
 and media outlets such as Sky News (Press Review) and BBC Radio.

 Journal peer-reviewing activity
 Since 2014, staff in the unit have completed 73 peer reviews for journals. “such
 as Sociology; The British Journal of Sociology; The Sociological Review; European Journal of
 Cultural Studies; Body & Society; Sociology of Health and Illness; Acta Sociologica; Current
 Sociology; Information, Communication and Society; or Crime, Media Culture.”




                                                                                         Page 12
