Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:

 Heriot-Watt University

 Unit of Assessment:
 Sub-panel 11: Computer Science and Informatics
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


Research Unit Context & Structure
Vision: To be a leading centre for research and development of transformative intelligent,
interactive, and rigorous systems, especially in robotics and foundational AI techniques,
while spearheading globally significant applications that exploit the potential of these areas
of computer science.
The School of Mathematical and Computer Sciences (MACS), one of five schools making up Heriot-
Watt University, has considerable autonomy over its budget, appointments, research strategy and
teaching. Our research groups in the Computer Science Department (HWCS) in MACS continue to
be the same as those returned in REF14, namely Intelligent Systems, Interaction, and Rigorous
Systems. Group staffing structure is shown below, with underline indicating main affiliation when a
member is in multiple groups.
 Intelligent Systems
 Areas: biomedical informatics, intelligent systems, Aylett, Baillie, Broz, Burger, Corne,
 pervasive and ubiquitous systems, robotics, Dondrup, Gray, Hastie, Lemon, Lones,
 machine learning and semantic web                   Petrick, Rieser, Taylor, Vargas, Pang
 Interaction
 Areas: affective and autonomous agents, natural       Aylett, Baillie, Bartie, Broz, Chantler,
 language processing, conversational artificial        Dondrup, Eshghi, Hastie, Just, Konstas,
 intelligence, human-robot interaction, human          Lemon, Padilla, Petrick, Rieser, Taylor,
 computer interaction and multimodal interaction       Vargas
 Rigorous Systems
 Areas: cyber security, dependable systems and Gabbay,    Georgieva,    Ireland, Just,
 useful logic, types and re-writing            Kamareddine, Komendantskaya, Lindley,
                                               Loidl, Maarek, McKinna, Radomirovic,
                                               Stewart, Scholz, Pang, Wells
Table 1: Research Groups in UoA.
Our structure reflects a pattern of sustainable growth, with research active staff up by 10%. We aim
to double that growth to 20% in the next 5 years through the University’s Bicentennial Research
Leaders fund. Major post-2014 developments include the establishment of a ‘Human Robot
Interaction’ lab (14 academics) which runs through and connects our three main groups. This was
an organic development resulting from our growing research activity in this area. One example is
our Robotics and Autonomous Systems EPSRC CDT awarded in 2014 (£5.74M), which we used to
create the Edinburgh Centre for Robotics (ECR). Lane from Engineering was the PI but the Co-I in
Computer Science was Taylor (EP/L016834/1). The CDT was awarded jointly with the University of

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Edinburgh and over 30 industrial partners. This CDT was subsequently renewed in 2019 (£7M)
moving from having an Engineering lead to a HWCS lead, with Hastie as (PI) & Taylor (Co-I)
(EP/S023208/1), and now involves 40 industrial partners. Our grant funding in this area has also
grown through an EPSRC Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund for the Robotics Hub for Offshore
Robotics for Certification of Assets (ORCA) EP/R026173/1, Hastie, Chantler (HWCS) and
colleagues (Lane PI, HWU Engineering) worth £14.6M, which is one of the largest industrial strategy
challenge funds awards. The Hub brings together leading experts from 5 universities with over 30
industry partners including BP, Chevron, Schlumberger, Kawasaki, Lloyds, and Kuka
Robotics. The goal of the hub is to use robotic systems and artificial intelligence to revolutionise
asset integrity management for the offshore energy sector. We have been awarded several further
large EU and EPSRC grants in this area, see Section 3. Regarding infrastructure investment we won
a EPSRC capital award (£7.2Mm to HWU and Edinburgh University) in late 2013 which enabled us
to spend £802K creating the Robotarium West at HWU, which was completed in 2016. The most
recent of our robotics activities with the University of Edinburgh led to an Edinburgh City Deal funded
by Scottish, UK and local governments, in which HWU was awarded £22.4M (HWU added £6.5M to
this fund making the investment overall approx. £29M) to establish a UK National Robotarium. The
National Roboatrium will act as a catalyst to work with industry translating HWCS research into
practice. The infrastructure and awards outlined have helped underpin new collaborative ventures
between all our groups as well as turbo-charge new external interactions (see Sections 3 & 4 for
information).
Growth in our Research Since 2014
Our research income has increased by 38% overall since REF 2014. We have radically increased
our funding base in areas that both support our vision and align with global priorities. Sustaining
future developments, we have also grown external industry and academic collaboration (evidenced
throughout Section 4 and REF3a) and have now an established profile in future global priorities that
crosscut our research groups such as energy, AI, robotics and health.
In REF 2014 we indicated the following goals:
   1. investment in new opportunities and existing areas of strength;
   2. broader industrial activity;
   3. wider UK and international collaborations;
   4. increasing research student numbers;
   5. strong support of researchers at all career points, especially female members of staff.
We have achieved all five of our goals. For example, we achieved: goal 1 by using the HWU
Global Platform Appointment process to grow and enhance our research academic staff base and
bolster our 3 groups (see Section 2) and grants to increase the number of RA’s by 15%; 2. As regards
growing our industrial partnerships we have undertaken 107 projects with industrial partners (see
Sections 3 & 4). 3. The national context saw the emergence of the AI and Robotics theme and the
reshaping of EPSRC’s approach to ICT to increase their emphases on Robotics, AI and
Cybersecurity. This resulted in several funding awards in robotics (see research groups and Section
3) and foundations/verification of AI. Exploiting goals 1-3 and our own initiatives we achieved goal 4
and increased PhD student numbers (39 to 103). As regards goal 5 46% of our Professors are
female, this compares very favourably to the national average of 16%. Significant progress has
been made on all strategy goals (evidenced here and in the relevant sections cited).




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2014-20 Strategy, Achievements and Future Plans (2020-25)
Intelligent systems
We aim to transform the quality and potential for large scale optimization, robot control, decision-
making, and pervasive computing, by drawing on inspiration from nature and via new synergies
among machine learning, optimization and complexity science.
Our Strategy 2014-20 was to widen both academic & industry collaborations around these threads,
including bringing these ideas “to bear on major societal & environmental challenges”. This strategy
was progressed via several new collaborations organized around the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (SDG), with organizations including the World Business Council for Sustainable
Development (WBCSD), the Chinese Society for Environmental Sciences (CSEC), and Scene Ltd
(a social enterprise working in India). Our strategy then expanded towards exploiting these alliances
to:
   (i)     help us understand key research questions around the adoption of intelligent systems in
           real-world settings, especially regarding SDGs, and then
   (ii)    seeking to address these questions in collaboration with stakeholders.
Evidence of impact of this work can be seen in one of our submitted Impact Case Studies. The case
study (logistics) builds on existing and new partnerships with WBCSD and companies in the road
transport sector to assist with decarbonisation of freight transport. Meanwhile, via support from two
EPSRC Quantum Hub grants (£185k, shared with HWU Physics), we grew academic collaboration
in this area to lay the groundwork for exciting future developments.
Evidence of our strategy in operation and associated achievements: since 2014 we have won
10 projects with industry collaborators (£1.56M), developing new, robust and deployable ideas for
machine learning and large-scale optimization. We engaged with the WBCSD on a freight industry
working group 2014-2016; this led to a 2018-20 Innovate UK award to investigate both business
models and algorithms for asset sharing in road freight, the outcomes of which have now informed
WBSCD global policy documents and have been implemented in leading commercial transport
management software. Another focus is health monitoring, with Lones’ EPSRC First Grant
(EP/M013677/1) exploring intelligent systems for new diagnostic approaches to Parkinson’s disease.
Lones continued this work in a partnership with a diagnostics SME Clear Sky medical (clearskymd),
they are now conducting clinical trials of their innovative diagnostics device. Pursuing our strategy
in the area of robotics, Petrick’s research in automated planning in the context of robotic systems
working safely and reliably with humans has resulted in a collaboration with PSA Peugeot-Citroen
on factory automation (EU FP7 STAMINA, 2013-2017). He investigates questions in temporal
planning for autonomous robotic inspection tasks (EPSRC ORCA Hub) and epistemic planning in
robot/human interaction (EPSRC EP/R031045/1).
Our top-level Objectives 2021—25:
   (i)     sustain and grow stakeholder collaborations and impact around SDGs, especially climate
           mitigation, energy and health;
   (ii)    continue to address key research questions in optimisation and planning, especially
           industry deployment and public acceptance of these technologies;
   (iii)   build a new emphasis on understanding and designing intelligent systems that are robust
           to significant change, and;
   (iv)    grow our portfolio of emerging technologies including quantum computing.


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
This reflects adaptation of our 2014-20 objectives in the light of increasing urgency of the UN SDGs
and the new challenges of mid- and post-pandemic society.
Interaction
We aim to enable future intelligent interactive systems that can collaborate effectively and adaptively
with humans, covering human-robot interaction, multimodal interaction, human computer interaction,
and natural language processing.
The interaction grouping has focused on multimodal interaction, supported by advanced probabilistic
techniques in modelling and planning, thus handling uncertainty in interactions and improving the
effectiveness of human/machine interaction. We have developed and applied techniques for
scenarios ranging from spoken dialogue systems (such as Alexa), to multimodal interfaces for
autism, healthcare, and social robotics. Achievements include novel theory and applications of
reinforcement learning to Natural Language Generation and robust spoken dialogue management,
data-driven techniques enabling rapid generation of multimodal interfaces for new applications,
virtual characters for communication skills learning in autism, and advances in socially intelligent
robots. Strategy 2014-2020 was twofold:
   (i)     to further develop and capitalise on this work in important social contexts;
   (ii)    to extend the theory, models and platforms from individual towards social interaction, and
           to focus on multimodal interaction, supported by advanced probabilistic techniques in
           modelling and planning.
Evidence of our strategy in operation and associated achievements from 2014-2020 include
Lemon, Rieser, Konstas leading a group of PhD student finalists twice in the Amazon Alexa Prize
2017 and 2018 (see Section 4). This group has been awarded £6.4M (from ESRC, EPSRC (e.g.
Diligent, Madrigal, and Babble), EU-H2020 and Leverhulme) to develop spoken dialogue systems.
Regarding modelling usable interaction for rehabilitation and security we have won 5 awards from
EPSRC (Baillie, Broz, Vargas, Aylett, (EP/T013737/1, EP/N034546/1, EP/I032037/1, EP/T017511/1,
EP/T021063/1)). We are currently working on advances in socially intelligent robots and how to
ensure safer user interactions in hazardous environments (Orca Hub, Hastie). The group has
collaborated with over 50 companies on real world projects which saw our ideas, concepts and
solutions adopted into practice, some of these companies are world-leading e.g., Amazon, Softbank,
Kawasaki, Total, Schlumberger, Honda, Lloyds and Ocado.
Our top-level Objectives 2021—25 for Interaction are:
   (i)     to further develop our core scientific work in the areas of conversational AI, NLP, machine
           learning, multimodal interfaces, and Human-Robot Interaction, and
   (ii)    to apply and evaluate these methods in ecologically-valid real-world settings in areas
           such as healthcare, assistive living technology, under-water robotics and smart
           workplaces.
   (iii)   to further develop our industry collaborations (e.g. Softbank, Kawasaki, Total, Honda,
           Ocado, Amazon, and PAL robotics) in order to perform both foundational and applied
           research, in particular supported by the new National Robotarium research facility, for
           which the group members have designed a suite of research labs (see Section 3)
   (iv)    A further important objective here is to enhance the impact of our research via spin-out
           companies such as the conversational AI spin out company Alana AI (Lemon & Rieser).




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Rigorous Systems
Our work focuses on the development of theories, techniques and tools to improve the dependability
of systems. Key areas are the design and implementation of portable and parallel programming
languages, formal verification and explainability of complex intelligent and autonomous systems, and
formal verification and design of security protocols.
Strategy 2014-20, was to expand and apply that research to enable the creation of trustworthy AI
applications, and verify the reliability, safety, and security of complex software systems. Working
towards this goal, we hired new staff with world-leading expertise in security (Maarek, Just,
Radomirovich) and verification of AI (Komendantskaya). This resulted in new work on verifiable AI
that investigated novel frameworks for developing and implementing security and regulatory policies
for complex deep learning AI. For dependable computing we broadened the use of advanced type
systems, develop modelling methods for secure systems and theorem proving technologies to
design and validate new programming language foundations in domains such as symbolic
computation. Examples of realising this vision are: (i) high-level language concepts and associated
compilers (e.g. SaC) that enable solutions (e.g. costed parallel compilation) usable in arbitrary
existing contexts (e.g. C, Java), with no need for users to adopt a new language; (ii) scaling scientific
and symbolic computations on HPC architectures and computer vision languages (e.g. RIPL) for
programmable hardware; (iii) using formal methods to verify AI techniques; (iv) formal modelling and
verification of cryptographic protocols e.g. for 5G mobile communication; (v) advances to
bidirectional programming in model-driven development, algebraic effects and handlers as well as
extensible datatypes in functional programming.
Evidence of our Strategy in Operation and Associated Achievements
The group won £1.7M for type system approaches for verifying System on Chip design
(EP/N028201/1 Scholz, Stewart); EPSRC Platform Grant £1.3M to enable the visualisation of
reasoning processes (EP/N014758/1 Ireland); EPSRC £1.3M to develop type based novel
framework for documenting, implementing and developing policies for complex AI systems
(EP/T026952/1 Komendantskaya); EPSRC £283k UK Trustworthy Autonomous Systems (TAS)
Node on Governance and Regulation (Ireland). Gabbay’s foundational work in nominal logics seeks
to revolutionize how computer science handles names and won an Alonzo Church Award for
Outstanding Contributions to Logic and Computation (2019). Ireland’s EPSRC Platform Grant is
creating impact by providing the underpinning infrastructure for a unique blend of theoretical AI
research spanning theory formation, evolution, visualisation of systems, learning and proof
engineering. Applications are wide ranging and include ontology management, emergency
response, healthcare workflows, industrial scale embedded formal methods, disaster recovery
planning and privacy analysis. Project partners have applied the visualisations in aerospace (NASA)
and improving modelling of healthcare pathways (NHS).
Our top-level Objectives 2021—25 are to further solidify our impact and apply our work in the areas
of:
   (i)     verification of foundational AI techniques towards trustworthy AI for autonomous systems
           and computational finance;
   (ii)    systems and languages for high-performance machine learning;
   (iii)   compiler guaranteed proofs for automatically generated programs;
   (iv)    formal methods for cyber-security and their applications to emerging and evolving
           systems and protocols. The group will capitalise on academic and industry collaboration
           initiatives (e.g. NASA, NHS, BAE systems, Xilinx, DSTL, Codethink) and will perform

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           foundational research to realise large-scale software verification and high-performance
           architectures.

Open Access
We provide free, open online external access to our publications via our Research Portal to ensure
that our research results are transparent and have wide reach. We also provide free and open online
access to as much as possible of our raw data and experimental results. As regards our further
commitment to open access one of our impact case studies (see our submitted REF3) reports on
how we assisted publishers to make their Open Access Articles systematically discoverable. The
ticTOCs and journalTOCS projects respectively developed the world’s first metadata schema for
scholarly publications, and then built on that to produce the de facto standard for scholarly journal
Table of Contents (TOC) and is being used by over 30,000 journals.

Ethics
We operate within the jurisdiction of the Schools’ Ethics Committee reporting to the University Ethics
Committee. The School Director of Ethics also sits on the University Ethics committee. The
University has recently (2019) adopted a University wide system for ethical approval to ensure
consistency of approach. We train our staff to anticipate and understand the wider ethical and
societal impacts of their work. Ethics approval is a compulsory aspect of our pre-submission internal
grant review procedures and expected to be revisited throughout the lifetime of an award. We follow
the principles of the UK Forum for Responsible Research Metrics, including robustness, humility,
transparency, diversity and reflexivity. In HWCS we have a strong ethics culture, which permeates
all our research project proposals as we believe strongly in the concepts of Explainable AI, user-
centred design and privacy by design for all pertinent projects.

COVID Impact Statement
There have been two areas of impact.
Section 2 Staff
    Staff have had to continue with full time work whilst also doing full-time caring and childcare
     (including home schooling), significantly reducing their productivity. It is anticipated that this
     will have a medium-term effect on grant income, publications and impact.
    in the area of staff development meetings, training and exchanges are only available online.
     This has an especially large impact on ECRs as networking at this stage in their careers is
     paramount.
    The delay of all in person experiments has had a severe effect on our research associates and
     PhD students’ development, especially regarding the Interaction grouping. It is anticipated that
     this will have an impact on our publications and PhD completion times.
Section 4 Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society
We had an impressive collaboration and contribution track record as can be seen by our list of invited
industrial talks e.g., Google, Vodaphone, Microsoft, Amazon and public exhibits e.g. Royal Society
Summer Festival, Subsea Expo, Edinburgh International Science Festival, Chelsea and Westminster
NHS Trust etc. We had over fifty events planned for 2020 which all had to be postponed, moved
online or cancelled which had an impact on our ability to undertake as much outreach.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People


Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
Academic staffing strategy
Academic staffing strategy: Our broad strategy is to aim for sustainable growth and as a result our
research staff number has grown by 10%. We have also created permanent teaching and
scholarship posts to support our teaching and release more time for research. We have a healthy
balance of senior and early-career staff, and a robust balance of theory-oriented and application-
oriented groupings, since each of these directions maximises our agility in the face of shifting
priorities, opportunities, and developments in computer science. Our recruitment strategy during
2014-20 aimed to: (i) maintain and strengthen our three groups, (ii) increase the numbers of early
and mid-career staff who straddle two or more of our groups, and hence underpin future larger-scale
research programmes (e.g. Orca Hub which has as Co-Is, Chantler, Hastie and Petrick).
 Group                   Joined
 Intelligent Systems     Broz, Dondrup, Pang
 Interaction             Baillie, Bartie, Eshghi, Just, Padilla
 Rigorous Systems        Komendantskaya, Lindley, Maarek, McKinna, Radomirovic, Stewart
Table 2: New academic staff and their primary research group.
Hastie (2010) and Rieser both hired as early career (2012) were promoted to Professors (2017) and
Baillie and Komendantskaya (2015 mid-career appointments) were also promoted to Professor
(2018/2019); all are female. Hastie and Rieser bring unique approaches at the interfaces of machine
learning, probabilistic reasoning, NLP, and dialogue. Hastie is Director of the EPSRC CDT-RAS, Co-
I on the EPSRC ORCA HUB, PI for the EPSRC Trustworthy Autonomy Node on Trust, National
Robotarium Academic co-lead, and awardee of an RAEng/Leverhulme Senior Research Fellowship.
Rieser was PI on the EPSRC Diligent and Madrigal grants, academic lead on our Amazon Alexa
Challenge finalists’ group in 2017 & 2018 and is an RSE Fellow. Baillie has strengthened our Human
Robot Interaction area bringing expertise and concepts from Human Computer Interaction and
adapting them for HRI, she has been PI on 5 grants from Digital Health Innovation Centre, Innovate
UK, and EPSRC. Komendantskaya established the Research Lab for AI and Verification, that brings
together researchers from Rigorous Systems, Intelligent Systems and Interaction. She has held 4
grants from EPSRC, NCSC, DSTL.
We have had some staff turnover with 6 staff leaving either due to promotion (Professor: Lohan,
Robertson); Associate Professor (McGookin, Louchart), moving to senior management (de Wilde as
Pro-VC of Research at University of Kent), or to research opportunities at distinguished institutions:
Edinburgh University (McNeil), Norwegian Defence Research Institute (Grov). We have also had 3
staff retire (Michaelson, Pooley, Taylor, H).
People Support and Development
We enable and support all staff and students’ research ambitions by maximising access to time,
training, travel, equipment and facilities. This has especially benefited our early career staff, see
Section 4 for some outcomes. We also operate a light-touch annual review process to emphasise
personal development. We follow the recruitment principle of recruiting, selecting and retaining the
best – in part by ensuring vacancies are advertised globally, and via personal approaches to high
calibre staff in our strategic areas. In terms of valuing and supporting, we provide relief from teaching
                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
for the first two years of a full-time academic post, accompanied by a PhD scholarship(s). We operate
a mentoring scheme for new academics to ensure that senior staff connect with and support junior
colleagues. We also have a MACS Early Career Academic Forum which meets every two weeks
organises activities that can help early career academics to advance their careers, e.g. grant writing
workshops. It also nominates an early career academic from HWCS to attend the monthly
management meeting.
High-level monitoring and review are achieved by regular staff surveys and data collection (e.g.
registration data for career development courses). Regarding equality and diversity, we hold an
institutional Athena SWAN Bronze award and the school of MACS holds an Athena SWAN Bronze
award. We strongly support women, in terms of development and promotion. Our actions resulted in
46% of our Professors being female, this compares very favourably to the national average
of 16% (according to the latest HESA figures). This aids our efforts in making sure that selection
panels, boards and committees are representative.
Studentship Allocation
We use EPSRC CTD and DTP funds to support early career researchers and people who have
returned after a leave of absence. For example, Stewart, Konstas, Dondrup, Eshghi, Padilla, Broz
who are all in the early stages of their careers were awarded students from our DTP or from our
internal James Watt Scholarship scheme. We use James Watt Scholarships to attract international
students who are linked to our three key research groupings. In total 73 studentships between 2014-
20 have been sponsored by the School via a variety of means.
Visiting / International staff
Our strategy is to widen our engagement with world leaders in areas that overlap our interests, and/or
help us better engage with global priorities, we use HWCS, Edinburgh Centre for Robotics (ECR)
and Scottish Informatics and Computer Science Alliance (SICSA) funds to support this.
Training
The main mechanisms available since 2014, are through SICSA, ECR, HWCS and the research
futures academy. Our academics lead three of the seven research themes of SICSA. Close
engagement with SICSA themes enables our academics to create links with international leaders in
their field who provide talks and workshops that benefit not just senior academics but also early
career researchers and PhD students. This is further enhanced by us being able to bid to host SICSA
Distinguished International Visiting Fellowship visits. These visits enable the creation of joint
research proposals and knowledge exchange across an in-depth two-week period.
 Provided by Scottish Informatics and Computer Science Alliance (SICSA)
 SICSA has the following seven research themes (HWCS lead in brackets): HCI, Cybersecurity,
 Networking & systems, Data Science (Chantler), Cyber-Physical Systems (Dondrup), AI
 (Hastie), and Theory, Modelling and Computation.
 Research Theme Workshops and Networking Events                                                 119
 Distinguished International Visiting Fellow Programme (DVF)                                      39
 (some visiting professors were: Elise Van De Hoven (U.Melbourne), Kia Hook, Royal
 Institute of Technology (KTH), Tony Balpeame, U.Ghent. Stuart Shieber, Harvard
 University, Mostafa Ammar, Georgia Tech, Daniel Sorin, Duke University)
 Post Doc/Early Career researchers International Exchanges                                        27
 Women in CS research days                                                                         6

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Table 3: Academic events and exchanges provided by SICSA.
Provided by HWCS: We have a research seminar programme which is funded by the department
and it has welcomed over 130 distinguished international academic and industrial speakers: Georg
Von-Wichart (Siemens), Roberto Pieraccini (Google Zurich), Jeremy Gibbons (U.Oxford), Salah
Sukkarieh (U.Sydney) etc. We also run a series of talks led by HWCS academics in which they
present their research on how they have won funding from a variety of different funders.
Provided by HWU Research Futures Academy: The aim of the academy is to support doctoral
students and early career researchers to develop skills and competencies to enhance their personal
and professional capabilities and future employability.
    Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice (PGCAP - focus on early-career staff)
    Learning Enhancement and Development Skills (LEADS) courses for Approved Tutor and
     Approved Teacher status (focus on research students)
    Researcher Development: the academy offers an extensive programme of bespoke training
     courses designed to increase research capability and success. Courses include, Research
     Ethics, Advanced Research Methods and Statistics, Grant Writing and PhD supervision.

Research Students
During this REF period we have seen an increase in PhD scholarships (103 wholly or part-funded
since 2014, of which 57 have now completed an increase of 46% on our completion rate from
2014). The increase in scholarships was mainly due to our having industrially led PhDs through our
partners in the CDT, Orca and DataLab. The numbers by year and totals can be seen in submission
4a. We currently have 46 full time students, with a further 11 writing up. We had 39 completed
students returned in 2014 therefore over this REF period we have increased our research student
completion by 46%. This demonstrates an active and growing research student activity within
HWCS.
In terms of our robotics CDTs (see section one, first awarded in 2014 and renewed in 2019) in
Robotics & Autonomous System we have been awarded £12.7M, the EPSRC investment in the most
recent CDT is £6.5M, which when matched with the £11M pledged by industry partners will train 88
PhD students. Many of which will have use of our unique world-class collection of robots and ancillary
equipment and will soon be housed in the new National Robotarium. The PhD students also benefit
from the training provided that spans two Universities (UoE and HWU) and each student has a
budget of £5k for the duration of their studies that can be used for training, equipment and travel.
Events, Talks & Training
The PhD students also benefit from the training provided that spans two Universities (UoE and HWU)
and each student has a budget of £5k for the duration of their studies that can be used for training,
equipment and travel.
Provided by HWU (see also Research Futures Academy)
    Annual Postgraduate Conference (organised and run by HWU postgraduates)
Provided by HWCS (these moved online during lockdown)
    Annual Postgraduate welcome get together in the Autumn,
    Annual school Conference Day
    Research student seminar programme (organized and delivered by our PhD students)

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Weekly teatime get-together with biscuits and coffee/tea provided.
 Provided by SICSA
 Regular themed Summer Schools (that can be attended by any SICSA PhD                          75
 student)                                                                        (28 run by HWCS)
 Annual SICSA PhD conference                                                                       7
 Annual Demofest (where PhD students get to showcase their work through                            6
 demos and posters to industry, academia and the third sector)
 Masterclasses delivered by DVFs                                                                  39
 Early career industrial knowledge exchanges                                                       9
Table 4: Events, Talks and Training Provided by SICSA.
We use the above mechanisms to build on a backbone of monthly meetings of individual
student/supervisor teams, aiming to ensure a stimulating and collaborative programme for all our
students. High quality supervision is assured by the regular meetings being logged on a central
online system that enables any student who appears to be falling behind, and/or not engaging
sufficiently, to be easily identified and appropriate follow-up action taken by the school Director of
PGRS. Formal progress monitoring takes the form of annual report and presentation both of which
are assessed by an internal HWCS expert in the area. An interview takes place with the internal
assessor and the student and a formal report is written by the internal assessor and the student’s
primary and secondary supervisors regarding the report and progress of the student.
The standard experience for an HWCS research student whose studies were within the 2014-20
period included: 2 training-oriented conferences and workshops, 3 academic conference trips (incl.
one overseas), 3 internal presentations, 3 internal progression vivas, 3 demofests (poster/demo
sessions with industry and academic audiences), three summer schools (one international), 3 PhD
SICSA conferences, 6 Masterclasses, and 4 short training courses.
All PhD students have access to a budget of £750 per annum for research expenses, such as
conference attendance or miscellaneous equipment. This budget can be used flexibly across a
student’s period of study, meaning that unused funds can be carried forward to subsequent years
as necessary.
In addition our students have access to funds gifted by Amazon, Google, Adobe, and Microsoft which
has funded 10 student conference trips, 5 internships (Amazon (Curry, Papaioannou), Adobe
(Agarwal) and Microsoft (Watson, Shalyminov) as well as the purchase of 4 GPU machines (2
Amazon, 1 each from Microsoft and Adobe).

Equality and Diversity
We were among the first in the UK to receive the HR Excellence in Research recognition from the
European Commission in 2010 and have held this award for ten years. We hold an Athena Swan
Bronze award (awarded 2016 and renewed 2020), however our commitment to equality and diversity
goes beyond just achieving this. For example, University wide activities are overseen by the Equality
and Diversity Advisory Group (EDAG), this group is made up from representatives from across the
university community. A critical path to achieving the equality and diversity targets is to ensure
everyone in the University community understands how they contribute to a culture of ‘Inclusion for
All’. This requires all staff, researchers and PhD students to complete the basic ethics and diversity
awareness training, but also provides the option to extend the training with other workshops,
                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
covering various issues in diversity, equality and bias, offered through the University’s Research
Futures Academy. An example of the effect this is having on gender balance is indicated by the
number and variety of roles undertaken by women in HWCS. For example, our Director of Ethics is
female Aylett, and Hastie is joint academic Director of the ECR and the new National Robotarium. It
is notable that the Head of School, Pelloni, is female. We have a Women in HWCS social group that
has invited talks with guest speakers on topics that are of wide interest (e.g., careers advice, writing
research papers, managing large multidisciplinary grants etc) as well as organising a very active
outreach events program. A successful MACS Athena SWAN Bronze application was led by the
school-wide Self-Assessment Team (SAT) that included several HWCS women. In our Athena Swan
Bronze Award, we focused on the following key principles: recruiting, valuing, supporting, and
developing researchers. We also ensure that female and under-represented academics are involved
in the short-listing and sit on interview panels. This along with our training on unconscious bias, that
all interview panellists must attend, has resulted in fair and transparent recruitment.
In terms of valuing and supporting we offer our academics a 6-month sabbatical/study leave that is
aimed at supporting people, who have had a period(s) of maternity, familial leave, other unexpected
leave or have taken on a substantial admin role. Admin burden is especially recognised as having
had an unduly negative impact on female promotion prospects in the past. The study/sabbatical
leave support covers all teaching and admin responsibilities leaving the academic to focus 100% on
their research. We also support flexible working by having a policy in place regarding suitable timings
for important and regular meetings that takes into consideration child and caring needs. We have
also supported home working since 2014.
Selection of Outputs
We ensured full equality and diversity in the preparation of UoA REF2021 submission by:
    Creating and maintaining a gender, race and age/experience balance of the internal review
     team;
    Ensuring all of our outputs were reviewed by external experts chosen by our internal review
     team;
    Creating a supportive working environment for the team (in person and latterly at distance)
     that encourages freedom of expression, mutual respect and shared value/understanding of the
     critical importance of the preparations and the REF process itself;
    Ensuring that all members of the REF Team had completed equality in REF and unconscious
     bias training;
    Embodying career development and training as a reason for inclusion in the REF Team.
We adhere to the principles of full equality and diversity in all aspects of our operation.




                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


Income Portfolio 2014-20 and Future Plans
Our funding portfolio by area is given below. Complementing data in REF4, we show totals for
projects that started or were awarded between 08/2013 and 07/2020. Only the HWCS component is
given. We show in parentheses the percentage increase compared to REF2014. Our overall
income shows an increase from £9.36M - £12.93M we have therefore increased our income
by 38% from 2014.
             From                             Income                Percentage Change from 2014
     Research Councils UK BIS                 £7.25M                                69%
                    Charities All              £373K                               767%
                Government all                 £778K                               813%
                     Industry all              £838K                                84%
                           other               £312K                               890%
                              all            £12.93M                                38%
Table 5: Income percentage change from 2014 REF.
We have increased our funding across 14 of the 16 funding categories specified by REF2021. The
charities rise is due to our success with Leverhulme Fellowships (Rieser and Hastie). Our work in
robotics (Orca Hub, Alexa Prize etc) has seen our industry funding increase. The largest rise, in
terms of amount, is with the Research Councils from £4.2M to £7.25M.
Our future planning involves building on our current profile through developing exciting and
substantial interdisciplinary proposals addressing real world issues. Some specific areas for such
proposals will be:
   (i)     to develop computational intelligence applications to enable intelligent forecasting to
           improve the environment and our renewable energy future (Intelligent Systems);
   (ii)    to develop further multi-modal, creative and robotic systems for a wide range of societal
           applications in social robotics and health (Interaction);
   (iii)   research advances and breakthroughs in artificial intelligence, verified and secure
           software as it applies to large scale systems and to industry as a whole (Rigorous
           Systems) and
   (iv)    to continue our world leading research in conversational artificial intelligence (All groups).
We plan to achieve some of these aims by broadening our funding sources to include more Innovate
UK awards, and by developing more alliances with specific organizations and academic/industry
consortia.




                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Strategy 2021-2026
       Strategically grow       research in Building on concepts and outcomes of recent
       these areas:                         grants:
  i    computational intelligence               Corne projects (KTP #9839 with Route Monkey Ltd,
       applications to enable intelligent       10/2014—04/2018. KTP with FreightShare Lab
       forecasting to improve the               (FSL) & Innovate UK #103890, Baillie & Corne
       environment and our renewable            #11228.
       energy future
 ii    multi-modal, creative and robotic        Hastie, Chantler & Petrick, ORCA EPSRC Grant
       systems for a wide range of societal     EP/R026173/1), Hastie (EP/R026173), Aylett
       applications in social robotics and      (EP/N034546/1), Baillie (EP/T021063/1), Hastie
       health                                   (EP/V026682/1)
 iii   research advances and                    Ireland (EP/N014758/1), Baillie, EP/T017511/1,
       breakthroughs in AI, verified and        Komendantskaya (EP/T026952/1, EP/K031864/1)
       secure software as it applies to large   and VETSS grant CONVENER, NSCS grant
       scale systems and to industry as a       SecCon-NN
       whole
 iv    our world leading research in            Rieser (EP/M005429, EP/T023767, EP/N0175361),
       conversational artificial intelligence   Lemon (EP/M01553X/1) and EU projects JAMES,
                                                MuMMER, and SPRING
Table 6: Notable grants from which we will build the planned areas i-iv

Infrastructure & Facilities
In the area of robotics the initial investment of £802K from EPSRC in 2013 to create the Robotarium
West (completed 2016) was a significant boost to our existing facilities and enabled us to create a
dedicated Human Robot Interaction (HRI) Laboratory, Assistive Living Robot apartment, robotics
seminar room, and field robotics lab. As a result we have received significant and distinguished
visitors e.g. Roberto Pieraccini (Director of Engineering at Google), Dr Michael Gienger (Principal
Research Scientist, Honda), Dr Elie Allouis (Senior Robotics Systems Engineer, Airbus). As well as
key academic figures in the robotics area e.g., Cynthia Brazeal (MIT), Prof Belpaeme (Univ. Ghent).
We anticipate that the new National Robotarium will only increase the interest in our world leading
robotics and data driven research.
The National Robotarium
The Edinburgh and South East Scotland Science and Innovation Audit (SIA) detailed how the ability
to collect, store and analyse data from an array of diverse sources will become increasingly important
in driving economic growth, social change and public services and this led to the City deal (agreed
and signed July 2017). HWU and UoE will jointly deliver the Data Driven innovation (DDI) strand of
the deal. The DDI Programme will be delivered through a network of five DDI Innovation Hubs of
which the National Robotarium is one, with the others being the Bayes centre, Edinburgh Futures
Institute (EFI), Usher Institute, and Easter Bush.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Figure 1: Artist's Impression of The National Robotarium due for delivery in Spring 2022
The National Robotarium will provide state of the art facilities to co‐locate researchers, research and
development engineers, entrepreneurs and educators to deliver the UK’s leading international centre
for the translation of new robotics research into new products and facilities. We plan to widen our
impact through our co-design activities and outreach to the wider community outside robotics e.g.
health, construction etc. Through our Living Laboratories and engagement mechanisms, we will
enable subject matter experts to understand the needs of major companies and end users. The
National Robotarium will be located on the Heriot-Watt University campus and has a current spend
of 2M for new robotics equipment. The activities proposed build on the established partnership of
Heriot-Watt University and University of Edinburgh through the Edinburgh Centre for Robotics (ECR)
and all researchers will have access to the resources and equipment of ECR.


 Lab                                                                                        Size (m²)
 RAS (Robotic Autonomous Systems)                                                                355
 HRI (Human Robotics Interaction)                                                                346
 ULTRA (Laser/Logic/Types/Rewriting/Automation)                                                  360
 PARTNER & Seminar Space                                                                         250
 Overall                                                                                        1414
Table 7: Allocation of Space in National Robotarium




                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 2: Architect’s Drawing of the ground floor of the National Robotarium in which all of
the labs to the right will be used by our research groups and includes an Assistive Living
Robotics Lab (front right).




Figure 3: Planned 1st floor of the Robotarium, which contains a hot desking office, a further
HRI research lab and a double vaulted space (see centre back) for our field robotics lab
The National Robotarium will house internationally important research areas and labs and will
include a field robotics laboratory (Vargas, Petrick), 7 HRI labs (Lemon, Hastie, Taylor, Baillie, Broz,
Bartie, Aylett, Rieser, Chantler, Lones, Stewart), a meeting/seminar room, 2 hot desking offices with
15 desk spaces for visiting researchers and PhD students, and a fully equipped kerb-to-kitchen

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
robotic assistive sensored living apartment, which has its own living room, kitchen, bedroom,
bathroom, care giver bedroom, garden area, front door, and its own independent heating and lighting
infrastructure (Baillie, Broz, Aylett, Lemon, Hastie). Three major awards will use this new facility: EU
Project SPRING (Socially Pertinent Robots in Gerontological Healthcare, £1M, Lemon & Dondrup);
COG-MHEAR: Towards cognitively-inspired 5G-IoT enabled multi-modal hearing Aids
(EP/T021063/1, Baillie £3.25M) and EPSRC TAS Node on Trust (EP/V026682/1, £3M Hastie). The
new National Robotarium will be a truly world leading facility. In addition, we benefit from facilities
across Edinburgh Centre of Robotics including full use of the Bayes Centre sited at the University
of Edinburgh. This is a new building housing a large number of hot desking labs/offices, a large
seminar room for workshops and talks, and two robotics labs. The Bayes Centre along with the
National Robotarium is one of the five hubs financed as part of the £1.3BN Data-Driven Innovation
(DDI) Programme within the Edinburgh and South East Scotland City Region Deal.
The Grid
The National Robotarium is complemented by another significant investment in the GRID building,
which is our new flagship facility to advance our global research and entrepreneurship. This open
space collaboration facility allows broad cohesion between academic disciplines, industrial partners
and our global community.




              Figure 4: GRID Building adjacent to Loch at the Edinburgh Campus
The GRID resides at the heart of our Edinburgh campus, and constitutes an investment of £19M by
HWU. The facility has many joint networked spaces where staff can discover, tackle challenges and
explore their intellectual passions. Of particular use to researchers in HWCS includes spaces to
explore originality (Creative Studio), to quickly prototype hardware with the latest 3D and rapid
prototyping technologies (Flex and Maker Studios), to develop industry-level algorithms and software
(Digital Lab), to visualise and explore prototypes of their ideas (Immersion and Games Studio), and
to engage with industrial partners (Enterprise Hub). The GRID also includes flexible and immersive
learning and teaching areas complemented with the enterprise area to encourage interaction and
design-led education. One of our main motivations for this facility was HWU’s interest in empowering
its staff and students to develop ideas, from conception to launch in a global market.




                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
University Underpinning Support
In terms of research support for academics the university has a centralised research and business
development professional support team (RED) that provides the following:
   Research Development - provides specialist support for academic staff seeking to win
    research funding.
   Global Challenge Research Fund - supports the implementation of the University’s GCRF
    Strategy.
   Business Development – works with academics to increase research income from industry and
    business.
   Research Grants Office – assists academics with their post-award management of their
    externally funded research grants and contracts.
   Public Engagement Team- assists academics in realising the potential of their research results
    and work through supporting them in undertaking outreach events and disseminating to
    audiences outside academia.
Computing Resources to Support Research
We have three dedicated computing technicians within HWCS who are there not just to support
teaching delivery but also to support the specific needs of our research projects. We also have a
graduate apprentice technician who supports the robotics work of our 3 groups.
The University Information Services Research Support (ISRS) team works in partnership with the
Research Engagement Directorate (RED) and other IS divisions to help facilitate research-related
planning, and to meet the needs of both the individual researcher and the wider institution.
The key objectives of ISRS related to the REF are:
   Research Outputs Support: it is responsible for ensuring that all tangible research produced
    within the University and subsequently published is recorded in a consistent manner and
    compliant with open access and REF mandates.
   Support for the use of High-Performance Computing facilities.
   Capability to store, preserve and access increasingly large volumes of electronic research data
    sets.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Approach to Collaboration and Contribution
We coach staff to be collaborative and entrepreneurial in contributing globally to our discipline. In
total we have undertaken 491 collaborative projects over the REF period with external partners from
academia, charities, government, NHS and other external bodies. As regards working with industry,
107 of our projects were in collaboration with industry. We have organised our collaboration and
contributions to the research base, economy and society into three main categories;
   1. Collaboration and contribution to the research base;
   2. Working with industry and Government to foster knowledge exchange and to have an impact
      on the economy;


                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   3. Activities to disseminate and create impact from our research work and findings as regards
      wider society.
Please note that often an activity will embrace more than one of the categories.

Collaboration and Contribution to Research Base
Conference Keynotes & Chairing
 Keynotes Conference & International Workshops                                        Academic
     Artificial intelligence and Simulation of Behaviour Symposia, 2018           Aylett
     Symposium on Multimodal Agents for Ageing and Multicultural
      Societies, 2018
     IEEE Spoken Language Technology Workshop (SLT 2021)                          Rieser
     European Chatbot Summit (2021)
     Workshop on Search-Oriented Conversational AI (SCAI at EMNLP
      2020)
     Re:WORK Conversational AI Summit (2020)
     Intelligent Virtual Agents Conference (IVA-2019)
     NSF Workshop on User-Oriented Agents, (2019)
     2nd workshop on Vocal Interactivity in-and-between Humans, Animals
      and Robots VIHAR-2019 (Turing Institute)
     ReWORK AI Assistants Summit 2019, Amazon Research Day 2019
     2nd SwissText Analytics Conference (SwissText-2017)
     Data Conference 2020: Delivering better care                                 Baillie
     SIGDIAL Conference 2017                                                      Lemon
     Apple Siri conference 2019
     Uphill Battles in Language Process. Workshop (EMNLP 2016)                    Konstas
     Brazilian Conference on Intelligent Systems 2017                             Corne
     Open PHACTS: The Data Today keynote at Open PHACTS Symposium Gray
      (2016)
     PPDP'20, International Symposium on Principles and Practice of Komendantskaya
      Declarative Programming.
     ICMS Big Proof workshop (Newton Institute (Cambridge), 2019.
     Coalgebra, Now! – a FLOC 2018 workshop
     Computer-Aided Mathematical Proof workshop, Isaac Newton Institute
      for Mathematical Sciences, 2017.
     Programming Languages and Compilers, 2017.
     Algebra and Coalgebra meets Proof Theory (ALCOP), 2017




                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Chairing Conference / International Workshops Academic
  Chair of the European Robotics Forum (ERF) 2017                            Vargas
  Chair of IEEE Conference on           Robot   and   Human    Interactive
   Communication (RO-MAN) 2014
  Chair of Special Session on Social Robotics RO-MAN 2015
  Senior Area chair for EACL’21                                              Rieser
  Programme chair for Safety for Conversational AI (2020)
  Area chair for ACL 2017 & 2018
  Chair International Conference on Natural Language Generation (INLG'16)
  Association for the Advance of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI) Symposium Petrick
   Series
  Chair of SIGCHI Mobile HCI, 2018.                                          Baillie
  Sub-Committee Chair 2020 SIG CHI Conference.
  Associate Chair SIG CHI Conference Series 2014-2019
  International Steering Committee SIGCHI ACM from 2020
  International Steering Committee Chair SIGCHI Mobile HCI
  Chair of the International Real World Domain Specific Languages Stewart
   Workshop (RWDSL) 2019
  Track Chair of The Semantic Web–ISWC 2016 & 2014: International
   Semantic Web Conference
  Programme Chair for SIGDIAL (2014)                                         Hastie
  Area Chair for ACL (2018, 2020), ICASSP (2020) and NAACL (2016)
  Area Chair for COLING 2018 and EACL 2020                                   Eshghi
  Co-Chair of AAAI Fall Symposium on Artificial Intelligence for Human- Broz
   Robot Interaction 2016, 2017
  Programme Chair IPCAT 2015                                                 Lones
  Publicity Chair, IEEE Symposium on Computational Intelligence in
   Bioinformatics and Computational Biology (CIBCB) 2015
  Programme Chair for AAAI FSS 2020                                          Dondrup
  EMNLP 2015 co-chair (Discourse and Dialogue)                               Lemon
  Area Chair for ACL 2017
  Area Chair for ACL 2018                                                    Konstas
  EMNLP 2018
  Chair SWAT4HCLS – Semantic Web Applications and Tools for the Life Burger
   Sciences (www.swat4ls.org)
  Chair 22nd Symposium on Practical Aspects of Declarative Languages Komendantskaya
   (PADL'20)
  Chair PPDP’19, 21st International Symposium on Principles and Practice
   of Declarative Programming, 2019
  Chair TEASE-LP 2020: Trends, Extensions, Applications and Semantics
   of Logic Programming



                                                                                        Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Invited Academic Talks
Our academics have been invited to deliver over 100 research talks at Universities nationally and
internationally, some key ones are listed in the table below.
 University                                                                       Academic
  Robots and Interactive Storytelling. U.Kyoto, U.Auckland, U.Wellington, Aylett
   U.Lisbon, all 2018, U.Coimbra, Portugal, 2019.
  Designing Health technologies: UCL, 2018, U.Glasgow, 2016, U.York          Baillie
   2016, U.Bristol 2015 and U.Cardiff, 2019.
  Assistive Robotics Technologies & AI: U.Edinburgh 2020 & U.Newcastle Broz
   2017.
  Dialogue Systems and NLP: U.Bielefeld 2016, Queen Mary University,         Eshghi
   2016; U.Gothenburg, 2015; BCS, 2019
  NLP & HRI: RAEng Research Forum, 2018                                      Hastie
  Usable Security and Cybersecurity: U.Dalhousie, 2016, Masaryk Just
   University 2015, and U.Glasgow, 2014.
  Automated Reasoning and Machine Learning: Queen Mary University Komendantskaya
   2019, U.Birmingham 2019, U.Cambridge 2019), U.Edinburgh 2016,
   U.Bath 2016, U.Birmingham 2015, Oxford 2015, École Normale Supérior
   de Lyon 2016, U.Swansea and U.Bath (by on-line conferencing, 2020),
  Automation & Planning: RSE-CHINA Robotics and AI Workshop 2018, Petrick
   U.Edinburgh, 2018.
  User-Oriented Agents, Universities of Carnegie Mellon, U.Edinburgh, Rieser
   U.Glasgow (2019); U.Pennsylvania (2017); U.Hamburg (2015); Karl-
   Ruprecht University (2014); U.Cambridge 2014; TU-Munich 2013,
   U.Berkeley (2013).
  International Workshop on Neurobotics and Neural Disorders, 2019.          Broz
  Using PL/Python functions in PostgreSQL. U.Edinburgh, 2015.                Bartie
  Bioschemas: Improving Discoverability for Life Sciences Resources, Gray
   ELIXIR IDP Community (2019).
  Supporting Dataset Descriptions in the Life Sciences, European
   Bioinformatic Institute (2017);
  Integration in a Big Data Context, Seminar at the Urban Big Data Centre
   (2015)
  Scientific Lenses over Linked Data. Edinburgh (2015), U.Bozen-Bolzano
   (2014) U.Brighton (2014)
  Smart Sensor technologies: UFRN (2019), Universities of York (2018), Hull Lones
   (2017), Stirling (2016) & Newcastle (2015), Royal Society of Chemistry
   (2016).
  NLP: Invited talk at U.Illinois, U.Sheffield, U.Athens, 2017               Konstas
  U.Glasgow 2018
  Cybersecurity: University of Applied Science Lucerne (2018 and 2019); Radomirovic
   INRIA Rennes (2019), U.York (2019), U.Luxembourg (2017), U.Edinburgh
   (2016).

                                                                                        Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Editorships and Associate Editorships
A significant percentage (40%) of our academics are editors or associate editors of high
quality journals e.g. ACM transactions on intelligent interactive systems (ACM TiiS), Dialogue and
Discourse 2019-present, Personal and Ubiquitous computing, International Journal of Mobile Human
Computer Interaction, Advanced Robotics, Interacting with Computers, Genetic Programming and
Evolvable Machines etc.
Expert Reviewing
Over 20 of our academics are sought by EU, UKRI (particularly EPSRC), Charities and Industry as
expert reviewers. They review for funders nationally (e.g. EPSRC, BBSCR, Welcome Trust, Turning
Institute, Royal Society, Parkinsons, UK, Carnegie) and internationally (e.g. EU Horizon 2020, FET,
ERC, Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research, NRC Canada, NSF USA, FFG Austria, SNF
Switzerland). One of our academics (Taylor) was recognised for his outstanding contribution to
the EPSRC Review College 2017/2018.


 Papers / Academic Prizes                                                      Academic
     Honourable Mention ACM DIS 2017 Research Papers for "Image- Chantler
      based Emotion Feedback: How Does the Crowd Feel?
     Honourable Mention ACM CHI 2017 Research Papers for Chantler & Padilla
      "Understanding Concept Maps: A Closer Look at How People Organise
      Ideas"
     Best paper, ASME 2013 IDETC/CIE Conference 2013,"The Evaluation Chantler
      of a Virtual-Aided Design Engineering Review. System for Automated
      Knowledge Capture and Reuse"
     Honourable Mention award (top 5% of papers) at Mobile HCI 2015. For Just & Baillie
      why aren’t users using security protection?
     SIGEVO Impact award ACM (2017). The award specifically indicates Corne
      that a paper is now considered ‘seminal’ by this research community
     Best study paper award at Human Robot Interaction Conference 2016        Dondrup
     Runner-up for best paper award at SigDial 2017.                          Rieser
     Winner of SemEval Shared Task 7: Sentiment Analysis for Arabic
      Tweets (2016).
     The Alonzo Church award (jointly with Andrew Pitts) 2019                 Gabbay
     LICS test-of-time award 2019
     Influential Paper Award by the 2018 International Conference on Petrick
      Automated Planning and Scheduling (ICAPS 2018).
     Best paper award at ACL 2017 (Robo-NLP workshop)                         Lemon & Eshghi
     ACM “Humies” Human Competitive Awards 2018, Gold prize                   Lones
     Winner of LSDSem Shared Task 2017                                        Konstas




                                                                                          Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Industry, Government and Wider Economic Collaboration
We are aware that to facilitate adoption of our work in policy areas and in industry, it is imperative to
engage with industry and government to raise and maintain awareness of our scientific research.
We have undertaken over one hundred projects with Industry, and we have also undertaken
extensive activities to connect with government and government agencies.


 Industry Talks & Knowledge Exchange                                                    Academic
     Invited talk at the Dstl Accelerator collaboration event. London, 2018        Hastie
     ORCA Open Day, Edinburgh, with industry VIPs, 2018
     ORCA trials at ORE Catapult, Blyth with industry VIPs, 2019, Fort
      William with industry VIPs, 2018
     Invited talk at the Future of the North Sea Digital Transformation
      Conference, Edinburgh, 2019
     SPE Offshore Europe Exhibition, Aberdeen, 2019
     Invited talk at Amazon Seattle and Microsoft Research Redmond, 2017 Konstas
     Amazon Research Day Cambridge 2018
     Invited talk at Google London
     Invited speaker at Apple NLU workshop, Cambridge UK 2020                      Rieser
     Royal Society of Edinburgh AI lectures series 2020
     Invited keynote at Amazon Research Days, Edinburgh 2019
     Invited talk at Google Workshop on Conversational Search 2019
     Invited talk at Thomson Reuters 2017
     Industry secondment with Nuance Communications, 2018
     Microsoft Research designing rehabilitation technologies for the home, Baillie
      2017
     Vodafone, London 2018, designing better mobile human interaction
      design models.
     Virtual City Guides: how spatial models can help interfaces disappear, Bartie
      Centre for Environment, Heritage and Policy, Stirling, Feb 2017.
     Invited speaker Facebook AI summit 2017                                       Lemon
     Invited speaker BBC voice + AI summit 2018
     Invited keynote speaker Apple Siri conference, Cambridge 2019
     Dataset Descriptions in Open PHACTS and W3C HCLS IG, NDEx Gray
      Webinar (2014).




                                                                                                Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Industry Prizes                                                               Academic
    Guardian Award for Business Collaboration for the ORCA HUB partner Hastie
     consortium, 2018
    Converge Challenge Pitch competition semi-finalist (2019, 2014)
    Alexa Prize Challenge (Won 3rd Place in 2017 and 2018) total student   Rieser, Lemon
     prize money $100,000 USD (+ $350K academic gift from Amazon)           and Konstas
                                                                            (supervised the
                                                                            student team)
    Edinburgh Apps Challenge, Edinburgh Council, 2014                      Rieser
    Adobe research gifts 2019 & 2020 ($16,000 USD)
    Google Faculty Award ($40,000 USD)
    Apple Faculty Award ($100,000 USD) with Kontas as Co-I
    EPSRC SCORRES project (EP/P031145/1) Smart agriculture, Corne
     precision irrigation for subsistence farmers in India. Corne led the
     computer systems work that did the processing and decision-making:
           o   2017/18 Rushlight Award for Resource Innovation
           o   2017/18 Rushlight Award for Water Management
           o   Official Innovate UK Success Story
    Medipex NHS Innovation Awards 2015, Winner in Medical Devices and Lones
     Diagnostics category


Government & International Bodies and Professional Organisations




               Figure 5: Academics presenting and discussing our Robotics
                   work with the Deputy Secretary of State for Scotland
Many of our academics have been asked to advise government ministers and committees. We have
also been asked to be chairs of international bodies and associations e.g. IFIP, IEEE, ACM.




                                                                                      Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Expert Advisors/Scientific Leads                                              Academic
    UKRI Global Expert Mission to the USA for Robotics for extreme            Hastie
     environment in March 24-30th, 2019.
    Advisor for the Scottish Government’s AI Strategy 2017-present.
    Presentation on Robotics at the House of Commons, London, 2019
    Board Member Scottish Research Partnership in Engineering (SRPe)
     for Robotics and AI.
    IEEE subcommittee member for Speech and Language Processing.
    Board member for IEEE standard on Transparency for Autonomy
     (P7001).
    Invited expert to the Digital Catapult Pit Stop for Dstl, London.
    Founder of the International Federation for Information Processing Ireland
     (IFIP) Working Group 1.9/2.15 – Verified Software.
    Chair IFIP WG14.5 2010-2018                                               Baillie
    Scottish Parliament Health Committee expert speaker, 2016 work
     related to building usable technologies for stroke rehabilitation
    EPSRC ICT Strategic Advisory team for 5 years,                            Chantler
    UKRI Digital Economy Programme Advisory board 5 years.
    Innovate UK Panel Member.
    Data Lab Innovation Centre, Advisory Board (3 years to date).
    Software Sustainability Institute, Steering committee (5 years to date)
    ScotlandIS Data Cluster, Industry Advisory Group (appointed 2020)
    Advisory board of Dialogue Systems Technology Challenge (DSTC) Rieser
     2017
    Policy advisor: Member of the RSE Scoping Group on Artificial
     Intelligence (2019- current),
    UKRI Closed Roundtable on Next Generation AI (2019),
    Contributor to the GOV.UK Centre for Data Ethics and Innovation's
     report on Smart Speakers and Voice Assistants (2019),
    Steering board of the Dialog System Technology Challenges (since
     2017)
    Panel member for formation of new research institute (Walton Institute), Taylor
     Ireland
    Chair of Bioschemas Steering Council (4 years to date)                    Gray
    Scottish Informatics Linkage Centre Advisory Board (2013-2019)
    ELIXIR UK Management Board (2016-2019)
    ELIXIR UK Steering Committee (4 years to date)




                                                                                          Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Contribution and Impact of our Research on Wider Society
As many of our talks, demos and exhibits are group efforts involving our post-graduate researchers,
PhD students, alongside our academics we have not put this section into tables. We believe taking
part in such events support the training of our PGRs and also provides role models to a diverse
audience as regards careers in STEM.
Public Talks
   Rieser public lecture on her groups work on the Alexa Challenge at the European Researcher's
    Night, Edinburgh Zoo. RSE Curious programme (2020), Tea & Talk at the RSE Summer
    programme (2020), Allen Institute for AI NLP Highlights Podcast #108 (2020)
   Broz Art of Possible: Rise of the Robots. Glasgow, UK 2018.
   Aylett, The Robots are Coming! Cabaret of Dangerous Ideas, Edinburgh Fringe Festival 2017.
Public Engagement Prizes
   Rieser, EPSRC Telling Tales of Engagement Award 2018 (£10,000)
Public Exhibitions & Events
   Rieser “Designing a Feminist Alexa" workshop with the Royal Society of Edinburgh (2020),
    German School visit with ``Native scientist" (2016).
   SoCoRo project exhibited at the Edinburgh International Science Festival in April 2019.




       Figure 6: SoCoRo project demo at the Edinburgh International Science Festival
The National Museum of Scotland hosted a major exhibition of robots in 2019 this was the most
significant collection of humanoid robots ever assembled. The exhibition included early clockwork
machines and a T-800 endo skeleton which featured in Terminator Salvation. Visitors learned about
the latest innovations in robotics research at ECR. The exhibition attracted over 60,000 visitors.




                                                                                          Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 7: Demonstrating our HRI research using the Cosmo Robot at the National Museum of
Scotland Robotics Exhibition 2019 (family day shown on left and an exhibition night event on
the right)
   Hastie appeared on BBC news (October 2019). Robotic inspectors developed to fix wind farms
    - https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-scotland-50030184
   BBC TV: documentary "The Joy of AI" 2018; Tomorrow's World Live 2018 (Lemon)
   BBC science editor, David Shukman, visited the ECR this resulted in the Centre’s robotics
    research being on BBC News at Ten.
   We undertook the ORCA Hub Exhibit at The Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition in
    London, 2019.
   The virtual Royal Society Summer Science 2020 Exhibition: What are they up to now? Robots
    in the danger zone - YouTube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=msdPYRUNMlM




                  Figure 8: Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition 2019
We also exhibited our assistive living robotics work at the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital Trust,
Innovation Exhibition.




                                                                                          Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




     Figure 9: Exhibition at the Chelsea and Westminster Health Trust Innovation Event
The ORCA Hub exhibit at the 2019 Babcock Festival of Engineering in Rosyth, running
demonstrations for over 300 local school children. They also ran demonstrations for school pupils in
Aberdeen as part of the ORCA Hub SubseaExpo 2019.




      Figure 10: Orca Event demonstrations to school pupils as part of the ORCA Hub




                                                                                           Page 27
