Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of East Anglia

 Unit of Assessment: 30

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Located in the School of Politics, Philosophy, Language and Communication Studies (PPL) in the
 Faculty of Arts and Humanities, Philosophy has grown from 6.3 FTE Category A research staff
 submitted in REF 2014 to 10.2 FTE. The unit includes two Professors, five Readers/SLs, and four
 Lecturers, and is demographically reasonably diverse (6 nationalities; age range 30s-60s; 9 male,
 2 female colleagues). The unit’s research is characterised by interdisciplinary engagement, by
 commitments to methodological pluralism and to societally relevant impact, and by the desire to
 fill important functions in the ecology of UK philosophy through distinctive research in and beyond
 mainstream analytic philosophy. The unit’s mutually interacting strengths include:
        • environmental and political philosophy;
        • experimental philosophy and cognitive science;
        • Wittgenstein and ordinary language philosophy.
         In a strategic expansion reflective of its interdisciplinary engagement, the unit crosses
 organizational boundaries. At its core is PPL’s Philosophy sector, with its own Head, Research
 Lead, and Course Director, and ten research-active staff (8.7 FTE). A Leverhulme Early Career
 Fellow (Janosch Prinz) belonged to the sector from 2017-19. Two political philosophers are based
 in PPL’s Politics sector. One experimental philosopher (Paul Engelhardt) is located in the School
 of Psychology. One member of the Philosophy sector (Philip Wilson, 0.5 FTE) is submitted with
 UoA25, and one political philosopher (Alexander Brown) is submitted with UoA19 (for outputs)
 and UoA30 (for impact), reflecting the interdisciplinary nature of their research. In this REF period,
 these fourteen researchers published nine monographs, twelve edited collections and special
 issues, and five further books (editions, translations, etc.) The eleven colleagues submitted
 exclusively with UoA30 published five monographs (three OUP, two Routledge), nine edited
 collections/SIs, and over 100 articles and 70 chapters. The unit benefited from grants worth
 £749,251 and HESA-recorded research spend worth £396,457 (up from £62,056 reported in REF
 2014). 18 PGR students were awarded a PhD (up from 12).
  a) Research strategy
 In REF 2014, UEA Philosophy’s strategic aims were to grow interdisciplinarity through building up
 research strengths in two emerging areas, (1) environmental philosophy and (2) experimental
 philosophy. The unit intended to develop its strong research profile in Wittgensteinian philosophy,
 metaphilosophy, and ancient philosophy. A university-wide post-REF review helped the unit refine
 this strategy to maximise benefits from the integration, in 2014, of the School of Philosophy into
 the multi-disciplinary PPL School, and of interaction with the recently established School of
 Psychology. The unit sought to increase interdisciplinary and interinstitutional collaboration with a
 view to leveraging its resources towards these objectives:
  1) build up a research strength in environmental and political philosophy that generates
      societally relevant impact;
  2) build up a research strength in experimental philosophy and cognitive science that promotes
      methodological innovation;
  3) maintain a research strength in Wittgensteinian and ordinary language philosophy;
  4) strike a balance between focus and diversity in research by generating research which
      interacts with the unit’s main research strengths, on a range of further topics.
 To attain these objectives, the unit has sought to embed a vibrant, sustainable, and inclusive
 research culture that encourages long-term project planning, integrates ambitious research
 agendas with grant capture and impact plans, and promotes intra- and especially interdisciplinary
 collaboration, nationally and internationally, including with the global south (see Sections 3-4).
 1. Environmental and political philosophy
 Evidence of attaining objective (1) is provided by research highlights including four monographs
 with OUP and Routledge (Brown and Rupert Read), and an article in the American Political
 Science Review (the most prestigious politics journal worldwide) (Michael Frazer), by two REF

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact case studies (ICS), grant awards worth over £300k (Section 3a), and seven PGR students
 contributing to the area (Section 2b).
        The unit’s research has been at the forefront of moving environmental and political
 philosophy from pure value theory to empirically informed approaches that take into account
 specific political situations, individuals’ lived experience, and public thinking about the target
 phenomena, and seek to inform political decision-making, legal, and academic practices. Frazer
 engaged in methodological reflection to understand and guide this transition, examining how
 academics’ ethical and political responsibilities should influence their methodological choices.
 Brown’s research extracted normative proposals for how to deal with (the frustration of) legitimate
 expectations and with hate speech, from analyses of relevant concepts, normative and empirical
 investigations of the relevant phenomena, and their legal, political, social, and cultural
 circumstances. Prinz employed qualitative empirical and philosophical methods to study the
 conceptual frameworks citizens use to evaluate political legitimacy and to extract normative
 consequences for democracy theory. Thomas Greaves deployed phenomenological approaches
 in environmental philosophy to investigate sources of ecological value. Through collaborative
 projects, Read refined normative principles to guide policy surrounding climate change and
 critically examined ongoing discourse of 'natural capital' with a view to influencing government
 policy on the economic valuation of nature. In a GCRF-funded project with a Brazilian psychologist,
 James Andow deployed concepts from environmental ethics to inform work in environmental
 psychology that studies environmental attitudes and values in different world regions with a view
 to developing strategies for behavioural change.
 2. Experimental philosophy and cognitive science
 Evidence of attaining objective (2) is provided by research outputs including an OUP monograph
 (John Collins), articles in high-impact journals including Mind and Language (7), Synthese (5),
 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society, and the Journal of Semantics, agenda-setting
 collections and conferences (Section 4c1-2), participation in a Marie Curie International Training
 Network (‘LanPercept: Language and Perception’), grant income over £200k (Section 3a), a new,
 innovative MRes programme (Section 4c1), and seven PGR students contributing to this area.
        The unit’s research has been at the forefront of methodological innovation, expanding
 experimental philosophy in terms of both philosophical scope (‘beyond intuitions’) and empirical
 methods (‘beyond the questionnaire’). This research has grown from an interdisciplinary
 collaboration between philosopher Eugen Fischer and psycholinguist Engelhardt, initiated in
 2013. Building on LanPercept’s development of new behavioural and neurophysiological
 techniques to study language, perception, and the interaction between the two, this collaboration
 pioneered the use of psycholinguistic methods including eye tracking in experimental philosophy.
 It adapted these methods for the study of natural language reasoning (‘experimental argument
 analysis’) and the development of experimental ordinary language philosophy. This research
 interacted with experimental (Engelhardt) and theoretical (Collins) work on central linguistic
 phenomena (word meaning, syntax, sentence-level meaning, and pragmatics), informed by
 psycholinguistics and theoretical linguistics, respectively. The hiring of Andow (2017) built up
 critical mass in experimental philosophy and expanded methodological repertoire and topical
 coverage. Andow’s work is distinctive by adapting methods from social psychology to address
 issues in aesthetics, epistemology, and metaethics. Philosopher of science Maria Serban works
 on computational explanations in cognitive neuroscience. Her hiring (2020) extends the unit’s
 range of interdisciplinary engagement from the behavioural sciences to the neurosciences.
 3. Wittgenstein and ordinary language philosophy
 Evidence of attaining objective (3) is provided by research highlights including two monographs
 (OUP and Routledge; Oskari Kuusela and Read), two agenda-setting collections (Routledge),
 articles in Synthese, 18 invited contributions to topical edited volumes, 13 Wittgenstein-related
 PhD projects, and a biweekly international Wittgenstein workshop that, in this REF period,
 attracted over 50 external speakers from 16 countries for discussion of ongoing work.
        UEA philosophers have developed different understandings of Wittgenstein’s methods and
 made Wittgensteinian ideas productive in diverse applications. Kuusela studied Wittgenstein’s
 extension of logical methodologies in their historical context and has advanced the emerging
 research area of Wittgensteinian ethics. Fischer explored how psycholinguistics can provide
 empirical foundations for ordinary language philosophy. Read developed post-therapeutic

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interpretations of Wittgenstein and deployed Wittgensteinian ideas in environmental philosophy
 and the philosophy of film.
 4. Balance between focus and topical diversity
 Evidence of attaining objective (4) is provided by 35 research outputs by Catherine Rowett,
 Davide Rizza, Serban, and Wilson which include two monographs (OUP and Routledge; Rowett
 and Wilson), five edited collections (Routledge, Palgrave, and SIs), articles in leading journals in
 ancient philosophy (e.g., Oxford Studies in Ancient Philosophy), the philosophy of mathematics
 (e.g., Philosophia Mathematica) and philosophy of science (Synthese, Philosophy of Science,
 BJPS), and three translated/edited books.
        This research interacts with the unit’s main strengths. Research in ancient philosophy and
 in the philosophy of translation is cross-fertilised by Wittgensteinian ideas. Research in philosophy
 of mathematics includes a collaborative impact-related experimental philosophy project on
 mathematical intuitions. Research in the philosophy of science focuses on computational
 explanation utilized in cognitive science.
  b) Impact strategy
 Within a supportive institutional framework (see Section 3b), the unit develops extra-academic
 impact from research that reflects longstanding research interests or commitments of its members.
 With a long-term approach, the unit develops underpinning research and impact across REF
 cycles, by developing extant ICS in new directions, in response to changes in the relevant target
 (e.g., policy) areas. Where possible, impact projects are integrated or translated into grant bids.
        Reflecting its commitment to extra-academic impact, the unit has developed three ICS.
 ‘Reinterpreting the Precautionary Principle and elaborating its consequences for government,
 media and civil society’ builds on the REF 2014 ICS ‘Guardians for future generations’ and
 addresses related concerns from a more pragmatic perspective, geared towards more direct
 implementation. The ICS reflects the longstanding contribution of lead Read to Green politics
 (Section 4b). Collaborations with other researchers and stakeholders were facilitated by an AHRC
 network (2016-18) and follow-on grant (2019-20). ‘Combating hate speech’ is anchored in an
 ambitious interdisciplinary research project Brown started to pursue in the previous REF period.
 ‘Teaching Mathematics of Infinity’ (in development for the next REF) arises from a research
 collaboration between Rizza and renowned mathematician Yaroslav Sergeyev (Calabria). All
 three impact projects benefited from annual funding across the REF cycle and from organizational
 support (Section 3b). Internal grants worth £49,702 funded research assistants to co-author policy
 papers and reports, teaching buy-out, research expenses (YouGov polls), travel to meetings with
 policy makers (including UK government ministers and audiences at Chatham House and the
 Davos World Economic Forum), stakeholders (including prosecutors, police, NGOs, internet
 companies, national school boards and educationalists), and dissemination of publications
 targeted at extra-academic stakeholders.
  c) Future research strategy
 Over the next cycle, the unit will reinforce its distinctive research strengths in environmental and
 political philosophy and experimental philosophy and cognitive science. It will do so through:
       • strategic staff recruitment;
       • extending and further intensifying interdisciplinary collaboration within the PPL School,
           with UEA’s environmental and climate science units, and with the School of Psychology;
       • benefiting from two new university-wide strategic initiatives, ‘ClimateUEA’ and
           ‘CreativeUEA’, to foster research in experimental environmental philosophy and the
           cognitive science of creative thought;
       • continuing to facilitate bottom-up collaborative research initiatives with interdisciplinary
           and interinstitutional partners.
 In addition, the unit will maintain its strength in Wittgensteinian philosophy, a mainstay of its PGR
 recruitment. All strategic areas will engage in interinstitutional collaborations, including with
 regional and international UEA partners in the Eastern Arc and Aurora universities networks.
        The unit will build on both extant and fresh research and impact work to develop extra-
 academic impact in and beyond environmental and political philosophy. Research themes
 targeted for impact development include environmental values and valuation (Andow, Read),
 post-growth conceptions of wellbeing (Read, Rowett), and STEM education, where we plan to

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 develop an ambitious new collaborative impact project combining the ongoing ICS ‘Teaching
 Mathematics of Infinity’ (Rizza) with research on how cognitive neuroscience can inform our
 approach to science education (Serban). Building on extant and nascent collaborations with Brazil
 (Andow) and India (Rizza) (see Sections 2a3 and 4b), these impact projects will include
 substantive collaborations with the global south.
  d) Research integrity and open research environment
 The University has implemented the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity (see REF5a).
 The unit’s empirical research involving human participants has been approved by the University’s
 General Research Ethics Committee and (since 2019) the new Humanities Research Ethics
 Subcommittee. The School of Psychology Research Ethics Committee approves studies using
 resources from that School.
       In this REF cycle, researchers have made data sets available upon request. For the next
 cycle, we aim to make data sets publicly available through PURE and OSF. We have begun to
 pre-register experiments and contributed to the most extensive effort to date to systematically
 investigate replicability in experimental philosophy (Cova et al. 2018).
       Copyright permitting, research papers or pre-prints are made available through PURE, the
 PhilPapers repository, and online platforms including ResearchGate and academia.edu.
 Dissemination benefits from an Open Access agreement between UEA and major publishers
 including Springer, Taylor and Francis, and SAGE. UKRI Open Access Block Grant funds help
 purchase Open Access rights for key publications not covered by these agreements. Arts and
 Humanities Faculty (HUM) support is available where papers do not qualify for UKRI support.

 2. People
 a) Staffing strategy and staff development
      1. Staffing and recruitment strategy
 The unit relies on indefinite appointments to full-time positions, which contribute to or complement
 its distinctive research strengths. It focuses recruitment at the Lecturer level and subsequent
 career development. It is open to part-time work to meet evolving individual circumstances.
 Evidence of staff satisfaction is provided by an outstanding retention rate. In the census period,
 one colleague retired (Mark Rowe, SL, 0.3 FTE) and one colleague (Lecturer Yuri Cath, 1 FTE)
 moved to an equivalent position at La Trobe University, in his native Australia.
        The unit’s current complement is 10.2 FTE. This includes six philosophers who contributed
 to UEA’s REF 2014 philosophy submission: Collins (Professor), Fischer (Reader), Kuusela (SL),
 Read (Reader), Rizza (SL), and Rowett (Professor). In 2020, Rowett took partial retirement (from
 1.0 to 0.2 FTE, after leave of absence to serve as MEP, 2019-2020).
        The unit’s research power was increased by a transfer from a teaching to a research-and-
 teaching contract (Greaves, SL) and strategic investment in new indefinite appointments:
 Lecturers Andow (Jan 2018) and Serban (Feb 2020) increase the unit’s strength in experimental
 philosophy and cognitive science as well as in its strategically targeted impact areas (Section 1).
 A planned third appointment could not proceed beyond post release, due to uncertainty associated
 with the COVID-19 pandemic. Plans are kept under review.
        The unit’s research power was further increased by integrating researchers based in other
 sectors: political philosopher Frazer (appointed Lecturer 2015 in Politics, coming from Harvard)
 and experimental philosopher Engelhardt (Lecturer, School of Psychology). In addition, the unit
 supported a Leverhulme ECF (Prinz, 2017-19). The unit has a well-balanced age and seniority
 structure and expects to see only 0.2 FTE (Rowett) take retirement in the coming REF cycle.
      2. Staff development
 The unit’s mechanisms to support staff development at all career stages are guided by the UK
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. An annual appraisal procedure
 works in tandem with an annual research plan review (see Section 3b1). These processes are
 pre-structured by detailed forms and serve to discuss objectives for research, teaching, and
 leadership, how the institution can better support these, perspectives for career progression, and
 training needs and opportunities. In 2015/16, UEA instituted an annual research output review,
 which allows researchers to calibrate their plans and ambitions. Mentoring arrangements are put
 in place for all incoming colleagues and are available for all colleagues upon request. Both HUM

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Faculty and PPL School regularly offer workshops on writing funding applications. An annual
 competition for HUM Faculty training awards worth up to £1,000 supports development of new
 research skills at all career stages. The University’s Centre for Staff and Educational Development
 offers training to enhance skills including IT, communication, teaching, project management, and
 people skills. A personal research allowance (£500-£1000 p.a., across this REF cycle) as well
 as several School- and Faculty-run schemes (see Table 1) support conference travel,
 workshop organisation, etc. A transfer scheme has supported the transfer of colleagues from
 teaching-focused contracts to research-and-teaching contracts. It reduced the teaching-and-
 administration workload for one year and provided mentoring and feedback on in-development
 outputs, membership of an Early Career Researchers’ Forum, and external review of research
 outputs generated. Consistent with Athena Swan commitments, regular Faculty-level
 workshops explain promotion requirements and process. Evidence of effectiveness is provided
 by two successful transfers to research-and-teaching positions (Greaves and Wilson, who is
 submitted to UoA25) and several promotions (Fischer from SL to Reader, Frazer from Lecturer
 A to B to SL, Greaves from Lecturer to SL, Rizza from Lecturer A to B to SL, and Engelhardt
 from Lecturer to SL, two with effect from 1/8/2020).
      3. Support for early career researchers (ECRs)
 The unit supports early career researchers through workload management, dedicated funding
 schemes, regular participation in early career fellowship competitions, and by hosting external
 colleagues as academic visitors. ECRs receive a workload reduction equivalent to 0.1 FTE during
 five years from their first appointment and workload credit for the development of new courses.
 The Faculty runs an award scheme to support ECRs in developing innovative and distinctive
 research programs (£10,000 pa, grants up to £2,500), and an ECR Forum, which covers topics
 such as applying for fellowships, securing book contracts, and networking. The University runs the
 V-C’s GCRF scheme to support ECRs from targeted countries. In 2020, it introduced a competitive
 Special Merit in Research award for researchers on fixed-term contracts. The unit received funding
 from ECR and GCRF schemes.
        The unit participated each year in Leverhulme ECF and British Academy Post-Doctoral
 competitions. In the census period, it has hosted a Leverhulme Fellow (Prinz, 2017-19) and three
 international ECR academic visitors: Assistant Professor Hiroshi Ohtani, Musashino University,
 Tokyo, Japan, April 2014-March 2015, and Associate Professor Justin Sytsma, Victoria University
 of Wellington, NZ, March-April 2020, worked with Fischer. Associate Professor of Psychology
 Zenith Delabrida, Universidade Federal de Sergipe, Brazil, May-August 2019, worked with
 Andow. Delabrida was funded through a V-C GCRF Fellowship from UEA. Evidence of success
 is provided by high-profile publications and career progression (Prinz to a permanent position at
 Maastricht University, Ohtani to an Associate Professorship at TWCU Tokyo).
      4. Policies for research support
 The University’s workload model protects research time, balancing it with other duties. It has been
 developed in close consultation with academic staff and local UCU representatives, and is used
 to develop annual allocations, which are individually agreed with staff. The model takes into
 account all areas of academic work and reserves 40% of Category A staff’s working time for
 research activities. This includes six semesters of a combined workload where research counts
 for 30% of contracted hours, and the right to apply for a six-month research sabbatical for the
 seventh semester. Work on ICS is supported with a 10% workload allowance.
        Study leave is geared towards high-quality outputs and may support grant applications and
 impact work. Applications detail research projects for the leave period and are accompanied by
 research plans covering a longer period. A report on the leave is requested within a month of
 completion. Research plans can be modified in consultation with the Faculty’s Associate Dean for
 Research and School Research Director. The process is designed to help researchers make the
 most of the leave period. All eligible UEA philosophers have benefited from study leave in this
 REF cycle, 3 more than once.
        The University rewards staff for carrying out research and impact by according
 achievements in this area a major role in deciding promotions, special increments, and
 discretionary awards. Research achievements are celebrated in regular Research Bulletins, at
 annual Faculty research showcase events, a University-wide Researcher Summit, and on social
 media.

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 b) Research students
       1. Recruitment and studentships
 In this census period, the unit has recruited 21 PGR students (19.5FTE). 18 completed their PhD,
 up from 12 PhDs awards reported for the previous REF cycle. The unit focuses on recruiting PGRs
 with research interests that are closely aligned with its research strengths, to maximize productive
 interactions with different supervisors and within the peer group. Accordingly, 16 of 18 PhD
 projects completed in this cycle fall in the unit’s three distinctive areas of strength.
         The unit supports applications for scholarships by active mentoring including prospective
 supervisors’ feedback on draft applications. 13 PhD students recruited during this REF cycle have
 been supported by scholarships. These include six AHRC scholarships, dispensed through the
 AHRC DTP Consortium for Humanities and the Arts South East England (CHASE; renewed 2018),
 and seven competitively awarded Faculty, School, or other scholarships. The resulting PhD
 community has been internationally diverse (with students from Austria, Denmark, France, Hong
 Kong, Italy, Pakistan, Romania, Syria, and the UK) and inclusive (including part-time and disabled
 students, 30% female). A co-tutelle arrangement with the University of Bordeaux (2012-17)
 illustrates the unit’s commitment to internationalization.
       2. Monitoring and support
 The unit’s PhD students benefit from effective supervisory, monitoring, and support mechanisms.
 Each student is assigned a primary and a secondary supervisor. Interdisciplinary research is
 supported by interdisciplinary supervisory teams. Skills training needs are assessed at the
 beginning of the course. Under a probationary system introduced in 2015/16, students devote the
 first 6-9 months to preparing a detailed statement of intent / research plan, and a first draft chapter.
 These materials and a record of completed training activities are reviewed at a meeting with the
 supervisory team and 1-2 further assessors (interdisciplinary, where appropriate). The panel
 confirms candidates on the PhD program or redirects them to the MPhil. Monthly meetings with
 the primary supervisor are complemented by termly progress meetings with the supervisory team,
 throughout the course. Progress meetings regularly consider ongoing and planned research,
 training needs, and career development. High standards of supervision are ensured through
 generous workload allocation (50 hours/year/student for primary supervisors) and supervisor
 training (refreshed every three years). Completion rates are excellent. The only PT student to start
 in this REF period passed her viva within seven years. All 19 full-time students due to complete
 (viz., starting in 2010/11 to 2015/16) received a research degree (18 PhDs, one MPhil).
      3. Skills development and career development
 PhD students have benefited from skills and career development support at the level of the unit,
 the Faculty, and the successfully renewed AHRC DTP Consortium CHASE. The unit’s PG
 workshop combines discussion of PhD research with sessions on discipline-specific aspects of
 professional skills (conference submissions, summer school applications, etc.). The Humanities
 Graduate School PPD program uses the AHRC-approved Vitae framework to provide a wide
 range of more generic training on PhD processes, practical research skills, communication skills
 for securing intra- and extra-academic impact, teaching skills, and planning for academic and
 extra-academic careers. Further training events, workshops and masterclasses are available from
 other faculties and through CHASE, whose offerings are responsive to student initiatives. Initially
 restricted to DTP-funded scholars, CHASE events have become available to all PGR students at
 member institutions. The unit ensures all philosophy PhD students acquire teaching experience,
 once confirmed on the program. To ensure the program’s responsiveness to student needs,
 student feedback is elicited through termly progress meetings (above), the Humanities Graduate
 School Student Forum, and the Postgraduate Student Experience Survey.
        PGR research benefits from several grant schemes. CHASE supports placements and
 organization of academic conferences. The Faculty’s Research Support Grants (up to £1,000 per
 student) support primary research activities. Conference grants (up to £1,000 per student) support
 conference contributions. Engagement, enterprise, and employability (EEE) grants (up to £3,000)
 support knowledge exchange with organizations and individuals in the non-academic, public, and
 private sectors, e.g., through seminars or conferences. Some of the unit’s PGR students further
 benefited from CHASE placements, including a 2-month placement at the psycholinguistics lab at
 NTNU Trondheim, 2017, and funding for academic conferences (e.g., ‘Uniting two perspectives

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on mental illness: philosophy and linguistics’, Sept. 13-14, 2018). PGR research is recognized
 through annual Faculty-level prize schemes for research articles, teaching, and public
 engagement (£200 each). Philosophy students have won research and teaching prizes.
       Several measures integrate PhD students into the unit’s research community: the PG
 workshop is a key instrument for cohort building and peer learning. Both staff and PhD students
 nominate speakers for the research seminar, and guest speakers are often asked to stay for a
 discussion with PhD students working in their area, beyond their talk. Six PhD students co-
 organized international conferences with staff, four co-edited volumes (Collins & Dobler, OUP
 2018; Fischer & Curtis, Bloomsbury 2019; Kuusela, Ometita & Ucan, Routledge 2018).
       Evidence of effectiveness is provided by completion rates, publications, and academic
 placement record. Within a year of completion in this REF cycle, students published in peer-
 reviewed journals including Synthese, Philosophical Psychology, Philosophy of Science, and
 Philosophical Investigations. Students completing their PhDs in this REF cycle went on to hold
 post docs, fellowships, and lectureships at the University of Pittsburgh, the LSE, Copenhagen
 University, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam University College, TU Berlin, Bucharest (New
 Europe College and Humanities Research Institute), University College Dublin, University College
 South Denmark, and UEA (Medical School and Philosophy). To date, four have obtained
 permanent academic positions.
  c) Equality and diversity
 Measures taken at the University, Faculty, School, and unit levels complement each other to
 ensure equality and diversity. Successful submissions to the Race Equality Charter, Stonewall,
 and Athena Swan document the University’s commitment to diversity across several dimensions
 (see REF5a). The Faculty has introduced dedicated funding schemes to support researchers with
 parenting or caring responsibilities. Faculty schemes ease return to work after extended (6
 months) parental leave or ill health (by facilitating short-term staff support or equipment purchase),
 cover childcare expenses during conference or research trips, and assist with COVID-related
 disruption. The School was one of the first non-STEM departments in the country to secure an
 Athena Swan Bronze award for its work on eliminating gender bias. It will shortly apply for the
 Silver award. In recruiting academic staff and PhD students, the School specifically encourages
 applications from groups currently under-represented at UEA. Difficulties in attracting strong
 female candidates prompted critical reflection on recruitment processes, which traced problems
 to post releases granted too late in annual recruitment cycles. Earlier interviews (November 2019)
 led to hiring of Maria Serban. Gender balance is achieved on interview panels, short-listing panels,
 and Promotions Committees at all levels. All panellists benefit from unconscious bias training. The
 unit modified the timing of research and research training events to make attendance easier for
 colleagues and students with childcare or caring responsibilities.
        At PGR level, specific provision is made for part-time and distance students. A fifth of
 training programmes produced by the Humanities Graduate School has long been available online
 (pre-COVID). An annual weekend PPD event replicates key offerings from the full-time
 programme. Supervision arrangements are flexible and responsive to student needs. The
 Humanities Graduate School piloted the £300k ‘Courage’ project (2019-20), co-funded with the
 ESRC and Catalyst Fund, to improve institutional practices and well-being among PGRs.
        To ensure staff wellbeing, the University has launched a new staff wellbeing strategy (2020)
 and has complemented existing counselling services with a dedicated Employee Assistance
 Programme (provided through Health Assured). The unit has supported colleagues during periods
 of adversity with flexible reassignment of duties and discrete personal support. In appraisals, unit
 members report high levels of satisfaction with the collegiality of the working environment.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
        a) Research funding
 In this REF period, the unit benefited from grants worth £749,251 and a HESA-recorded research
 spend worth £396,457. This constitutes a marked increase from the £62,056 external research
 income reported in REF 2014.
        The unit’s research in experimental philosophy and cognitive science benefited from an EU
 Marie Curie International Training Network grant worth EUR 4Mio. At UEA, ‘LanPercept:
 Language and Perception’ (£397,865, 2013-17, £210,411 this cycle, Co-I Engelhardt) produced

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 two PhD students who co-authored articles in high-impact journals including Cognition and
 Frontiers in Psychology, and proceeded to post-docs at the Universities of Hertfordshire (5-year)
 and East Anglia (2-year). It also facilitated the use of new methods in subsequent experimental
 philosophy research (Section 1b2).
        The unit’s research in political philosophy benefited from two notable grants: A Leverhulme
 Early Career Fellowship (£155,000, 2017-19) supported Prinz’s project ‘More Democratic, More
 Realistic: Toward a Diagnostic Approach to Legitimacy’, which has so far produced seven journal
 articles. The Spencer Foundation grant (£38,012) for Frazer’s project ‘The Ethics of Political
 Activism in the Humanities and Social Sciences’ (2019-20) will deliver outputs in the next REF
 cycle. The same project attracted a – declined – grant (US$39,794) from the Wisconsin Center for
 Ethics and Education.
        For its environmental philosophy research, the unit was awarded the NERC grant ‘Why
 should Ecosystem Services be used for Poverty Alleviation? Establishing the ethical foundations
 of ESPA’ (£48,473; 2015-17) and two AHRC grants: the research networking grant ‘Debating
 Nature’s Value’ (£24,323; 2016-18) provided the foundation for the follow-on funding project
 ‘Taking the Debate on Nature’s Value to the Valuers’ (£39,606; 2019-20). These grants were
 instrumental for developing the ICS ‘Reinterpreting the Precautionary Principle and elaborating its
 consequences for government, media and civil society’ (see ICS) and in forging lasting links to
 research users in areas including accountancy and politics. These environmental philosophy
 projects have so far produced eight research publications by PI Read and Co-Is.
        The unit obtained a further £41,072 in smaller grants from the Analysis Trust, Aristotelian
 Society, British Logic Colloquium, British Society of Aesthetics, British Society for the History of
 Philosophy, British Society for the Philosophy of Science, Mind Association, Nuffield Foundation,
 Wellcome Trust, Society for Applied Philosophy, Swedish Research Council, Linguistic
 Association of Great Britain, and SWIP UK. Of these, £11,000 supported consultancy work. The
 remainder, complemented by over £4000 in internal funding, mainly supported twelve conferences
 and symposia at UEA, including six international conferences which attracted 50-100 participants
 each and led to outputs including special issues and edited volumes (see Sections 4c1-2).
 Strategies for research income generation are detailed below.
       b) Organisational infrastructure
     1. Research planning
 To facilitate long-term planning that integrates ambitious research agendas with grant capture and
 impact plans, members of the unit participate in an annual research plan review. Colleagues
 discuss their achievement of objectives over the past year and evolving forward plans for the next
 two years with the School Research Director and the Philosophy Research Lead. The process
 encourages high-risk, high-gain research, and the translation of research into grant applications
 and impact projects at the appropriate points of each project cycle. To encourage high-risk
 research, the process is supportive of evolving research plans and tolerant of uneven pace of
 progress where ambitious, well-designed research plans do not lead to immediate success.
      2. Research and impact support
 Unit members’ research is supported through a workload model, a study leave scheme, a research
 allowance, competitively awarded seed and impact funding, and the University’s Research and
 Innovation Service.
  •    The workload model reserves 40% of Category A staff’s working time for research, with
       further 10% reduction of teaching load for work on ICS (Section 2a4).
  •    All academic staff can apply for, and typically receive, 6 months of study leave after every
       six semesters of teaching (Section 2a4).
  •    Financial research support is available through an annual research allowance for each
       Category A research staff. In PPL, the allowance varied between £500 and £1000 in this
       REF period and was mainly used for conference travel. Since 2015/16, the School runs a
       seed fund scheme that supports research projects at their pre-fundable stage, by
       facilitating pilot studies or small workshops to initiate collaborations. An internship scheme
       allows the recruitment of paid student interns for assistance with research projects. The
       Faculty helps staff develop their research and research skills through five further schemes
       (Table 1).


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

         Table 1 – Research funding schemes
          Funding scheme                Maximum award per             Amount awarded per
                                        person, per year              annum
          School-level Seed Fund        £500                           £15,000
          Faculty Small Awards          £500                          £10,000 - £15,000
          scheme
          Publications Fund             £1000                         £10,000 - £15,000
          Research Training Fund        £1000                          £10,000
          Annual Adventures in          £2500                          £10,000
          Research (ECR only)
          Childcare Conference          £500                           £5000
          Support
       The unit benefited from 1 ECR and 5 Faculty small awards, jointly just under £4,000, and
       School seed fund awards jointly worth £5100.
  •    Financial support for impact, engagement, and innovation activities is made available
       through five further schemes.
       Table 2 – Impact (IEI) funding schemes
         Funding scheme                  Maximum award per            Amount awarded per
                                         project, per year            annum
         Engagement Fund                 £500                          £10,000
         Faculty Innovation Fund          £2000                       £30,000
         University Proof of Concept      £20,000                     £100,000
         Fund
         University Development Fund  £50,000                         £200,000
         Pro-Vice Chancellor’s Impact No set limit                    £150,000
         Fund
       The unit’s three completed and ongoing ICS received in total £49,702 from the Impact Fund
       (see Section 1c), which supports all aspects of work towards ICS for submission both in the
       current and in the next REF-cycle.
  •    Further support for impact is provided at School, Faculty, and University levels. In PPL, an
       experienced academic serving as ‘Impact Champion’ provides advice and organizes regular
       workshops for peer discussion of ongoing impact projects. UEA organizes annual reviews
       of draft ICS, where academics, impact officers from the University’s Research and
       Innovation Service, and external experts provide constructive feedback.
  •    The University’s Research and Innovation Service (RIN) supports grant applications and
       impact projects. It disseminates funding opportunities, assists with the preparation of
       research funding bids, facilitates grant-writing workshops for specific schemes, operates a
       Faculty-wide peer-review college that supports grant application through constructive
       criticism, manages relations with funding bodies, and hosts visits by their representatives. It
       offers project management, consultancy, contract, and enterprise support, and oversees
       training in good research practice. Relationship Managers support the development of ICS
       (and enterprise) through advice and facilitate contacts with potential delivery partners and
       stakeholders. The service also supports the systematic gathering of evidence of impact. A
       Project Officer and a Humanities Research Manager provide bespoke support.
      3. Research fora and groups
 Research is facilitated through lively research fora and research groups. The Philosophy Research
 Lead (Fischer) organises a biweekly research seminar with predominantly external speakers. To
 maximise its usefulness as networking tool, unit members nominate in turn guest speakers they
 would like to work with, who often stay on for discussion of possible collaborations, joint grant bids,
 etc., or of a supervisee’s work). In this REF period, the seminar has attracted over 70 external
 speakers from countries including Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, New
 Zealand, Poland, Spain, the UK, and the US. A biweekly Wittgenstein workshop, run by Kuusela,
 discusses pre-circulated work in progress by internal and external speakers. It attracted over 50

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 external speakers from 16 countries. The interdisciplinary Ethics Forum, founded in 2015 and co-
 directed by Frazer, brings together ethics researchers from philosophy, politics, international
 relations, law, business studies, medicine, language and communication studies to discuss work
 in progress from internal and external speakers. Environmental philosophers further participated
 in UEA’s Ecology Group in which researchers from development studies, politics, communication
 studies, and philosophy develop work in progress and grant bids, as well as the HUM Faculty’s
 Environment, Space, and Place Research Group, which catalyses interdisciplinary collaborations
 in the humanities. They received support from the University’s ClimateUEA hub (with an Academic
 Director, Executive Officer, and Administrator) which fosters interdisciplinary collaborations
 addressing climate change.
       c) Operational and scholarly infrastructure
 Research is supported by a dedicated library budget for philosophy that complements
 subscriptions to multidisciplinary publication packages. The dedicated journal spend increased
 from £56k (2014) to £83k (2019), while the mean annual spend for discipline-specific books was
 just under £96k (2015-19). Subscriptions include the Cambridge Companions Online, Cambridge
 Journals Online, JISC Journal Archives, JSTOR, MUSE, Oxford Scholarly Editions Online,
 Philosopher’s Index with Full Text, Philosophy Documentation Centre, Routledge Handbooks
 Online, SpringerLink Collection, SEP, Wiley Online Library, Primary Source collections including
 EEBO, ECCO, Early European Books, and JISC Historical Texts, ProQuest Dissertations and
 Theses, Academic Search Complete, Web of Science and Scopus. UEA’s Library, recently
 refurbished, also has an excellent audiovisual collection.
        Unit members have individual or larger shared offices. All have personal IT access. Doctoral
 students have workstations both within the HUM Faculty PGR suite and in library carrels.
 Quantitative researchers are provided with cutting-edge equipment. Experimental philosophers
 have access to state-of-the-art laboratory facilities at the School of Psychology, including an
 Eyelink 1000 eye tracking system (worth £35k) and a BrainAmp MR 64-channel electro-
 encephalography (EEG) system (£80k).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
   a) Research collaborations and interdisciplinarity
 Collaboration and interdisciplinarity are at the heart of UEA Philosophy’s research strategy
 (Section 1b). Evidence of success is provided by interinstitutional collaborations,
 interdisciplinary and co-authored research outputs, collaborative impact projects, and
 participation in major interinstitutional or interdisciplinary grant bids.
       Interinstitutional collaborations include the
      • Marie Curie Training Network ‘LanPercept: Language and Perception’ (2013-17) with
          eight universities in six European countries and two business partners (lab equipment
          manufacturer Tobii and the Valencian Institute of Neurorehabilitation) (Co-I
          Engelhardt);
      • BSA Connections project ‘Aesthetics in Mathematics’ (PI Rizza with Co-I Angela
          Breitenbach, Cambridge, 2014);
      • AHRC Network project ‘Debating Nature’s Value’ (PI Read with Co-I Aled Jones,
          Anglia Ruskin, 2016-18);
      • AHRC FOF project ‘Taking the Debate on Nature’s Value to the Valuers’
          (Read/Jones, 2019-20), with the Institute of Chartered Accountants as collaboration
          partner;
      • joint conference organisation and grant application with the German Research
          Council’s (DFG) Priority Program in experimental pragmatics (XPrag) (PI Fischer
          with Markus Werning, Bochum, and Maria Spychalska, Cologne, 2019)
       Publications evidence strikingly high levels of interdisciplinary engagement: Nine (of
 eleven) unit members have published interdisciplinary research outputs and six have co-
 authored collaborative interdisciplinary outputs. This includes work at the intersection with
 Classics (Rowett), digital humanities (Andow, Fischer), film studies (Read), linguistics
 (Collins), mathematics and economics (Rizza), political science (Frazer), and psychology
 (Andow, Engelhardt, Fischer). Unit members contributed to 52 collaborative and (co-)

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 authored 53 interdisciplinary research publications, together representing about half the unit’s
 outputs.
      Exemplars of interdisciplinary collaboration include that between philosopher Fischer
 and psycholinguist Engelhardt, which originated a new research programme (experimental
 argument analysis). It involved the first use of advanced methods from psycholinguistics
 (pupillometry, eye tracking) and computational linguistics (distributional semantic analysis) in
 experimental philosophy and the first adversarial collaboration (with Justin Sytsma) in the
 area; it led to the discovery of a previously undocumented cognitive bias, that supported fresh
 reconstructions of influential philosophical arguments. This research has involved
 international collaborators from Italy, Germany, Japan, and New Zealand, and led to 12
 publications. Further interdisciplinary – and interinstitutional – collaborations in experimental
 philosophy include Andow’s research on epistemic normativity and environmental attitudes,
 with cognitive psychologist Kelly Schmidtke (MMU, UK) and environmental psychologist
 Zenith Delabrida (Brazil); and Rizza’s research on understanding the mathematics of infinity,
 with science education researcher Paola Iannone (Loughborough). Interdisciplinary
 collaborations have also made key contributions to the three ICS the unit developed in this
 REF cycle (Section 4b). Serban’s incipient impact project on science education and
 communication builds on a collaboration with science education researchers Hanne
 Anderson and Sara Green (Copenhagen). Unit members were involved as PI or Co-I in nine
 major interinstitutional or interdisciplinary grant bids (to AHRC, BA, ERC, ESRC, Leverhulme;
 3 successful, 1 pending).
   b) Engagement with research users, beneficiaries, and diverse communities
 The unit’s research responded to international and national policy priorities by contributing to
 efforts to mitigate climate change, manage diverse societies, and improve STEM education.
 For each of these priorities, the unit has supported work on an ICS to build up relations with
 a diverse range of research users and beneficiaries, and to maximize the societally relevant
 impact of its research.
        The ICS ‘Reinterpreting the Precautionary Principle and elaborating its consequences
 for governance and for media’ (Read) develops and advocates tools to assess risk and
 environmental policy measures. It involved interdisciplinary collaboration with financial
 analyst Nassim Taleb and economist Molly Scott Cato, MEP. It has achieved impact through
 commissioned briefings to research users including UK government officials including the
 responsible Secretary of State, two All-Party Parliamentary Groups (Agroecology and Limits
 to Growth), opposition parties, the European Parliament, and presentations at a Bank of
 England seminar, Chatham House, and the Davos World Economic Forum. An AHRC FOF
 grant supported interaction with researchers and practitioners in philosophy, politics,
 sustainability science, ecology, and policy studies, and the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
        ‘Combating hate speech’ (Brown) achieved changes to policy recommendations by the
 Council of Europe, primary UK legislation, and policy positions and operating procedures of
 NGOs including Stop Hate UK. Brown achieved this impact through interactions at several
 levels: He had regular contact with key staff at the European Commission against Racism
 and Intolerance (ECRI), UK MPs, and representatives of UK Home Office and Ministry of
 Justice. He interacted with stakeholders (Home Office, Law Commission, and NGOs) at ECRI
 seminars and a policy summit he organized. He contributed to Law Commission events and
 provided training for managerial and helpline staff of Stop Hate UK.
        ‘Teaching Mathematics of Infinity’ will introduce a new applied computational paradigm
 into school teaching on an international scale. Philosopher of mathematics Rizza translated
 his interdisciplinary research – including collaboration with mathematician Yaroslav Sergeyev
 – on machine-implementable computations into dedicated teaching resources, in
 collaboration with UK education researchers and secondary schools. To promote wider
 uptake in teacher training and teaching, Rizza has begun to engage with researchers and
 practitioners in mathematics education further afield, through presentations at major
 international conferences in applied mathematics and for mathematics teachers (e.g.
 NUMTA2019, M3HPCST, IcM35 plenary session) and teacher training events including
 webinars sponsored by the Central Board of Secondary Education of India (CBSE). Current
 delivery partners include the CBSE and the UEA India Dialogue network. The CBSE

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 coordinates about 21,000 schools in India and 26 other countries. It is in discussion with Rizza
 about school trials in India, targeted as one of the fastest-growing countries worldwide to
 expand its numeracy base.
        Beyond this impact work, the unit’s commitment to realizing benefits to the wid er society
 is evidenced by activities including Rowett’s service as Member of the European Parliament
 (2019-20) and Read’s work for a political think tank (Green House, throughout this REF cycle)
 and, as spokesperson, for an environmental movement (Extinction Rebellion, since 2019).
 The unit has further contributed to political debate through several interventions on nation al
 and regional radio and television programs (including Frazer’s multiple appearances on
 regional radio and Read’s appearances on Radio 4's Today Program and BBC's Question
 Time and Politics Live). It also contributed to the intellectual life of the local community through
 annual public lecture series funded by the Royal Institute of Philosophy, with panel
 discussions and talks by UEA researchers and external speakers.
        The unit has supported an outreach program that delivers tertiary-level philosophy
 education to inmates of UK prisons. Initiated by UEA PhD Ben Walker in 2013, the CRITO
 project works with the unit’s curriculum, including its research-led teaching, to improve the
 intellectual skills, moral outlook, and life opportunities for incarcerated stu dents. Since 2019,
 this education is accredited by UEA.
   c) Contributions to the research base
   1. Promoting methodological innovation
 The unit has taken a leading role in promoting methodological innovation in philosophy and,
 specifically, the uptake and adaptation of empirical methods for philosophical purposes in the
 UK (and Europe). Unit members have done so through conference organisation, editorial
 activity, and new research skills training offerings. With local co-organisers, Andow organised
 annual international conferences of the Experimental Philosophy Group UK he co -founded
 (Oxford 2014, Nottingham 2015, Reading 2016, UEA 2017, UCL 2018). This regular
 conference in experimental philosophy was the first of its kind outside the USA and catalysed
 the development of a cis-Atlantic research community in experimental philosophy. Fischer
 co-organised the UEA conference that was dedicated specifically to exploring new empirical
 methods (‘beyond the questionnaire’) in experimental philosophy, and a conference bringing
 together experimental philosophy and experimental pragmatics (Bochum, Germany, 2019).
 Two agenda-setting collections catalysed experimental work in applied philosophy (Ratio SI
 2017, ed. Andow) and the use, in experimental philosophy, of sophisticated methods from
 the behavioural sciences and digital humanities (Bloomsbury 2019, eds. Fischer and Curtis).
 The unit helped set up a new ‘Experimental Philosophy’ pathway in UEA’s MRes Social
 Science Research Methods course, in 2017. This interdisciplinary programme is the first in
 the UK specifically dedicated to providing philosophy graduates with quantitative and
 qualitative research skills in empirical research, for new applications, in philosophy.
  2. Conference organisation
 Unit members have promoted new research agendas by organising over twenty conferences,
 symposia, and workshops. These events cover all the unit’s areas of strength and include
 twelve events at UEA. Six were international conference with 50-100 participants. At UEA,
 Collins organised an interdisciplinary conference with philosophers and linguists (2014) and
 Kuusela organised two international conferences (2015) and three symposia (2016, 2018,
 2019) on Wittgensteinian themes, including two events on the emerging fields of
 Wittgensteinian perspectives on ethics and politics. Prinz organised three conferences (2018-
 19) exploring diagnostic approaches in political philosophy and realist and pragmatic
 approaches to democratic legitimacy which contest the empirical-normative divide. Read
 organised a symposium on ‘post-truth’ (2017). Rizza organised a BSA Connections
 Conference on aesthetics in mathematics (2014).
       Fischer, Frazer, Rizza, and Serban served as section chair or programme committee
 members for major conferences, including the 8 th AISB symposium on Computing and
 Philosophy (2015), European Consortium for Political Research (ECPR) Methods of Political
 Philosophy section (2016, 2018, 2019), 6th International Conference of the Scandinavian
 Association for Language and Cognition (SALC6, 2017), Nordic Network for Philosophy of


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Science (2017), Society of Industrial and Applied Mathematics (NUMTA19, Philosophy of
 Mathematics stream, 2019), 1 st European Experimental Philosophy Online Conference
 (2020).
  3. Editorships
 Unit members take on editorial responsibilities in all areas of research strength: Collins is
 associate editor of Linguistics and Philosophy, Greaves of Environmental Values, and
 Kuusela is an editor of the Nordic Wittgenstein Review. Unit members serve on the editorial
 boards of: Brain Sciences (Engelhardt), British Journal for the History of Philosophy
 (Rowett), and Philosophical Investigations (Read and Rowett). Fischer edits Routledge’s
 book series Wittgenstein’s Thought and Legacy and Kuusela serves on the editorial board
 of Springer’s Nordic Wittgenstein Studies and Anthem Press’s Wittgenstein book series.
 Andow, Read, and Rizza edited special issues of Ratio, Nordic Wittgenstein Review, and
 Philosophia Mathematica, respectively.
   4. Service to research councils and learned societies
 Rowett served as AHRC Strategic Reviewer (2010-16), on the Leverhulme Advisory Panel
 (2012-19) and on the European Science Foundation College of Experts (since 2019). Collins
 serves on the panel for the Leverhulme Prize (since 2015). Fischer (since 2017) and Rowett
 (until 2016) serve on the AHRC Peer Review College. Rowett is Member of Council for the
 Royal Institute of Philosophy (since 2008) and Secretary of the Southern Association for
 Ancient Philosophy. In addition, unit members performed reviews for national and
 international funding bodies including the European Science Foundation (Fischer), Croatian
 Science Foundation (Fischer), Czech Science Foundation (Rowett) ESRC (UK)
 (Engelhardt), Finnish Academy of Sciences (Read), FNRS Belgium (Rowett), Leverhulme
 Trust (Frazer), Medical Research Council (UK) (Engelhardt), Israel Science Foundation
 (Engelhardt), Netherlands Institute of Advanced Study (Fischer), Polish National Science
 Centre (Andow, Engelhardt, Fischer), Swiss National Science Foundation (Fischer).
   5. Further refereeing
 All unit members served as journal reviewers. Collectively, they reviewed submissions for
 well over one hundred philosophy, psychology, and interdisciplinary journals. These included
 three-quarters of the highest impact and most prestigious general philosophy journals (9 of
 top 12 in Google Scholar philosophy journal metrics and in the most recent Leiter list,
 respectively). Unit members also reviewed book manuscripts for publishers including OUP,
 CUP, MIT Press, Harvard UP, University of Chicago Press, Routledge, Palgrave, Rowman
 and Littlefield.
   6. PGR training: Examination and collaboration
 About half the members of the unit (Collins, Fischer, Frazer, Kuusela, Rowett) served as
 external doctoral examiners. Collectively, they examined 19 theses for thirteen universities:
 Aarhus, Bristol, Cambridge (3), Durham, Essex, Exeter, Harvard, Kent (2), KCL (2), Oxford
 (2), Regent’s University London, Uppsala, and York (2). Fischer serves as external PhD
 supervisor for Victoria University, Wellington (NZ). The unit was involved in collaborative
 arrangements for PGR training including a co-tutelle arrangement with the University of
 Bordeaux (2012-17), the Marie Curie International Training Network ‘LanPercept’ (2013-17),
 and conferences of the CHASE DTP (2017-18).
   7. Further measures of esteem
 Fischer accepted a stipendiary Visiting Fellowship at the University of Pittsburgh’s renowned
 Centre for Philosophy of Science (for Spring 2021; deferred due to COVID). Rizza held a
 Visiting Fellowship at the University of Calabria’s Laboratory of Numerical Calculus (2018).
 Kuusela has taught master classes at the worldwide leading Wittgenstein summer school in
 Kirchberg, Austria (2016, invited for 2021).
        All unit members delivered invited lectures or keynotes. Collectively, they delivered 140
 invited lectures or keynotes, in 28 countries: Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada,
 China, Czechia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, India, Ireland, Italy,
 Japan, Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Romania, Russia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden,
 Switzerland, UK, US. This illustrates the global reach of the unit’s research reputation.

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          Page 14
