Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Lancaster University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 26 Modern Languages and Linguistics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 The UoA
 The Department of Linguistics and English Language (LAEL), which constitutes this UoA, is a
 dynamic community of scholars producing world-leading insights, especially empirical and
 applied, across a wide spectrum of research and impact activities. LAEL ranks 12th in the world
 (2020 QS World University Rankings) and 2nd in the UK for Linguistics (2020 Times Good
 University Guide).

 Our submission includes 34.4 colleagues. Our size and subject diversity foster a vibrant
 research culture that stimulates internal research synergies. We regularly link, share and
 collaborate with external stakeholders, both national (e.g. NHS) and international (e.g.
 Portuguese Ministry of Foreign Affairs). LAEL has exceptional competitive funding success:
 since 2014, 113 awards have generated income of over GBP6,000,000, up from under
 GBP2,000,000 in REF2014, and better than any other UK Linguistics department. LAEL has
 produced more than 80 books and almost 500 peer-reviewed journal articles, and won major
 prizes, including The Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Further and Higher Education (2015). 34.8%
 of our 446 publications indexed in SciVal are in the top citation decile (among publications of
 similar age/type/discipline). No other UK Linguistics department in the Times Higher Education
 World Rankings top-10 has achieved a higher proportion. An indication of research excellence is
 our remarkable number of research students: in any given year, approximately 110 research
 students are studying within LAEL.


 Research structure
 Departmental research is structured around six highly active clusters of excellence ranging from
 humanities to social science research, from formal to applied approaches, and covering
 experimental, quantitative, ethnographic and qualitative methods (and often mixed-methods
 designs). Many staff are members of multiple clusters, reflecting our subject-internal
 interdisciplinarity. Each cluster comprises a Research Group and/or Centre, meets regularly
 during term-time, hosts a mix of external and internal speakers, and runs numerous other
 activities (e.g. research software training). Many talks are streamed, some of which have
 attracted 1,000+ views.

 The Research Clusters are listed below, with evidence of their vitality since REF2014. Key
 academic leaders are listed; those in italics are also members of another Cluster. Clusters (5)
 and (6) were formed after REF2014, through successful strategic investment.

 (1) Corpus Linguistics (including ESRC Centre for Corpus Approaches to Social Science
 (CASS), Forensic Linguistics Research Group, and University Centre for Computer Corpus
 Research on Language (UCREL)) (Hardie, Baker, Brezina, Culpeper, Gablasova, Hardaker,
 McEnery, Sealey, Semino): This Cluster is a world-leader in corpus linguistics and its
 applications to both linguistics and other fields in the social sciences and humanities. The key
 driver is CASS, founded by McEnery in 2013. Achieving remarkable grant capture success
 (awards totalling £9,000,000), CASS has innovated applications of corpus methods to, amongst
 others, forensic linguistics, second language teaching/learning, health communication and
 Shakespearean studies. It has produced 10 monographs, 8 edited volumes, 50 chapters, and 56
 articles in journals of corpus linguistics (e.g. International Journal of Corpus Linguistics) and
 linguistics generally (e.g. Applied Linguistics).

 (2) Discourse Studies (including Discourse and Text Research Group (DisTex), Language
 Ideology and Power Research Group) (Muth, Unger, Baker, Culpeper, Hardaker, Hart, Koller,

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sealey, Semino, Tusting): This cluster is highly interdisciplinary, uniting researchers from various
 sub-fields of discourse analysis within and beyond LAEL (e.g. in the University-wide Institute for
 Social Futures, of which Unger and Semino are Fellows). It is internationally recognized as
 leading innovation in the study of text and discourse, ranging from discourses around mental
 health to the language of Shakespeare. Hart published (Applied Linguistics, 2018) the first paper
 to exploit experimental methods in critical discourse analysis. The cluster has produced 100
 journal articles, 84 chapters, 9 monographs, and 22 edited volumes/special issues.

 (3) Second Language Learning, Assessment and Teaching (including Language Testing
 Research Group, Second Language Learning and Teaching Research Group) (Afitska, Brunfaut,
 Harding, Kormos, Mackey, Philp, Pill, Potts, Rebuschat, Brezina, Gablasova, McEnery): This
 Cluster (SLLAAT) has been instrumental in shaping developments in the field(s) of second
 language acquisition, language testing and language teaching, founding, for example: 2
 associations (Heritage Language Consortium; UK Language Testing and Assessment
 Association); organising 22 international research workshops/summer schools/conferences (e.g.
 BAAL SIG conferences); giving 34 prestigious keynotes (e.g. American Association of Applied
 Linguistics), and publishing 85 journal articles and 12 books. The world-leading quality of
 SLLAAT’s research is recognized through 6 international awards (e.g. International Language
 Testing Organization Best Article Award 2015, British Council ELTon Innovation Award 2014).

 (4) Literacy Studies (including Literacy Research Centre) (Barton, Gillen, Papen, Sebba, Afitska,
 Potts, Tusting): This Cluster is a world-leading centre for literacy research, placing important
 societal challenges at the heart of its mission. Gillen led an international policy briefing paper on
 young children’s digital literacy practices across 10 countries (co-chairing an EU COST Action
 IS1410 working group); Sebba is one of a small group of multilingualism specialists to have
 advised the Office for National Statistics on language questions for the 2021 UK Census.
 Members have produced 86 articles and books since 2014; Barton’s research alone has
 received 20,000+ citations.

 (5) Cognitive Linguistics (Athanasopoulos, Brandt, Casaponsa, Hollmann, Van Olmen, Tantucci,
 Hart, Koller, Rebuschat, Semino): This Cluster, established post-REF2014, is now among the
 largest and most diverse centres for highest quality cognitive linguistics research in the UK. Of
 49 publications by Cluster members indexed in SciVal, 38.8% are in the top citation decile
 (among publications of similar age/type/topic), the second highest-ranking cognitive linguistics
 cluster of any top 10 UK linguistics department (per THE World Rankings). A hallmark of its
 interdisciplinarity is dissemination in leading journals of other disciplines, e.g. BMJ Supportive
 and Palliative Care (Koller, Semino, c.16,000 downloads) and Psychological Science
 (Athanasopoulos, c.4,500 downloads).

 (6) Phonetics (Brown, Kirkham, Nance, Turton): Established post-REF2014, this Cluster for
 research in phonetics and the interdisciplinary science of speech has rapidly become a centre of
 excellence. Of 22 publications by Cluster members indexed in SciVal, 36.4% are in the top
 citation decile (among publications of similar age/type/topic) – the highest ranked
 phonetics/phonology cluster in the top 10 UK Linguistic departments, per THE World Rankings.
 The group produced 46 publications during this REF cycle, with 28 articles in leading journals
 (including Journal of Phonetics; Journal of the Acoustical Society of America; Journal of
 Sociolinguistics).

 LAEL’s Research Committee, chaired by the Director of Research (who also sits on the Faculty
 Research Committee) and comprising representatives from all Clusters, meets termly. It
 develops research strategy, disseminates information and coordinates funding bids. The
 Research Committee’s report is a standing item at termly Departmental Board meetings. We
 review the departmental research strategy annually. Systems (e.g. Performance Development
 Reviews (PDRs)) are in place to monitor individual contributions to our strategy, and support
 staff at different career stages (Section 2). Within these systems, a researcher’s trajectory is
 viewed in the long term, not merely within each REF cycle. Connections across Research
 Clusters are maintained partly by staff’s subject-internal interdisciplinary interests (as indicated

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by italicized names), and partly through annual research away-days that provide a forum for
 shared challenges and initiatives, and to consider our overall research strategy.


 Research strategy, 2014-2020
 The Department’s research strategy has been to further strengthen our position as a world-class
 centre of excellence for Linguistics and English Language, whilst making a positive contribution
 to urgent cultural, social and educational issues at home and abroad. Our aims in REF2014 are
 given below, with example highlights of their successful achievement (further details follow in
 this document).

 (1) Invest in staff and infrastructure
 We have recruited four experimentally-oriented staff (including one professor), stimulating
 research in Sociophonetics and Cognitive Linguistics, as noted above; and invested
 GBP200,775 in equipment to create world-leading laboratory facilities.

 (2) Maximize critical mass through internal synergies
 KOLLER and SEMINO have forged enduring links between cognitive and discourse approaches in
 linguistics (e.g. Metaphor in End of Life Care project; #ReframeCovid).

 (3) Reach out to other disciplines, deepening knowledge
 The Corpus Linguistics Cluster has brought the transformative power of corpus linguistic
 methods to social sciences, leading to major interdisciplinary advances, as evidenced by
 publications in prestigious journals in other fields (e.g. The Lancet).

 (4) Develop international connections and networks
 LAEL initiated major international initiatives, including the Heritage Language Consortium, led by
 Rebuschat, involving six European universities and the Portuguese Government. We have
 developed strategic partnerships with the University of Ghent, University of Lausanne, NOVA
 University Lisbon, University of Sydney and Australian National University.

 (5) Undertake high-quality research addressing contemporary issues
 Wodak received the Austrian Book Prize in 2016 for The Politics of Fear (2015), on one of
 today’s key socio-political developments, the rise of populism. Semino et al.’s 2015 paper in
 BMJ Supportive & Palliative Care about metaphors for cancer and the (dis)empowerment of
 patients is in the top 5% of all research scored by Altmetric.

 (6) Embed research within communities and work with non-HEI institutions
 The Second Language Learning and Teaching Cluster is working with 20 governmental and
 industry partners in the UK and internationally (e.g. Foreign and Commonwealth Office UK;
 Ministries of Education/Foreign Affairs in Austria, Luxembourg, Portugal, Sri Lanka); members
 have been invited speakers at, for example, the World Bank, IMF, and US State Department.


 Future research strategy, 2021-28
 In keeping with Lancaster’s emerging strategy for 2021 and beyond, LAEL’s strategy is to
 strengthen our position as an internationally excellent centre for research, impact and
 engagement in Linguistics, whilst broadening into new areas, notably those that exploit our
 infrastructure, involve interdisciplinarity and/or engage new societal priorities. Mindful of the
 impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have created the following goals which we consider to be
 realistic and achievable. We will:

 (1) Develop current staff and recruit world-leading researchers by:
  supporting and developing staff, and securing their promotion (Section 2); and
  making strategic appointments (e.g. a post to bolster the Corpus Linguistics Cluster was
     planned for 2020, but postponed to 2021 due to COVID-19).


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2) Break new theoretical and methodological ground with world-class research by:
  exploiting our research equipment (Section 3) (especially within the Phonetics, Cognitive
     Linguistics and SLLAAT Clusters);
  supporting interdisciplinary collaborations (e.g. in digital scholarship); and
  bringing techniques into areas they rarely inhabit (e.g. ultrasound scanning in
     sociophonetics).

 (3) Develop increased diversity of research income stream by:
  leveraging University and Faculty resources (e.g. Faculty ‘seedcorn’ funding; advice and bid-
     development support from the Research Support Office);
  enhancing and systematizing LAEL’s system of research-bid peer review;
  creating a pool of ‘funding mentors’; and
  invigorating paths for collaboration with third sector and industry (see Impact strategy).

 (4) Build a strong culture of engagement: develop and nurture close relationships and
     collaborate across disciplinary boundaries and with non-academic partners by:
  pursuing our Impact strategy (see below);
  fostering collaborations (Section 3); and
  supporting interdisciplinarity (see below).

 (5) Achieve significant impact beyond academia, especially in education, health and social care
     and security by:
  focussing on societal priorities (e.g. COVID-19, obesity, vaccination, terrorism) (especially
     within Corpus Linguistics Cluster research); and
  addressing specific and important challenges in fairness and inclusion in education and
     assessment (e.g. deaf learners, dyslexia) (especially within the Literacy and SLLAAT
     Clusters).

 (6) Maintain a supportive, stimulating and vibrant environment for staff and PGRs by:
  continuing existing practices and support (Section 2); and
  delivering on action points listed in our Athena SWAN Bronze Award application (e.g. form a
     Departmental EDI Committee which meets termly).


 Impact strategy
 LAEL’s overall goal has been to maximize and sustain the impact potential of our activities to the
 benefit of all partners, not least through co-design, embedding impact into research design and
 delivery at all stages. Looking to the future, we seek to shift impact more explicitly into the centre
 of our activities. With examples of impact achievements supplied elsewhere in this document,
 especially Section4, our strategic aims are to:

 (1) Maintain and stimulate the creation of mutually beneficial relationships with non-academic
     users, by raising awareness of what we do and fostering contacts through a multifaceted
     communication strategy, involving:
  an active digital media presence (e.g. LAEL’s Twitter account, websites, and podcasts) and
     face-to-face presence (e.g. Campus in the City, which allowed LAEL to present our work
     from rented retail space to the local community);
  regular engagement with local/international print, radio and TV media (Section 3);
  continuing to publish in vocationally-oriented journals (e.g. British Medical Journal, English
     Media Centre Magazine (for teachers and students of English Language/Literature)); and
  learning lessons from a 2020 Faculty survey into what non-academic users value in their
     collaborations and adapting practices accordingly.

 (2) Facilitate collaborations with the third sector and industry, by:
  replicating the model of our recent establishment within LAEL of a formal base for an
     industry partner, Soundscape Voice Evidence (a forensic speech analysis business);


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  enhancing encouragement of and support for staff acting as advisors, consultants, board
   members or managers for third sector or industrial organisations (e.g. McEnery’s
   secondment in 2018 as Director of Sector Strategies at Trinity College London, an
   international third sector communication and performance skills assessment and training
   charity), partly by drawing on recently-improved University processes and support; and
  creating events for audiences in industry, building on, e.g., our ESRC-funded Linguistics and
   the Professions event in 2019.

 (3) Maximize impact support, by:
  continuing to task a senior colleague with co-ordinating, supporting and advising on impact,
     and leading our engagement agenda;
  creating a group of experienced colleagues to act as ‘impact mentors’;
  ensuring that institutional impact funds and support structures (Section 3) are targeted and
     deployed;
  ensuring that PGRs receive impact training (e.g. through ESRC’s North-West Social
     Sciences Doctoral Training Programme and AHRC’s North-West Consortium Doctoral
     Training Partnership);
  increasing the centrality of impact to professional development and review structures, e.g.
     PDRs and research away-days.

 (4) Enhance the profile of impact activities within LAEL, by:
  foregrounding the greater emphasis on impact in new University contracts and
     probation/promotion criteria within career-development mechanisms such as PDR;
  refining LAEL’s workload allocation model (Section 3) to account fully for impact;
  making impact a standing item for LAEL’s Research Committee;
  inviting high-profile non-academic speakers to give impact-related talks.

 (5) Improve ways of describing, demonstrating and measuring impact, e.g. by:
  revising our annual impact assessment questionnaire so that it is more targeted and
     captures greater detail.


 Impact case studies (CSs)
 Our CSs exemplify excellence across the range of impacts we have achieved, reflecting the
 fruits of our strategic approach to impact:

 (1) Transforming the testing of listening and reading in a second or foreign language: Work by
 Brunfaut, Harding and colleagues resulted in the creation, revision, and evaluation of
 listening/reading tests used worldwide and taken by over 7,500,000 learners. Both third sector
 and industry, in addition to government, utilise these tests; consequently, this CS represents the
 success of our strategy in facilitating such collaborations.

 (2) Enhancing inclusive practices in language education: Specific learning difficulties and the
 learning of additional languages: Work by Kormos and colleagues has resulted in the training of
 over 50,000 English/other foreign language teachers from over 100 countries, benefiting about
 500,000 language learners worldwide. This CS illustrates our successful approach to creating
 mutually beneficial relationships with non-academic users: through engagement, we identified a
 need; analysed that need thoroughly; and then, in collaboration with users, undertook research
 to address it.

 (3) Improving health communication: Work by Semino and colleagues has improved practices of
 thousands of health professionals, and experiences of millions of patients, by enabling NHS
 England to make better use of online patient feedback, alerting pain clinicians to problems with a
 widely used diagnostic tool, creating a resource for people with cancer, and raising awareness of
 sensitive communication about illness via the media. This CS demonstrates the rewards of
 designing research around external stakeholder needs, and of proactive interactions with
 media.

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Supporting interdisciplinary research
 LAEL, as noted above, is known for applied work: creative applications of linguistics to other
 disciplines and beyond academia. Interdisciplinarity is part of our core ethos, and its
 enhancement is part of our future strategy. We approach interdisciplinarity through both formal
 and informal structures. For example, our interdisciplinary research centre supporting corpus-
 based methods, CASS, engages multiple university departments, including English Literature,
 History, Environmental Science, Politics, Psychology, Computing, Health and Medicine, and
 Finance. LAEL staff often collaborate in projects based in other disciplines. Brandt, for example,
 is CI on the ESRC International Centre for Language and Communicative Development
 (GBP9,500,000 grant; GBP2,300,000 to Lancaster University) based in Psychology. LAEL has
 particularly strong links with Psychology (which interfaces with LAEL’s Cognitive Linguistics
 Cluster and SLLAAT), organising joint events; and with English Literature and History, being a
 founder member of the Lancaster University Digital Humanities Hub (which supports the
 Encyclopedia of Shakespeare’s Language project). LAEL staff regularly co-supervise PGRs with
 staff from other disciplines (including psychology, history, and health research).


 A culture of open research
 LAEL is at the forefront of Open Access (OA). Hart founded the OA journal CADAAD in 2006,
 editing it until 2016 (5 LAEL staff are on its board). Van Olmen was a founding editor of the OA
 general linguistics journal Ampersand, editing it 2014–18. All staff maintain an online presence
 on Research Gate, Academia.edu, and/or personal websites to disseminate publications, pre-
 prints and other materials. Additionally, all staff deposit to the large and active institutional
 repository (Gold or Green access). LAEL also supports the preservation and publication of
 research data via institutional or other trusted repositories according to FAIR principles (findable,
 accessible, interoperable and reusable). Lancaster’s Library supports the Knowledge Unlatched
 initiative, one of whose significant projects for publishing fully OA books, Language Science
 Press, is in the field of Linguistics. LAEL’s REF OA compliance rate is 100%.


 Supporting research integrity and ethics
 In accord with the University’s full commitment to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity
 and membership of the UK Research Integrity Office (UKRIO), LAEL commits to research which
 respects participants’ dignity, rights and welfare, and minimizes risks to participants,
 researchers, third parties and the University. We follow ethical guidelines as specified in
 Lancaster’s Code of Practice and by funders (including UKRI) and professional organisations.

 All research, including PhD projects, must be pre-approved through the Faculty’s Research
 Ethics Committee (FASS-LUMS REC), a committee whose current policies were shaped by
 Papen (Chair, 2016-18). Applications that, after initial screening, are considered to pose
 elevated ethical risks are assessed by either two or more reviewers or the full committee at
 monthly meetings. Two LAEL staff sit on FASS-LUMS REC: (a) contributing to direction of ethics
 procedures, (b) providing mentoring and assistance to students and LAEL colleagues, and (c)
 reviewing ethics applications. Research ethics is also integrated within departmental teaching.


 2. People


 Staff profile
 LAEL currently has 34.4 Category A staff, all on ‘indefinite’ contracts: 12 Professors, 4 Readers,
 9 Senior Lecturers, and 10 Lecturers. Over the REF period, LAEL has employed 25 Research
 Associates and 3 Research Fellows from time-limited external funding. The department is
 characterized by well-balanced, mixed demographics, having a mix of long-serving members of


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff (20+ years) and recent and new members in their first indefinite position, as Figure 1
 illustrates.


 Figure 1. Department Age Profile

  40%
                                16
  35%
  30%                                             13
  25%                                                              11
  20%
  15%          5
  10%
                                                                                     2
   5%
   0%
            Age 21-30        Age 31-40         Age 41-50        Age 51-60        Age 61-65

                                             Percentages


 Our gender balance and staff country-of-origin are likewise well-mixed (see Equality and
 Diversity below).


 Staffing strategy
 Our overall goal is to recruit, develop and retain world-leading researchers.

 Recruiting staff
 LAEL’s recruitment strategy is to appoint the best applicants at the advertised level, enable them
 to achieve their potential, and reward achievements through promotions. Overall, 14 indefinite
 appointments were made in the relevant period: 7 males and 7 females; 12 lecturers and 2
 Professors; 4 British and 10 non-British citizens (from Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Greece, Italy,
 Hong Kong, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland, Ukraine).

 These appointments were made to: (1) strengthen longstanding areas of research excellence;
 (2) invest in new, cutting-edge areas; and (3) foster connections across Research Clusters.
 Brezina and Gablasova were transferred from fixed-term contracts to indefinite lectureships,
 strengthening the Corpus Linguistics and SLLAAT Clusters. SLAATT was further bolstered by
 Pill (part-funded by third-sector agency Trinity College London) and Afitska (a replacement post
 bringing new expertise in classroom-based research). The Discourse Studies Cluster was
 strengthened by the professorial appointment of Sealey, while research on non-English
 languages was bolstered by Tantucci’s appointment to a lectureship in Chinese and Linguistics.
 Leemann and Chan were new investments in Sociophonetics; when both moved to posts
 overseas, they were replaced by Turton for Sociophonetics and Brown as a new strategic
 investment in Forensic Speech Technology. Finally, we planned and successfully recruited
 further strategic investments in new areas: (1) Intercultural and Professional Communication,
 through two lecturers, Atanasova and Muth, further strengthening the Discourse Studies Cluster;
 and (2) Experimental Psycholinguistics, through appointment of a Professor (Athanasopoulos)
 and a research-dedicated lectureship (Casaponsa).

 Developing staff
 New lecturers undergo a three-year probation. Probation aims cover research, engagement,
 teaching and service/leadership, plus training needs and goals. The Head follows a programme
 of meetings with each probationer, producing written reports; Faculty Probation Committee
 provides oversight.



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All staff identify individual training needs as part of PDR meetings where personal development
 objectives are agreed and set. All staff, regardless of seniority, are assigned a mentor, who
 remains available to discuss any issues the mentee raises. For example, shortly after his
 appointment, Athanasopoulos was encouraged by his mentor to write for The Conversation
 about his work on bilingual cognition (one article has had over 2,000,000 reads). The
 University’s Organisation and Educational Development Service provides formal training on
 leadership, researcher development and personal effectiveness in work roles (including HE
 teaching).

 Lancaster’s promotions criteria now incorporate routes to promotion besides primarily research:
 (1) excellence in teaching with impact beyond the university; (2) engagement with business,
 government, civil society, and the wider community; and (3) a balanced route equally weighting
 research, teaching, and engagement. LAEL encourages and supports colleagues in finding their
 path to promotion via PDR, among other mechanisms. This approach has demonstrably
 enhanced personal careers: 43 staff promotions over the REF period (1.25 per FTE).

 Developing early career researchers / lecturers (ECRs)
 Post-doctoral research assistants/associates (PDRAs) contribute hugely to LAEL’s success,
 especially success of large projects. The University is fully committed to the revised Concordat
 to Support the Career Development of Researchers, and is currently implementing it by running
 CEDARS (Culture, Employment and Development in Academic Research Survey). It received
 the EU HR Excellence in Research award in 2011 (retaining it thereafter). Support is available
 externally through, Vitae, the global leader in supporting ECRs, and internally through
 Lancaster’s Research Staff Association. LAEL is likewise committed to the Concordat’s
 principles, and to meeting ECRs’ developing needs at each career stage. PDRAs are included in
 the PDR cycle, and are encouraged to take up teaching and supervisory opportunities. A PDRA
 representative is on the LAEL Research Committee.

 ECR colleagues on both indefinite and fixed-term contracts are regularly involved as CIs in bids
 led by more experienced colleagues (e.g. Brookes in a successful bid to the Aziz Foundation).
 Kirkham gained a University of Melbourne Dyson Fellowship for ECRs. Four PhD graduates
 have received post-doctoral Fellowships (Mazgutova, Indrarathne, Hughes, Pili-Moss). PDRAs
 typically go on to permanent academic positions in universities in the UK and abroad (e.g.
 University College London, Liverpool University, Norwegian University of Science and
 Technology, University of Alberta).

 Early career lecturers, with research as one component of their workload, are given a reduced
 teaching/administration workload for three years after appointment. They are required to
 undertake Professional Learning Programmes, and, where appropriate, the higher-level
 Certificate of Academic Practice. The latter is also recommended to PDRAs who teach. This
 fosters skills of particular use later in their careers. ECRs (early career lecturers and/or PDRAs)
 sit on LAEL’s Research Committee, Departmental Board, and, 2015-2018, the University
 Research Committee. ECRs are integrated into departmental Research Clusters, and invited to
 participate in (or, if they wish, run) one or more of LAEL’s nine research seminar series.

 Supporting staff in their research and beyond
 The Department’s workload model distributes teaching and other responsibilities so that
 academic staff are provided with time to conduct research, participate in collaborative activities,
 and develop research management skills. Staff can apply for sabbatical leave after 7 terms
 teaching. A total of 227 (paid) sabbatical months (7 per FTE) were taken from August 2013 to
 December 2020. Buy-outs for funded projects and research leave are included in the workload
 model, reducing teaching and administration.

 Personal Research Allowances (GBP1,000 per year) are provided at Faculty level for
 conference attendance or small-scale research assistance. A Faculty Travel Fund offers
 additional support. LAEL’s Research and Development account incentivizes research by


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 providing small-scale research support (employing research students and thereby helping them
 too) and infrastructure/equipment updates for strategic priorities (Section 3).

 Staff Wellbeing is firmly on the University’s agenda. Lancaster’s Staff Wellbeing website
 provides a range of support options and resources. The University funds professional support
 through the Employee Assistance Programme, and has adopted the Five Ways to Wellbeing
 framework, used by government and major charities, to improve the mental health and wellbeing
 of staff. Departmentally, recent Staff Surveys have highlighted workload stress as an issue. Staff
 workload capacity was discussed in our Strategic Review (January 2020), and our Coordinating
 Committee is reviewing the efficiency of programmes and workload models.

 The University facilitates remote working for everyone, providing comprehensive guidelines
 covering advice on communication and routines, parents and carers, EDI, professional
 development, relationships, mental health and IT utilisation. This has been invaluable throughout
 the REF period, and especially during COVID-19, when, departmentally, we operated online
 coffee meetings, writing retreats, and regular meetings to discuss issues of concern (there was
 also a dedicated space for staff with caring responsibilities).


 Research students (PGRs)

 PGR profile
 LAEL has an exceptionally large and vibrant PGR community. In any given year, approximately
 110 PGR students work towards PhDs with us: two-thirds enrolled on our traditional PhD, the
 rest on our PhD in Applied Linguistics by Thesis and Coursework. Over the REF period, the
 average number of PGR FTEs per staff FTE varied annually between 2.1 and 2.9; the highest
 HESA figure for any Linguistics and Modern Languages competitor group was 1.8.

 LAEL attracts a consistently high number of applications for PhD study, around 250 per year.
 Over the REF period, on average 83% applications were rejected, most for reasons of quality.
 The areas that see most applications are second language acquisition and assessment,
 discourse analysis, corpus linguistics, pragmatic and literacy studies.

 In the REF period, 185 students joined the Department. 36% progressed from PGT to PGR
 within LAEL. The majority (81%) came from outside the UK. Applicants’ country-of-origin has
 increased in diversity to include more than 20 different countries; applicants from mainland
 China are now almost matched in numbers by those from Saudi Arabia and, to a lesser extent,
 the USA. This diversity has led to increased experience and expertise in managing intercultural
 diversity for both PGRs and staff.

 In this period, 176 PGRs attained studentship awards. The total value of studentships from UKRI
 funders was GBP708,829. The Department is part of both the Northwest Consortium Doctoral
 Training Partnership and the Northwest Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership (9 awards
 were made during the REF period). Six PhD studentships have been offered by our CASS
 research centre, in addition to two CASE studentships and at least one Faculty studentship per
 year. The new Phonetics cluster has already secured three ESRC studentships.

 Training and support
 PGRs are required to undertake a Development Needs Analysis when starting their PhDs, and
 have opportunities to address training and development needs via dedicated Departmental,
 Faculty and University activities. The University Library provides PGRs with training and one-to-
 one consultations on information retrieval, referencing, and research data management. Our
 PhD in Applied Linguistics incorporates research training within its programme. All PGRs are
 encouraged to choose from the 53 modules of the Faculty’s Research Training Programme
 (RTP), including modules on research methods and career skills (e.g. Presenting Conference
 Papers). Until 2016, Papen directed the RTP, and on average 4 other LAEL members teach
 modules. DTP-funded PGRs additionally benefit from training opportunities across the

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 partnerships’ universities. Supervisors act as mentors and provide pastoral support, with
 programme directors ensuring good practice. The Graduate College provides additional pastoral
 support.

 PGRs are fully integrated into the Department; fostering new generations of researchers is part
 of our contribution to the field of linguistics. PGRs are strongly encouraged to present their work
 and to publish, and supported in doing so. Spurred on by our PGRs’ publishing success,
 including more than 250 papers during the REF period, we recently created a route for attaining
 a Linguistics PhD by publication.

 LAEL financially supports an annual student-run Postgraduate Conference, through which
 students develop valuable skills in event management and academic reviewing. To facilitate
 academic networking, PGRs can apply to multiple University conference-attendance and training
 funds (Faculty, Graduate College, Friends’ Programme). They are encouraged to contribute to
 impact agendas, accompany staff on school visits, undertake placements (e.g. in 2018, PGR
 Ratajczak worked for Public Health England for six-months, playing a key role in a study to
 reduce the prescription of antibiotics by GPs), and engage with media (PGR Love was
 interviewed by 18 radio stations and Sky News). Where appropriate, PGRs are employed for in-
 house work (as small-project research assistants and for undergraduate teaching), and provided
 with necessary training.

 Monitoring progress
 Individual student progress is monitored through annual appraisals and panel meetings, both
 formative (pre- and post-confirmation panels) and summative (confirmation panel, for which
 students must submit a 12,000 word document). Mock vivas are provided for students preparing
 for final examination. These practices have led to an excellent completion rate of 87% (191 new
 students; 166 completions).

 Over 80% of graduates progress to education-related careers, often at highly-ranked national
 and international Universities or well-respected NGOs or funding agencies (e.g. Educational
 Testing Service, British Council). Lancaster’s Careers Service advises on non-academic
 employability. PhD graduates pursuing academic careers have had notable success (e.g.
 Indrarathne is now a lecturer at York University, and received a recognition award from Sri
 Lanka’s Ministry of Education).

 Our ties with PhD alumni often lead to joint publications, funding applications, and consultancies.
 For example, PhD alumna Demjén, now at UCL, has co-authored 15 publications, jointly
 submitted 2 successful grant applications and conducted a consultancy in health communication
 with LAEL staff.


 Equality and diversity

 Promoting diversity
 LAEL is actively implementing Lancaster’s Strategic Vision 2020 for Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion (EDI). All staff must undergo training on diversity and equal opportunities, with support
 available from the University’s dedicated EDI team. Lancaster is a member of the government’s
 Disability Confident Scheme, and the Stonewall Global Diversity Champions programme for
 LGBT equality (we are committed to signing up to the Race Equality Charter in April 2021).
 These affiliations are displayed on all job adverts to attract the most diverse and talented
 candidate pool possible. Recruitment panels ‘must have a mix of gender and where possible a
 mix of ethnicity and other characteristics’, as per University guidelines.

 Diversity in staff cultural backgrounds has increased since 2013 (see Recruiting Staff above).
 LAEL’s international diversity is additionally fostered by warmly welcoming many visiting
 scholars from around the world, and integrating them into departmental activities during their
 stay. We welcomed over 130 visiting scholars during 2013-2020, from Spain, Austria, Australia,

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 China and many other countries. A range of national and religious festivals are celebrated in the
 Department. However, we seek to make improvements in diversity regarding BAME staff (our
 only BAME colleague was hired after the census date). LAEL’s EDI leader, Nance, working with
 the Decolonising the Curriculum group, is promoting policy development and institutional action
 for BAME staff.

 Striving for equality
 LAEL is fully committed to Athena SWAN. We paused our submission whilst the University
 renewed its Bronze Award (April 2020), and submitted for our own Bronze Award in November
 2020 (despite COVID-19). 14 academic staff were involved in writing the document and action
 plan; Nance led the submission. EDI is a standing item on Departmental Board agendas.

 Lancaster’s Gender Pay Gap is being vigorously addressed by a dedicated Task Group (see
 Institutional Statement). By contrast, LAEL’s gender balance is healthy, split approximately
 50/50 at each level, including professorial (see Figure 2).

 Figure 2. Gender balance across staff grades

  100%                                                                                                    0
   90%
   80%                                                                44%
                          60%           60%             54%            (4)
   70%                                                   (7)                           67%
                           (6)           (6)
   60%                                                                                  (2)
             100%                                                                                       100%
   50%
              (1)                                                                                        (1)
   40%
   30%                                                                56%
                          40%           40%             46%            (5)
   20%                                                   (6)                           33%
                           (4)           (4)
   10%                                                                                  (1)
    0%         0
            Grade 6      Grade 7      Grade 8          Grade 9    Professorial 1   Professorial 2   Professorial 3

                                                Male     Female


 Within the last 15 years, LAEL has had three female Heads (covering 11.5 years in total and all
 but one year of this REF period), who have provided role models for female leadership.

 In early 2020, Nance and our EDI student representative developed and disseminated
 guidelines for inclusive teaching with a diverse population. Our key PGR administrator took part
 in training on Trans Awareness, delivered by the group Gendered Intelligence. Long-standing
 Departmental guidelines on gendered language (also used by the University as an Athena
 SWAN resource) have been revised in light of trans issues, and will be flagged in all programme
 handbooks. Lancaster has active Women’s and LGBT networks.

 Two members of staff took maternity leave and three paternity leave (12.5 months in total)
 during the REF period. The University’s Flexible Working Policy recognizes the importance of
 work-life balance, and that working flexibly can effectively empower employees to manage
 childcare, caring for relatives, health issues, disability, or preparation for retirement. Two LAEL
 academic colleagues have part-time contracts. LAEL supports remote working for all staff as
 long as they are present to undertake key face-to-face duties. Staff with children may
 additionally make timetabling requests to accommodate school pickups and preschool opening
 times. Departmental committee meetings are scheduled inside core working hours (10.00-
 16.00), to ensure compatibility with caring responsibilities.




                                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University provides workshops for staff approaching retirement. LAEL makes every effort to
 allow late-career colleagues to continue on part-time contracts whose FTE/duration suits them.
 Three colleagues went part-time before retiring in this REF period.

 Lancaster’s Disability Service provides support to PGRs; staff are supported through the
 University’s (government-backed) Disability Confident scheme. LAEL is wheelchair accessible.
 Additionally, we use Departmental funds to purchase assistance equipment as needed.

 Avoiding bias in the REF submission
 Outputs included in our REF submission were selected solely based on predicted output rating,
 as established via transparent internal and external evaluations – regardless of any colleague’s
 protected characteristic(s). Statistical analyses, probing for unconscious bias, indicated no
 significant effect of gender or seniority on the choice of submitted outputs. All REF leaders
 received additional EDI training, following Lancaster’s REF Code of Practice.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 Income

 Successful income generation
 LAEL’s total research income 2014-20 was notably high: GBP6,415,183, through 113 successful
 awards. This is a substantial increase on 2008-14, when income was GBP1,703,287 through 49
 awards. Our income trajectory is shown in Figure 3.

 Figure 3. Research grant income per FTE (expressed as GBP1,000s) for LAEL specifically
 and combined Linguistics and Modern Languages UoAs (HESA cost centres)
                                 45

                                 40                                               39.97

                                 35
 Research grant income per FTE




                                                                  33.99
                                                                                  32.21
                                 30                                                               30.27
                                                  28.52                                           29.22
                                                                                                                 28.10
                                                                  26.51
                                 25                               24.42                           24.49
                                       23.34      24.12                           23.97           23.68
                                                                                  21.08                          21.57
                                 20               20.04
                                       18.74                                                                     17.95
                                       18.14                      17.84
                                 15                                                                              15.62
                                                                                                  14.27
                                                                                  13.25
                                                  12.04           11.93                                          11.65
                                 10    10.18      10.30
                                        9.86
                                 5

                                 0
                                      2013/14   2014/15         2015/16         2016/17         2017/18         2018/19

                                                Lancaster: LAEL only
                                                Lancaster: LAEL combined with Dept. of Languages and Cultures
                                                Russell Group (Golden Triangle only)
                                                Russell Group (excluding Golden Triangle)
                                                Former 94 group




                                                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Figure 3 shows that our research income (black/red line) typically exceeds that of competitors.
 The dip after 2016-17 reflects the end of CASS’s first phase of funding. However, we have
 already secured additional funding and launched new bids; one of these, for a study of
 vaccination-related discourses for GBP964,328, achieved success in 2020.

 Strategy and practice
 Our income generation strategy stimulates initiatives ranging from exploratory pilot projects
 through to large bids, drawing upon diverse income streams. This approach encourages initial
 ‘blue sky’ thinking at individual and small-group levels, from which larger fundable enterprises
 are developed. Externally-funded research and high-quality research outputs (Section 1) are
 directly linked: grant holders are highly motivated to successfully fulfil (and exceed) their
 obligations to funders, and are partially released from teaching/administration duties to focus on
 these projects (Section 2).

      Internal Seedcorn Funding: In the REF period, staff have won 27 Faculty awards totalling
       GBP48,735; e.g. in 2013-14 CULPEPER undertook pilot work, supported by a GBP2,000
       Faculty award, which led to the Encyclopedia of Shakespeare’s Language award of
       GBP997,041 in 2016 – at that time the largest standard research grant ever awarded by
       AHRC.
      Individual Awards: e.g. TURTON, an ECR who finished her PhD in 2014, was awarded
       GBP196,270 from The Leverhulme Trust in 2020, exemplifying how our context enables
       early career colleagues to flourish.
      Large UKRI Awards: e.g. CASS was founded with a GBP3,426,000 five-year ESRC award
       (2013-2018), and extended (by SEMINO) for five more years via a GBP938,632 Transition
       Grant (2018-23).
      Non-UKRI Awards: e.g. SLLAAT staff won 18 external grants (e.g. USD44,802 from
       Educational Testing Service, USA) totalling over GBP1,000,000 within the REF period.

 In tune with Lancaster’s current strategic priority for research, ‘to continue to grow and diversify
 our research income’ (Updated University Strategy 2020), we consistently target a diverse
 portfolio of funders, as shown in Figure 4.

 Figure 4. Total value of awards by type of funder


        UKRI                                                                           3,453,362



 3rd sector                                            1,949,697


     Overseas
                         380,136
       gov.


     Industry   45,424



 A distinctive feature of LAEL research income is that about 40% came from non-UKRI sources.
 This diversification has largely been achieved by two Research Clusters. CASS secured the bulk
 of third sector funding, including almost GBP1,000,000 from the agency Trinity College London
 and a variety of charitable bodies (e.g. Newby Trust, Aziz Foundation, Camphill Village Trust).
 SLLAAT secured the bulk of the overseas government funding, including from the European
 Commission, Newton Fund, and US Navy.



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University uses Quality-Related (QR) funding strategically to allow departments to
 strengthen and support world-class research in their disciplines by investing in new and
 emerging areas (Section 1); supporting development of external research projects as elaborated
 above (e.g. seedcorn funding, 20% FEC top-up); purchasing cutting-edge equipment (see
 below), facilitating strategic partnership-building activities and staff research development (e.g.
 conference attendance) (Section 2); and supporting research project management and
 administration (see below).

 Organisation
 Our strategic objectives and future vision are built on a healthy and well-focussed research and
 impact culture, across LAEL and beyond. We are located within the Faculty of Arts and Social
 Sciences (FASS), which is in the top-100 for both Arts/Humanities and Social Sciences (THE
 World University Rankings 2020), and has a strong interdisciplinary research culture.
 Governance and monitoring of LAEL research is assured by research committees at
 Department, Faculty and University levels. Research Centres are University-wide formal
 structures that foster interdisciplinary research and act as hubs for associated grants. One such
 Centre is based in LAEL: the ESRC Centre for Corpus Approaches to Social Science (CASS).
 The University’s commitment to maintain support for CASS infrastructure and outreach activities
 for a minimum of 10 years beyond the second phase of funding exemplifies the importance
 attached to long-term sustainability.

 Proven systems are in place to promote and sustain research funding activity. LAEL colleagues
 are incentivized to seek external funding through a reduction in teaching/administrative workload
 to write medium-to-large grant applications and internal funding for strategic activities (e.g. pilot
 data collection). Additional seedcorn support is available through the Faculty Research Fund
 (see above). Discussion of funding opportunities regularly features on the Departmental away-
 days’ agendas. Faculty and University offer grant-writing workshops; LAEL maintains a bank of
 successful applications to consult. Two peer-readers give feedback on grant proposals prior to
 submission. Once a grant is awarded, LAEL’s workload system compensates for colleagues’
 work on projects by giving ‘buyouts’ based on the percentage of FTE directly-allocated in the
 grant. The University’s Research Services Office provides additional support for all financial and
 administrative aspects of externally-funded research projects.

 Lancaster has signed up to the Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research, a set of
 principles fostering public engagement, recognising its societal value. The University’s dedicated
 Communications and Marketing Department supports research communication and
 engagement. LAEL draws support for engagement and impact from four Faculty posts resulting
 from recent University investment; two, Harrison and Pawelski, provide proactive ‘hands-on’
 impact support. We have also benefited from Lancaster’s Impact Acceleration Account, being
 awarded GBP17,594. We regularly deploy expertise provided by Lancaster’s Press and Global
 Communications Team (with a dedicated Press Officer for LAEL) to maximize dissemination of
 research and impact.

 Equipment and resources
 We are one of the (if not the) best-equipped linguistics departments in the UK. LAEL regularly
 hosts international scholars who come to learn new laboratory methods. Strategic investment
 has delivered high quality, impactful research from the Cognitive Linguistics and Phonetics
 Clusters (Section 1). The development of these Clusters, and enhancement of SLLAAT, was
 enabled by GBP200,775 of investment in experimental equipment from Department, Faculty and
 University funds. Specifically:
  The Cognitive Linguistics Cluster benefits from an EEG lab, equipped with a NuAmps 40-
    channel electroencephalography amplifier for recording brain activity, and a Biopac 4
    channel electrodermal amplifier recording galvanic skin response, as well as a fully-equipped
    Child Language Lab.
  The Phonetics Cluster has an internationally unrivalled collection of tools for analysing
    speech articulation, including electromagnetic articulography, three ultrasound systems,
    electropalatography, aerodynamics systems, and studio-grade audio facilities.

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  The SLLAAT Cluster has hosted an Eye-tracking Lab since 2011, making us one of the first
   departments globally to deploy eye-tracking in this sub-field. More recently we purchased a
   mobile eye-tracker (2013), new computing hardware, and eye-tracking software (2020).

 The Corpus Linguistics Cluster is supported by a substantial dedicated infrastructure. This
 consists of multiple virtual servers devoted solely to corpus linguistic research applications,
 running on Lancaster’s institutional virtual machine cluster. Additionally, at departmental level,
 we have one of the very best collections of digital corpora in the world. Highlights include:
  Hardie is developer of CQPweb, a free platform for corpus analysis which makes 125
    corpora generally available to 20,500 registered user accounts (1,540 internal), covering 137
    countries.
  Brezina is developer of #LancsBox, a free tool for analysing and visualising corpora, now
    used by over 35,000 unique users, covering 152 countries.
  We constructed the Spoken British National Corpus 2014, a 11,500,000 word update to the
    spoken component of the famous 1990s British National Corpus. It has 3,607 signed
    licenses (232 of which are for a whole institution) across 98 countries.

 Digital resources provided by the Library are of vital importance. For any new book, the Library’s
 default is to buy the electronic edition (if one exists). The Library subscribes to all key journal
 stores for the subject area (including JSTOR), as well as key resources (e.g. the online Oxford
 English Dictionary) and databases (e.g. Nexis) for direct access to primary materials. It is part of
 the ESRC SafePod network, providing secure remote access to datasets held by centres across
 the UK. The Library is actively involved in Digital Humanities; its new GBP11,000,000 extension
 will include a digital scholarship lab.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 Effective collaboration
 Engagement – academic and non-academic – is central to what LAEL does (see Research
 Strategies 2014, goals 3 and 6, and 2021, goal 4). LAEL’s Engagement Coordinator is a senior
 colleague (currently, Culpeper) who oversees departmental engagement and impact strategies
 (Section 1). Our engagement strategy is to build and nurture a strong and inclusive engagement
 culture, encompassing all academic staff and postgraduate/undergraduate students, and at
 local, national and international levels. Activities vary from collaborative and contract research,
 through business and community service (e.g. consultancies) and student placements, to
 community engagement (e.g. public lectures, exhibitions, school visits). Engagement and Impact
 are rewarded in LAEL’s workload allocation model.

 Nationally, we have inter alia co-founded the UK Association for Language Testing and
 Assessment to promote language assessment literacy. In north-west England specifically, we
 have: worked with Blackpool NHS on people’s comprehension of health-related information;
 collaborated with Native Explorers (an award-winning non-profit organisation) in bringing
 Portuguese-speaking migrant adolescents from Greater Manchester to campus to inspire them
 and to develop proficiency in heritage languages; and provided communication training for staff
 at St. John’s Hospice, Lancaster.

 Internationally, as noted in Section 1, LAEL has formal research partnerships with the University
 of Ghent, University of Lausanne, NOVA University Lisbon, University of Sydney, Australian
 National University, and others via the Heritage Language Consortium. LAEL’s
 Internationalization Coordinator, Afitska, is responsible for implementing the Department’s
 internationalization strategy, including international research links, student and staff mobility, and
 overseas visitors. Rebuschat is Faculty Director of Internationalization.

 Within LAEL, each Research Cluster fosters multiple networks. SLLAAT has active links with 26
 research centres worldwide (e.g. Universities of Amsterdam, Hawai’i, Innsbruck, Malaysia,

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Melbourne, Michigan), actively works with 20 business, third sector and governmental bodies in
 the UK and internationally (e.g. NHS, Foreign and Commonwealth Office, Ministries of
 Education/Foreign Affairs in Austria, Luxembourg, Portugal, Sri Lanka). The Corpus Linguistics
 Cluster has established links (underpinned by Memoranda of Understanding) with the Sydney
 Corpus Lab and the Institute for Communication in Health Care (Australian National University).

 Individual staff build and exploit networks in multifarious ways within specific research projects.
 Semino has worked with two charities, Camphill Village Trust and CHANGE People, on corpus-
 based analysis of ‘social care’ in the UK press, and on representation of people with learning
 disabilities in UK public discourse. Kormos collaborates with colleagues at the Universities of
 e.g. Lodz, Ljubljana, York, Innsbruck and Warsaw on dyslexia, extending her research to
 learners of non-English languages. Brown works with Nuance Communications, a U.S.-based
 multinational corporation, on accent recognition technology, enriching her research with their
 considerable resources. Consequent to her pioneering work on Edwardian postcards, Gillen is a
 member of the Edwardian Culture Network, and works in partnership with Ordnance Survey and
 spinoff company Timepix.

 Evidence of our policies’ effectiveness in creating vibrant external networks and collaborations
 includes the fact that over half our 442 publications in SciVal for this REF period involve
 collaborations outside Lancaster University. Our research and impact strategy also includes
 encouraging, and assisting, PGRs in exploiting existing collaborations and/or developing their
 own. Dance, a PGR working on disinformation surrounding vaccination, undertook a three-
 month placement with the Cabinet Office in 2019, and was then selected in 2019 as having
 produced one of the best two impact projects (out of 375 students) for AHRC to showcase.


 Contributing to economy and society

 Education
 The Department has developed and maintains two Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs),
 both founded in research. The MOOC on Dyslexia and Foreign Language Teaching (2015-
 ongoing) and the Corpus Linguistics MOOC (2014-ongoing) have each had over 50k
 participants. We also contribute to other MOOCs (Harding’s video contribution to a British
 Council MOOC has been viewed 23,000 times). These MOOCs enhance the professional
 development of teachers and the education of students worldwide, and raise our global profile;
 Many indirect benefits accrue to LAEL from the MOOCs, from increased networking through
 enhanced PGR recruitment to improved staff recruitment pools, as scholars and students
 worldwide are inspired by what we do.

 The impact of our Corpus Linguistics Cluster was recognized in 2015 through a Queen’s
 Anniversary Prize for Further and Higher Education. Through collaboration (led by McEnery)
 with Trinity College London (a third-sector agency which, amongst other things, delivers
 language exams for students in 6,372 test centres across 40 countries), we constructed and
 exploited state-of-the-art learner corpora to enable Trinity staff to validate and revise the high-
 stakes General Examination of Spoken English. In 2017 alone, this exam was taken 92,541
 times by applicants to UK Visas and Immigration. Our vital work with Trinity has helped ensure
 that it was consistently examined to accurately reflect candidates’ spoken English abilities.

 The Corpus Linguistics Cluster has also developed innovative free tools and freely-available
 corpora (Section 3), and has an international capacity-building programme that has reached
 10,000+ academic and non-academic users through yearly Summer Schools and international
 training workshops (e.g. in Ghana, Chile, China, Brazil, Australia). With ESRC funding (2017-
 18), this Cluster created BNCLab, an accessible corpus analysis tool for spoken English, and
 shared it with English Language secondary school teachers and students. It has 4,442 unique
 users (25% UK); over 20 schools have implemented the materials in their teaching, and over
 12,000 people have accessed additional new materials for A-level English Language teachers


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on our Corpus for Schools website. Teachers have commented on Twitter: ‘Wonderful resource’;
 ‘Such fascinating and timely stuff’; ‘The resources look great and are very much needed’.

 Impacts of SLLAAT Cluster members on improving education are documented in two of our
 Case Studies (the first two listed in Section 1). Beyond this, Kormos’s work for the Foreign and
 Commonwealth Office on enhancing inclusive language teaching practices for diplomats was
 recognized by an invitation to the Queen’s traditional Christmas reception for the Heads of
 Foreign Diplomatic Missions in London (December 2019). Afitska’s work has raised awareness
 of disadvantages experienced by pupils with English as an additional language (reported in the
 TES, with a potential reach of 340k).

 With a specific international focus, Papen and Gillen (Literacy Cluster) developed innovative
 approaches to teaching reading and writing in English to deaf children and adults. As part of two
 ESRC/DFID-funded projects (2015-16 and 2017-20) involving India, Ghana and Uganda, they
 co-designed a pedagogy based on multiliteracies, bringing together sign language, visual
 communication and digital skills. Papen designed and delivered training on the use of real
 literacies (authentic materials) to deaf teachers. So far, over 200 deaf students have benefitted
 from these innovations.

 More generally, we run a highly-proactive School Talks programme. Over the REF period, we
 delivered 150+ talks in schools for pupils, ran an average of 2 teaching events per year for 30-60
 teachers each, and, with the advent of COVID-19, created a Webinar series. In addition, we
 undertake specific initiatives to engage and assist schools. For example, Hollmann chaired the
 Committee for Linguistics in Education (2016-2019), establishing the annual UK Linguistics
 Olympiad, in which several thousand schoolchildren across the UK participate.

 Security
 Hardaker has developed and deployed corpus-based methods to provide evidence of patterns of
 online abuse. In 2014, she presented these at Twitter’s London HQ, to an audience including the
 Chair of the Association of Chief Police Officers Communications Advisory Group, a Chief
 Crown Prosecutor, and the Head of the Cross-Government Hate Crime Programme (Ministry of
 Justice). In light of these findings, Twitter changed their abuse policy in April 2015, broadening
 their prohibition of ‘direct, specific threats of violence against others’ to include ‘threats of
 violence against others or promoting violence against others.’

 Hardaker has raised awareness of issues surrounding online abuse through extensive media
 engagement, including BBC News, BBC2 News, BBC Breakfast, BBC5Live, Sky News, Al
 Jazeera, Channel 4 News and ITN (total potential reach: 322,000,000+). She has given
 numerous invited talks beyond academia, including at the House of Commons (2015), and acted
 as a consultant for and/or assisted external stakeholders including the Foreign and
 Commonwealth Office and Crown Prosecution Service.

 In support of law enforcement, McEnery and Baker worked on two ESRC-funded projects,
 developing insights into violent jihadist discourse for the Home Office, MI5 and the Metropolitan
 Police’s Counter Terrorism Command. While these project outputs are confidential, an impact
 report written by the Home Office was lodged with ESRC. This noted the utility of the project
 results in helping security services to sort rapidly through textual archives to isolate and highlight
 documents, which may promote religiously motivated violence. Brown worked to inform UK law
 enforcement and security agencies about cutting-edge innovations in forensic speech
 technology, giving an invited talk about her own technology to the Law Enforcement
 Transformation Unit in a Home Office seminar series, and delivering a professional development
 course for the National Crime Agency.

 LAEL is proactive in providing assistance to colleagues and institutions exposed to breakdowns
 in security. Since 2018, McEnery and Semino have supported members of the Department of
 Linguistics at the University of Mosul, Iraq, shortly after it re-opened subsequent to the
 devastating ISIS occupation, by sharing research and advising their PGRs.

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Issues of public and current interest
 We regularly contribute to issues of public and current interest, raising awareness, increasing
 understanding and deepening debate. 18 LAEL staff contributed to The Conversation, achieving
 a total of 2,615,372 reads (almost half the entire Faculty’s total). Department members gave
 more than 130 radio interviews, 35 TV interviews, and 80 radio broadcasts as writers/presenters;
 and wrote innumerable print publications. Representative examples:
 On the English language, our corpus-based work on the decline of certain words and rise of
 others, led by McEnery and Baker, was extensively reported (e.g. front page of the Telegraph,
 Observer, Guardian, Times, Daily Mail), reaching a potential audience in excess of 25,000,000.
 On populism and related issues, Wodak’s book, The Politics of Fear (2015), has generated
 multiple interviews, press reports (including The New York Times) and public talks, with potential
 reach of 13,000,000+. Koller contributed to debates on the language of Brexit (11 radio
 interviews in 2019 alone). Her BBC Radio 5 interview on ‘Discourses of Brexit’ had a potential
 reach of 2,000,000. Hart’s research on language and immigration led to appearances on BBC
 R4’s The World Tonight and Today programmes.
 On health, Semino spoke on the BBC World Service’s Health Check programme in 2014 about
 the ‘battle’ against cancer; her health-related research was discussed in a New York Times blog
 and reported in El Pais, New Scientist and TIME magazine (total potential reach: 14,000,000+).
 Baker’s research on NHS patient feedback was reported widely in the UK press including Metro
 and the Mail.
 On sexuality, Baker’s research into Polari, for which he received the University’s Research
 Impact Award in 2018, reached a high point in 2019 when his book Fabulosa: The Story of
 Polari, Britain’s Secret Gay Language was an Amazon #1 best-seller in two categories: ‘Lesbian
 and Gay Social History’ and ‘Contemporary Linguistics’.

 Our online resources for the general public continue to increase in popularity and reach.
 Hardaker’s forensic linguistics podcast, en clair, has attracted over 2,000 subscribers with
 30,000+ downloads in over 110 countries.


 Responding to national and international priorities and initiatives
 Our engagement with issues of security and of public and current interest, discussed above,
 illustrates our responsiveness, and capacity to respond, to topical priorities. The most critical
 single such priority in 2020 is COVID-19. During the UK lockdown, Corpus Linguistics Cluster
 researchers conducted studies of press (mis)representations of Muslims, and of discourses
 around face masks in different nations within the UK. Kormos’s blogs for Cambridge University
 Press on emergency language teaching online during the pandemic were read by over 50,000
 language teachers worldwide, and have been instrumental in raising teachers’ awareness of
 accessible and flexible online task design for English learners. LAEL researchers play a leading
 role in the international #ReframeCovid initiative, which studies alternatives to war metaphors
 across languages and cultures. Semino’s research on fire metaphors for COVID-19 has been
 cited in Der Spiegel amongst others. Our new ESRC-funded GBP1,000,000 project on
 vaccination-related discourses will include a strand on COVID-19.


 Contribution to and recognition by the research base
 LAEL members contribute significantly through service to the Linguistics community, not least
 through peer-review work. Staff have acted as referees for 300+ journals and 11 academic
 presses, predominantly with highly respected publishers (e.g. Cambridge University Press,
 Oxford University Press, Taylor and Francis, Sage). We hold positions on editorial boards of 60+
 major international journals (e.g. Applied Linguistics, Sociolinguistic Studies, TESOL Quarterly,
 International Journal of Corpus Linguistics, Discourse and Society, Language Testing, Journal of
 Pragmatics), and have examined doctorates at 80+ universities, including prestigious research
 institutions based in Hong Kong; Sydney, Australia; Singapore; Michigan, U.S.; Montreal,
 Canada; Fribourg, Switzerland; Auckland, New Zealand; and others.

                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 10 staff are members of ESRC and AHRC Peer Review Colleges, and we have served on a
 wide range of councils and advisory groups in the UK (e.g. Medical Research Council; Arts,
 Humanities and Social Sciences panel for the Carnegie Trust) and internationally (including
 national research councils/foundations of the U.S., Germany, Portugal, Belgium, Switzerland,
 and Hong Kong). McEnery has been a panellist for languages in the Norwegian REF-equivalent,
 a member of the Expert Advisory Group of UKRI’s AI Review, and panel chair of the UKRI
 Future Leadership Fellowship Scheme.

 We provide leadership for research and scholarship in Linguistics by undertaking key positions
 in subject associations/societies and as editors. Staff have acted as, to name but a few, Vice-
 President of UK Cognitive Linguistic Association; Founding members, Secretary, and
 Membership Chair for UK Association for Language Testing and Assessment; Chair of CADAAD
 Executive Committee; Convenor of Linguistic Ethnography Forum, SIG of British Association of
 Applied Linguistics. 13 LAEL colleagues have been editors of top-quality international journals,
 including Language Learning, Language and Cognition, Journal of Pragmatics, Journal of
 Language and Politics, and PLOS ONE. 11 staff are general editors of academic book series,
 including Trends in Linguistics, Applied Linguistics, Routledge Advances in Corpus Linguistics,
 and Second Language Research. For the first time in its history, Journal of Pragmatics published
 a special issue in 2015 in Culpeper’s honour, partly in recognition of his leadership of that
 journal.

 Intellectual guidance and outreach have also been promoted by conferences at Lancaster and
 Visiting Professorships (providing opportunities for lecture series, seminars, etc.). We have
 organized 35+ conferences and symposia, including major international events such as Corpus
 Linguistics 2015, UK Cognitive Linguistics Conference 2014, and British Association of
 Academic Phoneticians 2016. Seven Visiting Professorships were conferred on LAEL staff.

 Our intellectual contributions are recognized through significant invited keynotes and numerous
 academic awards and acknowledgements. During the REF period LAEL staff gave 180+ keynote
 lectures at major conferences worldwide (e.g. International Conference on Corpus Linguistics,
 Spain; International Pragmatics Conference, Hong Kong; American Association for Applied
 Linguistics Conference, USA) and won 12 notable awards. Harding and Brunfaut won ILTA Best
 Article Award in 2015 (with Alderson) and Best Research, International E-assessment award in
 2018. Kormos received the British Council’s 2014 ELTon Award for her Excellence in Course
 Innovation project.

 Indicators of esteem include the fact that two members of LAEL were made Fellows of the
 Academy of Social Sciences, in addition to three others appointed Fellows previously (McEnery
 is on the Council), and three made Fellows of the RSA (Royal Society for Arts, Manufactures
 and Commerce). Wodak was made Distinguished Senior Schumann Fellow (European
 University Institute, Florence), Senior Fellow of the Institute for Human Sciences (Vienna), and
 Permanent Fellow at the Excellence Centre, University of Bremen. She was also awarded a
 second honorary doctorate (from Warwick). In 2018, she received a lifetime achievement award
 from the Austrian Ministry for Women, Families and Youth.




                                                                                           Page 19
