Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Aberystwyth University

 Unit of Assessment: 4: Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Aberystwyth University’s (AU’s) newest academic department, established 12 years ago, is
 being returned to REF for the first time. The development of Psychology has been a key element
 in AU’s expansion of its subject portfolio, with the REF 2021 assessment period forming a critical
 stage in which the Department has moved from an initial emphasis on teaching pre-2013, to the
 realisation of a balanced unit with academic staff engaged in research activity. Accordingly, the
 Department’s Research Strategy during the assessment period has focused on nurturing a vital
 and sustainable research environment, building the research capacity of our staff, and
 consolidating external partnerships to facilitate research impact.

 The establishment of our research culture has been guided by the University’s Strategic Plans,
 as outlined in REF5a, reflecting emerging principles of: encouraging ambitious, entrepreneurial
 research that challenges existing approaches and knowledge; creating a coherent research-led
 academic environment; enhancing inclusivity in research; and collaborating with external
 partners, in Wales and globally, both in generating research and in passing on the benefits of
 research through impact and innovation. Strategic support from the University has included
 investment in staff and facilities for research. The growth of the Department’s research has also
 benefited from University strategies to promote interdisciplinary collaborations that have enabled
 the Department to achieve critical mass in key areas, including funding for Interdisciplinary
 Research Centres – notably the Centre for Excellence in Rural Health Research (CERHR),
 housed in the Department – and cross-departmental research coordination and collaboration
 within the Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences (FELS).

 As a relatively new, maturing, department, we have strategically focused our research activity on
 a small number of core themes in which we have been able to rapidly build expertise and
 achieve impact. These are represented in the Departmental research clusters of ‘Evolutionary
 and Forensic Psychology’, ‘Health and Wellbeing’ and ‘Language and Learning’ and include
 specific empirical concerns with rural health and with youth justice. Our research has a strong
 orientation to producing applications to address challenges for policy and practice in these
 areas, supported by iterative engagement with clients and stakeholders to enhance the impact of
 our work by understanding and targeting their needs. This approach has led to notable
 contributions assessing the feasibility of tele-health in rural areas, and developing an innovative
 tool to assess the risk of offending in young people and allow targeted interventions by Youth
 Justice teams to prevent reoffending, as detailed in our impact case studies.

 In line with the University’s Research and Innovation Strategy (see REF5a), our research
 combines a special concern with local and national priorities in Wales and engagement with
 wider societal and scientific challenges. We have utilised access to local, regional and national
 stakeholders in Wales to form collaborations and develop projects that target the distinctive
 challenges of our immediate region in rural Wales, including research and engagement through
 the Welsh language, but which have potential for wider application. At the same time, we are a
 globally networked department, collaborating with partners in Europe, Asia, North and South
 America and New Zealand, and conducting research in countries including Brazil and Zambia.

 Through these efforts we have constructed a vital, inclusive and sustainable research
 environment that has considerable potential for further expansion and strengthening of research
 capacity and impact. We aim to nurture and match the research skills and interests of our staff,
 supporting and mentoring our strong cohort of early career researchers, whilst enabling our
 more experienced researchers to develop opportunities to lead major projects, including through
 increasing capture of external research funding. Our trajectory is guided by a continuing
 Research Strategy encompassing the following objectives:


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Raising the profile of the Department in the discipline by supporting researchers to
        develop specific areas of expertise in which they are recognised for shaping debates,
        advancing methods or promoting new empirical areas of study. This has been delivered
        through individual mentoring and research planning and access to a personal research
        fund for all research-active staff (see Section 2).

       Supporting researchers in the Department to publish impactful research outputs,
        including open access articles in leading journals that contribute to advancing knowledge
        in Psychology and related fields. This has been facilitated by access to Departmental and
        AU funds for gold open access publishing and procedures for green open access
        publishing, detailed below.

       Building the capacity of researchers in the Department to successfully compete for
        external grant income, providing resource to support substantial research projects. This
        has been supported by participation in collaborative projects to build experience and use
        of small grant schemes to test ideas, and by professional development activities (see
        Section 3).

       Strengthening the research capacity and reach of the Department by encouraging staff to
        participate in interdisciplinary and international networks. Within AU, interdisciplinary
        engagement has been supported by the University’s Interdisciplinary Research Centre
        scheme and the ESRC-funded Transformative Social Science initiative (see Section 4).

       Growing postgraduate research (PGR) student numbers, enhancing the vitality of the
        Department’s research environment. Funding from the Knowledge Economy Skills
        Scholarship programme, AU’s AberDoc competition and the Department has contributed
        to an increase in registered research students (PhD and MPhil) from 7 in 2013 to 18
        (15.5 FTE) in 2020 (see Section 2).

       Enabling research in the Department to have an impact on wider society, culture and the
        economy, by supporting impact acceleration activity. This has included staff leave to
        focus on impact activity, teaching relief and dissemination support, resourced through AU
        funding (see REF5a).

       Developing partnerships with industry, public sector and civil society bodies to foster
        innovation and enterprise activity. These have been assisted by networking with key
        stakeholders and by support from EU Structural Funds.

 The research strategy is implemented through a structure in the Department that connects staff
 in three research clusters, focused on ‘Evolutionary and Forensic Psychology’, ‘Health and
 Wellbeing’ and ‘Language and Learning’, which facilitate collaboration and mutual support within
 the Department, each with a designated leader. In addition, during the assessment period the
 Department has established two research centres to act as focal points for internal and external
 collaboration, research development and stakeholder engagement, and to highlight the research
 strengths of Psychology at AU. The first, the Centre for Excellence in Rural Health Research
 (CERHR) led by Rahman, is an Interdisciplinary Research Centre connecting researchers in
 Psychology with colleagues in Biosciences, Computer Science, Human Geography and Sports
 and Exercise Science. It builds on early collaborations with the Hywel Dda Health Board and
 Bronglais Hospital, located adjacent to the University campus, and has strong emphasis on
 addressing the health and wellbeing challenges of rural Wales whilst also developing
 opportunities for research, innovation and engagement nationally and internationally. As an
 Interdisciplinary Research Centre, CERHR has received start-up core funding from the
 University.

 The second research centre in the Department, the Centre for Critical Psychology (CC-PSY),
 established by Riley and now led by Robson, seeks to create a “better everyday life” by using

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the tools of critical psychology. Driven by concepts that regard the heart of most research
 questions or policies is a desire for people to think and act differently. In addressing this, CC-
 PSY takes a different approach to many established routes; rather, their research starts with
 questions of how a person makes sense of themselves, before understanding what they can
 say, think or do when they understand themselves this way. Alongside these questions are wider
 consideration of social, political, economic or material conditions that either enable or restrict this
 understanding. This emerging approach allows an understanding of the person in context, to
 value their sense making, and to identify new ways of reconceptualising problems to enhance
 lives. Research in CC-PSY has been funded by the British Academy, EPSRC and Canadian
 Social Science and Humanities Research Council.

 The Department has adopted policies and procedures to facilitate the wide availability of our
 research through open access publishing, and to ensure standards of research integrity and
 ethical practice, working within the framework of University policies (REF5a). All peer reviewed
 articles are made available through either the ‘green’ or ‘gold’ open access routes. ‘Gold’ open
 access publishing has been supported by the JISC agreements with publishers, publication
 funds for UKRI-funded research administered by the University, and strategic use of
 Departmental funds. ‘Green’ open access publishing is facilitated by the Aberystwyth Research
 Portal, to which staff are required to submit final author manuscripts of all accepted papers. The
 Research Portal also enables archiving and sharing of datasets, supporting research integrity by
 facilitating the reproducibility of research.

 All research in the Department follows robust protocols for research ethics and safeguarding the
 wellbeing of both researchers and research participants, which align with the British Psychology
 Society’s (BPS) professional standards. These include measures to ensure the informed
 consent of participants and to avoid disproportionate risks. Technician support for laboratory
 research and training in the use of laboratory equipment ensures the safe use of research
 facilities. Ethics assessments must be registered for all University staff and student research
 prior to commencement using an online form. To comply with the BPS Code of Ethical Conduct
 (2018) and Code of Human Research Ethics (2014) all Psychology researchers are required to
 submit an extended ethics application to the Department of Psychology Research Ethics
 Committee (for staff and postgraduate research) or for an internal, independent review
 (consisting of two reviewers, separate to the supervisor) for low-risk undergraduate research.
 Any research proposals (UG, PG or staff) that include minors or those in vulnerable groups, or
 that raises specific issues, are referred to the AU Research Ethics Panel for more detailed
 assessment. Members of staff in Psychology have made significant contributions to the
 development of the AU framework for ethics in research and review system, including Kate
 Bullen (a member of the Department to 2015 and now Honorary Professor) as the University’s
 inaugural Director of Ethics and Equality, and Sarah Riley (a member of the Department to
 2018) as a member of the team responsible for developing AU’s online ethics application.
 Subsequently, members of the Department have continued to contribute their expertise to the
 University’s Research Ethics Panel (Robson and Ivaldi).

 As a relatively small department, Psychology at AU has an inclusive approach to research
 planning and management that is responsive to initiatives by individual staff. The preparation of
 our first REF submission has been an inclusive and collaborative process involving all staff, that
 has allowed us to reflect on our progress in building a vital and sustainable research
 environment over the assessment period, and to refine our aims and ambitions for the future. In
 the next REF assessment period, the Department will continue to pursue the objectives of the
 ongoing Research Strategy, outlined above, with the following priority actions identified for the
 next 2-3 years:

       Building our research capacity in targeted areas and strengthening our research
        leadership by the appointment of a Chair in Psychology;
       Increasing our external research grant income and securing investment for further
        development of research laboratories;


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Developing our research excellence in interventions in youth justice into a third research
        centre;
       Introducing a competitive research fund for individual projects and groups to consolidate
        our research capacity and stimulate applications for external research funding;
       Developing bursaries from Departmental funds to support research students for key
        areas and for Early Career researchers;
       Expanding our collaborations with other disciplines at AU, with other HEIs and with
        commercial and public sector partners, including through contributions to the new AU
        interdisciplinary research programmes on Rural Futures (through CERHR) and ‘The
        Lives We Want’ (through CC-PSY) (see REF5a).

 Our research in the next REF assessment period will continue to emphasise our cluster themes
 but seek to expand into new areas reflecting staff appointments and evolving research interests.
 Recent success in external grant capture will support new studies over the next 1-3 years on the
 impact of rest and recovery rooms on the wellbeing of NHS staff (Ivaldi, Royal Society £4k);
 changes in human behaviour following specific events (Jiaqing O with colleagues in AU, Royal
 Society, £9.8k); technology responses to epidemic outbreaks and the global economy (Jiaqing O
 with colleagues in AU, Royal Society, £9.8k); and on farmer decision making as part of the €7m
 Horizon 2020 MIXED project on ‘multi-actor and transdisciplinary development of efficient and
 resilient mixed farming and agroforestry systems’ (Payne, £8k to Psychology).

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Researcher Development
 At its inception - prior to this assessment period - the Department was focussed on covering
 teaching needs and this drove staffing strategy. After 2014 however, embedding research into
 the Department’s culture became a strategic priority and staffing strategy evolved to consolidate
 emerging areas of research focus. Compared to many psychology departments in the UK, the
 research-active staff cohort of 18 FTE is still relatively small, but an ambition to ensure that
 research is a driving priority has now been embedded into the Department’s culture and its
 staffing.

 Recruitment during the assessment period has targeted staff with research interests in Health
 and Mental Health (Aspden) and Counselling (Zhimin He). The appointments were made to
 consolidate the Department’s Health and Wellbeing cluster, aligned with the University’s
 strategic plans to grow health-related expertise. Elsewhere appointments have been made to
 support research in Evolutionary Psychology (Jiaqing O & Greengross) and Bilingualism (Binks).
 Additional capacity has included the transfer of researchers from other departments within AU
 including from Law and Criminology (Norris G. & Norris H.) and Sport and Exercise Science
 (Payne), bringing experience and contributing to capacity-building for multi-disciplinary research
 on Behaviour Change, and to a new research focus on Forensic Psychology. The further
 strengthening of the Department’s research vitality through new appointments will continue in
 the next REF period, including the strategic appointment of a Chair in Psychology to provide
 leadership in the next stage of the Department’s research development, and enhancing research
 grant capture and collaborations.

 As a growing department with a significant contingent of early career researchers (5 out of 18)
 an important emphasis of staff development during the assessment period has been building
 individual and collective research capacity. All newly appointed staff have a mentor allocated to
 support their development, and established staff act as research mentors in this capacity.
 Ongoing support for all staff is provided through the University’s Effective Contribution Scheme,
 which involves target setting and identification of training and development needs as part of an
 annual review, and which is linked to the completion and discussion of a Personal Research
 Plan. The Department provides a personal research fund of £1000 per annum to all research-
 active staff, ensuring equality of opportunity for participation in conferences and research
 meetings and undertaking small scoping projects. Staff additionally have access to the
 University Research Fund, which provides funds of up to £10,000 to support research activity

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 including pilot studies for larger external grant applications (see REF5a). Early Career
 Researchers are also specifically supported via an annual sandpit event for the development of
 projects and have the opportunity to apply for ringfenced University pump-priming funds.

 Members of the Department actively participate in research-related professional development
 courses offered by the University (for example, writing grant applications and project
 management), as well as in pan-University research capacity-building and sharing initiatives,
 such as regular research café and engagement events (see REF5a). Staff have also been
 supported in completing more specialist training and development in areas relevant to their
 research - such as Counselling (Mackiewicz) and Coaching (Ivaldi), and in methodological
 techniques such as Q-methodology (Zhimin He) and Longitudinal Data Analysis (Norris G.), as
 well as in using new laboratory equipment such as EEG and Eye Tracking. Ivaldi also received
 training in the Conversation Analysis Role-play Method (CARM), a technique designed to apply
 research findings in non-academic environments and contexts. Several staff have also
 undertaken training in Systematic Review (Hall, Rahman, Ivaldi and Holt), a technique now used
 within the Department in research and as a support in the development of PG research projects.
 During the assessment period, five members of staff (Greengross, Hall, Ivaldi, Rahman and
 Riley) have been selected to participate in the prestigious Welsh Crucible programme, a
 HEFCW-supported intensive programme of personal, professional and leadership development
 for future research leaders in Wales.

 Postgraduate Research Students
 Postgraduate research has been cultivated in the Department during the assessment period as
 part of the development of a vital and sustainable research environment. This has been
 advanced through a strategy that has combined securing externally funded PhD studentships
 with Departmental funding for one-year MPhil research studentships, enabling the rapid
 establishment of a sizeable PGR group. In total, 5 PhD students (4.5 doctoral awards due to one
 joint supervision with Geography; REF4a) and 6 MPhil students have completed studies in the
 Department during the assessment period, and on the census date on 31 July 2020 there were
 11 PhD students (9.5 FTE: 8 F/t and 3 P/t), 1 DProf, and 9 MPhil students registered in the
 Department.

 The Department has been successful in securing 1 full PhD studentship from the University’s
 highly competitive AberDoc scheme and 7 PhD scholarships from the Knowledge Economy
 Skills Scholarship (KESS) scheme (detailed in section 4). In order to proactively support the
 growth of research focussed training, the Department has funded six bursaries for MPhil
 degrees, with staff applying for access to them on a competitive basis, and awards made
 according to criteria including alignment to research themes and the development of impact.
 This approach has supported the development of small research clusters and boosted the vitality
 of the Department’s research environment with a vibrant postgraduate group, injecting energy
 and activity. Additionally, staff contribute to PhD and DProf supervisory teams in departments
 elsewhere in the University – in Geography and Earth Sciences (DGES), the Institute of
 Biological, Environmental and Rural Sciences (IBERS), Aberystwyth Business School, Law and
 Criminology, and Computer Science. In addition to these, one PhD project is being second
 supervised in Bristol University.

 Staff supervising PGR students attend training provided by the University to support their
 supervisory role. Staff in Psychology also contribute to the training of PGR students across the
 University, supporting sessions on research skill development and communication in science.
 PGR students are also encouraged to engage with the University Continuing Professional
 Development programme and to attend relevant student conferences. As PGR student numbers
 have continued to develop, individual and shared offices with appropriate IT facilities have been
 allocated, and the Department has invested in further facilities for PGR students, providing
 communal research rooms within the building. PGR students are encouraged to participate in
 research conferences and networks to disseminate their work; a number have published papers
 in journals, including the Journal of Rural Studies, Personality and Individual Differences, and
 the Journal of Police and Criminal Psychology. Students who have completed their PhD studies

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 during the assessment period have secured employment at Manchester Metropolitan, Swansea
 University, and within the Department here in AU.

 Inclusion, Equality and Diversity
 Principles of equality, diversity and inclusion have been central to the ethos of the Department
 since its formation, with the founding Head of Department Kate Bullen later playing a significant
 role in shaping University-wide policies as AU’s first Director of Ethics and Equality in the early
 stages of the REF assessment period. These principles have guided both our staffing strategy
 and our support for research, contributing to the assembling of a diverse and gender balanced
 team of research active staff, with 10 female and 8 male staff, including international staff from
 Singapore and China. Members of the Department played a leading role in the development of
 the University’s successful application for an Athena Swan Bronze Award and the Gender
 Equality Chartermark in 2014. Psychology staff remain engaged in University-level work on
 equality and inclusion, notably O’Hanlon, who has worked with the University on relevant Athena
 Swan developments during this REF period. The Department has staff acting as mentees and
 mentors on the University’s female academic mentoring programme and embedded in the
 Women in Research Network, which enables female staff members from across the institution to
 feed into executive level decision-making and strategic planning. More broadly, the commitment
 of AU is recognised by a Disability Confident Employer accreditation and inclusion in Stonewall’s
 Top 100 UK Employers for a LGBT+ friendly workplace. All staff are required to have completed
 Equality and Diversity Training and a number of networks promote equality issues and provide
 support for researchers, including the Women in Research Network, BAME Network, LGBT
 Network and Disability and Wellbeing Network. Additionally, members of the Department have
 participated in Advance HE’s ‘Aurora’ programme and Academi Wales’ ‘Springboard’ training for
 aspiring women leaders.

 Principles of equality and inclusion have been incorporated into the REF 2021 selection process,
 as outlined in the University’s Code of Practice, with all members of the REF Reading
 Committee and supplementary reviewers required to have completed unconscious bias training.
 The Departmental REF Reading Committee has also included an independent member from a
 cognate department in the Faculty of Environmental and Life Sciences to monitor fair practice.
 Applications for output reductions for Individual Staff Circumstances are assessed through an
 anonymous process, with decisions made at University level. Members of staff in Psychology at
 AU additionally have contributed to both discussion and action on equality, diversity and
 inclusion issues in higher education more broadly and in the public domain, through our
 research and public engagement work. Examples include Passam’s involvement in the EPSRC
 Inclusion Matters programme that seeks to promote more inclusive cultures for under-
 represented groups in STEM university departments by collaboratively developing, trialling and
 evaluating a reverse mentoring scheme and facilitating long-term institutional learning and
 change.

 As a department of Psychology located in Mid-Wales, we support a bilingual research
 environment in which English and Welsh languages have equal status. All research conducted in
 Wales follows AU’s Welsh Language Policy with opportunities for research subjects to
 participate in Welsh and bilingual communication with research participants and the public. Staff
 and postgraduates are encouraged to present and publish research in Welsh where appropriate,
 and researchers in the Department have undertaken work that aims to improve policymaking on
 the Welsh language and strengthen inclusivity in the community. Examples include Binks’
 research on language and learning, and a collaborative study with colleagues in the Department
 of Geography and Earth Sciences on how English-Welsh bilinguals make decisions about which
 language to use when initiating a conversation. Research through the medium of Welsh is
 supported by the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol, to which Binks and Rahman contribute as
 members of the national subject panel for Psychology.




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 As a developing research department, our strategy with respect to external grant income during
 the assessment period has been to emphasise the importance of building capacity and gaining
 experience in order to equip our researchers to successfully compete for and lead substantial
 research grants, to enhance the vitality and sustainability of our research environment in the
 next REF period. Accordingly, we have targeted three main forms of research funding in the
 REF 2021 assessment period:
 (1) participation as partners in large collaborative projects that have allowed our researchers to
 access critical mass and gain valuable experience;
 (2) research contracts from public agencies and other sources that have strengthened
 connections with key stakeholders and facilitated applied research with potential societal impact;
 (3) small grants from internal and external sources to support scoping and pilot studies that have
 enabled staff to test ideas and develop a research profile.

 Participation in large collaborative projects include Passam and Riley’s involvement as co-
 investigators in the EPSRC Inclusion Matters project, with £120k in income for Psychology,
 including the employment of Christian Moller as a Post-Doctoral Research Assistant, and Riley’s
 contribution to the €5m Horizon 2020 IMAJINE project on territorial inequalities and spatial
 justice (with £8.7k in funding awarded to Psychology).

 Contract research for public agencies has included collaborative work with the Youth Justice
 Service funded by the Home Office and Youth Justice Service (Norris G., three awards to AU
 totalling £28k), and projects for the Home Office on government employment for women from
 lower socio-economic groups (Passam, £4.7k) and the Hywel Dda Health Board on acceptability
 of telehealth to monitor COPD and diabetes (Rahman, £10.4k). The Centre for Excellence in
 Rural Health Research, which is a key vehicle for developing stakeholder-focused research in
 the Department, has received core internal funding of £64k over the last four years of the
 assessment period, with a further award of £15.5k in 2020/21 as part of the University’s
 Interdisciplinary Research Centres competition to cover staff time, network events and facilities.

 Small grants for scoping and pilot research have been secured from external and internal
 sources. External income has included grants from the British Council (Hall, £15.7k) on sport
 and social transformation in Brazil; and the Joy Welch Fund (Jiaqing O; £2.2k - looking at how
 people develop perception of their environment, and also £4.9k - to develop a scale and
 measurement of wellbeing in humans). Several members of staff received funding for
 collaborative interdisciplinary scoping projects through the HEFCW Welsh Crucible programme,
 including a feasibility study on enhancing rural health services using unmanned aerial vehicles
 (Rahman: £5.9k), and a collaboration with Bangor in a Psychology and Linguistics project
 looking at Bilingualism and Humor (Greengross: £7.3k).

 Rahman and Payne have received grants from the UKRI Global Challenges Research Fund, via
 the Centre for International Development Research at Aberystwyth (CIDRA): Rahman for work
 on addressing the challenges of nursing in rural Zambia (£14k), and Payne as seed grant for
 research on future-proofing knowledge exchange between farmers and scientists in Nigeria
 (£9k). Small grants have also been awarded to members of the Department from the ESRC-
 funded Transformative Social Science programme at AU (Rahman, Norris G., Payne, Ivaldi),
 and from the ESRC WISERD Civil Society Research Centre (Norris G.).

 The AU University Research Fund (URF) has been a key internal source of funding targeted at
 removing small barriers to data collection and project development. Following an award, we
 encourage staff to maintain engagement and extend their thinking to larger collaborations and
 bids. Awards from the URF have been received in the assessment period by Rahman, Wright,
 Binks, Taylor, Ivaldi, Jiaqing O and Greengross.



                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The development of research proposals and applications for external funding are supported by
 the University’s Department of Research, Business and Innovation, which includes a Research
 Development Officer assigned to the Department. Other initiatives include internal peer review of
 proposals and sharing of expertise, and participation of Psychology staff in activities including a
 ‘Grants Factory’ workshop, research cafés and sandpit events. Riley’s involvement in the
 IMAJINE project followed her participation in a workshop and capacity-building ‘resilient regions’
 network as part of the AU Transformative Social Science programme. The promotion of equality,
 diversity and inclusion in capacity-building for research grant capture is addressed through
 initiatives including the University’s Women in Research Network and participation by women in
 the Department in external capacity-building programmes including the Welsh Crucible.

 Facilities and infrastructure
 Facilities for psychology research have been developed over the last decade alongside office
 and teaching spaces in the refurbished P5 building that has been the Department’s home since
 2011, following a strategic long-term plan for investment in laboratories and equipment. The
 bespoke laboratories were designed at that time to support research directions seen as key to
 the development of Psychology as a centre of applied research in the field. These facilities have
 played a key role in the transition into the current REF cycle, facilitating work with the EEG and
 eye trackers (Wright and Taylor) and work within the developmental labs by O’Hanlon. Additional
 investment and equipment design and acquisition (approximately £94k) has been made
 available from Departmental funds. The delivery of the investment plan during the assessment
 period has incorporated the acquisition and installation of facilities and equipment including:

       Data Acquisitions Systems BioPac Data Logger (Portable) (2019)
       Data Acquisitions Systems BioPac MP150 (2014)
       Tobii wireless, mobile eye tracking Glasses (2014)
       0.51 Qualitative recording space with inbuild recording functionality (2018)
       Video and sound (stimulus) editing facilities (2018)
       Bespoke Laboratory control and EEG analysis PC (2018)
       Monitor Audio Speakers with Marantz amplifier (2015)
       Pedometers, Stopwatches, heart rate monitor watches, blood pressure monitors (2015)
       Cedrus SV-1 Smart voice keys and response pads (2014)
       Transcription software and pedals (2016/17)
       ANT Neuro 64 channel EEG (2018)
       Bespoke Head-Microphone for 3D Sound recording (2019)
       IAC acoustics Mini Audiometric Sound Room (2018)
       Lab kitchen facilities for food-based experiments (including lab spec fridges + cooking
        facilities) with hatch to research cubicle (2015)
       Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule (ADOS) (2013-14)

 These investments have supplemented equipment purchased prior to the assessment period,
 including Data Acquisitions Systems BioPac MP36; IAC Acoustics Sound Attenuated Chamber;
 video and sound (stimulus) editing facilities; Vista room surveillance system; pedometers,
 stopwatches, heart rate monitor watches, blood pressure monitors; and transcription software
 and pedals.

 The development of the Department’s research facilities has been supported by HEFCW capital
 investment delivered through competitive internal AU processes and planned expenditure from
 the Department’s consumables budget. Investments have been guided by staff research needs
 within the framework of the Department’s strategic planning. The flexible response to facility
 provision has led to project development and funding for research by Taylor, and for post-
 graduate research in a number of areas, including work with pro-biotics, EEG and language
 (Wright) and in aspects of developmental psychology including factors relating to Autistic
 Spectrum Disorder (O’Hanlon). Software packages for research, such as NVivo for qualitative
 analysis, are available either through central University licences or as a result of spend from
 Departmental funds. The University’s library and electronic information resources and the

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 adjacent National Library of Wales copyright library offer access to an extensive range of books,
 scientific journals, and online databases for research. Through collaborative projects,
 researchers in Psychology are additionally able to access laboratory facilities and resources in
 other departments within the University, notably in Computer Science, and the Sports and
 Exercise Science laboratories of the Institute of Biological, Environmental and Rural Sciences
 (IBERS), where specialist equipment, such as Douglas bags have been used in research looking
 at stress and falls in the older population.

 Technical support is integral to the Department’s research environment, provided by a specialist
 technician. Training staff and postgraduate students in the use of the research laboratories is a
 significant part of the technician’s work, including bespoke training with EEG, eye tracking &
 food handling. Where specialist technical support is not available within the Department, it is
 sourced elsewhere in the University or supported from Departmental funds as necessary. For
 instance, support for Taylor’s work in stress and falls, and Holt’s work on Temporary Hearing
 Threshold Shift, was provided by technicians in the Institute of Biological and Rural Science
 (IBERS) and the Department of Physics respectively.

 Funds and space for further development of facilities for Psychology research have been
 confirmed, including the expansion of the Psychology laboratories to accommodate the
 continued development of psychophysiological research and an extension of the EEG facilities,
 as well as the provision of clinical testing facilities to support research collaboration with the
 Hywel Dda Health Board.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration
 Collaboration is central to the establishment and development of research in Psychology at AU,
 adding to the vitality of our research environment by creating critical mass and expanding our
 capabilities, and strengthening its sustainability by forming long-term partnerships. These
 include fostering relationships with public agencies and industry that facilitate our contributions
 to the economy and society. Internally, Psychology researchers have ongoing collaborations
 with colleagues within AU in Computer Science (Rahman, He, Norris, G., Passam), Aberystwyth
 Business School (Norris, G.), and Sports and Exercise Science (Payne, Taylor). The largest
 collaboration is the Centre for Excellence in Rural Health Research, which brings together our
 psychologists with researchers from across AU, in bioscience, computer science, human
 geography and sports and exercise science. Members of the Psychology Department have
 contributed to the Aberystwyth Behavioural Insights (ABi) Interdisciplinary Research Centre
 along with geographers, notably on language choice.

 Externally, our staff have engaged in collaborations with academic researchers in the UK and
 internationally. Notable examples include the EPSRC Inclusion Matters project (Passam) with
 Birmingham University (which also involves collaboration with Computer Science at AU); the
 ‘Twenty-First Century Digital-Born Bibliography’ at the University of Alberta project (Riley)
 funded by the Canadian Social Science and Humanities Research Council; and work with
 researchers at Coventry University on the ‘Tube Crush’ British Academy-funded study (Riley).

 Rahman’s work with the Zambezi Ecohealth Partnership, collaborating with partners in
 Aberystwyth, Canada and Zambia, will establish a rural nurse network in communities and
 facilitate important joint research in the forthcoming REF period. Hall has worked as part of a
 steering group for a British Council and Bond University (Australia) project on developing sport
 for diplomacy, and has collaborated with Premiership Rugby, the British Council and Serviço
 Social da Indústria (SESI), Brazil on projects relevant to the development of Rugby as an agent
 of social change. Payne has collaborated with colleagues in Nigeria in research using his
 knowledge of social learning, group dynamics and motivation in those responsible for the
 development of sustainable agriculture. Zhimin He is expanding her work on technology and
 mental health with collaborations involving colleagues in China. Jiaqing O has contributed with


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 co-researchers in 27 countries to a comparative analysis of social networks and the prioritisation
 of activities, published in Perspectives in Psychological Science.

 Partnerships and research links have further been developed with Welsh and UK government
 and non-government agencies including Hywel Dda University Health Board, The Home Office,
 Ceredigion County Council, Dyfed-Powys Police, and the Youth Justice Service, as well as with
 several charities. Collaboration with the health sector is an especially important part of the
 research environment in Psychology at AU. Links with the local health board and hospital were
 developed through shared interests from the establishment of the Department and these were
 formalised with the creation of the Centre for Excellence in Rural Health Research (CERHR) in
 2016. The Centre’s steering group includes the Clinical Director for the Hywel Dda Health Board
 and representatives from the Powys Teaching Health Board, Rural Health and Care Wales, and
 other relevant stakeholders, helping to shape research and collaborative initiatives to inform the
 understanding and future delivery of high-quality healthcare meeting the needs of rural
 communities in the region. CERHR is fostering a community of university researchers and health
 service professionals, with opportunities for exchange and future co-working, including through a
 regular seminar series that disseminates rural health research. Talks have been given by AU
 academics, Hywel Dda University Health Board clinical staff as well as visiting speakers
 (including Worcester University, the Bevan Commission, the Transport Research Laboratories
 and Rural Health and Care Wales). The seminars are advertised widely through social media
 and relevant channels, with attendance by health professionals, Welsh Government, local
 authorities and interested members of the public.

 Links with industry are at an earlier stage of development but include a collaboration by Taylor
 with a food manufacturer examining the neuropsychological base behind potential well-being
 benefits of probiotics, as well as support for postgraduate research. The Department has
 secured 5 collaborative PhD studentships, and 2 collaborative MPhil studentships through the
 EU-funded KESS (Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships) scheme, facilitating work with
 industry, public sector and civil society partners. Notable examples have included projects on the
 wellbeing and care of carers in communities with Ceredigion County Council; on telecare and
 palliative care with the Beacon of Hope Hospice; on the health and wellbeing benefits of a new
 school curriculum in Wales with Orbis PLC, a special educational needs provider, on the role of
 colour in learning in children with autistic spectrum disorder; and on how internet-based films
 may help those at risk of diabetes, with PocketMedic, a company who develop Health
 communication media. Two further KESS projects have been sponsored by Hywel Dda Health
 Board looking at the wellbeing and resilience of those nursing cancer patients, and a project
 looking at support for those in crisis has been sponsored by Platfform, a Cardiff-based charity.

 Contributions to Economy and Society
 The Department’s collaborative relationships with public agencies and civil society groups
 enabled the development of applied research that is responsive to societal needs and which has
 made notable contributions to the economy and society, both in Wales and further afield. Our
 main contributions have been in three areas: enhancing health and wellbeing; public policy and
 practice on crime and justice; and promoting equality and diversity in society.

 Contributions to enhancing health and wellbeing within society have included work by Rahman
 and the CERHR, notably on telehealth. As outlined in one of our submitted impact case studies,
 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic a hospice charity used evidence from Rahman’s work to
 secure National Lottery funding to develop “a virtual hospice at home service” for use during and
 beyond the pandemic. This service will complement the existing palliative care telehealth service
 to deliver an online suite of supportive therapies such as counselling, art therapy, and relaxation
 sessions while enabling befriending volunteers to maintain contact with their clients. CERHR has
 also provided a briefing for the Welsh Senedd on the potential impact of Brexit on health and
 wellbeing in rural Wales, under the University’s framework agreement with the Senedd’s
 research services unit.



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Elsewhere in the Health and Wellbeing cluster, Zhimin He has developed methods for looking at
 technology designed to improve the health and wellbeing of those with a range of mental health
 difficulties, including schizophrenia, depression and those engaging in self-harm. This important
 and very timely work allows support to patients living in the community, by effectively monitoring
 their symptoms. Alongside the individual beneficiaries, the impacts enable the more careful
 allocation of resources in healthcare. To support these emerging sub-topics, Aspden was
 recently recruited to explore how health related behaviours can be encouraged using principles
 of messaging and priming. He has also worked closely with clinical research teams in UCL
 developing and administering trials, and assessing the effectiveness of treatments, contributing
 to a wider skills base and knowledge exchange in the Department and University.

 Other contributions to enhancing health and wellbeing have included work by Payne on effective
 communication strategies for nurses helping cancer patients; Taylor’s probiotic Kefir project
 examining the impacts of these supplements in development; Wright’s research on the
 performance of the cerebral hemispheres during written word recognition, with a particular focus
 on the reading performance of brain-injured patients; and collaborations with local authorities
 and organizations including Age Concern and MIND on various aspects of wellbeing, including
 supporting the development of policies relating to alcohol (Mackiewicz), school engagement
 (Norris H.) and resilience (Ivaldi).

 Contributions to public policy and practice on crime and justice have followed from G. Norris’s
 research and collaborations with the Home Office, the Youth Justice Service and the Dyfed
 Powys Police and Crime Commissioner. As described in the second of our submitted impact
 case studies, these collaborations have secured over £50k in total funding from the Home
 Office, Ceredigion Youth Justice and Prevention Service (CYJPS), Dyfed-Powys Police and
 Crime Commissioner, to deliver and evaluate interventions with a range of young offenders at
 risk of involvement in Serious and Organised Crime (SOC) throughout the Ceredigion and
 Dyfed-Powys Police force area. Norris G. has advised the Home Office Prevent team and South
 Wales Police on issues such as County Lines organised crime, as well as collaborating with the
 Home Office in evaluating projects overseas aimed at disrupting the drug and people supply
 networks. Additional funding from the Dyfed-Powys Police and Crime Commissioner has also
 continued collaborations with Ceredigion Youth Justice and Prevention Service, which included
 a funded post-graduate research studentship. Norris G. also had input to South Wales Police
 Violence and Vulnerability Unit’s work in developing a strategic framework for tackling serious
 violence in Wales. The findings from the SOC projects have been reproduced in the form of a
 “SOC Workbook” to be used by youth offending teams and ancillary organisations as a template
 for SOC intervention work. A dedicated web-portal ‘Preventions’ (https://www.preventions.co.uk)
 has been developed, and hosts the workbook and wider details of the project and broader
 information on preventions work both locally and nationally.

 Norris G. and representatives from Ceredigion Youth Justice and Prevention Service (CYJPS)
 were invited keynote speakers at the University of Central Lancashire hosted ‘YOT15 - Youth
 Justice and UCLan Criminal Justice Partnership presents Creating Potential Together’ in
 October 2018, presenting research findings and policy guidance to over 100 practitioners from
 the North-West of England. The SOC project was twice shortlisted for an award with the Howard
 League for Penal Reform. The work has further been cited in the Home Office SOC (Serious and
 Organised Crime) Local Partnerships Bulletin and featured on BBC Wales Television and Radio.
 Norris G. collaborates with the Business School to evaluate the rural crime strategy for Dyfed-
 Powys Police (DPP) – a project with interest and relevance to similar communities world-wide,
 gathering empirical user data on rural policing which informs the Rural Crime Strategy. Findings
 have been disseminated through the Force’s website and engagement networks, with
 presentations at the DPP HQ conferences annually. Contributions with respect to crime and
 justice also include research undertaken by Norris H. in the application of restorative justice
 techniques as conflict resolution tools that has informed skills-based workshops and evaluations
 for local schools and sixth-form pupils and teachers.



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contributions to promoting equality and diversity in society have been led by the Centre for
 Critical Psychology (CC-PSY). The Centre has secured Grants from the Home Office Gender
 Equality Network and the EPSRC Inclusion Matters scheme as well as hosting conferences,
 including ACE (Adverse Childhood Experiences) Support Hub Research Conference and the
 QMIP (Qualitative Methods in Psychology) Annual Meeting. Work here by Passam has been
 widely cited in the Civil Service internal policy guidance with respect to the promotion of gender
 equality and empowerment. Specific contributions to equality issues in Wales around the Welsh
 language have been made by Binks, whose work is radically challenging education matters
 relating to Welsh language provision. Her research reflects well-established psycholinguistic and
 cognitive principles and responds to Government and University drivers to support and shape
 the development of the Welsh language.

 The Department has also contributed extensively to the public understanding of science through
 a range of outreach and public engagement activities. We are involved annually in activities
 associated with British Science Week (Holt), and National festivals and celebrations such as the
 URDD (Youth) Eisteddfod (Rahman), the National Eisteddfod (Rahman, Binks) and the Royal
 Welsh Show (Rahman, Payne, Binks). The Department has organised and hosted extremely
 well received public events, such as the Adverse Child Experiences (ACE) Wales and The
 British Psychological Association Welsh Branch conferences. Other public lectures and
 workshops have included work with Hywel Dda Health Board’s Bronglais Hospital on Lifestyle
 changes and Heart disease (Robson) as part of their training for GPs resulting in feedback
 indicating that the experience will be instrumental in changing their clinical practice. The
 Department has built well-established relationships with schools and colleges around the UK
 with talks and workshops during the REF period numbering in excess of 200.

 The Department encourages staff to disseminate their work as widely as possible, and this
 includes engagement with all forms of media as appropriate. To facilitate this, we work closely
 with the communications team at the University. For example, staff from the Department have
 appeared on radio and television and in the press discussing work on many topics, including
 Memory and Wellbeing (Holt), Rural Nurse recruitment and Remote Art Therapy (Rahman),
 Forensic Psychology (Norris G.) and the Evolutionary Psychology of Humour (Greengross).
 One-on-one meetings with editorial staff from The Conversation have been taken up widely in
 the Department, resulting in 12 articles which have been read collectively over 500,000 times
 within this REF period. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic we have looked to expand our
 capacity for online public engagement and arranged training in developing an academic online
 presence and using social media. This session equipped staff with the knowledge and skills
 necessary to engage with relevant components of social media that will support their research
 profiles and so help in their public engagement, collaboration and visibility outside the University.

 Contributions to the research base
 The vitality of the research environment in the Department is enhanced by the engagement of
 staff in professional networks and activities and contributions to the wider research based in
 Psychology. Members of the Department contribute as editorial board members for leading
 international journals including the Evolutionary Psychology section of Frontiers in Psychology;
 The Journal of Evolution, Mind and Behaviour; New Ideas in Psychology; The International
 Journal of Humor Research; and Personality and Individual Differences. Another aspect of our
 work has been in our close engagement with the British Psychological Society (BPS), not only in
 relation to subject development, but to develop research engagement and core thematic
 networks. Both Hall and Holt contribute to the work with of the BPS validation and accreditation
 services. This aspect of our work allows us access to knowledge in the development of many
 aspects of Psychology in the UK, including how research skills are developed and how staff
 workloads can be supported to help them access the time to develop their research, as well as
 how to support younger researchers in their departments. Most significantly, Sarah Riley was
 chair of the BPS Qualitative Section (2017-2019) and here she was an advocate for expanding
 the REF panel to encompass a wider representation of qualitative research in the UoA.



                                                                                              Page 12
