Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Chichester

 Unit of Assessment: 27 English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure
 Research in English and Creative Writing is located in the Department of Humanities, which in
 turn is located within the Institute of Arts and Humanities (IAH). The Unit consists of 9 staff with a
 significant responsibility for research (8.65 FTE), and all staff are on permanent contracts.
 Subsequent to REF2014, the University undertook a restructuring in the Humanities. The
 Department of English and Creative Writing was integrated into a new Department of Humanities
 in 2018 and then into the new IAH in 2019. This integration fosters a new interdisciplinary and
 collaborative culture within the Humanities, building on previous collaborative work – evident in
 the inclusion of a colleague (Frey) formerly in the Department of History and Politics within this
 Unit’s REF2021 entry. As part of the enhancement of research culture at the University, 4 staff
 were appointed to Professorships in 2014: Frey, Noys, Price, and Salkeld.

 In 2019, a new IAH Research Coordinator was appointed (Noys), submitted in this Unit.
 Research strategy for the Unit is led by the Director of IAH and Head of the Department of
 Humanities (Frey), in consultation with the Research Coordinator. All aspects of research
 strategy and management are discussed with staff through Departmental meetings and cross-
 Unit consultation exercises. The Unit strategy is aligned with University research strategy
 through review by the University-wide Research and Enterprise Committee, with Unit
 representation by Frey and Noys. Our postgraduate research (PGR) strategy is aligned through
 the University Postgraduate committee, with Unit representation by Price.

 The Unit also hosts 2 Research Centres: The Chichester Centre for Fairy Tales, Fantasy and
 Speculative Fiction (formerly The Sussex Centre for Folklore, Fairy Tales and Fantasy),
 founded in 2010, and The Iris Murdoch Research Centre, founded in 2016. The Chichester
 Centre for Fairy Tales, Fantasy and Speculative Fiction is directed by a member of the Unit
 (Quinn) and has members of the Unit on its board (Foyle, Price), alongside other staff in the
 Department of Humanities. The Iris Murdoch Research Centre, directed by Leeson, is a
 collaborative project with the Iris Murdoch Society and a range of researchers, including 5
 postgraduate researchers based at the University of Chichester and 2 visiting researchers:
 Frances White (Deputy Director and Visiting Research Fellow), and Professor Anne Rowe
 (Visiting Research Professor).

 Research and Impact Strategy
 Our research strategy is designed to (a) support and develop curiosity-driven research and
 impact that is sensitive to addressing equality, diversity, inclusion and the social implications of
 the humanities; to be (b) interdisciplinary in nature; (c) outward-facing in orientation; and (d)
 inclusive in form. In REF2014 the Unit identified future strategic priorities including the ongoing
 development of Research Centres, local partner engagements, interdisciplinary engagements
 across the humanities, and alignment with the University’s Research strategy. These strategic
 aims have been addressed in the new context of the IAH research structure, with a continuing
 emphasis on interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary research.

 (a) A deep engagement with issues related to equality, diversity, and wider social concerns is
 evident across the Unit’s research. Crossland’s research into modernism, science and issues of
 gender in the work of Virginia Woolf, and Noys’s coinage of ‘accelerationism’ to analyse the
 uncritical embrace of technology as solution to social problems, engage with real-world issues
 around science, technology, sexuality and gender. Dunkerley has explored, with activist
 communities, the potential of poetry as a mode of ecological intervention, especially around
 ‘fracking’. Foyle not only writes experimental science-fiction, but has also critically explored the
 under-acknowledged area of Islamic science fiction and speculative writing. Price has produced
 innovative readings of eighteenth-century women’s writing as key contributions to the debate

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 concerning national identity and the constitution of Britain’s political self-image. The Unit also
 engages with the diversity of literary experience and cultural literacy across a range of cultural
 forms, including the graphic novel (Frey and Noys), film (Noys), flash fiction (Swann),
 magazines (Crossland), and primary source records (Salkeld, Quinn, Price).

 (b) The Unit’s interdisciplinary research is evident in the following key outputs:
     • Research into historical fiction as a shaping force in historical understanding and the
         politics of nation and gender, with a research monograph Reinventing Liberty: Nation,
         Commerce and the Historical Novel from Walpole to Scott (Edinburgh University Press,
         2016) and a chapter in The Cambridge Companion to Women's Writing in the Romantic
         Period (Cambridge University Press, 2014) on ‘National Identities and Regional
         Affiliations’ (pp. 183-97) (Price).
     • A research monograph Modernist Physics (Oxford University Press, 2018) (Crossland),
         which interrogates the relationship of science and modernism.
     • A research monograph Nationalism and the Cinema in France (Berghahn Books, 2014)
         and a co-authored book (with Jan Baetens) on The Graphic Novel: An Introduction
         (Cambridge University Press, 2014) (Frey) – analysing visual culture, literary form, and
         historical context.
     • The research monograph Shakespeare and London (Oxford University Press, 2018)
         (Salkeld), considering the embedding of Shakespeare in the social and material relations
         of space and place.
 Our research strategy has led to substantial contributions to knowledge, evident in 4
 monographs, one short story collection, 3 poetry collections, 4 edited collections, and range of
 articles and chapters being submitted by the Unit. It is also evident in a wider body of work
 beyond the submission requirements, which includes novels, edited collections, chapters, and
 articles.

 (c) The Unit is thoroughly outward facing, developing work with local and regional partners.
 These partners include the annual Blake Festival (Price), the Chichester Festival Theatre
 (Quinn, Crossland, Salkeld), Pallant Art Gallery (Frey, Crossland), the Graylingwell Project
 (Frey), and West Sussex County Records Office (Frey, Price). This work has been expanded
 into national and international collaborations with global art-teaching institutions (Noys), the
 Huntington Library (Pasadena, US) (Price), the University of Bologna (Price), and the Centre for
 Ethics at the University of Pardubice (Czech Republic) (Leeson). The Unit also engages with the
 role of translating academic research into material for the public, both critically and creatively,
 which aims to reach and engage a broader audience. Examples include contributions to the
 Netflix documentary Myths and Monsters (Quinn and Leeson); the translation, publishing and
 introduction of innovative Palestinian poetry to an Anglophone public (Foyle); the consultant
 contribution of Frey to the Citi Exhibition Manga (2019) at the British Museum; and the leading
 role taken by Swann in developing the culture of Flash Fiction in Britain through providing
 expertise to award panels, by publications, and by public readings and workshops.

 (d) The Unit is also inclusive and democratic, engaging both staff and students at PGR and UG
 levels in research production and research-led impact. Unit members are encouraged to develop
 pathways to realise potential impacts from the start of the research process. For example, the
 Iris Murdoch Research Centre (Leeson) has developed research impact through working with
 the Iris Murdoch Society, and used The Iris Murdoch Review as a pathway for publication and
 impact for students, both PGR and UG.

 The Unit’s strategy of inclusion guides its approach to Open Access (OA) as well, with the Unit
 aiming to make its research available promptly to the public in all instances that are not
 restricted (i.e. substantial dependence on royalty payments, primarily in the case of creative
 writing, and in the case of publisher’s restrictions). This research is made available primarily
 through Chiprints, the University research repository, and the Unit is also concerned with
 exploring all available Open Access opportunities for staff.



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Future strategic aims
 Our new integration within the IAH will offer fresh scope for interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary
 research and impact. Research strategy will retain an emphasis on curiosity-driven research
 whilst also encouraging opportunities for research and research bidding with members across
 the IAH in collaborative projects. The Unit will also integrate with other partners across the
 University for potential projects developing around new university-wide research themes. Core
 future strategic aims include:
     • Securing greater levels of external research funding. While the Unit has been successful
         here across the REF2021 assessment period, we will exploit Research Office support
         aimed at securing greater research funding for research projects – especially in
         association with our Research Centres.
     • Further developing collaborations with regional, national and global partners into
         potential pathways for impact.
     • Integrating all staff into research and future research assessment. The Unit is entering all
         staff but one into REF2021, and will integrate that new staff member (Joinson, currently
         completing a research PhD) into any future research assessment. The Unit will also
         integrate any future members of staff, to foster the most inclusive research culture
         possible.
     • Continuing to develop and maximise the availability of Unit research in Open Access,
         wherever possible, while working within models that do not include author-facing
         publishing charges.
     • Ensuring all research integrates Equality and Diversity as core values and to monitor and
         develop research that is integrated with the University strategic aims in Equality and
         Diversity.

 The IAH plans to conduct a comprehensive review of research investment opportunities in the
 2020/21 academic year. This will consider the best use of resources for doctoral fee waivers,
 doctoral scholarships, post-doctoral scholarships, open-access work, and administrative support
 for the evaluation of research impact. This investment review will focus on where investment can
 make a real difference to the IAH’s core strategic aims and make the most substantial positive
 contribution to the research life of the Unit as a whole.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 The Unit is embedded within University-wide structures that support staffing strategy and staff
 development. These include training provided by the Research Office, staff development
 provided by Human Resources, and the use of the University’s yearly Performance Review
 Development Plan (PRDP) process to identify and address development needs. As a research-
 active Unit, we aim is to ensure that all staff are engaged with research on an ongoing basis.
 This is reflected in the fact that the Unit is able to submit virtually all staff as research-active, with
 only one new member of the Unit completing a PhD and working towards significant
 responsibility for research (Joinson). All staff recognised as having a significant responsibility
 research receive protected research time (25 days equivalent) in addition to recognition of
 research time in the timetable. Professors and Readers are guaranteed at least 30% of available
 timetabled time for research and impact activity. All staff with a responsibility for appointments
 and leadership have undertaken unconscious bias training.

 In this REF period the Unit has managed a transition in the departure of 4 senior staff and the
 arrival of 5 new early-career staff. Of the senior staff, Professor William Gray retired due to ill-
 health, while 3 took early retirement (Stephanie Norgate (Reader), Professor Alison MacLeod,
 and Professor Duncan Salkeld). All 3 maintain strong relationships with the Unit, serving as
 visiting members of staff. MacLeod and Salkeld have contributed outputs produced during this
 REF period while they were working in the Unit to this REF. A series of ECR appointments have
 also been made to strengthen and develop existing research in the Unit: Crossland, with
 research focused on science and modernism, Quinn, with a specialism in religion and
 Renaissance writing, and Leeson, working on twentieth-century women’s writing and the

                                                                                                    Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 philosophical novel. In Creative Writing, Foyle joined with a focus on speculative fiction writing
 and poetry, while Joinson joined with research and teaching concerned with writing place,
 autofiction, and digital writing.

 Staffing strategy during this transition has been focused primarily on strengthening and
 supporting our ECRs. To this end, Crossland and Foyle received University Researcher
 Developments Awards (RDAs) of GBP8,000 over two years (2015-2017). Crossland used her
 award to support primary archival research for her monograph Modernist Physics (Oxford
 University Press, 2018), now an output in this REF. Foyle used her award to support a research
 visit to Palestine and the editing, translating and publishing of A Blade of Grass, a collection of
 Palestinian poetry (Smokestack Books, 2017). This project engaged with issues of canon
 expansion and Equality and Diversity in terms of access, publication, and readership. Leeson
 has been supported through the development of the Iris Murdoch Research Centre, which he
 directs with administrative support from the University and the Department of Humanities. Quinn
 is lead director of the Chichester Centre for Fairy Tales, Fantasy and Speculative Fiction, which
 has received administrative and funding support from the Unit (for both Centres see below,
 Section 3). Joinson is undertaking a PhD in the Unit and has worked with Frey on a successful
 external funding bid to the British Council (see Section 3). All ECRs received mentorship
 support, guidance, and training and research opportunities through Departmental and University
 structures.

 Support mechanisms for PGR students
 PGR support and training are led by the IAH PGR coordinator, Price. The Unit currently has 5
 staff members who are qualified PhD supervisors, and we are also working to ensure all staff
 achieve ‘qualified supervisor status’, getting involved in PhD supervision if possible. Recruitment
 of PhD students is undertaken through application and interview processes, assessed and
 monitored for Equality and Diversity, and overseen by Price. The aim is to ensure prospective
 students have the best possible team to support their project.

 All PGR students are provided with an induction process (carried out by the Research Office)
 and initial assessment of their support and training needs by the supervisorial team. They are
 recommended to undertake 5 hours of training per year (FT). Essential training is provided by
 the Research Office and experienced supervisors on Research Approval, Upgrade/Major
 Review and Preparing for the Viva. All PGRs have access to the University-wide Professional
 Development Programme, which includes IT training, training sessions on learning and teaching,
 and a wide suite of training options. Students are also able to access a Royal Literary Funded
 Fellow to assist with their writing, alongside the University’s Academic Skills Team. PGR
 students have free access to all Unit events and associated Research Centre and group
 activities, access to all courses on our MAs (with free attendance), and free access to specific
 PGR events and conferences. PGRs are expected to attend and engage with training sessions
 and academic activities, and this is monitored by supervisors through annual progress meetings
 and reports.

 In addition, all PGRs have access to the University-wide PG Certificate in Learning and
 Teaching. There is also annual research-funding support for conference attendance, available
 via the Research Office, of GBP500 per student. The University organises an annual University
 Research Conference, which integrates PGR involvement. IAH-specific news, opportunities and
 resources are shared online with our PGR students via a dedicated Humanities Research
 Student Community Moodle page. This page also holds relevant recorded training sessions and
 academic input for PG students. It has become a central platform for supporting our PGR
 students during the COVID-19 pandemic.

 Our PGR culture has also taken advantage of the notable strengths and clusters that exist within
 our research culture. This includes students associated with the Chichester Centre for Fairy
 Tales, Fantasy and Speculative Fiction, the 5 PhD students associated with the Iris Murdoch
 Research Centre, and more informal groups of students engaged with issues around ecology
 and fiction, creative writing and place, and integrated interdisciplinary research.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Unit has had 2 visiting PhD students: Lenka Veselá, studying ‘Aliens and Astronauts: The
 Hormonal Politics of Menstruation’, (October–December 2018) (Noys); and Jennifer Yue
 (Jiaotong University), on a fully-funded scholarship from the Chinese Scholarship Council (1
 September 2017 to 1 February 2018) (Leeson). Frey has conducted 2 international co-
 supervisions/co-tutorials: Graphic Narrative and the Vietnam War (University of Bologna, 2019,
 University of Chichester 2019–2020); and Graphic Narrative and Europe in the 1950s and 1960s
 (University of Luxembourg, 2018–2022).

 During the period we have achieved 17 PhD completions (15.1 factoring in
 shared/interdisciplinary supervision) and we currently have 23 registered PGR students. During
 the REF period one full-fee bursary and four fees-only bursaries were awarded by the Unit. The
 aim is a sustainable PhD research culture with an emphasis on completion and support for
 students by focused teams.

                2013-14     2014-15     2015-16     2016-17     2017-18      2018-19     2019-20
  Registered    14          19          21          23          24           24          23
  PGRs
  Doctoral      2           2           2           1           6            2           2
  Awards

 Equality and Diversity
 The Unit is integrated into the University’s Equality and Diversity strategy, which is implemented
 through the Equality and Diversity officers (Foyle for the Institute for Arts and Humanities). It
 regularly reviews equality issues surrounding appointments, access to research opportunities,
 career development, and research expectations. Foyle uses Department of Humanities
 meetings as a regular forum to address and raise Equality and Diversity issues, including in
 relation to research. The Unit is also integrated into the Equality and Diversity Sub-Committee,
 with its researchers regularly attend. All research leaders within the Unit have undertaken
 unconscious bias training (Frey, Price, Noys), as have all staff involved in decision-making for
 REF. University strategy is to ensure all staff undertake this training, but priority has been given
 to those involved in the recruitment of staff/students, and in decision-making concerning REF
 output submission. The Unit has also been constantly advised and followed guidance issued by
 the REF Equality and Diversity Sub-Committee.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The Unit has attracted a range of external funding, including non-standard sources and research
 income-in-kind generation. This external research income includes:

    •   Price receiving a competitive visiting Mellon award at the Huntington library (Pasadena,
        US) (GBP3,000) in 2014. This research contributed to the research monograph
        Reinventing Liberty: Nation, Commerce and the Historical Novel from Walpole to Scott
        (Edinburgh University Press, 2016), entered in this submission. Price also received
        support (GBP1,200) to present a plenary at the ‘Fictive History and Historical Fictions’
        conference (2017) at the Huntington library.
    •   Noys achieved research income-in-kind from external bodies for plenaries, public events,
        and other engagements, for his research in technology, cultural change, and the role of
        artistic and cultural practice in imaging the future (approximately GBP15,000). This
        support is integrated within his impact case study.
    •   Salkeld received an award from the British Shakespeare Association to support the
        ‘Shakespeare400: New Perspectives’ Symposium organised at the Chichester Festival
        Theatre (2016).
    •   MacLeod was jointly presented with the 2016 Eccles British Library Writer in Residence
        award (GBP20,000), which promotes research into the library’s collections in US and
        Canadian material. This award supported the output All the Beloved Ghosts
        (Bloomsbury, 2017), entered by the Unit.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Frey was Co-Principal-Investigator with Joinson for ‘British Council 25 Years in
        Vietnam’, an oral history of Cai Luong Vietnamese folk theatre, funded by a British
        Council international research grant (GBP10,000 in 2018/19; GBP4,000 in 2019/20). This
        research contribution is integrated into Frey’s impact case study.
    •   Frey organised the Graphic cultures and widening participation project, SLN: COP
        Brighton University funded (GBP4,250 in 2017/18; GBP3,000 in 2018/19), awarded to
        promote participation in the Humanities using visual culture sources.
    •   Dunkerley Arts Council Grant (GBP6,300) used for research time to develop the poetry
        collection Kin (Cinnamon Press, 2019), entered by the Unit.

 This income represents the diversity of our Unit’s activities and its engagement with a range of
 funding sources and cultural institutions, international, national and regional.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 The Unit hosts Centres and Research groups that give it international and cross-institutional
 significance. See below a detailed overview:
     • The Chichester Centre for Fairy Tales, Fantasy and Speculative Fiction (formerly
         The Sussex Centre for Folklore, Fairy Tales and Fantasy). The Sussex Centre for
         Folklore, Fairy Tales and Fantasy was founded in 2010 by Professor William Gray, and
         underpinned an Impact Case Study for the Unit in REF 2014. Since the retirement due to
         illness and subsequent death of its Director, the Centre was re-organised in February
         2019 with a new title, The Chichester Centre for Fairy Tales, Fantasy and Speculative
         Fiction, led by Quinn, and with a new interdisciplinary board drawn from the Unit: Foyle
         (Creative Writing), Price, Dr Lorenza Gianfrancesco (History). The Centre has
         organised 25 talks by invited speakers since August 2013, and 10 other events, including
         conferences, exhibitions and concerts, with around 900 total attendees. Its public-facing
         journal Gramarye (edited by Quinn) has published 9 issues in the period and sold 1,788
         copies since August 2013. Since 1 August 2013 the Centre’s website has had
         approximately 56,000 visitors. The Centre received administrative, event and publication
         support from 2014-2018. Since 2018 the Centre has been integrated within the
         Department of Humanities and is self-funded.
     • The Iris Murdoch Research Centre (IMRC) moved to the University of Chichester in
         October 2016 from Kingston University. Directed by Leeson since its launch here, with a
         research symposium in 2016, the IMRC has organised 5 academic presentations, 2 day-
         conferences, and 2 book launches at the University of Chichester, with a total audience
         of approximately 450. In 2019 it organised, with St Anne’s College (Oxford) and
         Sommerville College (Oxford), the Iris Murdoch Centenary Conference (13-15 July
         2019). The IMRC was involved in organising the exhibition ‘Iris Murdoch and Oxford’ (13-
         15 July 2019), consisting of archival material telling the visual story of Murdoch’s life and
         influence. The IMRC publishes The Iris Murdoch Review yearly, with 165 subscribers,
         integrating research by Unit members and staff and students within the Unit (published
         by Kingston University Press). The IRMC has hosted Dr Ellen Zhou (Visiting Academic
         from North Minzu University, China (October 2019–February 2020)).
     • Chichester Romanticism and Eighteenth-century Seminar Series (CRESS), part of
         the South Coast Eighteenth-Century and Romantic Research Group. Directed by Price,
         the series delivered 10 academic presentations from 2014 to 2019. CRESS was also
         involved in the Blake Fest in 2018 and 2019. In 2019 CRESS organised a public impact
         event on the bicentenary of John Keats’s composition of ‘The Eve of Saint Agnes’ in
         Chichester and a second event in 2020 around Keats’s letters.
     • Thresholds was an online platform for creative and critical research into the short story
         as form and practice from 2009–2018. Directed by MacLeod and underpinning a REF
         2014 impact case study, Thresholds received administrative support funded directly by
         the University. The project integrated research into impact from within the Unit and
         across a number of partners, collaborators and institutions. The project was a platform to
         engage and diversify engagement with the short story form amongst writers and readers.
         With the early retirement of its director MacLeod the platform remains available as an
         online resource and historic archive.

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Facilities
 The Unit is based at the University of Chichester Bishop Otter Campus, Chichester. Research in
 the Unit is supported by the Learning Resource Centre, which has extensive holdings and online
 resources, including Project Muse and JSTOR. The Unit is also supported by a dedicated
 subject librarian. Research by and for the Unit’s researchers is made available through our
 ChiPrints repository.

 We have also benefitted from significant developments in the University’s material infrastructure,
 including the completion of a new academic building in August 2016, part of a GBP9,000,000
 investment in the Chichester campus. This new building has served as a public platform for
 research events and conferences organised by the Unit.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our Unit’s integration within the new IAH in 2019 has strengthened its collaborative and
 outward-facing orientation, supplementing our longstanding and ongoing collaborations with
 regional partners including the annual Blake Festival (Price, Foyle, Frey), the Charleston
 Festival (MacLeod), the Chichester Festival Theatre (Quinn, Crossland, Salkeld), Pallant
 House Art Gallery (Crossland, Frey), and West Sussex Record Office (Price). The Unit’s
 Research Centres have both national and international reach, while research in the Unit is
 supported in reaching and working with partners globally. This global collaboration is evident in
 the work of Frey with the British Council on Vietnamese theatre (see REF3); the engagement of
 the The Chichester Centre for Fairy Tales, Fantasy and Speculative Fiction in the Netflix
 documentary Myths and Monsters (2017) (Quinn, Leeson); and the work on the historical novel
 and women’s writing in collaboration with the Huntington Library (Los Angeles, US) by Price.

 Contribution to the Research Base
 We make a significant contribution to the research base within the discipline of English and
 Creative Writing. Our research is also engaged across disciplines, including work on the public
 perception of science (Crossland), engagement with artists (Noys), working with writers and
 dancers (Salkeld), projects involving activists (Dunkerley), and work with local communities
 (Price, Quinn). These activities are detailed below. Together, they attest to the reach and
 significance of our research, across multiple communities.

 Researchers within the Unit are heavily represented on academic editorial boards, editing
 special issues, collections of scholarly essays, and book series. Noys is contributing editor of
 Angelaki: Journal of the Theoretical Humanities, advisory editor of CounterTexts, advisory editor
 of Film-Philosophy, member of the editorial board for the ‘New Politics of Autonomy Series’,
 Rowman & Littlefield International Publishers, corresponding editor of Historical Materialism,
 member of the editorial board of Crisis and Critique, member of the editorial board of Coils of the
 Serpent, and advisory editor for Oraxiom: A Journal of Non-Philosophy. Price is a member of
 the editorial board of The Journal of Historical Fiction and Gramarye. Quinn is the editor of
 Gramarye as part of his role as director of the The Chichester Centre for Fairy Tales, Fantasy
 and Speculative Fiction. Salkeld served as REF advisor to the Department of English at the
 University of Cumbria (2013) and is on the editorial board of the British Shakespeare Association
 journal Shakespeare (2014-). Frey is a series editor for ‘Cambridge Studies in Graphic Narrative’
 (Cambridge University Press) and editor of the Series ‘European Comics and Graphic Novels’
 (Leuven University Press/Cornell University Press), which has published 5 research
 monographs and edited collections since 2014.

 Members of the Unit have acted as reviewers for the following journals: Cultural Politics, Journal
 of War & Cultural Studies, Cultural Critique, Theory, Culture & Society, Contemporary Political
 Theory, Deleuze Studies, New Formations, Film-Philosophy, Angelaki, Mosaic, Contexto
 Internacional, Green Letters, Canadian Literature, Interdisciplinary Studies in Literature and
 Environment, Journal for the Study of Religion, Nature and Culture, and Humanities.


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Members of the Unit have acted as reviewers for the following publishers: Bloomsbury
 Academic, Routledge, Anthem Press, Rowman & Littlefield, University of Minnesota Press,
 Edinburgh University Press, Palgrave, SUNY, Verso, and Pluto Press (Noys); Edinburgh
 University Press and Palgrave (Price); Ashgate and Oxford University Press (Crossland).

 Staff in the Unit are represented on a number of external academic bodies. Crossland is
 Secretary of the British Association of Literature and Science (BALS). Frey is a member of the
 European Science Foundation Peer-Review College (2019-). Noys is External Affiliate of the
 Centre for Philosophy and Critical Thought, Goldsmiths, University of London; an academic
 consultant on the project ‘Experimentation and Dissidence’, The University of Lisbon (2016–
 2018), funded by the FCT (Portugal); and a reviewer for the Slovenian Research Agency (2019).
 Price is a member of the British Association for Romantic Studies and British Society for
 Eighteenth-Century Studies. Salkeld is a member of the Malone Society and the British
 Shakespeare Association. Dunkerley is on a committee member and treasurer of The
 Association for the Study of Literature and Environment.

 Members of the Unit have presented plenaries and participated in a range of academic
 conferences and events. These include Price presenting an invited and funded plenary at the
 ‘Fictive History and Historical Fictions’ Conference, Huntington Library, Pasadena (May 2017),
 Noys presenting keynote plenaries at the Fiction/Reality Conference, Dansehallerne,
 Copenhagen, Denmark (4-9 October 2016), the CounterText Conference: The Post-Literary,
 University of Malta, Valletta Campus, (6-8 April 2018), and at the Research School on Peace
 and Conflict, Oslo, Norway (28-30 November, 2016), and Frey giving invited keynotes at the
 ‘Comics and Graphic Novels’, conference, Department of Languages, University of Kent (June
 2016) and at ‘The Graphic Novel’, University of Bologna/Paris (Nanterre Ouest), Faculty of
 Italian and Comparative Literature, University of Bologna (May 2015). Members of the Unit have
 also spoken at the Institute for Historical Research (IHR) and the Shakespeare Institute
 (Salkeld), at the Early Modern Papacy Symposium, Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities,
 University of Oxford (2015) and Early Modern Soundscapes Conference, University of Bangor
 (2014) (Quinn), at ‘Poetry and…’ King’s College London (2018),as a panel member for
 ‘Postcards from The Edge: Communicating Climate Change’, ASLE-UKI Postgraduate
 conference, University of Lincoln (2016) (Dunkerley), at the Twentieth and Twenty First Century
 French and Francophone Studies conferences (St Louis 2016 and Providence 2018), the MLA
 (Vancouver 2015), and the Society for French Historical Studies (Montreal 2014) (Frey).

 Staff have conducted external PhD examinations at the Universities of Melbourne, Reading,
 Western Sydney, King’s College, and UCL (Noys); Sheffield and Durham (Price); Leeds Beckett
 (Crossland); and Essex (Salkeld). Noys is visiting external examiner for the Modern and
 Contemporary Literature and Criticism MA, University of Malta (2017–) and was external
 examiner for the MA in Cultural and Critical Studies, University of Westminster (until 2015). Staff
 have been external examiners for undergraduate courses at Edge Hill University (Quinn) and
 De Montfort University (Salkeld).

 Other achievements and activities
 The Unit has attracted external recognition in a number of ways. Works by the Unit have been
 awarded, or shortlisted for, a wide range of prizes: Crossland’s monograph Modernist Physics:
 Waves, Particles, and Relativities in the Writings of Virginia Woolf and D. H. Lawrence (Oxford
 University Press, 2018) was shortlisted for The British Society for Literature and Science book
 prize for 2019; Stevens’ co-edited book High Spirits: A Round of Drinking Stories (Valley Press,
 2018) received the Saboteur Award for Best Anthology (2019); and Swann won the Bridport
 prize for Flash Fiction and was commended in the short-story category (2016). There was the
 joint award to MacLeod of the 2016 Eccles British Library Writer in Residence Award at the
 British Library, which promotes research into the libraries’ collections on the United States and
 Canada; while Price received a Huntington Library visiting fellowship in 2014 for research on the
 archive material for the Porter family, including the author Jane Porter, which then informed her
 monograph Reinventing Liberty: Nation, Commerce and the Historical Novel from Walpole to
 Scott (Edinburgh University Press, 2017). In the creative writing community, Stevens was judge

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for the Worthing WOW Literary and Film festival: Children’s Fiction Competition (2016), while
 Swann served as a judge for the Bath Flash Fiction Award (2017), for the Reflex Fiction
 International Flash Fiction Competition (Winter 2018), and for the National Flash Fiction Youth
 Competition (2018). Swann’s collection Stronger Faster Shorter: Flash Fictions launched the
 Flash: The International Short-Short Story Press (2015).

 Impact and Engagement Achievements
 The Unit has created a diverse range of impacts through collaborations with partners, at both an
 individual level and through its Research Centres and groups. The 2 impact case studies,
 around the public awareness of technological change (Noys) and cultural memory and graphic
 narrative (Frey), are both integrated in the research culture of the Unit and part of a broader
 commitment to developing impact. This culture involves mentoring, Unit administrative support,
 investment, and development of impact activity. The Unit works closely with the Research Office
 to coordinate and record impact achievements and the Unit’s contribution to economy and
 society.

 Beyond these strands of research, the Unit has supported a range of projects, both collective
 and individual, that have delivered significant impacts within the REF2021 assessment period.
 Directly and extensively addressing matters related to Equality and Diversity, Salkeld developed
 an impact project on Shakespeare’s association with Lucy Negro, or ‘Black Luce’, a Clerkenwell
 brothel owner from the 1570s, based on research published in the monograph Shakespeare
 Among the Courtesans: Prostitution, Literature and Drama, 1500-1650 (Ashgate, 2012), entered
 into REF2014. Impact was achieved through the writer Caroline Randall Williams, who met with
 Salkeld and discussed the research, incorporating Salkeld’s argument and persona within her
 volume of poetry, Lucy Negro, Redux (Ampersand Books, 2014). In 2018 Salkeld met with Paul
 Vasterling, Head of the Nashville Ballet, Tennessee, who commissioned a ballet based on Lucy
 Negro, Redux. The resulting ballet’s world premiere was performed in Nashville on 8–10
 February 2019. A new volume of the poems was published together with an interview between
 Paul Vasterling and Caroline Randall Williams, and materials associated with the ballet titled
 Lucy Negro, Redux: The Bard, A Book, And A Ballet (Nashville: Third Man Books, 2019). A
 series of videos related to it, ‘Lucy Negro, Redux’, are also available on YouTube (1,839 views
 as of 24 April 2019). These activities have attracted significant international attention. Crossland
 has engaged with the public understanding of gender and science, presenting ‘Waves, Particles
 and Pronouns: Virginia Woolf’s Orlando’ at the Royal Society (10 February 2020), part of a
 Royal Society Lates event on science fiction in celebration of LGBT+ History Month. A short
 summary and a recording are available via the Royal Society website.

 In terms of critical engagement and impact on social issues, Dunkerley engaged with literature
 and environment through an impact project on ‘Poetry and Fracking’, consisting of poetry
 reading at the anti-fracking camp in Balcombe, West Sussex (UK) in 2014; a public presentation
 at the Hay Festival (2 June 2016); winning the ASLE UKI/INSPIRE public Lecture on Literature
 and Sustainability competition; and publishing the online essay ‘Poetry and Fracking’ (22 June
 2017), Little Toller Books blog. Dunkerley has thus been a powerful literary voice at the heart of
 a highly successful grassroots protest movement.

 Our work in support of the bicentenary of John Keats’s composition of ‘The Eve of Saint Agnes’
 in Chichester, organised by CRESS (in partnership with the South Downs Poetry Festival), was
 attended by over 200 people. The event involved presentations by Price and Professor Nicholas
 Roe (University of Saint Andrews), a dramatic performance of an original play by Peter Phillips
 (titled 'Keats in Chichester'), and a dramatic reading of the poem involving Foyle. This was also
 the inaugural South Downs Poetry Festival, which has since become a firm partner of the Unit. A
 similar event was organised in 2020 focusing on Keats life and letters, involving Price and
 Foyle. Price has curated the contribution of the Unit to the Blake Fest in 2018, on Blake and
 women, and in 2019, on Blake, revolution and popular culture. This annual public event is based
 in Bognor Regis and received Arts Council funding in 2019. Price is a consultant for the Unit on
 the ‘Transatlantic Ties’ project with the West Sussex Records Office. This project has been
 awarded USD100,000 through the West Sussex County Council to develop the Record Office’s

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 resources on the American Revolution, which include a manuscript copy of the Declaration of
 Independence. Its aim is to develop an ‘American Collection’, digitising key documents, including
 the declaration, producing a website, and engagng with schools and public events as widely as
 possible. Alongside playing a consulting role, the Unit will support the project in developing on
 public events, podcasts, and website resources, through Price’s research on the reception of the
 American and French revolutions in eighteenth-century literature, especially by women.

 Finally, in terms of globally addressed engagement and impact, Leeson and Quinn,
 representing The Chichester Centre for Fairy Tales, Fantasy and Speculative Fiction,
 featured in the Netflix documentary Myths and Monsters (2017). Frey was an adviser on the Citi
 Exhibition Manga (2019), an exhibition of Japanese comic book and graphic narrative art at the
 British Museum. This was the largest exhibition of manga outside Japan and as well as advising
 Frey also contributed a text to the accompanying catalogue, Manga (Thames & Hudson, 2019),
 tracing the evolution of manga into the graphic novel.

 Public Engagement Events
 The Unit also supports ongoing public engagement through events, internationally, nationally,
 and regionally. This activity has been supported through travel funding, where necessary, and
 through working with partner institutions to engage the public in our research production. Among
 the most significant of these activities include presentations at international art institutions by
 Noys: Skogen (Gothenburg, Sweden, 29 November 2018); Digging the Global South
 Symposium and Festival, Akademie der Künste der Welt, Cologne (2 November 2017);
 CityLeaks Academy Lecture, CityLeaks Urban Art Festival, Cologne (8 September 2017); and
 FASTER/SLOWER/FUTURE, Towards Post-Capitalism, KAAI Theater, Brussels (23-24 October
 2016); Tensta Konsthall, Stockholm (14 March 2016); and Kunstverein für die Rheinlande und
 Westfalen, Düsseldorf (7 November 2014). Quinn has presented at the Fairy Tales Study Day,
 British Library (18 January 2020); given the annual lecture on Catholic Culture and History,
 Lewes (2019); been involved in 3 panel discussions at the Chichester Festival Theatre (in 2016,
 2017 and 2018); presented at the Bridge Cottage Heritage Centre, Uckfield (2016); presented at
 the Hastings Museum and Art Gallery (2015); and presented at the East Grinstead Museum
 (2015). Price has engaged with local schools through the presentation and workshops on
 ‘Gothic Histories’ with Chichester LitFest (16 June 2016), delivered to 200 school-age students
 from sixteen schools across West and East Sussex and Hampshire. Frey has presented a public
 lecture at the Comics Museum London (2016). Dunkerley has presented at The Bradford
 Literature Festival (6 July 2019) and The Bodmin Poetry Festival (29 September 2019) on
 fatherhood and his new collection Kin, entered into this REF.




                                                                                            Page 10
