Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Northumbria at Newcastle

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 3 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Organisation of Northumbria’s UoA3 research


 Our REF2014 submission to UoA3 was significant in terms of both size (44.2 FTE) and quality
 (Grade Point Average 3.12), placing the submission in the top quartile by research power (21st of
 94). This has since been matched by vigorous growth to 123.5 FTE (129 staff) and sustained
 success in the current REF period, as detailed below.


 As in REF2014, this submission is drawn from a wide discipline base, primarily in the Faculty of
 Health & Life Sciences, with a spectrum of activities ranging from laboratory-based sciences (at
 Northumbria’s City campus) to nursing, health and social care research (at our Coach Lane
 campus). This is reflected in the organisation of our research into two over-arching areas: Applied
 Health & Social Care (AH&SC) and Cellular & Molecular Sciences (C&MS). The following
 research groups sit within each of these, with significant cross-group collaboration and inter-
 disciplinary activity (Figure 1).


 Applied Health & Social Care (63.6 FTE)
    • Care Innovation & Organisation (18.8 FTE)
    • Health & Social Wellbeing (24.6 FTE)
    • Workforce & Practice Development (20.2 FTE)

 Cellular & Molecular Sciences (59.9 FTE)
    • Chemistry Research & Innovation Group (11.8 FTE)
    • Exploring & Exploiting Microbial Diversity (20 FTE)
    • Nutrition & Food (11 FTE)
    • Translational Biosciences (17.1 FTE)

 Two of the University multidisciplinary research themes (MDRT, REF5a) complement and
 underpin these two areas (Fig. 1): AH&SC staff contribute to the Integrated Health & Social Care
 MDRT (Lead: Lhussier) and C&MS staff to the Biodesign for the Bioeconomy MDRT (hereafter
 Bioeconomy; Lead: Black). The research groups provide focus, leadership and staff support,
 whilst the MDRTs serve a broader purpose in fostering collaboration between staff in different
 disciplines and providing infrastructure to deliver impactful work addressing key societal
 challenges.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Figure 1. Relationships between organisational units supporting research in UoA3
 The web of collaborations within and between research groups is not depicted. AH&SC is
 primarily based within the closely integrated Departments of Nursing, Midwifery & Health, and
 Social Work, Education & Community Wellbeing; C&MS is based in the Department of Applied
 Sciences.




 AH&SC research represents substantial growth and intensification of the ‘Health & Lifestyle’ area
 from REF2014, having broadened into three interlinked collaborative research groups that reflect
 the reality of health and social care. Notably, the 63.6 FTE in AH&SC are a 6.8-fold expansion
 on the Nursing & Public Health group returned in REF2014 (9.3 FTE), senior staff from which have
 led the development of the Health & Social Wellbeing and Workforce & Practice Development
 groups. Moreover, strategic staff appointments have allowed the establishment of the Care
 Innovation & Organisation research group, with 14.8 new FTE staff appointed since 2014. Staff



                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 affiliated to other ‘Health & Lifestyle’ sub-groups in REF2014 are now returned to UoA4 and
 UoA24, reflecting the strategic development of research in these UoA.


 C&MS has built upon the strengths in this area that were evident at REF2014, with 2.3-fold
 growth in staff to 59.9 FTE. The cell biology, chemistry and microbiology groups returned in
 REF2014 have grown into mature research groupings, whilst targeted recruitment (8 FTE) has
 established critical mass in Nutrition & Food research, reflecting our REF2014 plan to focus on
 nutritional interventions and microbial ecology (microbiomes). Investment via our Bioeconomy
 MDRT has enhanced our ‘multi-Omics’ infrastructure (section 3), as planned at REF2014.


 Achieving our strategic goals for 2014-2020

 Overarching strategy

 The expansion of research and impact in this UoA during the assessment period has been driven
 by both the Northumbria ‘Power with Quality’ strategy (REF5a 2.1) and the UoA3-specific aims
 and objectives defined at REF2014. Central to this was the aim to expand the research base and
 impact through “investment in and development of our people, estates and external
 engagement”, which we achieved as follows:


 1. An effective people strategy as detailed in Section 2. This submission is 2.8-fold larger than
 that to REF2014, reflecting substantial growth in research intensity in both overarching areas,
 particularly AH&SC, demonstrating the success of our ambition to build an inclusive, broad-based
 high quality research community. This was achieved by combining:


   a) The development and retention of research active staff, including mentoring, training
      programmes; fair and effective reward and promotion schemes; and upskilling of staff
      through in-service doctoral study. 22 staff are returned here that were in post but not included
      at REF2014, reflecting the successful enhancement of their research activity, whilst all 30
      staff who were submitted to UoA3 in REF2014 and remain at Northumbria are again
      submitted, nine of whom have been promoted since 2014.


   b) The recruitment of high calibre staff with strong strategic fits to the research groups (Fig. 1).
      82 of 129 staff in the UoA have been appointed since 2014, thus transforming our profile,
      including 16 at Associate Professor and Professor to strengthen leadership and 15 Vice
      Chancellor’s Fellows (VCF, REF5a 2.2) and other ECR to invest in potential. Our ability
      to attract these strong researchers reflects the reputational growth of Northumbria since
      REF2014.




                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This strategy has been underpinned by a targeted average workload allocation of 40% of
 academic staff time dedicated to research. Strengthened leadership within our research groups
 by increased numbers of senior appointments has improved staff mentoring and helped identify
 discipline-specific challenges and opportunities, including targeting external funding applications.
 The academic staff have supported a strong postdoctoral and postgraduate researcher (PGR)
 community, including in-service doctorates: 136 doctoral degrees have been awarded in the
 assessment period, a 1.5-fold increase on REF2014 (19.4 versus 13.2 per annum [p.a.]),
 supported by university QR investment in studentships (REF5a 2.2; section 2 below).


 Our increased vitality and productivity are further evidenced by steady growth in annual UoA3
 scholarly outputs to ~250 p.a. (total >1600 2014-2020), with 40% in the top quartile of most-
 cited publications (field-weighted; average annual field weighted citation index 1.6).


 2. Estates and infrastructure investment as detailed in Section 3. Research group leads and
 senior research staff co-ordinate requests for faculty and university capital support, and other
 research investment (e.g., MDRT funding). Facilities development has been driven the need to
 house increased numbers of laboratory-based staff and by university commitments to matched
 support for major externally funded projects (Section 2). Overall, >£3 million have been invested
 strategically in infrastructure, particularly in our multi-Omics platform and the Clinical Skills Centre
 (section 3).


 3. External Engagement as detailed in Sections 3 and 4. Staff returned in this UoA have attracted
 >£21 million in external research grant income. Research leads have supported staff to focus their
 funding applications via our “4Ps approach” outlined in Section 3. We have strengthened
 academic and administrative support to help staff prioritise their activities and enhance research
 grant application quality, value and volume for staff at all levels (section 2) and have improved
 mechanisms to develop and sustain extensive national and international partnerships with
 academic collaborators, health-related and pharmaceutical industries, services, practitioners and
 service users (section 4).


 Specific Objectives and Achievements of the Research Groups


 AH&SC


 AH&SC research is inherently interdisciplinary and collaborative. Building on the REF2014 plan
 ‘to promote knowledge exchange…to advance the boundaries of methodology’, we have built
 critical mass in diverse methodological expertise and innovation, with significant development of
 leadership through a combination of promotion and twelve senior appointments.


                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    •   Highlight: staff from all three research groups were crucial to the successful collaborative
        application for £9 million (£438K to Northumbria) NIHR Applied Research Collaboration
        North East and North Cumbria funding (ARC NENC, https://arc-nenc.nihr.ac.uk/).
        Northumbria are a significant HEI partner, with our staff leading or co-leading programmes
        on Implementation, Inequalities and Evaluation.


 To further enhance the delivery of our REF2014 aims we have explicitly invested in:
    •   Health Economics: senior (McMeekin) and early-career appointments (Bate, McCarthy)
        supporting development of priority-setting tools and cost-effectiveness research,
        complemented by growth in biostatistics research (Lin, Ogundimu, Pakpahan).
    •   Implementation science: senior (Finch, Rapley) and early-career appointments
        (Potthoff),    internationally   known    for   Normalisation     Process    Theory     work
        (http://www.normalizationprocess.org/).


 The Health & Social Wellbeing group (Leads: Carr and Cook) has achieved our REF2014 aim of
 extending established work in health improvement, transformation of health and social care
 services, alongside improving quality of life of the ageing population. Staff have expertise in
 Nursing, Health Services, Public Health, Realist research, Social & Environmental Gerontology
 and Sociology research to understand people’s experiences of health, engagement with care
 services, welfare and wellbeing. We have broadened our activities to include exploring the
 experiences of older people, people with disabilities, long-term conditions and at end of life,
 delivering user-informed innovations and interventions. Staff also undertake a range of work in
 health inequalities including welfare and welfare advice, alcohol/substance use and marginalised
 groups, notably military veterans and Traveller communities.


    •   Highlight: Development of the Northern Hub for Veterans and Military Families Research
        (Kiernan, Hill and colleagues) with >£1.7 million funding from the Armed Forces Covenant
        Fund, Ministry of Defence, the Royal British Legion and others.


 The Workforce and Practice Development group (Leads: Clarke and Steven) has evolved from
 our REF2014 ambition to address workforce issues and influence professional practice. The group
 draws together diverse disciplinary expertise, including Allied Health Professions, Education,
 Medical Education, Nursing, Midwifery and Sociology, to drive transformation in workforce
 education, training and practice development to enable health and social care staff to meet shifting
 societal needs and respond to the changing professional landscape. Studies undertaken range
 from scoping knowledge, skills and competencies for new roles, to developing knowledge and
 theory of learning processes and novel pedagogical approaches, promoting safe and effective

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 practice in regional, national and international contexts. The group also focuses on understanding
 and developing specific roles and services, including health visiting and midwifery, the mental
 health workforce, sexual health workers and palliative care.


    •   Highlight: Five country EU-funded Shared Learning from Practice for Patient Safety
        (SLIPPS) project (€435K total, Steven), a collaboration between health providers and
        HEIs, investigates student experiences and is developing tools and resources to support
        student learning about patient safety.


 At REF2014 we planned to develop interventions for long-term conditions and have expanded this
 aim by creating a Care Innovation & Organisation group (Leads: Finch and Rapley) which focuses
 on understanding, innovating, evaluating and effecting change in care organisation and provision.
 Formation of this novel group has been driven by significant staff recruitment (14.8 FTE, including
 four Associate Professors and three Professors). Our approaches range from the development of
 novel ideas, to feasibility studies, pilot and full trials, and scaling up/out of evidence-based
 interventions. Staff have expertise in Biostatistics, Health Economics, Health Psychology, Medical
 Sociology, Nursing, Occupational Therapy and Physiotherapy. Research includes developing
 innovative, practical care and organisational solutions, with and for people with various health
 conditions, including long-term musculoskeletal and neurological conditions. The group is
 internationally recognised for leadership in implementation and improvement science.


    •   Highlight: EU-funded ImpleMentAll project, €6M total (https://www.implementall.eu/) for
        implementation of internet-based cognitive behavioural therapy across primary, secondary
        and community healthcare, in nine countries.


 C&MS


 As planned at REF2014, multidisciplinary research in this area has benefitted from significant
 investment in the strategic development of a multi-Omics platform integral to C&MS research,
 i.e., genomics/metagenomics (next generation sequencing), metabolomics and proteomics (mass
 spectrometry) technologies (section 3), supported by associated staff (Scientific Officers, section
 2) who provide expert theoretical and practical support to users.


    •   Highlight: £8 million Research England ‘Expanding Excellence in England’ funding to
        develop a Hub for Biotechnology in the Built Environment (HBBE, 2019-2022), a novel
        interdisciplinary ‘bio-design’ grouping led by Black and D Smith, with Zhang [UoA12] and
        Newcastle University (http://bbe.ac.uk/). The HBBE brings together staff with expertise in
        biotechnology, chemistry, microbiology and molecular biology to interact with architecture,

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        design and materials researchers to create a ‘next generation built environment’, including
        manipulating the building microbiome, in order to promote health, wellbeing and
        environmental stewardship.


 The Chemistry Research & Innovation Group (Lead: Perry) has grown through the recruitment of
 five ECR (and five additional FTE returned in other UoA). As planned at REF2014, research in
 analytical chemistry has focussed on analysis of environmental hazards, forensics and mass
 spectrometry. Synthetic chemistry has focussed on diagnostic methods, medicinal chemistry and
 biotechnological applications. These include the development of enzyme substrates for
 microbiological diagnostics (more than two decades of collaboration with bioMérieux) and the
 synthesis of novel antimicrobial/medicinal compounds. This work is inherently collaborative, with
 strong links to other C&MS staff and externally.


    •   Highlight: UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship “Forens-OMICS” (£929K, 2019-2022) award to
        Procopio for an interdisciplinary biomolecular forensic study of ageing in biomaterials,
        enabled by our multi-Omics investment.


 The Exploring & Exploiting Microbial Diversity research group (Lead: Sutcliffe) have used our
 outstanding multi-Omics facilities to deliver the expansion in microbiome studies and
 biotechnology planned at REF2014. We use sequencing to explore the diversity of the bacterial,
 fungal and viral communities in a range of clinical conditions, in collaboration with clinical
 colleagues notably at Newcastle’s Royal Victoria Infirmary and Freeman Hospital (Visiting
 Professor JD Perry, Category C). This work is complemented by expertise in microbial
 systematics, diagnostics and studies of the population diversity of pathogens. We are exploiting
 microbial diversity through comparative genomics and functional metagenomics work to identify
 novel enzymes for green chemistry, biotechnological and ‘bio-inspired’ applications for systems
 biology,   with   commercialisation   driven   by   our   Nzomics   Biocatalysis   innovation    unit
 (http://www.nzomicsbiocatalysis.co.uk/).


    •   Highlight: £148K Innovate UK and Northern Accelerator funding for Moschos to establish
        the PulmoBioMed Ltd. spin-out company (www.pulmobiomed.com) to produce and market
        the PBM-HaleTM exhaled breath condensate collection device for respiratory infection
        diagnosis and analytics, and environmental aerosol sampling.


 Translational Biosciences (Lead: Schwalbe) has developed from the Mammalian Cell Biology and
 Immunology group submitted to REF2014, with 12 FTE appointments. The group has continued
 to advance understanding of a range of diseases and seeks to translate this work into the
 development of novel treatments, biomarkers and preventative strategies. Much of this work is


                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 focussed on cancer and immunobiology, linked by interests in epithelial biology. Our cancer
 research has led to landmark studies in the diagnosis and patient stratification in a range of
 cancers such as leukaemia, medulloblastoma and melanoma. Immunobiology research is directed
 at understanding a range of inflammatory and/or autoimmune diseases such as arthritis, asthma,
 and lung diseases. New appointees (e.g., Garner, Hilgen, Pal) are establishing strengths in tissue
 physiology and imaging.


    •   Highlight: Schwalbe outputs in Cancer Cell and Lancet Oncology, improving diagnosis
        and redefining medulloblastoma treatments (see impact case study [ICS]).


 As well as consolidating these three well-established groups, since REF2014 we have expanded
 significantly in Nutrition & Food research (Lead: Lodge). This group uses biochemical and
 molecular approaches to study responses to nutrients and dietary phytochemicals; and
 investigates dietary interventions that positively impact on outcomes including obesity,
 cardiovascular disease and markers of ageing. Gut microbiome studies are supported by
 collaborations with our microbiologists and Visiting Professor Glenn Gibson (Reading). These staff
 underpin the work of NUTRAN, an interdisciplinary nutrition-focussed clinical trials unit
 (https://www.northumbria.ac.uk/business-services/engage-with-us/research/NUTRAN/),          which
 integrates our expertise in trial design and delivery (including researchers returned to UoA4 and
 UoA24) with biochemical, molecular, physiological and multi-Omics analyses.


    •   Highlight: EU-MRC funded ‘Microbiota-Inflammation-Brain axis in heart failure: new diet,
        biomarker and AI approaches for managing undernutrition in older adults’ (AMBROSIA),
        €370K to Northumbria of €1.2M total (Brownlee, Lodge).


 Delivering Impact

 Our researchers are encouraged to identify and pursue opportunities for co-production, knowledge
 exchange, business engagement and commercialisation. As set out at REF2014, our impact
 activities have focused on health and social care industries and policy and practice in health
 and welfare, with full integration of our impact and research strategies.


 The nine ICS submitted are evidence of the multiple ways in which UoA staff interact with business
 and industry, health professionals, policy makers and the public to ensure that our work makes a
 strong economic and social contribution. The four key elements of our ‘pathways to impact’
 strategy are:




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1. Maturation and growth of existing partnerships with non-academic users and
 beneficiaries. We have delivered commercial benefits to industry by diversifying our longstanding
 partnership with bioMérieux (section 4), whilst our expanding our decade-long biocatalysis
 collaboration with Prozomix (Black ICS), including BBSRC Network in Industrial Biotechnology &
 Bioenergy (NIBB) Proof-of-Concept funding to Kelly.


 2. Development of novel partnerships such as the establishment of the Northern Hub for
 Veterans and Military Families Research project supporting the health and wellbeing of military
 veterans in partnership with the Armed Forces, Royal British Legion and other stakeholders
 (Kiernan ICS). Engagement with new SMEs is evidenced by the development of a novel
 medulloblastoma diagnostic assay with NewGene (Schwalbe ICS).


 3. Public engagement. AH&SC researchers work extensively with the public, patients and
 ‘Experts by Experience’ (i.e., people with lived experience in an area such as mental ill health),
 highlighting the importance of co-production with key stakeholders. Health & Life Sciences faculty
 policy is to embed the involvement of Experts by Experience in all levels of research and
 innovation. Success in this is evidenced by Bailey’s ICS on using co-produced and research-led
 theatre and film productions to improve public and professional understanding of ageing issues.
 Patient and public engagement is further promoted by our membership of ARC NENC, FUSE and
 the School for Public Health Research (Section 4).


 4. Influencing policy and practice. The impact of our Workforce & Practice Development
 research group is manifest in several ICS, including those of McNall/Noone (developing the
 workforce to better support people with learning disability and/or autism), Thompson (developing
 workforce competency for the care of older people with complex needs) and clinical academic
 Hand (working with health and social care professionals to better support people with Parkinson’s
 disease and their carers). Cook’s ICS showcases the development of innovative and improved
 ways of supporting older people by integrating health, housing and care services, whilst influence
 on policy is evidenced by PL Graham’s ICS on addressing holiday hunger.


 Through this strategy we have built on our professional strengths, methodological innovations and
 engagement with external partners, research users and stakeholders (section 4) to achieve
 significant impacts beyond academia. We have appointed a UoA Academic Lead for Impact
 (Lhussier) to promote and expand impact activity, supported by departmental Directors of
 Research & Knowledge Exchange. Objectives for impact generation are reviewed at appraisal
 and reflected in staff workloads (Section 2). Delivering impact has been underpinned by university
 strategic investment in MDRTs, in Business Development Managers and in an Impact Support
 team, who provide training and related activities for staff at all career stages (Section 2).


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Future strategic aims

 The evident success of our current strategy of investing in people, infrastructure and external
 engagement means that we will continue to prioritise these through the successful mechanisms
 described above and in Sections 2-4.


 People targets will include
    •   Raise the proportion of staff with significant responsibility for research to 100% of staff in
        scope.
    •   Transition of VCF to lectureships and investment in the recruitment of new Fellows.
    •   Further collaborative partnerships with regional NHS Trusts via joint NHS/University
        Clinical Academic appointments and development of similar appointments with our
        social care partners, to increase our research scope, capacity and impact.
    •   Strengthening of our PGR community including application for doctoral training
        partnerships and continued staff development to allow those recruited from professional
        backgrounds to engage in doctoral research, with a target of 75% doctorally qualified staff
        across the wider staff base.


 Infrastructure targets will include
    •   Relocation of our Coach Lane Campus to City Campus within five years, with attendant
        improvements in research facilities (e.g., co-production/participation spaces) and
        infrastructure, and enhanced ‘melting pot’ opportunities for interdisciplinary research
        involving AH&SC, C&MS and other Northumbria colleagues.
    •   Consolidate and extend our outstanding multi–Omics platform, including developing
        lipidomics, whilst further enhancing our infrastructure for cell biology, seeking capital
        investment for state-of-the-art microscopy, flow cytometry, digital image processing and
        live cell imaging.


 External engagement targets will include
    •   Mentor staff through our 4Ps approach (section 3) in order to increase RGCI with
        collaborative partners.
    •   Increased engagement with public and professional stakeholders, and external partners in
        the private and public sectors, including increased numbers of Knowledge Transfer
        Partnerships.
    •   Continuing to develop staff engagement in the impact agenda, building explicitly on our
        strong position in the health, industrial and social care economy, building from areas of
        continuing and nascent impact already identified (section 4).


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Further alignment of our strategy with the guiding principles of the Knowledge Exchange
        Concordat (https://www.keconcordat.ac.uk/).


 Discipline specific targets over the next five years will include:
 AH&SC will focus on continuing research to support the transformation of services and workforce
 to fulfil the Integrated Health and Social Care agenda, aligning with national policy initiatives and
 the proposed reorganisation of service provision. We will continue to consolidate our disciplinary
 and methodological expertise to sustain a collaborative interdisciplinary team delivering impactful
 research in this area. We will increase our focus on research that seeks to understand how to
 effectively change the organisation and delivery of care to improve health/wellbeing across health
 and social care boundaries. We will also extend and enhance our collaborations with health and
 social care professionals, and other stakeholder groups, to better enable the workforce to deliver
 care that is integrated, optimal and safe.


 C&MS will continue to develop its strengths in fundamental research and extend these into novel
 translational research. The HBBE will provide a focus for research designing healthier living
 environments and forms the core of the Bioeconomy MDRT, which focuses on bio-based/bio-
 inspired technologies. Complementing this, biochemists and biotechnologists will use
 computational, molecular, protein engineering and synthetic biology approaches to drug design,
 diagnostics and other health technologies. Microbial population and dysbiosis analyses will also
 underpin nutritional neuroscience (gut-brain) studies and nutritional interventions being co-
 ordinated by NUTRAN. Recent Translational Biosciences staff appointments will allow us to
 develop strengths in computational/informatics research for diagnosis/prognosis, and in tissue
 physiology and imaging, including a focus on biomaterials and tissue matrix biofabrication.
 Chemistry will focus on the application of synthetic, analytical and polymer chemistry methods
 applied to the development of reagents and biohybrid materials suitable for medical and
 healthcare applications. Our state-of-the-art mass spectrometry capacity will be applied to the
 development of biomedical diagnostic methods and forensic analyses.


 Academic Integrity and Open Science

 We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of academic and ethical integrity. All staff
 are issued with a Code of Conduct and research is subject to full independent ethical review,
 overseen by the Faculty Ethics Committee and Director of Ethics. Our research is monitored for
 full compliance with appropriate external ethical standards (e.g., NHS ethical approval; NHS
 Research Passports), supported by an approval process for submissions to the Integrated
 Research Application System. All staff have access to extensive online resources to support
 effective Ethics & Governance processes (https://www.northumbria.ac.uk/research/ethics-and-


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 governance/) and undergo mandatory training on GDPR, ‘Information Security’ and ‘Research
 Ethics’. Technical support and Standard Operating Procedures are provided to ensure compliance
 with GMO regulations (directed by Dover) and the requirements of the Human Tissue Authority,
 with appropriate storage in our Human Tissue Bank, overseen by a Technical Support Manager
 as Designated Individual.


 Our staff are committed to adopting an ‘open research’ ethos, with extensive data sharing via third
 party sites as well as peer-to-peer in accordance with FAIR guidelines that data should be findable,
 accessible, interoperable and reusable. In addition to provision of access to research outputs via
 our NRL repository (http://nrl.northumbria.ac.uk/), staff are able to store and share data via a
 dedicated institutional repository (https://figshare.northumbria.ac.uk/). Deposit of preprints in
 repositories such as bioRxiv is encouraged where permissible. Researchers that generate large
 scale genomic, metabolomics, proteomic and coding/imaging data sets are expected to share
 these through deposit in relevant public databases (e.g., NCBI, PDB, PRIDE etc.). Journal online
 supplementary material and bespoke repositories (e.g., Harvard Dataverse) are also used to
 provide access to underpinning datasets. Staff who are leading clinical trials and health
 interventions are encouraged to publish protocols and register their work with ClinicalTrials.gov or
 the ISRCTN registry. Staff producing systematic reviews are encouraged to register these via
 NIHR Prospero (https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/) (e.g., Cordier, Hackett, Lara). The
 NoMAD study (Finch, Rapley) has developed a freely available Normalization Process Theory
 toolkit for implementation work (http://www.normalizationprocess.org/nomad-study/). Likewise all
 SLIPPs (Steven) outputs (i.e. data gathering tools in multiple languages, educational resources
 from analytic work, project information and presentations) are openly accessible via the SLIPPs
 learning centre (https://www.slipps.eu/).



 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Our staffing strategy has been tailored to support staff at various career stages (early and mid-
 career, established researchers), including upskilling of staff who have not previously been
 research engaged (e.g., by enrolment in doctoral study programmes). This approach has been
 complemented by our effective strategy of recruiting high calibre research staff with either
 established international reputations (as Associate Professor and Professor) or evident potential
 to establish such reputations (VCF and Lecturers). In addition to direct investment, notably MDRT
 and VCF appointments, the staff base has been strengthened by the university commitment to
 renewal, including use of voluntary severance (REF5a 3.1). This has driven an increase in




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appointments p.a. across this REF cycle, which will be sustainably managed in line with the
 university Vision 2030 strategy (REF5a 2.6; see turnover below).


 82 of 129 (64%) staff have been recruited since 2014, with an overall equitable gender balance
 (Tables 1 and 2). We appointed ten Associate Professors (two since promoted) and six
 Professors (Table 1), greatly strengthening our research leadership across the UoA: the total
 number of Associate Professors/Professors has grown from 8/16 in 2014 to 20/23, with the
 proportion of female staff in these senior research roles rising from 42% in 2014 to 51% (22/43).
 66 staff have been appointed as VCF/Lecturers, contributing significantly to growth through
 prioritising recruitment of active researchers.


 Table 1 Gender balance of 82 new appointees since 2014.

        VCF/Lecturer                 Associate Professor                 Professor
  Female         Male            Female            Male        Female          Male
  33             33              5                 5           3               3


 Table 2 Gender balance of 129 UoA staff.

        VCF/Lecturer                 Associate Professor                 Professor
           (67%)                           (16%)                           (17%)
  Female         Male            Female            Male        Female          Male
  43 (33%)       43 (33%)        10 (8%)           10 (8%)     12 (9%)         11 (8%)


 Recruitment has been used to bolster established research groups or areas targeted for growth
 (e.g., biostatistics, Care Innovation & Organisation). The recruitment panels also assess the
 potential of applicants to interact with research users, to identify appointees who will contribute to
 increasing knowledge exchange, public engagement and impact. HR Fair and Effective
 Recruitment policies are embedded into the process and all staff involved receive training on
 these. Faculty QR is used to support appropriate start-up packages negotiated with each
 appointee at discipline-appropriate levels.


 Where appropriate, staff are recruited from relevant professional backgrounds, notably the NHS
 (e.g., Hackett, Hand, Noone). Recently, we have recruited staff (e.g., V Smith) on joint
 NHS/University appointments through an initiative of the NENC Clinical Research Network, in
 which Northumbria was the first HEI to participate. The Health & Life Sciences faculty five-year
 strategic plan is committed to further Clinical Academic appointments to support our AH&SC
 research, in partnership with NHS trusts, and we aspire to extend this scheme to social care
 professionals, in line with national policy direction. We are developing our legal and HR systems


                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in collaboration with our health and social care partners so that these posts will provide a defined
 career trajectory, with joint funding as appropriate, to improve recruitment and retention of high-
 quality clinical researchers who will deliver strong research impact. This is exemplified by Hand,
 who completed a Northumbria Professional Doctorate (2017) and was recruited as an Associate
 Professor, leading to an ICS on Parkinson’s Disease care.


 Each department actively manages natural turnover of staff and succession planning to ensure
 sustainability of our research groups and themes. Our age demographic (which is slightly older
 compared to the overall Northumbria profile) means we anticipate ~10% p.a. natural staff turnover:
 replacement of staff without significant responsibility for research with active researchers will
 sustain further research growth in the next five years. Academic staff with teaching and research
 responsibilities are almost always appointed on open-ended contracts; only small numbers are
 recruited as fixed-term appointments (2.4 FTE submitted here, 2%), typically to bring specific
 professional or clinical expertise, or to replace staff relieved from teaching via grant funding. Fixed-
 term staff have full access to relevant staff development opportunities.


 Staff development – new staff and ECR

 All newly recruited staff have a probationary period (the duration of which reflects prior
 experience), which provides tailored support and workload for establishing research and
 innovation activities, with a research mentor assigned. The Faculty Executive (chaired by Ford)
 reviews all probation plans and final reports to ensure flexibility and career stage appropriate
 research objectives are set and delivered (e.g., planning for a first grant application). Specialised
 equipment requirements of new appointees are considered a priority in departmental capital
 equipment requests. For laboratory-based staff, research group leaders and senior researchers
 assist new appointees in addressing space and equipment requirements, as well as supporting
 induction into Health & Safety processes.


 Our commitment to ECR is evident in the expansion of the University VCF scheme, which
 provides significant strategic QR investment to recruit outstanding researchers into three
 year ‘tenure-track’ fellowships (REF5a). These allow high potential researchers three years’
 intensive research time, with tapered teaching loads consistent with training to progress to
 lectureships, allowing innovation and expansion in our research portfolio. 15 VCF have been
 appointed into this UoA in this REF cycle, all of which are expected to transition to lectureships.
 Similarly, two pre-2014 VCF (Bridge, Sangal) progressed to lectureships in 2016 and three
 tenure-track Scientific Officers (Cheung, Nelson, Turnbull), funded through the Bioeconomy
 MDRT to strategically support multi-Omics infrastructure, progressed to lectureships in 2019.




                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 30 of the 82 staff appointed since 2014 are ECR. An ECR Training Programme guides staff
 through our ethical approval processes, seeking external research funding (including Writing
 Retreats), producing research outputs and wider dissemination. All university workshops are
 mapped onto the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. ECRs are also encouraged to
 participate in both faculty and university ECR networks, which provide an informal mechanism to
 support staff in identifying their training and development needs and help foster interdisciplinary
 collaborations. The faculty ECR network organises regular seminars, discussion groups and an
 annual ECR conference. Staff who have recently completed doctorates are helped to gain PGR
 supervision experience by pairing with experienced staff in supervisory teams.


 Post-doctoral researchers are supported by full access to ECR and other staff development
 opportunities. Post-doctoral researchers gain experience through mentoring in grant and
 publication writing, including as named or lead researchers on funding applications. In addition to
 participation in departmental planning meetings, direct interactions with research mentors,
 Directors of Research & Knowledge Exchange, research group and MDRT leads enables ECR
 and other junior research (including post-doctoral) staff to influence research planning and
 strategy.


 Staff recruited in professionally facing disciplines who are not doctorally qualified are encouraged
 to register for PhD study during their probation. Four staff submitted here (e.g., Carlin, Straughair)
 have successfully completed in-service doctorates. Overall, 121 (94%) of the staff returned have
 doctorates.


 Staff development and support – all staff

 Northumbria is committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 (REF5a 3.4) and its implementation is overseen by a Researcher Development Strategy Group,
 on which the UoA is represented (currently by Potthoff and Procopio). All staff have access to a
 mentoring scheme whereby senior researchers help staff identify a career-stage appropriate
 mentor and/or coach. Where appropriate, staff are also encouraged to seek support from the
 NENC NIHR Research Design Service (https://rds-nenc.nihr.ac.uk/). Howlett and V Smith were
 selected to participate in the prestigious 2019 NIHR 70@70 Senior Nurse and Midwife Research
 Leader      Programme     (https://www.nihr.ac.uk/documents/7070-nihr-senior-nurse-and-midwife-
 research-leader-programme/22750).


 Workload time for research, impact and knowledge exchange activities for all staff are reviewed
 through the twice-yearly Performance, Development & Appraisal process (REF5a 3.4), which is
 used to identify staff requirements for mentoring and/or collaborative support, training and other


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development needs. The 129 staff with significant responsibility for research (as defined in
 our Code of Practice) have an average workload time for research of ~45%. Training (including
 Health & Safety for research) and CPD is supported by extensive online and workshop resources
 provided by HR and Research & Innovation Services.


 QR disbursement to enable research (>£500K across the REF cycle) is overseen by appropriately
 representative departmental research management teams that consider prior commitments (e.g.,
 reagents for university-funded PGR; start-up packages) and needs of ECR. Decisions on the use
 of QR are based on potential rewards/significance of proposals, ranging from initiating first
 research activity to leading large collaborative funding proposals or networks. Similarly, all staff
 have access to funding for travel for conferences, networking and engagement with external
 partners. Typically, an additional ~£35K p.a. is released from QR to this UoA for travel, with
 equitability of access monitored by departmental management teams.


 All staff have an annual opportunity to apply for a one semester research/impact generation
 sabbatical. 18 UoA staff have benefited from sabbaticals in the REF2021 period. For example, D
 Smith used a sabbatical to establish PacBio sequencing within the NU-OMICs portfolio (below)
 and Steven was able to use a sabbatical to strengthen European collaborative links.
 Prospectively, departments will produce a rolling 5-year sabbatical plan to manage staff/areas for
 prioritisation, ensure equitability and encourage participation. Following a sabbatical, staff become
 eligible to reapply after six semesters. In addition, external grant funding can release staff from
 teaching (e.g., Morey, Procopio).


 Research achievement is a key criterion for promotion to Associate Professor and Professor,
 administered through an Annual Promotions and Progression process, wherein Faculty and
 University Promotion Boards ensure equitability throughout. Staff seeking promotion are
 supported by departmental management teams and have an opportunity to participate in Action
 Learning Sets to develop their applications, facilitated by senior research staff. In this REF period,
 eight staff have been promoted to Associate Professor (six female, two male), including Gray,
 McKay, Schwalbe and Thompson, and eight staff to Professor (five female, three male) including
 Haighton, Lhussier, McMeekin, Perry and Steven.


 Impact and knowledge exchange objectives are also embedded within the Performance,
 Development & Appraisal process, enabling the university to support staff to undertake
 engagement and impact activities. This allows workload models to be adjusted to recognise
 enterprise and/or impact activities and staff are eligible to apply for Impact and Knowledge
 Exchange sabbaticals.



                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research & Innovation Services provide additional training and workshops on impact and related
 activities (e.g., ‘Bringing Impact to Life’, ‘Evidencing Impact’), supplemented by online resources
 and one-to-one support for staff wishing to increase engagement with our external partners,
 including public engagement and media training. Informal lunchtime commercialisation seminars
 are delivered to introduce staff to key topics related to intellectual property and commercialisation.
 Overall, the Impact Support team have typically delivered ~five workshops and training events
 p.a., tailored for staff in this UoA. The impact team has thus created a university-wide impact
 ‘community of practice’ bringing researchers together across disciplines to collaborate and share
 good practice.


 Research Students

 PGR are integral to our research culture and the university has invested significantly (REF5a 2.2)
 in Research Development Fund studentships throughout the REF period (~9 p.a. in UoA3,
 typically prioritised to support newly appointed and ECR staff). Additional ‘matched’ university
 funding is made available to support Collaborative PGR studentships with external partners
 (REF5a 3.5), as detailed in Section 4. Overall, 136 PGR doctoral degrees have been awarded
 (23% to PGR from outside the UK), compared to 66 in REF2014. In addition to Northumbria PGR,
 four staff (e.g., Dalkin, Sanders) are supervising PGR registered on the NIHR Clinical Doctoral
 Research Fellowship scheme.


 The numbers of PGR recruited on these schemes are summarised in Table 3 in comparison to
 UoA3 Research Training Support Grant Funding (RTSG). Additionally, QR is used to support in-
 service doctoral study and these staff make a strong contribution to the vigour of our PGR
 community. Academic staff enrolled for in-service doctorates are given a standard workload of
 30% RSE to complete their research programme and are not yet considered to have significant
 responsibility for independent research (and so are not submitted, as defined by our Code of
 Practice), although they are expected to enhance the pool of staff with significant responsibility for
 research in the next REF period. Likewise, eight ‘Graduate Tutors’ (teaching staff on ‘tenure track’
 for appointment as lecturers) are enrolled as part-time PGR and two members of the C&MS
 technical support team are undertaking part-time doctoral study.


 Table 3 Investment in PGR 2014/15-2019/20

  Research                Collaborative           Staff                   UoA3 RTSG
  Development Fund                                                        funding
  53 (mean 9 p.a.)        13 (mean 2 p.a.)        43 (mean 7 p.a.)*       £876K
 * Doesn’t include ‘Graduate Tutors’



                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Additional PGR are recruited through external grant funding, including ESRC NINE DTP, EU and
 UKRI; ARC NENC; and four HBBE-funded students. High calibre candidates are recruited though
 supervisors’ networks and advertisement, notably on FindAPhD. QR funding has also been used
 for open-ended FindAPhD advertisements, a cost-effective mechanism to recruit additional self-
 funded PGR. All PGR recruitment follows fair and effective recruitment practices implemented by
 the Graduate School.


 Each student meets regularly (expected minimum monthly, typically more often) with their
 Principal Supervisor and has at least one other academic supervisor. Monthly meetings are
 documented to record progress and objectives using our e:Vision portal, which thereby monitors
 student engagement. Following an initial project approval (within 4 months of start), subsequent
 annual progression meetings (with written report and/or viva) are used to formally review progress,
 set objectives and to identify training and resource needs. Internal examiner(s) assess progress
 at each of these milestones. Faculty and departmental PGR Directors provide additional
 administrative assistance and pastoral care. Fast-track review of PGR project amendments and
 PGR drop-in forums have enabled alternative approaches to data collection (e.g., surveys, online
 interviews) for work with human participants disrupted by COVID-19. High levels of overall PGR
 satisfaction were reported in the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (89% versus
 82% sector average for this discipline area).


 The Graduate School (REF5a 3.5) has faculty-aligned teams who manage PGR engagement,
 progression and examination. They also administer the PGR Professional Development and
 Research Training Programme, which includes a suite of more than 30 training courses which
 map to all four domains of Vitae's Researcher Development Framework. Examples include
 ‘Doctorate Essentials’, ‘Managing Your Research Degree’, ‘Giving Your Research Impact’ and
 ‘Life After Your Doctorate’. Additionally, all PGR have access to advanced and specialist training
 delivered by the DTPs and CDTs in which Northumbria is a partner, such as the ESRC NINE
 social sciences DTP (https://www.ninedtp.ac.uk/). Indeed, the Unit’s critical mass demonstrated
 at REF2014 was instrumental in securing our eligibility to participate in the latter.


 In addition to formal training programmes, our PGR are encouraged to participate in seminar
 programmes (attending and presenting) and informal activities (e.g., journal clubs; disciplinary,
 methodological and topic-based discussion groups) at research group, departmental and MDRT
 levels. All PGR are invited to contribute to the annual faculty and university PGR conferences,
 whilst 2nd and 3rd year students are encouraged to take part in an annual Three Minute Thesis
 competition. Bursaries up to £300 are available to PGR groups wishing to organise discipline
 specific events (e.g., funding for the North East PGR biomedical conference 2016). PGR have
 access to a Conference Bursary Scheme providing £250 p.a. to support conference attendance


                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (often supplemented by supervisor contributions, e.g., from the Research & Enterprise Rewards
 Scheme [Section 3]). PGR are also encouraged to apply for travel awards from relevant learned
 societies.


 In addition to our PGR community, our research is enhanced by the contribution of master’s
 students who undertake a significant research project. Work from these projects has fed forward
 into funding applications and multiple publications with the students included as co-authors (e.g.,
 Hill, Lee, Sangal).


 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

 Northumbria is a multicultural institution in which diversity is valued and encouraged, with faculty
 processes committed to the effective management of EDI across the UoA. Each department has
 a Director of EDI, who report via a faculty representative to the University EDI Committee (REF5a
 3.6). Terms of Reference and membership of faculty committees relevant to research governance
 and staff management (e.g., Ethical Approval, Sabbaticals, Promotions Board) are actively
 reviewed to ensure full compliance with EDI policies; a designated Faculty HR Manager attends
 meetings where appropriate. We strive to ensure that no relevant group is under-represented or,
 conversely, over-represented (and thereby disproportionately overburdened) in this work.


 All recruitment panels are assessed for appropriate gender balance and representation of staff
 from a range of backgrounds. All staff involved in recruitment panels are required to undertake an
 HR training programme in Fair and Effective Recruitment and Selection. Future initiatives will
 target improved delivery of our Unconscious Bias training (including the online Harvard University
 implicit bias test) because this is identified as a persistent challenge in STEMM.


 Our diversity is reflected in the international origins of ~25% of the UoA staff (14% from Europe;
 10% from non-European countries). Support was provided to reassure and guide EU staff
 throughout the Brexit process, including refunding of application fees for EU colleagues seeking
 permanent residence in the UK or British Citizenship. Northumbria also provides immigration costs
 for international colleagues (REF5a 3.3) and operates an Immigration Fees Short-Term Loan
 Scheme for those needing assistance with other costs. In 2020 the university signed up to the
 Race Equality Charter to further its commitment to understanding and combatting racial inequality,
 and has established a member-driven Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic Staff Network. 13% of staff
 submitted here are of ethnic groups Other than White.


 As in REF2014, this submission has an ~50:50 gender balance of staff with significant
 responsibility for research (Table 2), although female staff are underrepresented when are


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 compared to the total UoA3 staff base (62% female), reflecting the sector overall in AH&SC
 discipline areas. We will address this through proactively locating and dismantling barriers to
 research engagement affecting our female staff and emphasise that good progress has been
 made in increasing the proportion of female staff in senior research roles (from ~40% to 51%). All
 staff who identify as female can join our Women's Network, a member-led forum for collaboration,
 networking and informal mentoring, which provides advocacy and raises issues that affect
 members. The university currently holds a bronze Athena SWAN institutional (STEMM) award
 (REF5a 3.6); of the three main departments underpinning this UoA, Nursing, Midwifery & Health
 was awarded Athena SWAN Bronze in October 2020; Social Work, Education and Community
 Wellbeing submitted in November 2020, and Applied Sciences is preparing to submit. The
 university is a Stonewall Diversity Champion. LGBTQ+ staff and PGR are supported by an
 LGBTQ* Network which raises LGBTQ+ visibility and ensures that inclusive policies are adopted
 and that inclusive spaces are available.


 All staff undergo mandatory ‘Equality and Diversity’ training. HR provide all staff with guidelines,
 policies and support for our EDI initiatives, including materials relevant to each protected
 characteristic. Similarly, a Wellbeing Hub provides a range of materials supporting physical and
 mental wellbeing, including Gender Specific matters and Carer Support. Positive mental health is
 supported by training programmes available to all staff and >40 university Mental Health First
 Aiders.


 Novel initiatives are supported by the Vice Chancellor’s Diversity and Inclusion Fund (e.g., funding
 a Health & Life Sciences Autism Friendly initiative led by Reynolds, aimed at widening access
 and participation for autistic students and staff). We are a Level 2 member of the Disability
 Confident Scheme and staff with underlying conditions or declared disability are supported by
 reasonable adjustments to their workload/workspace where needed. One person with a declared
 disability is submitted here (consistent with the overall Northumbria profile).


 Our line management structures support flexible working. Thirteen of 129 submitted staff are
 currently on fractional contracts, and six/seven have taken maternity/other family leave,
 respectively, in this REF period. Research leads work with Heads of Department to ensure
 mentoring and resources are made available to staff returning to work following career breaks
 including maternity/parental leave, medical leave and caring responsibilities; these staff can also
 access an HR-led Coaching Transition Programme supporting their return to work. A Parenting
 Network provides informal member-led support for staff. Research seminars and meetings are
 scheduled in core hours 10am-4pm to facilitate the attendance by staff with family responsibilities.




                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University’s Code of Practice used in preparing this submission was developed with an
 underpinning commitment to fairness and EDI. The UoA lead (Sutcliffe) and relevant staff have
 been given unconscious bias training provided by Advance HE. The UoA lead co-ordinated the
 internal peer review of outputs by ‘colleges’ of suitably experienced C&MS and AH&SC staff, with
 each constituted considering the need to maintain a gender balance appropriate to each area and
 for succession planning i.e., giving staff experience needed for future REF preparations. The
 output portfolio was selected by first attributing a primary output to each individual (typically their
 strongest output, although with management of co-authored outputs to maximise the expected
 Grade Point Average), followed by ‘blinded’ selection of the highest scored outputs needed to
 make up the requisite 268 outputs. Where the option was available to select from equally graded
 outputs, equality assessment and the need to consider fair representation of all the discipline areas
 in this wide-ranging submission were taken into consideration.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 As a result of our strategy to increase the critical mass of researchers in the UoA (section 2) and
 our drive to improve grant application volume and quality (below), we have increased our overall
 RGCI to £10.2 million in the current REF period, compared to £6.1 million in REF2014, and total
 awards of £21.4 million. Since 2014, we have been awarded 36 awards of ≥£100K and 33 awards
 of ≥£50K-£100K, with significant awards from RCUK, NIHR, EU and major charities.


 Significant examples include:


 Platforms
    •   HBBE (Research England) £8M total, £4M to Northumbria (Black, D Smith). Securing this
        Expanding Excellence in England funding, the largest of only 13 supported, was enabled
        by our institutional commitment to the linked staff, including PGR support and VCF
        retention, underpinned by our strategy of investing in multi-Omics infrastructure.
    •   ARC NENC (NIHR) £9M total, £438K to Northumbria (Clarke, Finch, Lhussier, Rapley),
        with 37 staff contributing at submission. The ARC NENC aims to improve health and social
        care outcomes in regional priority areas and on a national level working with other ARCs.


 Innovation
    •   Map of Need (MoD, Armed Forces Covenant Fund) £1.1 million total, and Improving
        Access for Veterans £225K (Royal British Legion) (Kiernan, Hill).




                                                                                                Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Forens-OMICS Future Leaders Fellowship (UKRI) £929K, integrating proteomic and
        genomic forensic/biomarker methodologies (Procopio).
    •   AMBROSIA (Microbiota-Inflammation-Brain axis in heart failure), €370K EU-MRC funding
        (Brownlee, Lodge).
    •   Developing a digital self-management tool to improve the quality of life of people with
        Sjögren’s syndrome (Versus Arthritis) £274K (Hackett).
    •   Manufacturing Immortality project (EPSRC) £267K, designing and developing synthetic
        and bio-hybrid self-healing materials (Perry).
    •   Launch of PulmoBioMed Ltd spin out company, with £148K funding to Northumbria and
        £460K private equity/Innovate UK funding to the company (founder Moschos;
        Northumbria stake 49%).


 Trials and Evaluations
    •   BATH-OUT-2, Bathing Adaptations in the Homes of Older Adults: A Randomised
        Controlled Trial, Economic Evaluation and Process Evaluation (NIHR School for Social
        Care Research), £962K, led by Whitehead.
    •   ImpleMentAll project (European Commission) €6M total, £556K to Northumbria (Finch,
        Rapley). European collaboration towards faster and more effective implementation of
        eHealth. Northumbria led the implementation toolkit development and trial process
        evaluation.
    •   Carr £207K (NIHR School for Public Health Research) evaluation of the impact of advice
        services on health and health inequalities.


 Our strategy to achieve income growth was to target funding applications to major funders (UKRI,
 NIHR, EU etc.) as well as small and medium sized funders (such as charities) and industry (e.g.,
 KTP and Innovate UK). Application numbers p.a. have increased steadily across the REF period,
 with an approximately 3-fold increase in total application values by 2019/20. To enhance success
 rates for funding applications, departmental Directors of Research & Knowledge Exchange,
 supported by MDRT and research group leaders, are implementing a “4Ps approach” to
 supporting staff, i.e. ensuring the right Person is applying to the most appropriate Programme
 (funder and level for their career stage), with the strongest possible Project proposal (supported
 by robust but constructive internal peer review) and appropriate external Partnerships (academic,
 business, clinical and third sector organisations). Senior research staff and mentors help
 prospective applicants map their funding plans onto these four cardinal pillars. Departmental
 and/or research group leads are alerted once prospective applications are logged in our Agresso
 management system so that internal peer review by an appropriate subject expert(s) can be
 arranged. Our emphasis on individualised career-stage appropriate support recognises the
 diversity of our staff base and ensures equitable access to support for funding applications.

                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Our ECR Development, Next Generation of Large Grant Holder and Fellowship Ready
 programmes provide career-stage appropriate training to help staff progress to more ambitious,
 larger scale research proposals. For funding schemes where numbers of applications are
 restricted, a university triage process, overseen by the Research and Knowledge Exchange
 Content Board, identifies those staff who will be given dedicated support with applications.
 Funding applications are further incentivised by the Research & Enterprise Rewards Scheme
 under which up to £5K p.a. is returned to successful applicants (even when overheads have not
 been awarded) to flexibly support further research and knowledge exchange activities.


 Evidence for the effective targeting of applications from staff at the right career stage to the right
 funder can be seen not only in the award of a Future Leaders Fellowship to Procopio but also in
 important awards at different levels to ECR and new appointees such as Bate (£50K, Northern
 Cancer Alliance), Hand (£100K, Parkinson’s UK), Turnbull (£170K, Innovate UK) and
 Vijaykumar (£59K, ESRC) and Wilson (£65K NHS Clinical Commission Group).


 Successful applications for larger grants in AH&SC have been driven by the recruitment of senior
 staff who, aside from leading their own applications, help mentor, support and (where appropriate)
 collaborate with other on larger grants, as evidenced by awards to Scott (£210K Dunhill Medical
 Trust) and Whitehead (£199K, NIHR School for Social Care Research and £962K BATH-OUT2,
 above). A major driver of successful applications for larger grants in C&MS has been the
 substantial capital investment in our multi–Omics platform (detailed below), which provide
 multidisciplinary technologies to underpin the activities of all four research groups and increase
 the ambition and size of our applications, as evidenced by HBBE, Future Leaders and AMBROSIA
 funding (as above) and Action Medical Research (£176K, D Smith, Bridge), MRC (£134K Dover)
 and NIHR (£127K Lanyon) funding.


 Research Development Managers in Research & Innovation Services work with individuals/teams
 to develop proposals in response to appropriate funding calls. They disseminate funding news,
 deliver briefings on funders and the funding landscape, deliver cohort-based development
 programmes and best practice resources, including a repository of successful applications to a
 range of funders. Legal support for applications and developing partnerships is provided by our
 dedicated legal team.


 Centralised and faculty capital expenditure processes (REF5a 4.3) ensure co-ordinated and
 equitable access to investment in estate and facilities, including prioritisation of infrastructure
 needs of newly appointed staff. Expressions-of-Interest are reviewed based on alignment with
 UoA/faculty and university strategy. Improved infrastructure (both staffing and facilities) has also


                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 driven overall staff ambition and awareness of expectations to deliver high quality research
 outputs, emphasised and mapped through specific Personal Development & Appraisal objectives.
 Improving the quality and ambition of our RGCI funding applications, often through multi- or
 interdisciplinary approaches and enhanced by internal peer review, has in turn created a ‘virtuous
 circle’ wherein funded projects have delivered higher quality research outputs.


 Much of our most impactful research comes from engagement with external partners (section 4),
 funded via collaborative research, contract research, consultancy and knowledge transfer
 programmes (>£10 million funding awarded). Engagement with industry through UKRI Innovate
 UK/TSB, NIBB (Black, Kelly, Koutsidis, D Smith) and KTPs (e.g., Moschos, Turnbull)
 generates intrinsically impactful research. Examples range from multiple biocatalysis projects
 (e.g., Black with Prozomix) through to our bioMérieux collaboration (Dean, Jones, Stanforth;
 >£300K since 2014). Similarly, NIHR-funded research to inform health and care practice, and
 related contract and collaborative research projects (e.g., Adams, Gray, Haighton, McParlin,
 Scott) and workforce development activity (e.g., Steven, Thompson), leads to direct benefits for
 our external partners. In addition, funding from charitable sources (e.g., Hodgson, Equal Arts;
 Henderson, Association for Young People’s Health) and newer social care collaborations (e.g.,
 Home Group, Cook) supports research with direct benefits outside of academia. Such
 collaborative working with our external partners has led directly to the ICS submitted (section 1).


 We will continue to build on this success, working towards a target of at least one career-stage
 appropriate grant application per academic p.a. over the next five years. This will be managed
 through our Personal Development & Appraisal process and supported via research group, MDRT
 and departmental leadership. The £9M ARC NENC funding will support AH&SC staff to access a
 new dedicated pump-priming funding stream over the next five years, which is further extended to
 £16m by in-kind partner funding agreements. Indeed, in the first ARC NENC open funding
 competition (2020), UoA3 staff won the most awards of applying partners (7/31, values £35-80K;
 e.g., Thompson, development of a standard evaluation method for evaluating the impact of frailty
 pathways and their outcomes). Our significant and growing critical mass in implementation
 sciences, health economics and expertise in working with marginalised groups will be consolidated
 to deliver distinctive and impactful research. In C&MS, we will seek RGCI to support impactful
 research through our Bioeconomy MDRT, which will also drive funding applications for other
 translational research in biofabrication and bio-inspired Chemistry, whilst the NUTRAN clinical
 trials unit will allow us to extend our industrial and healthcare partnerships.




                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Infrastructure and facilities

 AH&SC research is founded on a combination of interdisciplinary desk and fieldwork, with most
 of fieldwork conducted within the community and/or health and social care organisations.
 Consequently, strategic investment has focused largely on ‘soft’ infrastructure, through recruiting
 staff with specific disciplinary and methodological expertise. Senior (Finch, Rapley, Sanders) and
 ECR (Potthoff, Scott) appointments have substantially improved access to methodological
 expertise in implementation and improvement science, as well as disciplinary knowledge around
 Health Psychology and Medical Sociology. The targeted recruitment of senior staff (Cordier,
 Dickens, Hackett, Haighton, Hand, Henderson, Pollock, Whitehead), biostatisticians (e.g.,
 Ogundimu, Pakpahan) and Health Economics experts (e.g., McMeekin) has increased
 methodological expertise in quantitative work, notably clinical trials and systematic reviews, as
 well as disciplinary knowledge in Health Services Research and Occupational Health. This has
 enhanced the development of novel interventions, randomised controlled trials (including parallel
 process evaluations and cost-effectiveness studies) and the implementation of evidence-based
 interventions, as well as extending interdisciplinary capacity. We have established the Northern
 Realist Research hub to support researchers in this area (https://www.northumbria.ac.uk/about-
 us/academic-departments/social-work-education-community-wellbeing/north-northern-realist-
 research-team-hub/).


 Equipment and facilities for AH&SC research at our Coach Lane Campus include our Clinical
 Skills Centre which provides state-of-the-art simulation facilities and environments for research.
 This facility will also support post-COVID research projects by NHS staff undertaking further study
 as part of our NHS Blood and Transplant CPD contract (awarded June 2019). Refurbished
 facilities with enhanced IT infrastructure have also been provided (£171K investment) to increase
 capacity to support the participatory research and knowledge exchange activities. Biostatistics and
 Health Economics staff, alongside others undertaking more quantitative work, have benefitted
 from QR investment in STATA, Triage, and Concept Systems Global MAX software and high
 specification hardware (PCs and laptops). Staff involved in qualitative research have been
 supported through QR investment in encrypted digital voice recorders (with a bank of
 unidirectional, stereo and conference microphones), transcription pedals and software, QSR
 International NVivo software, and laptops and tablets to support external fieldwork.


 Additional infrastructure is provided via Information Scientists (within Library Services) and the
 Impact Support, as well as partnership in the North East and North Cumbria NIHR Research
 Design Service (Clarke is an Executive Team member; £170K funding to Northumbria over 5
 years for provision of Health Economic and qualitative methodological support). Support from the
 Learning Technology team has been particularly used by the Workforce and Practice


                                                                                            Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Development group (Kelleher, simulation and virtual reality; Morey, General Nursing Council
 funded project; Steven, SLIPPs and Health Foundation-funded projects) to develop online data
 collection tools, for data analysis and to produce outputs such as simulation scenarios and e-
 learning materials for health professionals.


 Our already strong laboratory infrastructure to support C&MS research has benefitted from
 substantial investment since REF2014. Our core biosciences research laboratories (262 m 2
 across three co-located laboratories, with adjacent preparation room) were fully refurbished in
 2017. This footprint has been expanded by the 2019 development of 130 m2 laboratory dedicated
 to our HBBE project and the addition of new laboratories for tissue culture (107 m2, capacity
 expanded from four to eight hoods; £168K), multi–Omics and associated preparation (33 and 45
 m2), and a dedicated laboratory for radiochemistry (£94K, 29 m2). Senior academics coordinate
 the operation and development of these multi-user research spaces, supported by a 24-person
 technical team who ensure safe and effective day-to-day running and maintenance of facilities.
 This team includes two Grade Six Experimental Officers, dedicated to supporting our NU-OMICs
 facility (see below) and tissue culture/microscopy research respectively. A C&MS Technical
 Support Steering Group oversees quarterly calls, whereby staff can apply for access to technician
 time (0.4 FTE per quarter) to support specific research projects. Staff can also utilise the expertise
 of two former Scientific Officers (Cheung, Nelson; now lecturers) with ongoing roles (and
 workload) to facilitate use of our –OMICs facilities for genomics and mass spectrometry.


 Substantial capital investment has developed our research capacity in these facilities, of which the
 jewel in the crown is our outstanding multi–Omics suite with new investment in DNA sequencing
 (£346K PacBio and £61K Illumina MiSeq; £99K Hamilton liquid handling robot) and metabolomics
 (£340K Q Exactive Plus mass spectrometer and £750K Thermo ID-X mass spectrometer) to
 complement our extant proteomics capability. HBBE funding has further improved our genomics
 infrastructure by allowing purchase of NextSeq (£165K) and Oxford Nanopore GridION (£64K)
 sequencing platforms. These have allowed our NU-OMICs sequencing facility (directed by D
 Smith; https://www.northumbria.ac.uk/business-services/engage-with-us/research/nu-omics/) to
 develop into an established service supporting both internal staff research, along with substantial
 external engagement (evidenced by a steady increase in contract income from £31K in 2014/15
 to £191K in 2019/20, separate to the COVID-19 work detailed in section 4). Cell biology research
 has been supported by the extension of tissue culture facilities (detailed above) and our
 microscopy suite has benefitted from £177K invested in confocal and fluorescence microscopy,
 including Laser Capture Microdissection capacity, complemented by purchase of a 3-laser 8-
 colours FACS Canto II system (£95K).




                                                                                               Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Analytical chemistry and nutrition research facilities (166 m2 across five co-located laboratories)
 include multiple high-performance liquid and gas chromatographs linked to mass spectrometers
 with multiple detection systems (ion mobility and trap, time-of-flight, orbitrap and quadrupole;
 £367K investment). Elemental analysis facilities include atomic absorption, inductively coupled
 plasma-optical emission (£60K) and X-ray fluorescence (£86K) spectrometers. There is a
 dedicated lab for a multinuclear probe Jeol 400 MHz Eclipse NMR Spectrometer and full suite of
 UV-visible/fluorescence/Raman spectrometers complemented by a range of optical, Raman, FTIR
 and confocal microscopy. A suite of thermal methods instrumentation (£46K differential scanning
 calorimeter and thermal gravimetric analysis) supports our growing capacity in polymer
 characterization and additive manufacturing methods. A dedicated 118 m2 fully equipped
 laboratory with nine fume hoods provides ample capacity for synthetic chemistry.


 In addition to utilising the above biosciences and analytical chemistry facilities, the members of
 the NUTRAN trials unit conduct multi-disciplinary research utilising our Brain, Sleep, Sports and
 Vascular laboratories (managed by staff in UoA4 and UoA24).


 Our ‘wet’ laboratory facilities are complemented by a High Performance Computing Cluster and
 IT support for increasing engagement of staff with informatics technologies (£102K BIOS
 hardware) for microbial genomics (e.g., Nelson, Sangal) and systems biology (led by two VCF, K
 James and Kelly). Additional IT support for researchers is provided by a centralised IT support
 team, including access to specialised software and applications for research whilst ‘working from
 home’.


 Our Library infrastructure includes both a ‘Digital Commons’ and a ‘Research Commons’,
 dedicated library spaces for digital scholarship, collaboration and networking. Facilities include a
 Research Reading Room and collaborative spaces for small groupwork, whilst all staff and PGR
 can access face-to-face expert librarian support. These spaces in the main City campus library
 are complemented by a similar ‘Research Zone’ within our Coach Lane campus library. Library
 investment (journals and books; databases) in UoA3 discipline-specific areas has grown
 considerably from £246K p.a. in 2014-15 to £313 in 2019-20 (total six-year expenditure £1.9
 million). These resources are extended by investment in access to multidisciplinary databases,
 ebook and ejournal packages, which has grown from £788K to £1.2 million p.a. in the same period.


 The University Accessibility Review Group promotes improvements to accessibility to all our
 buildings and services, including laboratories.


 In-house infrastructure is extended by collaboration to use external facilities and data sources.
 Chemistry researchers have utilised the EPSRC National Mass Spectrometry Facility (Stanforth,


                                                                                             Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Tetard) and structural biology research has been supported by access to Synchrotron radiation
 sources at ESRF (Grenoble) and Diamond Light (Oxford) (e.g., Dover, P James, van Loo).
 Simoes UKRI-funded collaboration with Litron Lasers is supported by loan of their laser equipment
 (£12K in-kind).


 In addition to use of the databases in which we deposit our data for sharing (e.g., NCBI; Section
 1), genomics researchers also use platforms such as Galaxy, MRC CLIMB and Terra. UoA staff
 have been given access to specialised external databases and/or data including: the Avon
 Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children (McKay); the Australasian Maternity Outcomes
 Surveillance System (Pollock); the Cochrane database (Lara, Reynolds); data sharing
 agreements with all the main UK veterans charities (Kiernan and colleagues); the National Diet
 and Nutrition Survey database (Lodge); Sheffield Multiple Symptoms Study 3 trial data (Sander);
 and Consumer Data Research Centre funded research by Vijaykumar has used machine-learning
 approaches to analyse Twitter data to explore the conversation surrounding probiotics and their
 links with health. Work in collaboration with NHS researchers (e.g., Adams, Hand, Scott) is also
 typically supported by in-kind contributions of NHS staff time and data-sharing agreements.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Regional, national and international collaborations with a wide range of partners have been vital
 to strengthening our research since REF2014, fostering multi- and interdisciplinary research, and
 translation of our research into practice and impact, as exemplified by our nine ICS and further
 evidenced below. Much of this activity is focussed on addressing national and global challenges
 such as research relevant to ageing populations, diet and nutrition, and infectious diseases,
 including our response to COVID-19.


 Overall staff in this UoA have more than 300 national and international collaborations (as
 evidenced by co-authored publications and/or funded projects; 40% of the >1600 UoA outputs
 since 2014 include international co-authors) with universities, research institutes, SMEs and
 industry, NHS and social care organisations, and other third sector organisations. Staff engaged
 in these external partnerships are stimulated by the two-way process of knowledge exchange and
 rewarded by seeing ‘real world’ benefits from their research; in turn, the research environment is
 further enriched by funding for PGR and research assistants, and by public participation (for
 example by involving Experts by Experience).




                                                                                           Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Promoting external engagement

 Building collaborations with our external partners, research users and stakeholders has been a
 strong feature of our impact strategy and our four ‘pathways to impact’ (section 1), underpinned
 by university investment in impact support (Sections 1 & 2).


 To facilitate the development of collaborations and partnerships, QR funding is made available at
 both faculty and departmental levels to support travel and networking events, with additional
 funding made available through our MDRT budgets and via the Research & Enterprise Rewards
 Scheme. This has allowed both outgoing staff travel to visit collaborators and networking events,
 as well as supporting incoming visitor travel. Staff have also been successful in obtaining external
 support for travel (e.g., Newham British Council ECR award, Brazil workshop; Geddes ERASMUS
 mobility grant, visit to Italian collaborators) and have participated in externally funded networking
 opportunities such as the BBSRC NIBB events and professional association events.


 Four Business Development Managers support staff in finding external partners and developing
 sustainable relationships through a range of Knowledge Exchange activities, with additional
 support    from   our    participation   in    the   Northern     Accelerator   (e.g.,   £49K   Moschos;
 https://www.northernaccelerator.org/case-study/breath-diagnostic-device). To further promote our
 activities to external partners, the university promotes wide access to our designs, expertise,
 research    tools,      software   and        technologies      (https://www.northumbria.ac.uk/business-
 services/engage-with-us/research/).


 The University Collaborative PGR studentship scheme (section 2) is further evidence of our
 investment in external engagement, with thirteen Collaborative PGR match-funded in this UoA.
 External partners who have co-funded studentships include AkzoNobel (Perry), bioMérieux
 (Jones), High Force Research (Moschos), Marlowe Foods (Munoz), NHS (Steven, Wilson),
 Prozomix (Black) and Rank Prize funding (Lodge).

 Academic collaborations

 In addition to significant multi-partner projects (e.g., AMBROSIA, ImpleMentAll and SLIPPS;
 see section 1), the UoA staff are typically working with multiple national and international HEIs
 and clinical researchers. Notable collaborations include:
    •   Lanyon: multi-centre international (Australia, UK, USA) cystic fibrosis microbiome
        consortium (Microbiome 8:45) and the NIHR Efficacy and Mechanism Evaluation MAGPIE
        trial on enteral feeding of preterm infants (£127K to Northumbria).




                                                                                                   Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Lhussier: School for Public Health Research-funded study (£562K total, £162K to
        Northumbria as lead) on how local authorities meet health inequalities targets with
        constrained budgets, in collaboration with 5 other UK Universities.
    •   Simoes: investigated osteopontin-mediated protection in allergic airway disease with
        Biomedical Research Foundation of the Academy of Athens (EU-funded; PNAS
        111:E856).
    •   Tetard: design of novel Parkinson’s disease interventions with collaborators in Konstanz
        and Strasbourg (patent WO2016079502A1 pending; Archives Toxicol. 94:3105).
    •   Vijaykumar: collaborating with the University of Georgia (USA) to study communication
        about infectious diseases via social media ($50K funding from WhatsApp).
    •   Zevallos: collaboration on wheat-induced intestinal dysfunction with McMaster, Canada
        (Gastroenterology 156:2266).

 Partnerships with non-academic users and beneficiaries

 Our research has contributed to economic growth through partnerships with industry, SMEs and
 the health and social care sectors. We have extended our long-term relationships, such as with
 bioMérieux (led by Stanforth and JD Perry) and Prozomix (Black, Kelly), whilst Lhussier and
 colleagues have led on the ‘Year of Care’ approach to advancing care and support planning with
 Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust. We have expanded our range of partnerships
 through novel projects such as:
    •   Six KTP projects, including Moschos with Hart Biologicals (2020, £196K) to develop a
        simpler, automated coagulometry instrument and Perry (co-I with Engineering colleagues,
        diagnostics, £137K) with QuantuMDx to develop a medical diagnostic product utilising
        smart material coatings.
    •   The NUTRAN interdisciplinary consultancy and clinical trials unit, which provides
        commercial clients with a full experimental pipeline from the laboratory through to
        physiological effect, e.g., collaborative PGR and additional PGR studentship funding
        (£51K) from Marlow Foods to investigate prebiotic benefits of Quorn ꞵ-glucans
        (Commane, Munoz).
    •   Gray is collaborating on an RCT funded by Stryker to assess improving knee replacement
        outcomes using robotic-assisted surgery.
    •   Lodge collaborating with A2 Milk to deliver an alternative casein diet for children with
        autism (£45K).
    •   McMeekin’s work with Sarissa Biomedical Ltd (£37K) on developing point-of-care
        intravenous devices for paramedics dealing with stroke patients.




                                                                                        Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Pal’s National Centre for 3Rs studentship award (£90K) to explore using 3D bioprinted
        microtissues in patient-specific cancer drug development, in collaboration with Great
        Ormond Street Hospital, the Great North Children’s Hospital and Alcyomics Ltd.
    •   Perry is a chemistry lead in the Transforming Foundation Industries Industrial Strategy
        Challenge Fund £5M TransFIRe Hub (£401K to Northumbria, 2021-2024) which aims to
        improve competitiveness and sustainability in materials manufacturing.
    •   Todryk is co-investigator with Engineering colleagues on £346K EPSRC-funded work with
        Epigem Ltd and OJ-Bio developing biosensors for medical diagnostics.


 Working with health and social care organisations is at the heart of AH&SC research and our
 leadership and membership of the ARC NENC reflects our ongoing strategy to work with multiple
 organisations to consolidate and sustain research in national high priority areas of health and
 social care. Our partners include a wide range of NHS Trust and Clinical Commissioning Groups,
 charities and other third sector organisations. Examples include:
    •   Bailey and colleagues have worked with Newcastle and Northumbria Local Authorities and
        Elders Council Newcastle to devise home adaptations in improving later life (funded by
        Centre for Ageing Better, £40K).
    •   Cook has established an innovative partnership with the Home Group social enterprise
        (£52K funding) to develop technology-enabled homes to promote older persons
        independence (winner of the 2020 People’s Choice Award at the ‘Dynamites’ North East
        IT and Technology awards).
    •   Gray is collaborating in the NIHR funded (£252K to Northumbria) Effective Treatments for
        Thoracic Aortic Aneurysm study across 25 NHS Trusts.
    •   Hackett was awarded the College of Occupational Therapists Innovation Award (2014) for
        work to address the needs of users within a specialist fatigue clinic.
    •   Hand is the Clinical lead for Nursing with Parkinson's UK Excellence Network
        (https://www.parkinsons.org.uk/professionals/clinical-leadership-team-uk-parkinsons-
        excellence-network).
    •   Thompson & Tiplady leading workforce development projects with NHS Health Education
        England (£149K funding over 2 years)
    •   Whitehead is leading the BATH-OUT-2 trial on bathing adaptations to improve the lives of
        older adults (NIHR funded, £962K), working with four Local Authorities.


 Staff (e.g., Carr, Finch, Lhussier, Steven) contribute further as members of the Academic Health
 Science Network, regional NHS Trust and Research for Patient Benefit panels. Carr and Lhussier
 have been Associate Directors of FUSE, the Centre for Translational Research in Public Health
 (http://www.fuse.ac.uk/), which brings together the North East Universities and the public health



                                                                                          Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sector in collaborative research to improve health and wellbeing and tackle inequalities. Our
 partnership in the NE LEP Innovation Delivery Partnership for Healthy Ageing Product and
 Process Innovation, and Cook’s role as a strategic partner in the National Innovation Centre
 Ageing’s Ageing Innovations hub, will ensure Northumbria expertise plays a key role in research-
 informed product and service development focussed on healthy ageing.


 Our participatory and stakeholder-driven research has allowed engagement with diverse
 communities, for example through theatre and creative writing work (e.g., Bailey, with Skimstone
 Arts) and our extensive work with marginalised communities, including Gypsy, Roma and Traveller
 communities (Dalkin, Forster, Lhussier), and our Northern Hub for Veterans and Military
 Families Research (Kiernan, Hill and colleagues; https://www.northumbria.ac.uk/business-
 services/engage-with-us/the-northern-hub-for-military-veterans-and-families-research/).          The
 latter is based on the fundamental principle of ‘collaboration in research for the benefit of others’
 and has secured more than £1.7 million in funding to work with a range of partners and
 stakeholders such as MoD, the Royal British Legion, NHS Trusts and Sunderland Council and,
 importantly, with veterans and their families.


 We also work with government and other agencies to influence policy and practice, as exemplified
 by our Holiday Hunger ICS (PL Graham, who has also led an evaluation of the StreetGames Fit
 and Fed pilot programme), whilst Cheetham is working with the Department of Work & Pensions,
 Gateshead Council (as an embedded researcher) and others to assess and address the impact
 of Universal Credit (Cheetham et al. BMJ Open 2019 was cited in the report of the UK visit by UN
 Special Rapporteur on Extreme Poverty and Human Rights). Steer has worked with Public Health
 England to improve social prescribing engagement and outcomes. Hand’s research was cited in
 an All-Party Parliamentary Group ‘Mental Health Matters Too’ report (2018). In C&MS, toxicologist
 Jowsey has collaborated with the Public Health England Centre for Radiation, Chemical &
 Environmental Hazards in multidisciplinary studies of adverse effects of medical radiation, and E
 Graham collaborated in an EU-funded 15-partner network of excellence to create the European
 Virtual Centre of Forensic Genetic Research (Forensic Science International: Genetics 10:40).
 Fox is a member of the Food Standards Agency 'Advisory Committee on the Microbiological
 Safety of Foods'.


 Category C staff

 Visiting Professor JD Perry is the only Category C staff. He is central to sustaining our partnership
 with bioMérieux and provides access to facilities and resources at Newcastle Freeman Hospital.




                                                                                              Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Translating collaboration into new impact

 The success of our impact strategy is evidenced by the nine ICS submitted and the range of
 beneficiaries therein, from the public to pharma, and further evidenced by novel areas of growing
 impact that are expected to mature post-2021. These include:
    •   Adams has developed rehabilitation interventions for older people with co-morbid long-
        term conditions and worked with services and healthcare professionals to improve practice
        and patient outcomes in the UK and the USA.
    •   Gray’s NIHR-funded research project ‘Shifting the Gravity of Spending’ has provided
        Public Health Commissioners within Local Authorities with tools and training to best
        allocate budgets for service delivery in ways that maximises health & wellbeing and value
        for money.
    •   Jones has developed novel culture media to improve detection on nontuberculous
        mycobacteria, in a promising diversification of our collaboration with bioMérieux and
        Freeman Hospital.
    •   Moschos’ work with PulmoBioMed Ltd. to develop the PBM-HaleTM hand-held collection
        device for diagnostic respiratory and environmental aerosol sampling.
    •   Steven’s Health Foundation-funded research on health professional’s fatigue, is co-
        designing activities, interventions and a fatigue risk management strategy for midwifery
        services in an NHS trust.
    •   Turnbull’s 2019 KTP with Sterling Pharma Solutions will improve the manufacturer’s self-
        sufficiency in biocatalysis and has already expanded their customer base such that
        significant income is expected over the next three years.


 Community and Public Engagement

 In addition to our significant co-production activities, staff are encouraged to promote their
 research beyond academia through public engagement activities, including social and traditional
 media, and via channels such as The Conversation (e.g., PL Graham) and Globelynx (e.g.,
 Moschos). For example, Nelson and Turnbull have used Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter
 accounts to promote our Bioeconomy MDRT; the USP project (Hand), ImpleMentAll, ARC NENC,
 SLIPPS and our military veterans team have strong presences on Twitter.


 Staff contribute to outreach events such as Soapbox Science (e.g., Jones, Kelly) and are
 encouraged to contribute to our NUSTEM outreach initiative (https://nustem.uk/), which works to
 increase the number and diversity of young people choosing STEM careers. Potthoff is Head
 Editor of the Practical Health Psychology blog (https://practicalhealthpsychology.com/). Garner is


                                                                                           Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Public Engagement expert on the Biochemical Society Education committee, promoting their
 Art and Science Exchange outreach activities, and Vijaykumar has worked with the Cap-A-Pie
 theatre company in schools. Dean and Turnbull have been recognised by Royal Society of
 Chemistry ‘Inspirational Member’ awards for their roles in developing diverse and accessible
 outreach activities (2020 and 2018, respectively).


 In 2014 the University entered into a Partnership Agreement with the International Centre for Life
 (https://www.life.org.uk/) to develop further our relationship, building on activities such as
 workforce development with geneticists from the genomics medicine service and informal ‘Meet
 the Scientist’ events (e.g., Sangal, Jones). Bailey, Thompson and Tiplady are working with
 Tyne & Wear Museums to improve health and wellbeing by engaging older people in arts and
 cultural activities. Publicising our research is supported by the University Marketing &
 Communications service.


 Response to COVID-19


 Our researchers are contributing directly to the COVID-19 response. Notably, the NU-OMICs
 sequencing    team     are    members      of   the    COVID-19   Genomics      UK    Consortium
 (https://www.cogconsortium.uk/; group authored papers in Cell, Lancet Microbe and Science),
 sequencing >6000 samples since March 2019 (UKRI funded, >£500K).


 Our expertise has allowed rapid innovative multidisciplinary responses including:
    •   Perry (£100K DASA, CoI) to develop superhydrophobic antiviral coatings.
    •   Li (£393K UKRI, CoI) to establish an ‘Observatory for Monitoring Data-Driven Approaches
        to COVID-19’.
    •   Tetard (£25K Innovate UK, with Ideal Manufacturing) investigating ozone nanobubbling
        effects on viral disinfection for laundry applications.


 Novel projects to assess the healthcare impact and response to COVID have been developed
 including Rapley (£10K Elizabeth Casson Trust, to improve use of telehealth in children’s therapy
 services), Thompson (£7K UKRI, to assess the healthcare needs progression of residents in
 sheltered accommodation) and Pollock (QR, research into the wellbeing of healthcare and
 hospital workers). Haighton and Sanders are members of the NIHR COVID Recovery and
 Learning Research College of Experts. AH&SC staff (e.g., Kelleher, Pollock) have also worked
 with NHS Health Education England to deliver workforce development COVID CPD for frontline
 staff. Moschos has provided extensive expert commentary to >100 regional, national and
 international (e.g., CNN) media outlets.



                                                                                           Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Internally, in response to limitations imposed by COVID-19, work with human participants has
 been adapted by prioritising distance data collection methods (e.g., documentary analysis; online
 interviews).


 Contributions to our disciplines

 Our staff are energetic and proactive in seeking to influence our diverse discipline areas (section
 1) through participation in the work of learned societies, funding bodies and key committees.
 These contributions are recognised and supported through workload allowances. Activities
 include: membership of BBSRC and MRC research committees and review panels (Black, Ford,
 Li); various NIHR grant panels (Carr, Finch, Haighton, Sanders, Whitehead); Educational
 research committee of Association for the Study of Medical Education (Steven); Chair,
 International Committee on Systematics of Prokaryotes (Sutcliffe); Irish Health Research Board
 Post-Doctoral Fellowships panel (Finch); International Research Network on Transitions to
 Adulthood from Care Steering Group (Cordier); Convenor, National Ambulance Frequent Caller
 National Network (Scott); Professorial Advisory Group, Chartered Society of Physiotherapy
 (Adams); Royal College of Occupational Therapy Research and Development Board
 (Whitehead); and Royal Society of Chemistry committee memberships (Carlin, Dean, Perry,
 Turnbull). Kelly has been appointed to the EPSRC Early Career Forum (2021-2023).


 In addition, staff have contributed regularly to the peer review of funding applications for more than
 50 organisations, including:
    •   UKRI and government: BBSRC, EPSRC, ESRC, Health & Care Research Wales, MRC,
        NIHR (HTA, HS&DR, PGfAR, PHR and RfPB), UKRI Innovate UK and Future Leaders
        Fellowships.
    •   UK Charity: Alcohol Research UK, Alzheimer’s UK, Daphne Jackson Trust, Dunhill Medical
        Trust, Nuffield Foundation, Parkinson’s UK, Royal College of Nursing, Versus Arthritis,
        Wellcome Trust, World Cancer Research Fund UK.
    •   International: Australian National Health and Medical Research Council, Canada First
        Research Excellence Fund, Czech Science Foundation, EU Marie Curie Actions, French
        National Research Association, Health Research Council of New Zealand, Irish Health
        Research Board, Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada,
        Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research & Organisation for Health Research &
        Development, NIH USA, South Africa National Research Foundation.


 Further disciplinary and scholarly contributions have also been made by our staff who participate
 as editors for scientific publications including the Editor-in-Chiefs of Advances in Biological
 Chemistry (Black), Antonie van Leeuwenhoek (2009-2019, Sutcliffe) and Food Hydrocolloids in


                                                                                               Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Health (Brownlee). Staff also contribute as Associate Editors of >15 journals including: Ageing
 and Society (Cook), Bioactive Carbohydrates and Dietary Fibre (Brownlee), BMC Family Practice
 (Sanders), BMC Microbiology (Sangal), Frontiers in Genetics (McKay), Frontiers in Microbiology
 (Sutcliffe), International Journal of Systematic and Evolutionary Microbiology (Jones) and PLOS
 ONE (Antoniou, Haighton, Todryk). Others have served as Special Issue Guest Editors (e.g.,
 Bailey, Hodgson and Wilson International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health;
 Ryan British Journal of Pharmacology) and Editorial Board members of >15 journals, including
 British Journal of Neuroscience Nursing (Hand), Cells (Soundararajan), Frontiers in Immunology
 (Bridge), Implementation Science (Rapley), Nursing and Residential Care (Cook), Nutrients
 (Lodge) and Physical Therapy Reviews (Adams). Finally, staff in the UoA frequently contribute
 their expertise as peer reviewers, with most staff typically reviewing multiple manuscripts p.a.
 Overall our staff have peer reviewed for more than 150 different journals, including Ageing &
 Society, American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, BMC Medicine, BMJ, Dementia, Implementation
 Science, Journal of Advanced Nursing, Journal of Hepatology, Qualitative Health Research,
 Nature Human Behaviour, Nature Microbiology, Nurse Education Today, PNAS, Royal Society
 Open Science and Social Science and Medicine.


 Members of the UoA have been externally recognised for their contributions to their disciplines
 through invitations as speakers at prestigious national and international conference or workshops,
 such as the Chronic Living Conference (Copenhagen 2020, Sanders), Dutch Implementation
 Science Conference (Utrecht 2019, Rapley), European League Against Rheumatism (Amsterdam
 2018, Hackett), European Society for Swallowing Disorders conference (Barcelona 2015,
 Cordier), Industrial Genetics of Microorganisms (Pisa 2019, Munoz), International Genetics of
 Ankylosing Spondylitis (Versaille 2019, Antoniou), 6th International Workshop on the Causes of
 Childhood Leukemia (Munich 2019, McKay), 8th International Conference on the Tear Film and
 Ocular Surface (Montepelier 2016, McDermott), 4th Nordic conference on research in patient
 safety and quality in healthcare (Kuopio 2016, Steven), World Nursing & Health (Rome 2018,
 Bailey) and the 5th World Parkinson's Congress (Kyoto 2019, Hand).


 Staff have also contributed to the organisation of multiple conferences, symposia of learned
 societies and workshops such as the Cornea and Ocular Surface Gordon Research Conference
 (2018 and 2020, McDermott), EMBO Viruses of Microbes conference, (2016, D Smith), Gordon
 Research Seminar in Synthetic Biology (Vermont 2017, Kelly), European Health Psychology
 (since 2015, Potthoff), International Conference for realist research, evaluation and synthesis
 (Brisbane 2017, Dalkin), International Society for Zinc Biology (Monterey 2014, Ford) and 15th
 International Symposium on Hyphenated Techniques in Chromatography and Hyphenated
 Chromatographic Analyzers (2018, Dean).



                                                                                           Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As well as conference contributions, staff have also delivered ~100 invited research seminars at
 other institutions and have contributed as external examiners for more than 100 PhD examinations
 at national and international institutions such as Monash University Malaysia (Jones), Sorbonne
 Université (Sutcliffe), Stellenbosch University (Steven), Trinity College Dublin (Haighton, Perry),
 University Pompeu Fabra Barcelona (Simoes), University of Sao Paulo (Gallibadino) and
 University of Tasmania (Carr) and the University of Waterloo Canada (Li). We have also
 contributed to institutional review and appointment/promotion panels, for example for the
 European Implementation Collaborative (Finch), Institut Pasteur (D Smith), l’Institut de
 Recherche Robert-Sauvé en Santé et en Securité du Travail (Montréal) (Lhussier), Universities
 of Ghent (Belgium) and Nevada (USA) (Sutcliffe).


 Commitment to reproducible science

 Colleagues experienced in advanced statistical analyses and methodological approaches support
 others in improving the rigour and robustness of both experimental design and data processing.
 Examples of best practice include methods sharing in microbiome studies and the development
 of realist research methods (Dalkin). Our commitment to Open Science (section 1), notably
 release of primary data via publicly accessible databases, also ensures our work is available for
 scrutiny and reanalysis. In addition, our researchers have contributed to >100 systematic reviews
 and meta-analyses that have validated and extended findings from earlier studies. Examples
 include Cordier (Journal of Medical Internet Research), Crandall (Cochrane Database of
 Systematic Reviews), Dickens (International Journal of Nursing Studies), Lara (British Medical
 Journal; BMC Medicine) and Newham (Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews).




                                                                                            Page 37
