Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Cambridge

 Unit of Assessment: 12 - Engineering



 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Materials Science and Metallurgy (DMSM), Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology (CEB), and
 Engineering (CUED) are independent departments within the University of Cambridge (UCAM).
 CEB and CUED are in the School of Technology (SoT); DMSM is in the School of Physical
 Sciences (SPS). This is the first time that the three departments have made a joint REF
 submission.
 Collectively, UoA12 has a thriving research culture. We connect and collaborate with many UCAM
 departments and with companies and government, both regionally and internationally, and host
 many internationally-leading research groups. There are 204 permanent academic staff (DMSM
 27, CEB 29, CUED 148), 400 postdoctoral researchers and 1320 postgraduate research students
 (populations current at close of REF period). Additionally, a continuously-cycling population of ~50
 independent Research Fellows enrich the environment with their talent and bring new research
 directions. Retirements within the REF period have given opportunities to refresh and diversify
 research portfolios and to appoint early-career researchers (ECRs) embracing gender and racial
 diversity. The research culture across the departments promotes strong collaborations with other
 disciplines, institutions and industry, whilst maintaining a powerful presence in fundamental
 science and engineering. A particular priority is tackling global challenges, e.g. climate change,
 energy transition, zero-carbon aviation, healthcare, modern manufacturing and third-world
 development.
 Our future strategy has identified goals to be pursued jointly, whilst capitalising on the
 disaggregated departments to initiate novel, fundamental research. The sections of this
 Environment Statement are structured thus
     •   where relevant, a general section covering common practice,
     •   details of individual departmental practices to give exemplification or where different
         specific approaches are taken, and
     •   commentary, where applicable, on plans across the UoA to build further capacity and
         impact.


 1.1 Structure of Departments
 DMSM
 Structure
 DMSM aims to conduct research at the highest international level in the materials discipline. It
 has 27 academic posts, 11 Research Fellows and other independent researchers, 40 PDRAs and
 140 postgraduate research students, supported by 48 technical and administrative staff.
 DMSM is proud of its record in rearing the leaders of the future, through mentoring at all stages to
 promote career progression, leading ultimately to distinguished appointments worldwide (see §2).
 The Head of Department (HoD) is supported by two Deputies (DHoD), one focused on research,
 the other on education. The DHoD Research chairs the Research Committee and, with the HoD,

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 is responsible for developing DMSM’s research profile, formulating strategy and policy: including
 research integrity, safety and ethics, open research, research engagement and, through the
 Graduate Education Committee, postgraduate researcher development. The Research and
 Business Development Manager supports academic staff in establishing and maintaining external
 industrial relationships, managing contractual and IP agreements, and developing
 entrepreneurship and impact.


 Research Themes
 Research is organised in to seven strategic areas:
 (i) Aerospace Materials. Activity encompasses the engine and airframe, and component
 manufacturing methods. Research is led by the Rolls-Royce University Technology Centre, hosted
 within DMSM and one of two such UCAM centres (the other in CUED, described below). DMSM
 also leads an EPSRC/Rolls-Royce Strategic Research Partnership, linking seven universities and
 three other departments in UCAM.
 (ii) Novel Design and Processing of Materials. Understanding the processing-property-structure
 linkage differentiates DMSM from other UCAM STEM departments. The activity spans all
 materials types and functionalities and all industry sectors, from ICT to transport to medical, and
 is well aligned with UCAM’s Interdisciplinary Research Centre (IRC) in cardiovascular problems,
 as well as with the UCAM spoke of the national Royce Institute and the
 EnergyTransitions@Cambridge Interdisciplinary Research Centre (IRC). There are many
 company and institute links, e.g. Rolls-Royce plc, Ilika plc, Meggit plc, EMPA (Switzerland), MPIE
 (Germany), including several medical manufacturing companies.
 (iii) Innovative Characterisation of Materials. DMSM is at the forefront of characterisation by
 combining complementary techniques, drawing on latest equipment and data-analysis to gain
 deep understanding of the structure and properties of materials, e.g. novel alloys, soft collagen
 scaffolds, luminescent semiconductors and hybrid organic-inorganic devices. The internationally-
 leading Wolfson Electron Microscopy Suite (in purpose-designed 2013 building) has enormously
 benefitted from the purchase of advanced instruments (§3.5, §3.6).
 (iv) Materials for Energy. This covers materials for novel energy-conversion and storage
 technologies, e.g. innovations in lithium-based storage devices and new techniques to
 manufacture and study GaN-based materials for efficient lighting and photovoltaics. DMSM’s
 success in commercialising developed technologies is evident from its industrial partnerships (e.g.
 Plessey, Solaris, Cambridge Display Technology and Murata), and its generation of spin-out
 companies. The £2.1M EPSRC Network Centre for Advanced Materials for Integrated Energy
 Systems (UCAM, Newcastle, Queen Mary, UCL) provides a collaborative platform to identify future
 synergies with other EPSRC Centres, industry and stakeholders.
 (v) Materials Discovery. Research ranges from synthesis of new compounds and design of
 superalloys, to theoretical modelling and computational prediction of new materials. First-
 principles, predictive, computational techniques play increasing roles in exploring and rationalising
 material properties; DMSM has led in benchmarking methods and codes. The work is supported
 by the UK Car-Parrinello Consortium providing access to national supercomputing facilities.
 DMSM has developed (with UCAM Physics) the CASTEP and NMR-CASTEP codes, freely
 available to the UK research community, and widely-used commercially; CASTEP is one of our
 Impact Case Studies.
 (vi) Materials for Healthcare. This aims to optimise the efficacy of medical interventions and drug-
 delivery devices through a combination of cell biology and innovative development of novel

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 materials and structures. The strong linkage with clinicians, biologists, biochemists, physicists and
 engineers includes, e.g., the development of novel tissue engineering materials and structures for
 optimised tissue repair. The area also encompasses pharmaceutical materials science, e.g.
 numerical simulation of powder compaction. DMSM work has resulted in national and international
 collaborations, industrial sponsorships and licensing.
 (vii) Materials for Information Communication Technologies. This addresses the need for new
 materials that are fundamental to innovation, performance, and energy efficiency for both low-
 power (portable appliances) and high-power (data centres) uses. Research is focused on
 development of superconductor/ferromagnet devices for low-temperature logic devices, oxide
 heterostructure systems for data storage, novel magnetic and spintronic materials systems, and
 single-photon devices for optical communication. This theme aligns directly with the UCAM hub of
 the Royce Institute focused on Materials for Energy-Efficient ICT (§4.2).


 CEB
 Structure
 CEB is a multidisciplinary department creating innovation at the interfaces between chemical
 engineering and fundamental sciences. It has 29 academic posts, 7 Research Fellows and other
 independent researchers, 43 PDRAs and 203 postgraduate research students. Research is
 supported by 46 FTE technical and administrative staff. CEB is housed in a new £60M building
 (see §3.5).
 The HoD is supported by deputies in research and teaching. The DHoD Research leads the
 Research Committee and, with the HoD, is responsible for developing CEB’s research strategy
 and policy, research integrity, safety and ethics, open research, research engagement and,
 through the Graduate Education Committee, researcher development. Departmental strategy and
 impact are reviewed, and informed, by an external advisory board of senior academics from other
 universities, and professionals from industry and national bodies.


 Research Themes
 CEB research strategy builds on its cross-disciplinary culture, with core competencies in (i)
 materials, (ii) sensors and diagnostics, and (iii) process and reaction engineering. The overall
 strategy is based on belief that by understanding the underlying principles and engaging in the
 fundamental science upon which a phenomenon is based, innovative solutions to important
 problems in the fields of health and sustainable manufacturing can be developed, having societal,
 environmental and economic impact.
 (i) Materials. For health, materials research in CEB is focused on predictive modelling, synthesis,
 modification and full characterisation of novel medical materials to be used as drugs or as medical
 devices. There is substantial expertise in the manufacturing and analysis of solid-dosage
 pharmaceuticals. Current activities in targeted drug delivery utilise porous materials (metal organic
 frameworks (MOFs)) and biopolymer/liposome/spore composites to tackle intractable cancers and
 senescent cells, using external guiding systems based on light, magnetic field or novel acoustic
 technologies. Acoustic strategies for drug delivery have been developed, e.g. for the controlled
 delivery of a drug to prostate cancer cells. Other research has investigated targeted delivery
 strategies for DNA and viral therapeutics using liposomal formulations and cell-penetrating peptide
 design. CEB also develops biomimetic biological models with integrated electronic devices



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (organs-on-chip) to enable drug screening using artificial systems predictive of real biological
 environments.
 Medical materials for tissue engineering and tissue repair such as polymeric heart valves and
 calcium phosphate pastes for vertebral repair have been developed in collaboration with clinicians
 to enable direct translation to medical applications.
 For Sustainable manufacturing, materials research concentrates on sustainable processes, e.g.
 catalysts for the low-temperature production of hydrogen from ammonia under conditions relevant
 for fuel cells. Effort also targets replacement of noble metals (mainly ruthenium) by readily-
 available ones, including bi-metallic systems. Chemical-looping approaches are being developed
 for safer selective oxidation reactions, e.g. manufacture of ethylene oxide, using novel
 combinations of catalyst and oxide support. Substantial research in MOFs targets gas storage and
 adsorbents for CO2. Spin-out companies have resulted from chemical-looping (Inert Gas Impact
 Case Study) and MOF work.
 (ii) Sensors and Diagnostics. For sensors in health, research on the synergy of advanced
 proteomic/genomic technologies, imaging and biosensor technologies tackles questions in
 neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders and intractable cancers. For example, newly
 developed optical super-resolution techniques can follow protein translation events at the single-
 molecule level, with significant impact for the study of neurodegenerative diseases. Medical
 diagnostics for low- and middle-income countries, exploiting synthetic biology to develop sensors
 for malaria diagnosis, have been trialled in Ghana and Malaysia (2019).
 Newly developed Terahertz imaging significantly advances the study of solid-dosage forms and
 secondary pharmaceutical manufacturing. Multi-nuclear, quantitative MRI techniques are used to
 understand drug dissolution, assisting industry in optimising design pathways for drug-product
 development and formulation, attracting significant funding from AstraZeneca and Merck.
 A focus in sensors for sustainable manufacturing is the development of quantitative methods in
 Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy to characterise single- and multi-component
 adsorption and transport directly inside catalyst pore spaces. A highlight is inserting a fixed-bed
 reactor, at 300˚C and 30 bar inside a 300 MHz superconducting magnet to study Fischer-Tropsch
 (FT) synthesis. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) features as an Impact Case Study.
 (iii) Process and Reaction Engineering. There are strong interests in the phenomena underpinning
 sustainable manufacturing and the production of clean energy (work on FT was noted above).
 Fluidisation remains a key topic with current focus on chemical looping for the capture and storage
 of CO2 from use of biomass fuels. Fluidisation is also studied using innovative combinations of
 new (e.g. MRI) and existing (e.g. Particle Image Velocimetry) techniques, underpinned by theory
 (e.g. Discrete Element Modelling) providing insight into energy-efficient reactors.
 Computational research focuses on machine learning and statistics to develop sustainable
 chemical systems, assisted by 'chemical robotics'. Newly-developed reactor concepts promote the
 sustainable manufacture of molecules and functional nanomaterials. Detailed models for
 combustion-generated nanoparticles are developed in collaboration with major engine
 manufacturers, e.g. Toyota. There is complementary research on turbulent plumes in the
 environment, and flow and reaction in porous media, e.g. spread of CO2 in geological storage.
 Research on fouling and cleaning in process equipment aims to reduce the carbon footprint and
 energy consumed by industry, especially oil-refining and food. CEB research forms the basis of
 the leading software tool in the field (SmartPM Impact Case Study).




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 CUED
 Structure
 CUED has 148 academic posts, 28 Research Fellows and other independent researchers, ca.
 300 PDRAs and 987 postgraduate research students. It is structured organisationally (vertically)
 by engineering discipline into six academic divisions. Research activities span divisions, with
 formal and informal structures linking activities horizontally by application domain across CUED.
 The structure allows pursuit of research excellence across engineering in its breadth,
 unconstrained by traditional engineering discipline boundaries.
 The HoD is supported by three Academic Deputy Heads (Teaching, Graduate Studies, Research),
 a Director of Strategy and Operations (DSO, also a DHoD) and the Academic Committee. The
 Academic Committee, chaired by the HoD, comprises the four DHoDs and the six division Heads.
 The discipline-based divisional structure provides a coherent framework for managing a large
 department. The HoD and Academic Committee are advised on research strategy and policy by
 the Research Committee (RC), chaired by the DHoD Research, with a membership of senior
 academic staff. The RC oversees the implementation of CUED and UCAM research policies,
 research translation and impact, and ECR support. Postgraduate researcher development is
 overseen by the DHoD for Graduate Studies.
 The divisions (with academic staff numbers) are:
 Division-A: Energy, Fluid Mechanics and Turbomachinery (30)
 Division-B: Electrical Engineering (24)
 Division-C: Mechanics, Materials and Design (25)
 Division-D: Civil Engineering (25)
 Division-E: Institute for Manufacturing (17)
 Division-F: Information Engineering (27).


 Research Areas and Themes
 Research activity is arranged around ~15 multi-disciplinary areas crossing the six discipline
 divisions. The number of areas reflects CUED’s size and the breadth of research activity. Selected
 areas include:
 Energy. Research investigates energy systems at a wide range of scales, from microelectronics
 to propulsion and transportation. A strong recent focus is energy storage, electrification and other
 technical solutions for zero-emission transportation, including high-power-density electrical
 systems, electro-mechanical properties of materials for energy storage and alternative fuels. The
 research also supports mitigating the environmental impacts of established technologies through
 building fundamental understandings of reacting flows, acoustics and turbines (aero, wind and
 tidal). CUED Centres involved in energy research include the Whittle Laboratory, the University
 Gas Turbine Partnership (supported by Rolls-Royce) and the Centre for Doctoral Training in
 Future Propulsion Technologies. There is alignment with the EnergyTransitions@Cambridge IRC,
 and strong industrial engagement, e.g. Rolls-Royce, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and Siemens
 (see two Impact Case Studies on turbomachinery).
 Materials. Research spans: nano-scale and electronic materials to micro-architectured materials
 and to bulk construction materials. Common to research at all scales is building fundamental
 insights and using new understanding to develop models for material behaviour supporting new

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engineering applications, the creation of new engineered materials, and new materials processing
 technologies. Application areas include functional and layered materials, materials for
 communications, flexible electronics, biomaterials, nano- and micro-engineered materials and
 self-healing construction materials. CUED Centres engaged in materials research include the
 Cambridge Graphene Centre, the EPSRC programme grants Resilient Materials for Life and
 LightForm: Embedding Materials Engineering in Manufacturing with Light Alloy and the Advanced
 Nanotube Application and Manufacturing Initiative. CUED operates shared materials-research
 facilities for the Royce Institute.
 Bioengineering and healthcare. Research includes quantitative neuroscience, tissue and organ
 engineering and theoretical and experimental investigations of how biomaterials, from cells to skin,
 bone and muscles, respond to mechanical and other stimuli. Fundamental insights into biological
 systems are developed to create engineered solutions for health and wellbeing. Healthcare
 research includes diagnostic and therapeutic technologies and systems approaches to healthcare
 delivery. CUED Centres include the EPSRC Interdisciplinary Research Collaboration in Targeted
 Delivery for Hard-to-Treat Cancers, the EPSRC NetworkPlus Fast Assessment and Treatment in
 Healthcare and the Cambridge Centre for Engineering Better Care, a collaboration with the School
 of Clinical Medicine. Research in bioengineering and healthcare is often undertaken in close
 collaboration with clinical and biological-sciences researchers.
 Environment. This includes technical and policy research. Technical approaches include carbon
 capture, environmental fluid flows and air quality modelling and sustainable transport. Policy
 research is underpinned by quantitative engineering analysis. Research in the environment area
 overlaps considerably with other themes, including materials (e.g. low-carbon materials, energy-
 storage technologies) and energy (e.g. renewable energy generation, emission reductions in
 conventional energy generation, novel propulsion systems). CUED’s major initiatives include the
 EPSRC Programme Grant UK FIRES: Locating Resource Efficiency at the Heart of Future
 Industrial Strategy in the UK, the EPSRC Centre for Sustainable Road Freight and CUED
 contributes to UCAM’s Cambridge Zero initiative and EnergyTransitions@Cambridge IRC.
 Cities and infrastructure. This area addresses policy, digital and data science, resilience of
 infrastructure, construction materials, construction technologies and transportation. Research
 focuses on new technologies underpinning the development and maintenance of resilient
 infrastructure, and the enabling of safe and cost-effective developments in increasingly crowded
 and challenging construction environments both above and below ground. CUED Centres
 supporting research and external engagement in this area include in the Schofield Centre for
 geotechnical research, the Laing O'Rourke Centre for Construction Engineering and Technology,
 the Cambridge Centre for Smart Infrastructure and Construction and the Centre for Doctoral
 Training in Future Infrastructure and Built Environment. Research in this area engages closely
 with the UCAM-based Centre for Digital Built Britain. The Impact Case Study on Smart
 Infrastructure followed from research and industrial collaboration in this theme.
 Intelligent systems. Research spans from theoretical foundations of machine learning and
 inference to autonomous systems, analysis of highly connected systems, robotics, language
 processing and applications of machine learning and AI to physical engineering systems. CUED’s
 unique strength in this area is the breadth of expertise with research leaders in theory and
 fundamentals through to advanced applications (e.g. robotics, autonomous vehicles, materials
 discovery, data analytics of cities and infrastructure). Latest theoretical developments in machine
 learning and AI are adapted to challenging engineering applications, and engineering applications
 drive new theoretical developments in machine learning and AI. CUED is a partner in the UKRI
 Centre for Doctoral Training Application of Artificial Intelligence to the Study of Environmental
 Risks. There is close alignment with the Cambridge Centre for Data-Driven Discovery. Several

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff members are affiliated with the Alan Turing Institute. Close links exist with numerous
 companies, including Microsoft Research and Toyota.
 Management and policy. Research includes how businesses can manage and exploit changes
 driven by technology advances, including supply chain management, intellectual property
 management and digitalisation, and how government policy can impact on productivity,
 international competitiveness and resilience. Research is highly collaborative, and frequently
 undertaken with colleagues at the Cambridge Judge Business School, and with businesses
 through centres at CUED including the Cambridge Service Alliance, the Strategic Technology and
 Innovation Management Consortium and the Digital Supply Chain Consortium. Research
 interactions with wider UCAM include the Cambridge Global Food Security IRC. Research in this
 area led to the Impact Case Study Roadmapping for Strategic Technology and Innovation
 Management.


 1.2 Research Strategy
 A distinguishing feature of research across the UoA is recognition of the underlying strength in
 curiosity-driven research, promoted in synergy with strategic initiatives that build activity, capacity
 and collaboration in identified areas. The Departments’ research strategies support and
 encourage innovative, curiosity-driven research at the highest international level. UCAM has a
 long history of academic-led, ground-up research. This has led to successful research and
 innovation that builds on the strength and ambition of the academic staff. There is emphasis on
 consultative structures within departments to build strategies by consensus, underpinned by the
 highest-quality research staff. There is wide consultation with external advisory bodies.


 1.2.1 Departmental-Based Research Strategy
 The overall aim of the Departments is to conduct the highest-quality research in a vibrant,
 multidisciplinary environment, which shapes and defines the future direction of engineering and
 materials science. The Departments are, collectively, exceptionally placed to support multi-
 disciplinary research through the breadth of expertise in the UoA, and through strong links to other
 departments in UCAM, elsewhere in the UK and internationally.


 DMSM
 The strategy is to: (i) prioritise research quality in staff appointments, (ii) maintain a broad portfolio
 rooted in the research areas (listed in §1.1), while ensuring each remains of critical mass, (iii) build
 on this breadth to initiate cross-disciplinary efforts in DMSM and to establish best-with-best
 national and international collaborations, (iv) maintain diversity of research income. DMSM’s
 Research Committee (RC) overviews research strategy and launches initiatives. RC decisions are
 informed by DMSM and research-group strategies and Government policy.
 Regarding strategy development and review, DMSM’s research portfolio is reviewed regularly
 with internal and external input. The RC is the primary internal source of consultation and
 recommendation, supplemented by biennial ‘awaydays’ where major issues are debated.
 Following a UCAM Strategic Research Review in 2018, DMSM prioritised growth initially in
 computational materials science, enabled if required by proleptic appointments.




                                                                                                    Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 CEB
 A key objective is to translate sustainable practice into industry, academia and policy, promoting
 exploitation of innovations from research in industry or spin-out companies. The strategy is to: i)
 recruit and retain world leading research staff in key areas of interest, ii) provide world-leading
 research infrastructure, iii) maintain a diversified income portfolio, including a mix of industrial and
 Government funding, iv) provide research and leadership training to generate responsible leaders
 in academia and industry.
 Research strategy is developed around its cross-disciplinary culture and builds on core
 competencies in (i) materials, (ii) sensors and diagnostics, and (iii) process and reaction
 engineering. It is implemented by the Research Committee, headed by the DHoD for Research
 and comprises an inclusive cross-section of academics (6M, 4F from PDRA to Professor), meeting
 termly and liaising closely with the HoD and the Department’s external communication officer.
 CEB’s research portfolio was reviewed by an international expert panel during a UCAM Strategic
 Research Review (SRR) in 2018, which reaffirmed its strategy but recommended a restructuring
 of technical support, which was completed in early 2020. Members of the SRR panel serve on an
 external advisory board invited every 2 years to advise on CEB strategy. Further advice is sought
 in annual meetings with industry partners and national bodies (AstraZeneca, Shell, BP,
 Schlumberger, TATA, Nokia, DEFRA, NPL).


 CUED
 The objective is to benefit society by creating world-leading engineering knowledge that fosters
 sustainability, prosperity and resilience. By ensuring integration across its disciplines, CUED
 addresses major challenges and develops complete solutions. Sustainability has been central to
 strategy since 2009. Key to achieving our strategic aims are (i) recruitment and retention of
 internationally outstanding researchers, (ii) actively maintaining a cohesive and broad research
 profile to deliver integrated solutions to major scientific, industrial and societal challenges; (iii)
 building the necessary capacity in new strategic research areas to have major research impact,
 and ensuring that capacity is maintained in established areas with continuing high research
 potential and (iv) maintaining balanced income streams                       (Government/industry/
 charity/philanthropy) to underpin and support core objectives. Strategic initiatives are supported
 through: (i) academic appointments in areas identified for strategic growth; (ii) events to attract
 academics from across the divisions to develop research plans in strategic areas; and (iii) seed
 funding to build activity and capacity in identified areas.
 Regarding strategy development and review, the HoD and the Academic Committee are
 advised by the Research Committee in development, review and implementation. Review of
 research strategy occurs regularly and is informed by (i) bottom-up consultation with academic
 staff at all career stages, (ii) engagement with, and response to, UCAM strategic developments,
 and collaborative initiatives with other departments, (iii) global trends and the directions, needs
 and priorities of research sponsors (government, industry and charities), and (iv) review every 2-
 3 years by the International Visiting Committee. The ~15 research areas/themes that are used to
 frame research activity across CUED are reviewed annually by the Research Committee. Strategic
 development is driven by decisions to expand or intensify research activity in identified existing or
 new areas. Strategy is implemented through new appointments and/or supporting Department-
 wide working groups and other initiatives to build and establish capacity. Recent examples of
 expanded activity in the bioengineering and health area following targeted support include:



                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    -   Cambridge Centre for Engineering Better Care, a UCAM-funded collaborative centre led
        by PIs from CUED and the School of Clinical Medicine. This includes office space and
        laboratories on the Biomedical Campus. The Cambridge Public Health IRC and the Centre
        for Engineering Better Care are embedded in CUED.
    -   Institute for Neuroscience, a collaboration amongst departments including Physiology,
        Development and Neuroscience, Psychology, CUED, Applied Mathematics and
        Theoretical Physics and Physics, funded by UCAM.
    -   The £10M EPSRC Interdisciplinary Research Collaboration in Targeted Delivery for Hard-
        to-Treat Cancers, led by CUED, started in 2018.
 CUED contributes to research strategy development in the SoT and UCAM, and in the wider
 national and international communities by encouraging and supporting staff in public engagement
 and through membership of industrial, Government and charity technical and policy boards.


 1.3 Research Impact Strategy
 Natural routes to impact are formed by the highly-supportive industrial partners collaborating with
 each Department. Additionally, commercialisation of research outputs via spin-outs and
 entrepreneurship is supported by the Departments and wider UCAM with professional support
 from Cambridge Enterprise (CE) and financial support from CE Seed and UCAM Enterprise
 Funds. The Departments also benefit from the highly-networked enterprises located on the
 science parks around Cambridge, supplemented by substantial collaboration beyond UCAM. The
 benefits of Science Park enterprises are that they employ graduates and consultants from UCAM,
 they use high-specification experimental facilities (e.g. hosted by the Royce Institute) and present
 important areas for research.


 DMSM
 Departmental environment and ethos encourages close relationships between academic staff and
 leading industries. Links with industry are developed and strengthened, and research impacts are
 promoted, by a dedicated Research and Business Development Manager. DMSM works with ~40
 companies, prioritising transfer of technology and wealth creation through e.g. spin-out companies
 (12+ established since Jan 2014) including CamSES, Paragraf, Cynergytec and Kubos
 Semiconductors. A longer-term spin-out, Inotec IMD, is included in our Impact Case Studies. CE
 holds weekly surgeries dedicated to meeting members of DMSM. Students and PDRAs are
 encouraged to participate in UCAM-wide activities to provide training: i-Teams, Impulse
 Programme (Maxwell Centre), Accelerate Programme (Judge Business School), and events run
 by the Cambridge University Technology & Enterprise Club. The Postdocs of Cambridge Society
 and CE run a business-plan competition: in the last five years, four finalists have been from DMSM,
 with Dr Tongtong Zhu winning the first prize and establishing spin-out Porotech which has raised
 £1.5M seed funding to commercialise high-efficiency GaN LEDs.


 CEB
 More than 40 companies benefit from CEB’s staged engagement model, offering collaborative
 projects that range from pilot study to fully funded research programme. Engagement ranges from
 short proof-of-concept studies (e.g. Alphasense, Fluidic Analytics, Galvani, etc.) to full-scale
 collaboration (e.g. AstraZeneca, Johnson Matthey – see MRI Impact Case Study, Shell,


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Schlumberger, Infinitus). Active links are maintained with industry through consultancy and funded
 research programmes. CEB hosts biweekly industry lunch talks and engages a professional
 research facilitator to match needs with skill. Commercialisation of research outputs via spin-outs
 and entrepreneurship is encouraged with support from Cambridge Enterprise. Recent spin-outs
 from CEB include Computational Modelling Cambridge Ltd, Immaterials Ltd and EnVal. CEB’s
 impact strategy is informed through close links with national research bodies and government
 departments, including the National Physics Laboratory, British Antarctic Survey, the Centre of
 Global Equality, and DEFRA, who provide members for our advisory board. CEB academics are
 encouraged to serve on boards, with one (Gladden) serving as executive chair of EPSRC.


 CUED
 CUED supports and fosters strong relationships involving academics, industrialists, policy makers,
 governments and charities, and provides support and training on the translation of research
 developments into practice. It maintains long-term research partnerships with several major
 sponsors (including Rolls-Royce plc, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Boeing, Dyson, Laing
 O'Rourke), thereby stimulating novel research in response to emerging industrial challenges and
 facilitating effective and rapid knowledge transfer and impact through close collaboration. The
 Impact Case Studies on the S-duct and Compressor Leading Edge with Rolls-Royce, and the ICS
 on Smart Infrastructure with close engagement with research sponsors, are examples of impact
 through partnership. CUED hosts embedded industrial researchers from a wide range of sectors
 to engage in collaborative research and support research impact, with 136 embedded industry
 researchers hosted over the assessment period (82M, 54F). Academic staff are supported (e.g.
 by counting major activities as part of their teaching and administration duties) in taking up
 industrial/governmental technical and policy advisory board/panel roles to promote both industrial
 and social impact (see indicators in §4). Institute for Manufacturing Engage (IfM Engage) is a
 wholly owned subsidiary of UCAM to provide consultancy, professional development services and
 training based on research developed at the IfM and CUED. IfM Engage works with a wide range
 of policy and Government bodies, large companies and SMEs, providing a variety of training
 courses. IfM Engage consortia and training programmes support the translation of research
 developments into practice, including supporting organisations implementing Roadmapping (see
 Impact Case Study) and developing new supply chain networks. At CUED, relationships with
 industry and the translation of research into application were strengthened by hosting seven
 RAEng Visiting Professors of Innovation over the assessment period. The development of new
 external strategic relationships is supported by the Director of Strategy and Operations.


 1.4 Open Research Strategy
 Common Departmental Approach
 All Departments follow the UCAM Open Research Policy, and support academics in meeting the
 policy requirements and ambitions, aided in turn by working approaches developed by the Schools
 of Technology and Physical Sciences. Open research strategy in each Department is overseen
 by the Research Committees and the DHoDs (Research), with support since 2019 of a dedicated
 Research Librarian in CUED and DMSM, and by the Business Development Manager in DMSM.
 The support for open research includes advice on IP management, (open) licensing and data
 management with the goal of being as open as possible. Research proposal, Data Management
 and Sharing Plans are reviewed by the Research Offices in each Department to assist academics
 in developing plans that meet legal and integrity requirements. For industrial sponsors emphasis
 is put on the benefits of open research and agreeing to UCAM retaining IP rights over funded

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outputs. This allows the Departments to manage and promote the open sharing of results and IP.
 Sponsors allowing UCAM to retain IP rights are charged at a discount relative to sponsors insisting
 on retaining IP rights. The release of research software under open-source licences is supported;
 this enhances the accessibility of the research and promotes reproducibility. Within the
 assessment period, cases were made successfully to major industrial sponsors (including
 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Toyota and Rolls-Royce) to support development of open-source
 research software.
 The Sensors CDT provides formal training to scientists across the UoA (and to 18 other
 departments in UCAM) on hardware technologies for research (e.g. use of Raspberry Pis in
 scientific instrumentation, development of rapid prototyping skills and open sharing of 3D print
 designs, use of open-source software tools such as Python and Micromanager, etc.). Researchers
 and early-career PIs also receive public engagement training, e.g. through participation in the
 yearly Team Research Challenges, which engage citizens in large-scale research projects. For
 example, OpenSeneca, the 2018 Team Project, developed a citizen-science portable air-quality
 monitoring system for bicycles. This network now has global nodes with worldwide participation.
 Commentary on the UoA
 There is a commonality of approach, largely informed by evolving UCAM policy in the area
 (particularly around the details of research data management and open data access) informed by
 the Research Committee/Council of the two Schools. A good example of joined-up vision and
 strategy is the OpenVentilator initiative: https://www.cam.ac.uk/research/news/open-source-
 ventilator-designed-by-cambridge-team-for-use-in-low-and-middle-income-countries.
 This pooled resources and skills from CUED, CEB, DMSM and industry to produce a prototype
 ventilator for Covid-19 patients in low- and middle-income countries ‒ an exemplar of our ethos of
 making technology open and available to those who need it. Further developments will be
 monitored by the two Schools, via DHoDs (Research), who will support evolving requirements and
 implementation.


 1.5 Research Integrity and Ethics
 Common Departmental Approach
 Each Department follows the Universities UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity and
 incorporates the Concordat into its research strategy and training for existing researchers and at
 induction. In each Department, implementation of the Concordat is overseen by the DHoD
 (Research) and the Research Committee. In CUED, the DHoD and the Director of Strategy and
 Operations promote implementation with support from the CUED Library. In CUED and CEB,
 further assistance comes from the School of Technology Research Committee, with direct links to
 UCAM’s Research Policy Committee, ensuring that latest developments are taken up. As noted
 in §1.3, CEB has devised a new taught module for PhD researchers, open also to students in
 CUED and DMSM, on Responsible Research and Innovation, covering ethics and integrity,
 inclusive research leadership and responsible entrepreneurship.
 In CUED the ethics of research with human participation is overseen by the CUED Research
 Ethics Committee, with proposed research following a 4-stage review process. Low-risk activities
 are approved following (i) self-assessment and (ii) consideration of the research and self-
 assessment by a divisional member of the Ethics Committee. Higher-risk activities are considered
 by (iii) the full Ethics Committee, which can (iv) refer to a specialised review panel at another
 department or at UCAM level. The Committee reports annually to the UCAM Research Ethics
 Committee. Proposed research involving animals must be referred directly to UCAM’s Biomedical

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support Services and CUED’s Ethics Committee is informed. For collaborative research, e.g. with
 the Clinical School, approval may be handled by other ethics committees in UCAM.
 All research involving human tissues is conducted under NHS Research Ethics Committee
 approval. Potential use of personal data is first discussed with the Secretary to the Department
 who arranges for review by the appropriate Ethics Committee within UCAM. All Departments are
 fully compliant with the Human Tissue Act 2004.
 The Departments take all steps necessary to provide a healthy and safe environment. Compliance
 with all statutory obligations is the minimum standard. To fulfil this commitment, each Department
 implements the health, safety and welfare policies of UCAM and supplements them with local
 departmental policies and guidance as necessary. Each HoD has ultimate responsibility for
 ensuring the health and safety of all staff, students and others using, or working on behalf of, the
 Department, supported by DHoDs, Academic Supervisors, line managers, Departmental Safety
 Officers and specialist Biological, Laser and Radiation Safety Officers and UCAM’s Safety Office.
 The formulation and review of Departmental health and safety policy, guidance and the monitoring
 of health and safety requirements, implementation and performance is the responsibility of the
 various Departmental Safety Committees, chaired by the respective HoD.


 1.6 Achievement of Planned Aims in the Assessment Period
 DMSM
 In REF 2014, DMSM identified 3 main aims, each achieved.
 1.   To appoint an internationally leading scholar to the Cottrell Chair. Professor Chris Pickard
      was appointed in 2015 to lead research in computational materials science and materials
      discovery.
 2.   To develop industrial collaboration in the context of the Maxwell Centre. Since 2014, DMSM
      has been a fully engaged partner in the Maxwell Centre, UCAM’s West Cambridge hub to
      facilitate interactions between industry and academia. Over the assessment period, DMSM
      has housed 12 researchers in the Centre including Rivera (now Professor at Lancaster
      University). DMSM continued to develop collaborations with industrial partners since 2014
      including, e.g. the completion of an SKF centre, based at the Maxwell Centre, leading in part
      to a new collaboration with Ovako, based at the Maxwell Centre but working with
      instrumentation and staff within DMSM.
 3.   To continue academic staff renewal by appointments at international level. In addition to the
      Cottrell Chair, DMSM has made 10 appointments of outstanding internationally-leading
      academics, including the Goldsmiths’ Chair, who has initiated new research in low-
      dimensional materials. Lectureship appointments cover a broad spectrum of materials
      science: device materials, high-strength alloys, photovoltaic materials and polymer-based
      nanomaterials for energy harvesting, computational materials science, and a fixed-term
      lectureship to support the RAEng Chair in oxide materials. In addition, two lectureship
      appointments are jointly with Physics and Earth Sciences, in high-power semiconductor
      materials, and in materials characterization. A Royal Society URF was hosted to establish a
      new theme in glassy metal-organic frameworks and two RAEng Research Fellows working
      on novel steels and alloys, and novel photovoltaic materials.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 CEB
 In REF 2014, CEB identified 3 main aims, each realised.
 1. Capitalise on opportunities presented by the move to a new building. The prime objective
    during the assessment period was to seize opportunities presented by the new building to
    house all CEB research on one site at West Cambridge. The building adopts an inspirational
    design promoting the interdisciplinary interface and the flexible research clustering that has
    been a strength to date. State-of-the-art bespoke facilities support the research of strategic
    appointments in materials and biomedical research (Stranks, Kaminski-Schierle, Torrente,
    Fruk, Fairen-Jimenez, Ahnert), including clean room, class 2 and 3 bio-laboratories, and
    central computing infrastructure. CEB has also benefitted from closer engagement with
    researchers in other departments on the West Cambridge site.
 2. Translation of fundamental research into practice. CEB has demonstrated its capacity to take
     knowledge across discipline boundaries. Exemplars include: development of optical imaging
     technologies to research viral vaccines and neurodegenerative disease; MRI technologies
     used to investigate reaction mechanisms in industrial plant (e.g. of catalytic pathway
     mechanism and performance); designing materials for applications from biosensors (e.g.
     engineered silk proteins) to energy (e.g. carbon capture), prosthetics (e.g. heart valves) and
     advanced materials (e.g. metallic glasses for aerospace).
 3. The Department will continue to develop ‘off-shore’ collaboration, increasing its capacity to
    promote sustainability worldwide. CEB has continued to participate in, and provide directorship
    for, the development of the Cambridge Centre for Advanced Research and Education in
    Singapore (CARES) (§4.2). It promotes international collaboration with developing countries
    via its EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Sensor Technologies for a Healthy and
    Sustainable Future (see §1.4) and the Centre for Global Equality (with CEB as a hub).


 CUED
 The following objectives, listed in REF2014, have been achieved:
 1. Secure donations and grants, use strategic funds and use other discretionary sources of
    income to invest in academic posts and research infrastructure to maintain and extend core
    disciplinary strengths in line with division aims and activities. Two new professorships (Nanjing,
    Dr John C. Taylor Professor of Innovation), three new named lectureships (Acton, Granta (2))
    and three new named research fellowships (Dowling (2), Ashby) have been created through
    philanthropic gifts and the sale of spin-off companies. Two new lectureships have been
    supported through industrial philanthropic gifts (Machine Learning and Computer Vision,
    Toyota). Strategic funds have been used to create 13 new lectureship posts over the
    assessment period.
 2. As research income continues to grow, maintain the share from industry at one-third, secured
    by building long-term strategic relationships. Research income has increased by 18.4% since
    2013/14, with the share from industry being at approximately 22%. Long-term funding
    relationships have been strengthened (including Dyson, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Rolls-
    Royce plc), and new relationships developed (including Boeing, Huawei, Toyota). Industry
    funding is below 1/3 due to growth in Government (non-Research Council) and charity
    research funding.
 3. Increase numbers of high-quality research students by winning new EPSRC CDTs, securing
    more industrial funding and attracting more philanthropic donations. The number of research

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    students has climbed from 858 in 2014/15 to 987 in 2019/20, and CUED is involved with 8 new
    CDTs.
 4. Increase the numbers of high-quality postdoctoral researchers by making an increasing
    provision for them in grant applications, so that they can provide gearing for academics and
    build research capacity. The number of postdoctoral scholars increased from 270 (216M, 54F)
    in 2013/2014 to 297 (236M, 61F) in 2019/2020.
 5. Improve the recruitment, induction, transferable skills training and career development for
    research students and postdoctoral researchers. Transferable skills training is provided to
    research students at both divisional (domain-specific) and Department (library, language and
    communication) levels. Postdoctoral researchers are supported in career development by an
    expanded UCAM Office for Postdoctoral Affairs.
 6. Progress from a bronze award to gold under the Athena SWAN programme and achieve
    measurable improvements in the numbers of women applying for posts, securing
    appointments and winning promotions. The Athena SWAN Committee has expanded its scope
    to address inclusivity, diversity and gender equality, and CUED has embedded EDI into its
    core governance structures during the assessment period. Athena SWAN Silver was achieved
    in 2017 and renewed in 2020, and work towards Gold continues.
 7. Invest to win significant funding for major projects under the T1 (Energy, Transport and Urban
    Infrastructure) theme, build stronger links across UCAM, including social sciences, and secure
    funding for new posts. Funding was secured for the Cambridge Centre for Smart Infrastructure
    and Construction (CISC Phase 2 2016-2021, c. £3M), the Sustainable Road Freight 2 Project
    (2018-2023, EPSRC, £3.7M) and the UCAM EnergyTransitions@Cambridge IRC. The pan-
    University Centre for Digital Built Britain was launched in 2017 (Innovate UK, £5.4M to launch
    the Centre, £40.7M total), with CUED active in its governance.
 8. Shape the T2 (Uncertainty, Risk and Resilience) theme in collaboration with industrial and
    academic partners to build a solid intellectual foundation for the theme and win funding for
    landmark projects. This theme was reshaped to Complex, Resilient and Intelligent Systems.
    Appointments were made to the Sir Kirby Laing Chair, random vibration (1 lectureship), and
    machine learning for robotic vision (2 lectureships) and a new Human-Machine Collaboration
    Observatory (supported by the UCAM Academic Seed Fund).
 9. Raise the profile of the T3 (Bioengineering) theme, forging ever stronger collaborations with
    the Schools of Biological Sciences and Clinical Medicine and Addenbrooke’s Hospital with the
    aim of growing research capacity by 50% through new academic posts, additional research
    staff and more research studentships. Additional lecturers were appointed in Bioengineering,
    Synthetic Biology, Healthcare Technologies, and Medical Therapeutics (joint with Physics);
    the Centre for Engineering Better Care was created (in collaboration with the School of Clinical
    Medicine, with seed funding from UCAM); the Institute for Neuroscience created (in
    collaboration with departments including Physiology, Development and Psychology,
    Mathematics and Physics); and the EPSRC IRC in Targeted Delivery for Hard-to-Treat
    Cancers was established.
 10. Bring our research and practice of knowledge creation and transfer closer together in the T4
     (Inspiring research through industrial collaboration) theme, take a leading role in the UCAM,
     and embed the message that CUED excels in this field in its marketing. This theme was
     reshaped as Manufacturing, Design and Materials, with numerous major successes, including
     the newly-endowed John C Taylor Professor of Innovation and the Boeing Supplier of the Year
     2017 award. A Knowledge Transfer team was created over the assessment period, with 3 staff
     in 2020.

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 11. To create over 2500m2 of new space in CUED for multidisciplinary research, over 2000m2
     specifically for Division-B and improve the functionality and environmental performance of
     existing space. Three major new research buildings have been developed: an extension for
     Division-B to house the Cambridge Graphene Centre (2600m2, 2015, £12.9M, funded by
     UCAM); the James Dyson Building (2900m2, 2016, £13.2M, funded by the James Dyson
     Foundation (£6M) and UCAM), a flagship building for energy efficiency which has incorporated
     structural sensing from CUED research providing research office and seminar space; and a
     new Civil Engineering building (4400m2, 2019, £36M, funded by BEIS/EPSRC (£18M) and
     UCAM (£18M)). Redeveloped spaces include the Library and connected Dyson Centre for
     Engineering Design (1570m2, 2016, £5.3M, funded by James Dyson Foundation (£2M) and
     CUED), supporting students in independent multidisciplinary investigation.


 1.7 Forward Plans
 Plans for UoA Overall
 1. Ensure coordination across the UoA, as described in §1.2.
 2. Continue work on gender equality and continue to broaden the scope to equality and diversity
    and inclusion. Implement initiatives from undergraduate teaching through to senior leadership,
    expand EDI training, and monitor Admissions, Teaching and Learning and Employment
    outcomes to inform EDI strategy. Integrate more research into undergraduate teaching to offer
    greater and deeper research exposure for undergraduates during their degrees.
 3. Engage with UCAM’s Development Office to raise funds for endowed chairs, lectureships and
    research studentships, for the provision of competitive recruitment packages for international
    talent and to support the activities of early-stage researchers.
 4. Support UCAM and Government plans to achieve energy transition and decarbonisation of the
    economy by focused, multidisciplinary research, taking into account both technological and
    social factors. There will be strong contributions to Cambridge Zero.


 DMSM
 Consistent with its themes in §1.1, DMSM will:
 1.   Will grow overall by 20% over the 5 years from the 2018 Strategic Research Review, widening
      and intensifying fund-raising for key priorities, e.g. research studentships. Such growth implies
      four new academic posts (two already created, §2.2).
 2.   Further strengthen the Department’s profile in computational materials science, taking a
      national lead in the Materials Discovery theme and building on success of the CDT in
      Computational Methods. Develop critical-mass strategies for materials research for climate
      change and sustainability. Increase industrial collaboration in the context of the Maxwell
      Centre.
 3.   Take the lead in the development of metallurgy for the future, appointing an internationally-
      leading scholar to the Tata Chair. Continue academic staff renewal to contribute to key
      themes, making appointments at international level.
 4.   Enhance support for all staff through targeted professional training and development including
      EDI training and a boosted appraisal processes.



                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 5.   Actively engage in the digital transformation of teaching and outreach. Enhance teaching
      facilities and progress modern methods of teaching. Develop and expand the existing
      provision of publicly-available online resources in Materials Science.


 CEB
 CEB will:
 1. Expand capability in the fields of sustainable technologies and processes, and capitalise on
    associated opportunities, e.g. to decarbonise the chemical industries. This will be achieved
    through new academic posts in the area and strategic deployment of collaborative research
    networks led from CEB, e.g. the Sensors CDT, SynTech CDT and CARES C4T (§4.2).
 2. Deliver a bespoke programme in responsible research and innovation, and entrepreneurial
    leadership to all researchers and to promote technological discovery in an ethical, sustainable
    and balanced manner.
 3. Formalise the incorporation and use of open technologies in research and to facilitate this
    through the provision of a new, state-of-the-art makerspace workshop, providing facilities for
    rapid prototyping, mechanical and electronic design. Provide research training in these
    technologies to all incoming researchers.
 4. Increase training in modern research methods at the undergraduate level.


 CUED
 In addition to the area research plans, CUED will:
 1. Expand its research activity in the fields of sustainability, health, robotics, and data/AI for
    engineering systems through the creation of new lectureships to ensure the necessary
    capacity to address major long-term research challenges. Where possible, appointments will
    form bridges between academic divisions to stimulate multi-disciplinarity.
 2. Construct the new National Centre for Propulsion and Power and redevelop the Whittle
    Laboratory to support research at the forefront of zero-carbon air transport, and to create
    dedicated spaces to support (i) closer engagement with researchers in other disciplines and
    (ii) deep engagement with industrial users.
 3. Enhance support for new academics in establishing their independent research activities
    through targeted professional support, expanded and tailored financial support for research
    equipment and expanded mentoring.
 4. Develop new programmes and initiatives to build and support multi-disciplinary research
    interactions within CUED as it progressively moves divisions from the city centre to West
    Cambridge, and to build collaborations with other departments on that site (CEB, DMSM,
    Computer Science & Technology, Physics); and strengthen collaborations with Clinical
    Medicine.




                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People


 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 Overall UoA Approach
 The UoA supports excellence at all levels of employment and ensures that UoA12 policies are
 fully consonant with those of UCAM. There is effective liaison between UCAM’s central HR
 function and the three Departments via the HR Business functions of the Schools of Technology
 and Physical Sciences. Strategy is directed towards:
 (i) Recruiting and retaining talent. The objectives are to ensure that recruitment is managed
 strategically, aligned to institutional succession plans and to effectively manage the introduction
 of UCAM’s plan for Academic Career Progression, which governs promotion. For professional and
 technical staff, a priority is to ensure that effective career progression opportunities are provided
 and that excellence is recognised, rewarded and shared through implementation of UCAM reward
 and recognition schemes. Great care is taken to ensure that all staff involved in recruitment and
 selection conduct fair and robust processes. Increased emphasis over the assessment period has
 been placed on ensuring that senior leaders and managers are fully equipped to manage staff to
 facilitate the retention of the best talent. There is access is to a range of required and voluntary
 training from UCAM, for staff at all career stages, covering research, teaching, administration and
 leadership.
 (ii) Equality, diversity and inclusivity. Priorities are to improve the gender balance of the workforce
 and to develop management skills to ensure staff wellbeing and optimal performance. To ensure
 best-practice, consistent HR is employed across all Departments, including managing EDI and
 Unconscious Bias training for all staff. Tackling reported bullying and similar workplace issues
 robustly is emphasised, including raising awareness of UCAM’s initiatives e.g. Breaking the
 Silence and Dignity@Work. Differences by gender and ethnicity on applying for promotion are
 now monitored, and follow-up actions include widening mentoring schemes and appropriate
 alterations to appraisal.
 (iii) Organisational development and design. Departments review and adapt their staff strategies
 to ensure that they have optimal organisational structures enabling them to meet their current and
 long-term objectives.


 2.2 Academic Recruitment
 Overall Approach
 For each appointment, a search committee is formed and tasked with advertising the post widely
 and publicising posts through international networks. Diversity of the appointment panels is
 carefully considered, and new requirements were introduced in 2014 to encourage diverse
 applicant lists: this is monitored by the Schools and has been successful in widening the pool of
 applicants. Short-listing panels must have at least one female academic member; strong
 candidates from under-represented groups are actively sought by search committees; and family-
 friendly policies are included in the further particulars. Chairs of search committees must report to
 the HoD or Head of School on what steps were taken to encourage a diverse pool of applicants.
 Short-listed candidates are invited for an intensive visit of interviews, presentations and discussion
 with academics.



                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 DMSM
 Since REF 2014, DMSM has recruited to 10 academic positions. The Goldsmiths’ Chair
 (Chhowalla) leads a new research direction in low-dimensional materials, and the Sir Alan Cottrell
 Chair (Pickard) leads our focus in computational materials science. Lecturers appointed are:
 Robinson (now Professor), strengthening DMSM’s leading role in superconducting spintronics;
 Ringe (jointly with Earth Sciences), leading work in the structural and optical characterization of
 natural and man-made materials; Hirst (jointly with Physics) leading work on semiconductor
 materials, especially for high-power applications; Jones, leading on novel metallic systems,
 including multi-principal element alloys and structural-functional materials for use in aerospace;
 Evans, developing novel photovoltaic materials; and Kar-Narayan developing polymer-based
 nanomaterials for energy-harvesting and sensing. In 2019/20, the focus on other funding sources
 secured a permanent Teaching Fellow from the JEO Mayne Trust (relieving pressure on research-
 active staff) and the appointment of two Lecturers, Monserrat Sanchez (in Computational
 Materials Science funded from the Gianna Angelopoulos Programme) and di Martino through an
 RAEng Award (Appointments overall 50%M, 50%F). Two further lectureship appointments will be
 made in 2021. Since 2017, seven staff have retired (UCAM’s Employee-Justified Retirement Age,
 EJRA, is 67). Of the 7 relevant posts, 4 have been filled proleptically to retain strength in certain
 areas (materials chemistry, structural materials) and the strategy for the remainder is focused on
 recruitment of established leaders, or those with demonstrated leadership potential, at the highest
 international level of quality, ability and creativity. Supported by SPS and UCAM, DMSM delivers
 substantial start-up packages to attract the best internationally at all appointment levels. As a
 result, appointees have rapidly established sustainable groups, e.g. through ERC
 Starting/Consolidator Grants totalling c. £7M to Evans, Ringe, Moya, Kar-Narayan. DMSM
 recognises the strategic importance of attracting Research Fellows to nurture the best talent and
 explore new areas. In attracting staff at all levels, world-class infrastructure is vital; recent
 investments in equipment and our state-of-the-art building (2013), maintain DMSM at the leading
 edge of facility provision.


 CEB
 Over the last decade, CEB has grown its established academic posts to increase capability in key
 underpinning areas of fundamental research in materials, sensors and diagnostics and reaction
 and process engineering. In line with the strategy outlined in REF 2014, recruitment has continued
 to focus on succession planning and balancing a strong mid/late-career profile in CEB, taking into
 account fundamental research and teaching needs. Since 2014, ten appointments have been
 made:
 1. Mid-career and senior staff: Owens (F) and Smart (F)) have wide experience and outstanding
    research records. Owens harnesses the power of engineering to develop in vitro biological
    models and uses this understanding for diagnostic and therapeutic development, bringing new
    bioengineering capability. Smart’s research in bioprocess development sees her return to
    academia following a prominent position in industry. These appointments are in line with the
    EDI agenda to achieve higher female representation at senior levels.
 2. Early-career appointments and succession planning: Further recruitment (4M, 4F) has been
    made to develop core research strands for the future. Stranks (M) works, inter alia, on solar
    photovoltaics for energy generation. Fruk (F) works on Chemical Tools for NanoMaterials
    Engineering, designing new materials with biomedicinal function. Torrente (F) studies
    sustainable reaction engineering and green catalysts. Fairen-Jimenez’s (M) research
    concerns MOFs. Kaminski Schierle’s (F) research is on the molecular mechanisms of

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    diseases. Hallmark’s (M) research is on non-Newtonian liquids. Ahnert (M) conducts work on
    theoretical aspects of biotechnology. Marek (F), a fixed-term Lecturer, works on chemical-
    looping processes.
 3. Early-career incubator: CEB’s effort on this has made good progress. Of the 15 Fellows cited
    in REF2014, four have been appointed to lectureships in UCAM (three in CEB) and others
    have taken up senior appointments elsewhere. In supporting ECRs in their transition to
    permanent academic posts, Torrente (see above) was appointed to a Lectureship, while
    holding an EPSRC Early Career Fellowship, Fairen-Jimenez, who was appointed as a Royal
    Society URF, moved to a Lectureship in 2015. Both have been promoted to Readers during
    the assessment period. Stranks (appointed to a Lectureship in 2019) will hold his Royal
    Society URF alongside his Lectureship until 2022. CEB has hosted 6 fellowships (College,
    Royal Society, Leverhulme, Marie Curie and RAEng). These Fellows are fully integrated with
    the Department and mentored in teaching and research to build an international reputation en
    route to a permanent position.


 CUED
 The overall aim is managed growth through new appointments in identified strategic,
 interdisciplinary areas to enhance collaborations across academic divisions and with other
 departments. The demographic balance of CUED is good; the mean age of established academic
 staff is 49, with 16% under 40 and 13% over 60. The UCAM EJRA allows proleptic filling of posts
 and aids an appropriate balance of experience.
 The research domain for new appointments is defined by the HoD in discussion with the Academic
 Committee, with consideration of the research strategy developed through a range of internal and
 external consultations as described in §1.2. Over the assessment period, greater weight was given
 to building focused capacity with synergistic appointments for research impact in a fast-moving
 environment, while responding to changes in funding towards larger programmes. Clusters of
 appointments provide the depth and breadth to build strong programmes, e.g. the appointment of
 two Lecturers in the Internet of Things (strengthening the intelligent systems area) and two
 Lecturers in sustainability (strengthening the environment area).
 Over the assessment period, 38 (28M, 10F) Lecturers and 8 (7M, 1F) Professors were appointed,
 including:
    1. Girolami (M): Sir Kirby Laing Professor of Civil Engineering (from Imperial College),
       supporting strategic directions in data for engineering systems, providing a management-
       level interface to UCAM’s Digital Built Britain Centre and strengthening the cities and
       infrastructure and intelligent systems areas.
    2. Malliaras (M): Prince Philip Professor of Technology (from École des Mines de St. Étienne)
       in bioelectronics, linking bioengineering, sensing and electrical engineering themes, and
       strengthening the healthcare area.
    3. Viggiani (F): Professor of Infrastructure Geotechnics (from Università di Roma),
       strengthening the cities and infrastructure area.
    4. Minshall (M): John C Taylor Professor of Innovation, with a focus on technology and
       process management and strengthening the technology management and policy area.
    5. Appointments to lectureships included Davies Wykes (F) to the Liz Acton Lectureship in
       Engineering, noteworthy because the terms of the post include promotion of women's
       participation in Engineering.

                                                                                          Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.3 Academic Probation and Career Progression
 Overall Approach
 The importance of staff development at all career stages is recognised: training and support that
 address the challenges at different career stages are provided.
 Early Career/New Appointments. Appointments of academic and research staff, at levels below
 Readership, are subject to satisfactory completion of 3- or 5-year probation depending on the
 length of tenure: UCAM Pathways in Higher Education Practice offers induction, personalised
 orientation and professional development during this period. Newly-appointed staff are assigned
 a mentor, tasked to advise and inform on everyday aspects of the new role and to share skills,
 knowledge and experience. More experienced staff can draw on peer-mentoring. Gender is
 carefully considered in conjunction with the staff member being mentored as there is evidence
 that this affects the success of mentoring. The scheme (most recently amended in 2019) is actively
 monitored, and is designed to be supportive and driven by the strategy of maintaining the highest
 international standards in research and teaching. Distinction in research, leadership and
 management and teaching is critical, and there is an expectation of internal and external
 contribution to the discipline. Teaching loads are carefully managed for probationers to assist them
 in developing their research profile. Each Department has its procedures for the assessment of,
 and support for, probationers. e.g. in CUED, cases are reviewed annually by an Academic
 Probation Committee (chaired by the HoD), with external references sought after 2 years in post,
 and again after 4 years in post. Subsequent support and training are provided to address any
 issues identified during the probation process. The DHoDs (Research) also support ECRs in
 navigating funding opportunities, and provide support in preparing research proposals and in
 building a research portfolio that balances collaborative work and the development of
 independence. A wide range of training courses is offered for ECRs. Support for UKRI Fellowship
 applications at Department and School level is coordinated across the UoA, providing assistance
 during writing, mentoring for appointed fellows, full integration into host Departments, and a staged
 career progression plan.
 Mid-career The Departments recognise that mid-career staff face challenges around managing
 larger grants, leading larger groups, increased administrative load, and increased professional
 and personal time pressures. Staff at this stage are offered training on topics including project
 management, financial management, mentoring and leading teams. Staff are supported by
 Research Group Heads and/or the DHoDs Research and Teaching in building skills and working
 toward senior promotions.
 Established staff taking on senior leadership roles follow UCAM Senior Leadership Programmes
 ‒ intensive programmes for current and future leaders in the UoA and the wider UCAM.


 Career Progression
 Promotions to personal Readerships and Professorships require evidence of international
 research recognition and leadership, and a strong record in teaching and contribution to the
 department, UCAM and the field. The Senior Academic Promotions process is highly formalised,
 UCAM-wide and run annually, with final decisions made by a committee chaired by the Vice-
 Chancellor. HoDs (and Division heads in CUED) support academics in building their activities and
 profile in preparation for a promotion application, and suggest to academic staff whom they judge
 ready, that they consider a promotion application. This is critical for supporting diversity in senior
 academic promotions. Support for promotion applications is also available through the UCAM


                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Senior Academic Promotions CV Mentoring Scheme, designed particularly to encourage female
 academics to apply.
 Since Jan 2014, DMSM has achieved 5 promotions to Reader (2F, 3M) and 7 to Professor (4F,
 3M). In CEB, there was 1 (M) promotion to Senior Lecturer, 6 (3F, 3M) promotions to Reader and
 6 (2F, 4M) promotions to Professor. In CUED, over the assessment period, there were 26 (1F,
 25M) promotions to Senior Lecturer, 31 (6F, 25M) promotions to Reader and 23 (3F, 20M)
 promotions to Professor.
 Academic staff are entitled to fully paid sabbatical leave to refresh their research (every seventh
 term), a stimulant of long-term career success. Departments also have formal appraisal systems
 for academics, and staff are strongly encouraged to identify training needs to be met by Personal
 & Professional Development courses.


 2.4 Researcher Development
 Overall Approach
 UCAM’s commitment to continued improvement is formalised in its Code of Practice for Research
 Development, Code of Practice for the Employment of Contract Research Staff and the Concordat
 to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Each Department has implemented the
 provisions of these codes and several further initiatives to support engagement with researchers
 and their professional development. All PDRAs have a supervisor (providing day-to-day research
 and professional guidance) and access to mentoring, e.g. provided in CUED by their own advisor
 (a senior member of academic staff not directly involved in the research), or in DMSM by a
 volunteer panel (Academic Staff, Research Fellows and experienced PDRAs). PDRAs receive an
 arrival induction that includes an introduction to the available support and training. The UCAM
 Accommodation Service offers support with housing, and UCAM recently opened the first £350M
 phase of the NW Cambridge development, including high-quality, sustainable housing for >700
 staff. UCAM’s Head of the Postdoc Academy coordinates and develops strategy for the entire
 PDRA community and acts as an advocate for PDRAs in UCAM’s governance. Each Department
 has a Postdoc Committee to represent its PDRAs. Postdoc Committees report to Research
 Committees and directly to the HoD (CEB) or to the departmental Staff Committees (CUED and
 DMSM). The Postdoc Academy provides programmes for PDRAs in career and professional
 development, entrepreneurship, research translation, teaching and a careers service. PDRAs are
 also supported by UCAM Researcher Development. Subject to funding, promotion from PDRA
 to SRA is possible and cases are reviewed by the HoD, with approval required from the relevant
 Faculty Board. Promotion to PRA and Director of Research follows a process modelled on the
 Senior Academic Promotion Scheme. PRAs and Directors of Research are afforded PI status and
 can apply independently for grants and supervise graduate students. Outstanding PDRA work is
 also recognised through discretionary salary increments.
 In DMSM the annual Armourers & Brasiers’ Company Fellowship (£2,500) rewards outstanding
 PDRA performance. PDRAs are aided to submit strong applications for competitive research
 fellowships. Since Jan 2014, some 24 successful applications include: Royal Society URFs (×3);
 other Royal Society (Newton International, Industrial) (×6); Leverhulme Early Career; 1851
 Research Fellowship; EU (Marie Curie) (×6); Overseas (Rubicon, DFG) (×2); Commonwealth
 Fellowship; UCAM Fellowships (Herchel Smith); Cambridge College Junior Research Fellows
 (×3).
 In CEB, independence of researchers is actively promoted through a yearly appraisal process,
 and PDRAs who show leadership potential are encouraged by the Research Committee to seek


                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 promotion to SRA status. Nine SRA appointments (6M, 3F) were made during the assessment
 period. Researchers are supported by senior mentors in the writing of competitive fellowship
 applications. During the period, CEB hosted Royal Society URFs (×2), EPSRC Advanced Fellows
 (1), Wellcome Trust Career Development Fellow (1), Leverhulme Trust (1), Shuttleworth Fellow
 (1).
 CUED has created three new endowed research fellowships (Ashby and Dowling (2)) from
 philanthropic gifts for ECRs. Early-career researchers applying for competitive research
 fellowships receive guidance and support from academic and professional staff in developing
 fellowship proposals. Over the assessment period, successful applications for independent
 fellowships for ECRs to hold at CUED have included Blavatnik Fellowships, Cambridge College
 Junior Research Fellowships (×7), RAEng Enterprise Fellowships (×2) and Marie Curie
 Fellowships (×19), among many others. Holders of independent, early-career fellowships are
 assigned a senior academic as a mentor. An initiative in 2019, developed collaboratively by the
 Postdoc Committee and the Diversity Committee, is a peer-mentoring scheme where newly
 appointed ECRs are assigned a more experienced ECR as a peer-mentor.


 2.5 Researcher Appointments to Other Institutions
 Most Research Fellows and PDRAs progress to successful careers elsewhere. Developing them
 is an important national and international responsibility for UCAM and this UoA.
 DMSM has a long record of members securing permanent academic posts. Since January 2014,
 at least 40 members of the Department have left to take up tenured/tenure-track academic posts,
 including at Beijing Institute of Technology, Birmingham (×2), Boğaziçi, Cambridge, Chengdu,
 Chinese Academy of Sciences, CNRS Strasbourg, Colorado, DGIST, ETH Zurich, Fraunhofer
 Institute, Imperial College (×4), Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science, Instituto de
 Ciencia de Materiales de Sevilla, Istanbul, KICET, KTH Stockholm, Kyung Hee, Leeds, Leicester,
 Lille, Malaysia, Manchester (×2), Monpellier, Nagoya, Nanjing, Northeastern University, Ohio,
 Peshawar, Sheffield, Technion, UNIST (Korea), UNSW, Yeungnam.
 Several PDRAs from CEB have moved directly into tenured positions, including at Exeter
 University, Imperial College, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Vermont, Wageningen University, and
 UCL.
 Many PDRAs and research students from CUED secured tenured or tenure-track academic posts
 at a range of institutions over the assessment period. Destinations include: Alberta, Bath,
 Birmingham, Brunel, Cambridge, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chinese University of Hong
 Kong, Coventry, Dundee, Edinburgh Napier, Eindhoven University of Technology, Exeter, Georgia
 Tech, Glasgow, Groningen, Imperial College, Liverpool, Loughborough, Lund, Michigan State,
 Nagoya, National University of Singapore, Nottingham, Oxford, Sheffield, Southampton, Toronto,
 Tsinghua, UCL, and Warwick.


 2.6 Research Students
 Overall Approach
 Recruitment of postgraduate students follows UCAM procedures, setting high academic criteria.
 Most applicants have a Master’s degree in a relevant subject. Postgraduate students are admitted
 mostly to a PhD (3‒4 years depending on the programme and funding) and some to a 1-year
 MPhil by Research. There is an open application process, with targeted recruitment also adopted.
 A large number of postgraduate students apply on the basis of the global profile and reputation of

                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Departments. All shortlisted applicants are interviewed by at least two academics and
 candidates are ranked using consistent criteria for consideration for funding. Following UCAM’s
 Code of Practice, each research student is assigned a supervisor to advise on the planning and
 execution of their research and to provide feedback. Support is offered by an advisor (member of
 staff in a cognate research area), also in the student’s College (by a tutor, etc.) and by the
 Graduate Union. Financial support is provided by highly competitive awards from UKRI, EU,
 Cambridge Trusts and other UCAM, industry or home-country awards. The Board of Graduate
 Studies provides a database of funding opportunities. The International Student Team provides
 specialist advice. Overseas students must meet UCAM’s stringent language requirements for
 admission. The Language Centre offers workshops and self-study courses, and Departments
 encourage attendance where improvement is needed. Training and support are coordinated by
 each Department’s Graduate Education Committee.
 Brexit presents an obvious risk to the recruitment of the best graduate students, mitigated through
 increased funding efforts for graduate students to offset any extra fee costs.


 Training and Support
 Across the Departments, postgraduate students can access libraries, workshops, experimental
 facilities, computing and the wide range of opportunities for developing technical skills. Year-1
 induction includes a range of techniques lectures (~20 hrs) and two compulsory assessed
 masters-level courses. At the end of year 1, registration depends on submission of a first-year
 report and satisfactory performance in a viva voce examination in which questions may be asked
 on general background and courses taken and on the research itself. Benefits flow from being in
 the competitive, stimulating, supportive environment of high-achieving students and other
 researchers. Students are encouraged to attend research colloquia in their own Department, and
 beyond, to widen their perspectives, and they are encouraged to develop their skills further by
 demonstrating laboratory classes, supervising undergraduate research projects and teaching
 small groups (‘supervisions’, for which specialist training is given). The Departments prioritise
 postgraduate students attending, especially, international meetings, with support from
 Departments, Colleges, etc. being available.
 Each Department participates in UCAM’s Researcher Development Programme (RDP), with its
 comprehensive rolling provision of transferable skills training for all graduate students and
 researchers, including research, writing, presentation skills and team-building exercises.
 Research students must compile a record of completed training modules for consideration during
 their progress review after the first year of their PhD programme. Opportunities, including on-line
 courses, (e.g. from the Computing Service, Careers Service & Language Centre) are publicised
 to all students. As part of the RDP, students in CUED and CEB also organise annual Divisional,
 or Departmental, Research Conferences, respectively.
 In all Departments, pastoral support is extensive. Students are encouraged to speak with their
 supervisor or advisor in case of difficulties. Where a student is uncomfortable discussing an issue
 with the supervisor or advisor, they can contact the DHoD Graduate Studies or a Graduate Student
 Mentor (a senior academic staff member, one of each gender). Students are also supported by
 their college Graduate Tutor.


 Entrepreneurship
 Entrepreneurship is fostered through UCAM’s Entrepreneurship Centre which offers training and
 direct support for ECRs developing spin-out companies. Departments engage with the UCAM

                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Technology & Enterprise Club, a student organisation that hosts talks, workshops, mentoring and
 networking sessions to develop business insights. In CUED, students can also seek support from
 four Enterprise Champions.


 DMSM
 Recruitment and Admission
 Each year, 30–40 postgraduate students are admitted, mostly to a PhD. The quality of DMSM’s
 UK-educated intake is illustrated by the number of award winners including winners of the 2015
 Royal Charter Prize and the 2018 R H Craven Award. On the census date, the student population
 was 52% UK, 21% EU, 9% China, 2% India and 12% other overseas. The exceptional quality of
 DMSM students and the value added by UCAM is shown by the many awards they receive (see
 below).


 Doctoral Training Programmes
 Apart from UCAM studentships, EPSRC DTG studentships and industry-funded studentships (e.g.
 iCASE), DMSM has participated, or still participates, in four 4-year programmes: 1) DTP in
 Structural Metallic Systems for Gas Turbine Applications (training integrated across Cambridge,
 Birmingham & Swansea); 2) EPSRC CDT in Computational Methods for Materials Science; 3)
 EPSRC CDT in Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (with specialist nanoscience and technology
 courses and courses in science communication, business and research, management of
 technology and innovation); 4) EPSRC CDT in Graphene Technology.
 Student Awards
 In the assessment period, DMSM postgraduate students, and those who have progressed to
 PDRAs/RFs, have won several prizes including 6 Cambridge Society for the Application of
 Research (CSAR) awards, College senior scholarships, best poster awards, best paper awards,
 etc. IOM3 granted Megan McGregor the accolade of one of the ’15 under 30’ to watch for the
 future. Robert Hoye was given a similar mention, and featured in Forbes 30 under 30. Samer Kurdi
 was accepted to participate in the 69th Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting.


 Progress Monitoring
 After 9 months, PhD students must: submit a dissertation, successfully complete approved taught
 graduate courses and present to the student cohort in order to be formally registered for a PhD.
 The oral examination is by two staff members and covers the thesis, its general field and the
 content of the courses attended. Supervisors report on-line each term on progress. Reports,
 available to the student, are monitored by DMSM, Degree Committee, College, and Board of
 Graduate Studies, who recommend action in case of concern.


 CEB
 Recruitment and Admission
 Applications for postgraduate research courses rose from 296 in 2013/14 to 553 in 2018/19. Entry
 is highly competitive and competition for places has increased, with 77 students admitted in
 2013/14 and 107 in 2018/19.



                                                                                         Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 CEB recruits doctoral students from diverse backgrounds, both in terms of first degree and
 nationality. Around 23% have an MEng in Chemical Engineering, 24% enter with a BSc in
 Chemical Engineering, with the remaining 51% holding degrees in Engineering, Chemistry,
 Physics, Biology, Biotechnology and Biochemistry. Recruitment is from across the world, typically
 25% UK, 24% EU, 17% Americas, 3% Africa, 31% Asia and other overseas. Annual admission
 numbers are ~40, with a gradual increase. About 25% receive direct industrial or CASE awards,
 21% are Research Council funded, 20% funded from UCAM trusts, 23% privately funded.


 Doctoral Training Programmes
 Alongside UCAM studentships, EPSRC DTG studentships and industry-funded studentships (e.g.
 iCASE), CEB participates in five 5-year programmes: the EPSRC Sensors CDT led by CEB, the
 EPSRC CDT in Synthesis Technology, the EPSRC CDT in Nanoscience and Nanotechnology,
 the EPSRC CDT in Graphene Technology and the EPSRC CDT in Photonics Systems. It also
 participates in the BBSRC Doctoral Training Programme.


 Student Awards
 Research students have won awards for their work, including L’Oréal Women in Science Award
 (L’Oréal Foundation), Biobeat 2018 winner, Vice Chancellor’s award, Leete Premium Award,
 Munro Studentship and Barnes Prize, Robosoft manipulation competition and IROS 2016
 Entrepreneurship award, Nigeria Scholarship award, Armstrong and Oppenheimer Award,
 Chinese Scholarship Council, Cambridge Trust Awards (×4), and have presented their work at
 >100 international meetings, where they have regularly gained awards for best poster and best
 presentation.


 Progress Monitoring
 This is the same as for DMSM, above.


 CUED
 Recruitment and Admission
 Entry to postgraduate research programmes is highly competitive, with applications rising from
 1388 in 2013/14 to 2129 in 2018/19. In 2013/14 336 students were admitted, and 299 were
 admitted in 2018/19, the small reduction being partly due to a shift to 4-year CDTs and in part a
 change in the balance of large research projects towards postdoctoral posts and fewer PhDs.
 CUED maintains a strong web presence to publicise the available graduate programmes, seeing
 applicants from 131 different countries in 2018/19. Typical admissions are 28% UK, 27% EU, 17%
 China, 10% N America and 18% other overseas.
 Graduate open days are run on-site and funded studentships are advertised on jobs.ac.uk.


 Doctoral Training Programmes
 Over the assessment period, CUED has hosted 6 EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training:
    1. Future Infrastructure and Built Environment (FIBE), 2014-2022


                                                                                          Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    2. Gas Turbine Aerodynamics (with Loughborough and Oxford), 2014-2022
    3. Graphene Technology, 2014-2022
    4. Ultra Precision Engineering (with Cranfield University), 2014-2022
    5. Future Infrastructure and Built Environment: Resilience in a Changing World (FIBE2),
       2019-2027
    6. Future Propulsion and Power (with Loughborough and Oxford), 2019-2027


 and has been a partner in a further 8 EPSRC CDTs:
    1. Integrated Photonic and Electronic Systems (led by UCL), 2014-2022
    2. Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (led by UCAM Physics), 2014-2022
    3. Sensor Technologies and Application (led by CEB), 2014-2022
    4. Aerosol Science (led by University of Bristol), 2019-2027
    5. Agri-Food Robotics (led by University of Lincoln), 2019-2027
    6. Connected Electronic and Photonic Systems (led by UCL), 2019-2027
    7. Integrated Functional Nano: Discovery & Design to Translation and Innovation (led by
       UCAM Physics), 2019-2027
    8. Nuclear Energy Futures (led by Imperial College), 2019-2027
 and is a partner in the UKRI CDT Application of Artificial Intelligence to the Study of Environmental
 Risks.


 Student Awards
 CUED research students have received research awards that include: Amelia Earhart Award
 (Zonta Foundation), CASR Awards, DuPuy Prize, EPSRC Doctoral Prize, ERCOFTAC Da Vinci
 prize, IET Achievement Award, IET Hudswell International Research Scholarship, IMechE
 Whitworth Visionary Award, IoP Best Combustion Dissertation Award, Merck Displaying the
 Future Award, Royal Academy of Engineering Enterprise Fellowship, RSC Chemistry Means
 Business award and the Scopus Young Researcher UK Award.


 Progress Monitoring
 A formal review of progress is conducted by the Head of Division and the adviser, who consider
 performance in taught courses, attendance at professional development courses, a report from
 the supervisor and the written research report. The high level of support combined with the high
 performance expectations ensure a strong platform for the subsequent stage in the PhD
 programme, and a well-managed exit for the small number for whom it is not in their best interests
 to continue. Students who progress from the first year present an updated research plan at the
 end of the second year in a formal meeting with the supervisor and adviser. The first-year progress
 examination and the second-year review provide a strong platform from which to work towards
 submission of a high-quality thesis within four years. Students are encouraged to engage in
 teaching to develop their professional profile, with the time commitment carefully managed as part
 of the progress monitoring.


                                                                                              Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.7 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 The Departments embed EDI into all aspects of their operation and strategy. CUED holds Athena
 SWAN Silver (renewed in 2020) and CEB and holds the Bronze award with submission for renewal
 made in 2020. University initiatives are fully supported. For example, UCAM’s Women in Science,
 Engineering & Technology Initiative from UG to professor includes: a CV-mentoring scheme; an
 annual lecture from women scientists working in policy, industry and academia; career-
 development seminars for early career, postdoctoral and PhD-level women scientists; a Senior
 Gender Equality Network; maternity/paternity/adoption leave provisions more generous than
 required by law; and a Returning Carers’ Scheme to catalyse the return to research. All staff are
 encouraged to take EDI and Unconscious Bias training, and this is rigidly enforced for those with
 management or recruitment responsibilities. The Dignity at Work policy is explained to new staff,
 supported by workshops. Departments have Wellbeing Ambassadors, who promote physical and
 mental well-being initiatives and direct students and staff to UCAM's support services (e.g.
 Occupational Health Service, Counselling Service). Staff and students with a disability are
 assessed by UCAM’s Disability Resource Centre, which liaises with departments about measures
 to accommodate requirements. UCAM has two workplace nurseries and provides a holiday
 playscheme. Each Department supports UCAM’s Breaking the Silence campaign on harassment
 by means of seminars and focus groups.
 DMSM: since 2019, the EDI Committee’s primary mission has been to develop a wider strategic
 vision. There are distinct, externally moderated focus groups for students and staff at all levels.
 Gender and race statistics are being analysed, including recruitment processes. In the academic
 year 2019-20, women in key cohorts were: UGs 37%, PGRs 31%, PDRAs 25%, and Research
 Fellows, independent researchers & academic staff 33% (of which, Senior Lecturers and below
 25%; Readers and above, 40%). At Professor grade, DMSM currently has 33% female
 representation. BAME representations in staff cohorts in 2020 were PDRAs 39%, academic staff
 24%, and technical and administrative staff 10%. Monitoring of other protected characteristics will
 be addressed where possible.
 CEB: the Diversity@CEB initiative was launched in 2017 to champion the range of staff
 backgrounds. EDI matters covering the full range of issues are the responsibility of the Athena
 SWAN Committee, chaired by the HoD, supported by the Department HR advisor, and reporting
 directly to CEB’s Staff Committee. Research student and staff surveys were conducted in
 December 2017, with participation rates over 85%. As a result, changes in the Consultation and
 Decision-Making processes have been implemented to improve communication flow and achieve
 a better integration of all members of the Department. From 2013 to 2019, 1762 (1135M, 627F)
 graduate applications were received. Subsequently, admissions were made: in 2013–14, 51 (32M,
 19F) Master’s students and 27 (16M, 11F) PhD students; in 2018–19, 68 (46M, 22F) Master’s
 students and 43 (26M, 17F) PhD students.
 In CUED, implementation of equality and diversity plans, and their monitoring, is overseen by the
 Diversity Committee, which covers all aspects of EDI. Membership is diverse and includes
 academic, research and professional staff at all career stages and senior leadership. A member
 of the committee is the dedicated diversity representative on the Engineering Faculty Board (a
 statutory Council with responsibilities for education and research). Initiatives on equality and
 diversity are promoted online. The fraction of female research staff in 2019 was 22%, Lecturers
 23% and Professors 11%. In 2019, 20% of applicants for academic posts identified as female, and
 for these posts 44% of the appointed staff identified as female. Ethnicity data are held for 90% of
 academic staff (staff can choose to not disclose), with 15% of academic staff coming from an
 ethnic minority in 2015, rising to 18% in 2019. In 2015 40% of research staff were from an ethnic


                                                                                            Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 minority, and this was 44% in 2019. CUED has a detailed action plan, part of its Athena SWAN
 submission in 2020, addressing EDI.


 2.8 EDI in Preparing the UoA12 REF Submission
 All members involved in the REF process (including departmental sub-committees and the main
 UoA12 REF Committee) have undertaken the training contained in the UCAM Code of Practice
 concerning EDI and Unconscious Bias. EDI was a standing item at UoA12 REF Committee
 meetings and all decisions were rigorously examined in the light of EDI and Unconscious Bias.
 The Code of Practice also sets out the measures taken to ensure that any bias related to EDI in
 output selection has been eliminated as far as possible: UoA12 followed the guidance exactly.


 2.9 Returning from Periods of Leave and Caring Responsibilities
 Departments are fully in line with UCAM Policies, described in the Institutional Statement.


 2.10 Conclusion
 HR practice concerning academic staff, researchers and research fellows and students is based
 on common policies and approaches, dictated by UCAM policy. There is local variation, e.g. in the
 exact details of training of research students and the availability of departmental-specific awards,
 but these allow adaptation to local needs. All Departments expect excellence, but with policies in
 place to ensure equality of treatment, mentoring, fairness, help and support. The UoA is not
 complacent: EDI, particularly regarding BME recruitment and progression, remains a critical focus.




                                                                                               Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 3.1 Strategies for Generating and Growing Research Income
 For DMSM, annual research expenditure is £10.27M (2019-20) (latest year with full data). The
 348 grants activated over the assessment period total £76M (excluding EPSRC studentships but
 including industrial student support). For these, the sources are: EC (15.2% of total value); EPSRC
 (53.5%); industry (11.3%), from 32 companies (largest £833k for SKF UTC), charities (Royal
 Society, Leverhulme Trust, etc.) (16.2%); UK Government (0.5%), overseas (3.3%). Within the
 EC, £7,659k is from five ERC grants. Charity support in the same period includes £180k from the
 Isaac Newton Trust, a source unique to UCAM. DMSM Trust Funds, yielding £344k p.a., provide
 further research support. Since Jan 2014, there has been significant philanthropic support, giving
 a total of c. £675k: including a pledge from the Goldsmiths’ Livery Company (£385k) for
 studentships, and £92.5k from the Armourers and Brasiers’ Company. DMSM has a full-time
 Research & Business Development Manager to promote its important links with industry. Post-
 Brexit, a focus is to build on the current momentum in philanthropic fundraising.
 Total research income for CEB for the rolling five-year period from 2012/13, was £43M with an
 anticipated average for the assessment period of £40‒45M. The number of grants has increased
 by 50% in 2016-17 compared with 2012-13. Collaboration with European industry and academics
 was strong through projects (such as TRANSCEND, BiognostiX, Ocmol, Schizdx, Recoba, Spire-
 4-mea, Nanodome, NirZA, PEMS4Nano) as well as a Marie Curie ITN (SUPUVIR), together with
 two ERC grants (IMBIBE and Rational Design). CEB currently has ~40 industrial collaborations
 providing an annual income of c. £3.5M, many enabled through CEB’s staged engagement model,
 offering different levels of collaboration, ranging from short-term pilot studies (e.g. research
 projects for Master’s students) or consultancy, to fully funded research programmes. The Sensor
 CDT, renewed by EPSRC in 2019, has raised £3.2M in industrial partnership funding with this
 approach.
 CUED pursues a balanced research income strategy of UKRI, Government, industry, charity and
 philanthropic funding. The total value of activated external research grants over the assessment
 period was £325M. Of the 939 grants activated, the sources were: EC (17.3% of total value),
 EPSRC (41.5%), industry (22.4%), charities (4.8%), UK Government (8.6%). The HoD works with
 the SoT and the UCAM Development and Alumni Relations Office to secure philanthropic gifts in
 support of research. During the assessment period, over £18M of philanthropic support has been
 received.
 IfM Engage is a wholly owned subsidiary of UCAM for knowledge transfer and training. It returns
 profits to CUED (via Gift Aid) to support research and teaching, and in 2019 gifted £436k to CUED.
 Further Gift Aid of £3.1M was received in the REF period, reflecting profits from commercial
 enterprises spun out from CUED.
 EU income was £8.9M in 2013/14 and increased to £11.1M in 2017/18; hence Brexit presents an
 income risk. Charity income increased from £0.6M in 2013/14 to £3.6M in 2019/20 driven by
 increased biomedical/engineering research, and this income generally has lower rates of cost
 recovery. To mitigate the Brexit risk, CUED aims to expand its funding portfolio from UKRI and
 industry, with new dedicated professional support for the preparation of multi-partner and multi-
 disciplinary proposals.




                                                                                            Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Overall Conclusion
 Brexit represents a considerable challenge for sustaining EU collaborations and income, but
 Departments are taking mitigating action, largely with renewed action on industrial funding and
 philanthropic funding for research posts. Flexibility of research offerings (from small projects and
 consultancy to major ones) is critical.


 3.2 Organisational Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact
 Each Department operates a Research and Finance Office providing dedicated grant support for
 research-funding applications, sponsor-relationship development, research contracts,
 compliance, impact and translation. Knowledge Transfer (KT) Teams lead the support for
 academics preparing research proposals from an early stage, and extensive guidance is provided
 on departmental intranets. The KT Teams check proposals for ethical and integrity issues that
 may require additional scrutiny and provide expertise on impact planning and advice on the
 structuring of research collaborations with industry to maximise the likelihood of research outputs
 being adopted.
 For each Department, the Research Office publicises calls for proposals via e-newsletters or
 emails and the DHoD (Research) identifies matches between funding calls and academic staff.
 Early-career academics receive support for the preparation of proposals, and senior academics
 with relevant experience are drawn in to provide guidance and feedback. Mock interviews are held
 to support fellowship applicants. Workshops are held for ECRs on developing successful
 fellowship applications, and this includes peer support from previously successful applicants and
 senior academics. In CUED, the Director of Strategy and Operations and the KT Team provide
 specialist support for the exploitation and translation of successful research and work closely with
 CE. In DMSM and CEB, CE runs monthly clinics where researchers can test the transfer potential
 of developed technologies.


 3.3 Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact
 In DMSM 48 (45% F) professional support staff manage facilities and infrastructure within a
 dedicated building (§3.5) containing high-specification research laboratories and teaching
 facilities. The design of the building enables groups from within DMSM to mix easily and promotes
 the ethos of interdisciplinarity and collaboration. The HoD and DHoD (Research) are responsible
 for research strategy and policy. The Graduate Education Committee oversees graduate student
 education and researcher development. DMSM has an IT team of (1 full-time, 1 part-time)
 supporting research, teaching and administration, supported by IT-proficient staff embedded
 within research areas. The IT team advises on hardware and software purchases, cyber security,
 data protection and GDPR and is central to the reliable secure operation of DMSM’s digital
 infrastructure. Academic direction of research computing support is discussed at the Computing
 Committee, which reviews strategic and operational research IT needs.
 In CEB 46 technical and administrative support staff manage facilities and infrastructure. The
 operational structure was reviewed following the restructure of the Department in 2020. A new
 Technical Operations Manager (TOM) post was created to oversee major research infrastructure
 and research support staff. The DHoD (Research) and the Research Committee are responsible
 for developing the research profile and formulating CEB’s research strategy and policy, also
 overseeing, as noted on page 3, research integrity, safety and ethics, open research, research
 engagement and, via the Graduate Education Committee, researcher development.


                                                                                             Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 CUED employs 88 technicians, 29 IT support staff and 10 HR staff. A dedicated Engineering
 Library is located onsite, with 6 library staff. The Library specialises in research data management,
 open research, and scholarly practices and communication. The Library space was redeveloped
 in 2016 to better accommodate its revised mission as a centre supporting scholarly communication
 and data management. The Library supports a “Data Champion” hub of research staff, IT staff,
 and PhD students in CUED who promote research data management best-practice. The
 Department IT Team supports research, teaching and administration, with oversight from the
 Academic IT Committee. The IT Team advises on data security for research projects in terms of
 best practice and on compliance requirements.


 Each Department engages with wider UCAM research computing services by membership of
 their respective School’s IT Strategy Committee.


 3.4 EDI in the Context of Funding and Access to Infrastructure
 As noted in §2.7, each Department embeds EDI into all aspects of its operation and strategy.
 Research Committees review distribution of funding, special problems concerning accessibility to
 infrastructure for those with disabilities and take appropriate measures. During staff appraisal, the
 difficulties experienced in obtaining funding, support for applications or accessing appropriate
 equipment are discussed and corrective actions initiated.


 3.5 Infrastructure, Facilities and Expertise in Relation to Impact
 DMSM
 UCAM investment in buildings and site infrastructure on the West Cambridge Science and
 Technology Campus provides a vibrant location for DMSM, close to CEB, Civil Engineering,
 Electrical Engineering, the Maxwell Centre, the Hauser Forum (housing Cambridge Enterprise and
 the Entrepreneurship Centre), the Institute for Manufacturing, Nanoscience and Physics. DMSM
 completed its move in 2014 to a £50M new building. The gross internal floor area of 10,600m2
 gave 31% extra lab space to accommodate DMSM’s research to a globally competitive standard.
 The Wolfson Electron Microscopy Suite is on a separate 2 m-deep concrete slab, providing
 rooms with low-vibration ratings (NIST grade A); acoustic and electromagnetic interference are
 also at state-of-the-art low levels.
 Spend on infrastructural items exceeding £10k in the assessment period was £5,756k (UCAM
 £125k, EPSRC £4,657k, EC £858k, overseas government/industry £67k, Innovate UK £29k,
 charity £20k). Major items included a carrier for the MOCVD system (£240k EPSRC), a Micro CT
 scanner (£225k EC), and an Aerosol Jet System (£133k EC). The Royce Institute awarded DMSM
 £2.3M to purchase a focused ion beam instrument (£534k), a sputter system (£285k), a TEM high-
 speed camera (£274k), a cryogen-free SQUID (£639k) and a wafer-scale AFM upgrade (£348k).
 Two EPSRC-funded (total ~£5M) (strategic equipment) electron microscopes were installed,
 allowing ultrafast SEM dedicated to undertaking novel cathodoluminescence studies and STEM
 enabling ‘multi-dimensional’ microscopy. These instruments are available to UCAM and external
 researchers.




                                                                                              Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 CEB
 CEB occupies a £60M purpose-built building (operational since 2016) on the West Cambridge
 Science and Technology Campus. The building houses the whole cycle of scientific investigation
 in chemical engineering and biotechnology under one roof and brings together a vibrant, creative
 community in which chemical engineers and biotechnologists achieve an unprecedented level of
 integration. This environment gives the facilities, resources, and inspiration to solve pressing
 challenges. Over the assessment period, ~100 items of equipment were purchased in CEB of
 value greater than £10k, totalling £5M, including materials and chemical analysis equipment, such
 as mass spectrometers, atomic force microscope, THz spectrometers, and NMR, microscopy,
 chromatography and HPLC instruments.


 CUED
 The CUED has >47,000m2 of building space, with ~12,500m2 of laboratory space, 2,500m2 of
 lecture/seminar spaces, and 2,000m2 of workshop space. Over the assessment period 9900m2 of
 new building space for accommodating divisions and to house research facilities for new and
 expanding activities was developed. The new Civil Engineering Building (4400m2, £36M) in West
 Cambridge was delivered in 2019. It houses the National Research Facility for Infrastructure
 Sensing and includes new structures research laboratories. The James Dyson Building (2900m2,
 £13.1M), completed in 2016, provides space for researchers from across multiple divisions,
 supporting inter-disciplinary interactions and multidisciplinary research. The Electrical Engineering
 Annex (4400m2, £12.9M) was completed in 2016 and houses the Cambridge Graphene Centre.
 Over 1220m2 of other laboratory space was developed or refurbished, including the multi-
 disciplinary Bio-inspired Robotic Laboratory and Human-machine Collaboration Observatory.
 Over the assessment period, over 400 research equipment items valued at more than £10k were
 purchased, with a total value over £28M. Major purchases include a Raith EBPG5200 Electron
 Beam Lithography system (£1.8M, 2018), quantum key distribution systems (£1.8M in 2016 and
 £1.2M in 2019), a Power Device Analyzer/Curve Tracer mainframe (£714K, 2017), a PHOIBOS
 150 1D-DLD NAP Analyzer Package (£677K, 2017), and a high-resolution 3D x-ray tomography
 microscope system (£535K, 2017).


 3.6 Specialist Research Infrastructure
 DMSM supports diverse specialist research facilities, notably a comprehensive range of precision
 thin-film-growth systems (8 UHV sputter, 5 pulsed-laser deposition and 2 GaN MOCVD),
 processing systems for nanomaterials and nanotubes and extensive capabilities for structural and
 property characterisation. X-ray diffraction (XRD) and electron microscopy (EM), operated as
 Small Research Facilities (SRFs). These facilities, fully staffed with appropriate technician
 expertise, serve all DMSM’s specialities, and, because of their quality and range (boosted by
 recent purchases of state-of-the-art instruments in each class, §3.4), they attract external users.
 The XRD facility has instruments ranging from standard powder diffractometers to high-resolution
 and small-angle systems. It has ~100 users each year, 15% from outside DMSM. WEMS has 6
 scanning-electron/focused-ion-beam microscopes and 7 transmission electron microscopes.
 Each year, the EM Facility trains >100 (15% from outside DMSM) and has ~300 users (DMSM,
 12 other UCAM departments and external users). DMSM researchers have access to a wide range
 of equipment (e.g. SQUIDs and specialised XRD) in other UCAM departments. The UCAM Library
 provides access to ~90,000 electronic journals and ~400 databases.


                                                                                              Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 CEB has world-leading imaging facilities for the characterisation of materials, process and
 biological specimens. For example, the microscopy suite offers methods for optical super-
 resolution and functional imaging of processes ranging in scale from single molecules to living
 cells and over timescales from picoseconds to days. Instrumentation developed in CEB includes
 STED (stimulated emission depletion), SIM (structured illumination microscopy), LSM (light sheet
 microscopy) and FLIM (fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy). The magnetic resonance
 research centre (MRRC) is a world-class facility with wide ranging expertise in the application of
 magnetic resonance techniques to academic and industrial research in the field of chemical,
 biochemical, and petroleum engineering. It houses eight medium-field and five low-field NMR/MRI
 spectrometers.
 CUED operates 20 Research Facilities (RF) which can be accessed by users within and outside
 UCAM. In 2019/20 £142k was received from UCAM (outside CUED) for use of the RFs, and £129k
 from external users. Facilities include clean rooms, microscopy systems, laser systems, electron
 beam evaporation and computer infrastructure. Shared materials research facilities are operated
 on behalf of the Royce Institute. CUED established in 2019 the National Research Facility for
 Infrastructure Sensing, part of the national UKCRIC Network. The facility, which includes the new
 Civil Engineering building, was developed with a £18M grant from UKRI which was matched by a
 £18M UCAM contribution. £6M was invested in new research facilities, which can be accessed by
 external users.


 3.7 Evidence of Sharing of Major Facilities
 For DMSM and CUED, see §3.6. In CEB microscopy instrumentation, developed in CEB, is
 duplicated in the UCAM Advanced Imaging Centre, in UCAM’s School of Biological Sciences and
 used by researchers from departments spanning Clinical Medicine to Technology. A satellite
 facility was opened at the UK Dementia Research Institute, located on the UCAM Biomedical
 campus and providing ready access to researchers at Addenbrooke’s Hospital.
 All Departments benefit from UCAM’s £20M investment in the West Cambridge Data Centre. The
 Centre houses one of five national Tier 2 high-performance computing systems, supporting
 research across the UoA.


 Overview for the UoA
 The approach to income generation, infrastructure and facilities is framed by the strategic research
 objectives of the Departments, including the creation of internationally leading research outputs
 and the translation and impact of research for economic and social benefit. Excellent support is
 given for researchers at all levels to develop proposals and collaborations. With major equipment,
 a strategy of ready access for researchers, both from UCAM and outside, is important, backed-up
 by coherent charging models.




                                                                                             Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 4.1 Research Collaboration and Engagement
 UoA12 has a culture of collaboration outside UCAM and extending globally; UCAM’s sabbatical
 policy facilitates outside links and the reputation of UCAM and UoA12 Departments attracts key
 visitors. Colleges facilitate visits through accommodation and by providing Visiting and Overseas
 Fellowships. External academic collaborations are supported by each Department’s Research
 Office and the UCAM Strategic Partnerships Office.


 DMSM
 In the assessment period, DMSM has signed MoUs/agreements with institutions in Japan, Oman,
 Russia (×2) and Germany (×2). International collaborations are often supported by specific
 funding, e.g. funding since Jan 2014 includes 19 collaborative EC FP7 grants, and 90 grants from
 overseas/multinational companies. A random sample of 158 DMSM papers published within the
 assessment period (Jan–Sept 2019) showed extensive collaborations outside DMSM, 50 with
 another UK university and over 140 collaborations with overseas universities: Australia (×2),
 Canada, China (×31), France (×11), Germany (×15), India (×11), Ireland (×4), Italy (×3), Japan
 (×11), Malaysia, Netherlands (×4), Norway (×2), Oman (×4), Poland (×4), Portugal, Singapore
 (×4), South Korea (×6), Spain (×4), Switzerland (×12), Taiwan, USA (×15).


 CEB
 CEB academics have Visiting Professorships in Rotterdam, University of Paris-Descartes, Max
 Planck Institute for the Science of Light, University of Erlangen/Nuremberg, Nanyang
 Technological University and University of Zhejiang. Over the assessment period MoUs/research
 agreements were signed with Zheijang University, CARES Singapore; North Carolina State
 University, Singapore Polytechnic. Of the 108 papers submitted by CEB staff for inclusion as REF
 outputs, there were collaborations with researchers from 73 different universities (20 UK, 53 non-
 UK) in 20 different countries. CEB engaged in 19 collaborative FP7/H2020 projects over the
 assessment period.


 CUED
 In the assessment period, members of the Department have published outputs with collaborators
 from over 1500 other institutions and over 80 different countries, and over 1750 research visitors
 from more than 76 different countries have been hosted for periods of two weeks or more. CUED
 provides seed funding for new initiatives, e.g. the CUED/U. Michigan scheme started in 2018 offers
 grants for research collaborations. In 2018 the UCAM–Nanjing Centre of Technology and
 Innovation was created to foster new research collaborations, with CUED as the UCAM hub.
 CUED received £10M from the Nanjing Municipality to support the Centre and to endow the
 Nanjing Chair in CUED. Collaboration agreements/MoUs are in place between CUED and 17
 universities.




                                                                                           Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.2 Major Interdisciplinary Research Links
 DMSM
The breadth of DMSM favours interdisciplinarity, even within DMSM, and promotes outside links
(e.g. medical-materials collaboration with Orthopaedics Research at Addenbrooke’s Hospital).
DMSM also favours engagement with UCAM research centres bridging departments and
disciplines. One example is The Lennard-Jones Centre for Computational Materials linking
research across DMSM, CEB, CUED and Physics. The Maxwell Centre (introduced in §1.6), as
well as being a remarkable forum for industry-academic links, encourages interdisciplinary, inter-
departmental research with key stakeholders being Physics, Chemistry, CUED, CEB and DMSM.
The Centre is also home to the Cambridge spoke of the national Royce Institute. DMSM plays a
key role in providing instrumentation and research expertise to the Institute and in leading UCAM’s
core area of Materials for Energy-Efficient ICT. DMSM is engaged with the Faraday Institution and
battery research undertaken in UCAM led by Chemistry. DMSM is also engaged with long-running
European networks such as ESTEEM, linking 14 institutes and SMEs across Europe to develop
novel electron microscopy techniques. It is a key player in the national ADOPPT programme for
advanced digital design transforming pharmaceutical development.
 DMSM is strongly involved with UCAM’s EnergyTransitions IRC, Cardiovascular IRC and Sensors
 Strategic Research Network (SRN) (exploiting technologies developed across UCAM to
 encourage innovation through interdisciplinary collaborations). DMSM is also a key player in the
 Cambridge Creative Circular Plastics Centre, a UKRI-funded programme acting as a nucleus for
 a global network of partners and research projects.


 CEB
 Members are involved in ~25 main collaborative grants with other departments in UCAM, including
 the Sensors CDT. CEB is the lead PI in 10 of these grants, with CUED being the most frequent
 partner. CARES (http://www.cares.cam.ac.uk/) is funded by the National Research Foundation of
 Singapore and hosts research collaborations involving UCAM, Nanyang Technological University,
 the National University of Singapore and industrial partners. The CARES C4T programme was
 set up in 2013 to reduce the carbon footprint of Singapore. By the end of 2017, there were 120
 researchers connected with CARES, producing more than 270 publications. C4T and CEB
 researchers also undertake research with UC Berkeley on the electroreduction of CO2.
 CEB is strongly involved (via 1 PI, 2 PDRAs and 6 PhD students) in the BP Institute (BPI), which
 links 5 parent departments for interdisciplinary research in fluid mechanics and surface science.
 Research in the BPI ranges from carbon sequestration to encapsulation of bioactive materials.
 CEB participates in the Global Challenges SRI, the Cambridge Academy of Therapeutic Sciences,
 and leads UCAM’s Sensors SRN, connecting more than 100 PIs.


 CUED
 Within UCAM, CUED participates in the cross-School Cambridge Centre for Data-Driven
 Discovery, Cardiovascular Disease, Energy Transitions, Global Challenges, and Synthetic Biology
 Strategic/Interdisciplinary Research Initiatives, in the completed SRIs in Public Policy and
 Trustworthy Technologies and in the Sensors Strategic Research Network. In 2019 the Centre for
 Engineering Better Care was created in collaboration with the School of Clinical Medicine, building
 on already strong connections. The Cambridge Public Health IRC and the Centre for Engineering
 Better Care are hosted by CUED, promoting interdisciplinary interaction. CUED fully engages in

                                                                                            Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Maxwell Centre, particularly on projects related to energy transition and on Energy-Efficient
 Materials for ICT. Examples of interdisciplinary links through national bodies include the Royce
 Institute, the Faraday Institution, and the Alan Turing Institute. Two CUED members are Directors
 of the Alan Turing Institute and numerous staff hold fellowships.


 4.3 Interaction with Users and Beneficiaries to Develop Impact
 DMSM
 Over the assessment period, DMSM has collaborated with c. 40 companies. DMSM’s oldest
 (1994) link with industry, its Rolls-Royce UTC, focuses on next-generation materials for cleaner
 gas turbines. It has been successful in its research and in training world-class materials scientists
 and metallurgical engineers, as evidenced by its longevity. The UTC has attracted 10 DMSM
 academics (and 2 in other UCAM departments) to work in relevant areas and, in turn, benefits
 from their input. The SKF UTC (2009-2018) was inspired by the Rolls-Royce UTC and was a
 highly successful Centre employing 14 researchers including ADR and SRA positions. DMSM
 continues to explore possibilities with other companies. BP’s International Centre for Advanced
 Materials (ICAM, 2012‒) aims to advance fundamental understanding and the use of advanced
 materials across the oil and gas industry. Led by Manchester, ICAM has spokes in UCAM, Imperial
 College and the Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. ICAM has funded DMSM’s Bhadeshia to
 design steels resistant to hydrogen embrittlement. DMSM has also broadened its involvement in
 pharmaceutical research through hosting a cryo-microscope as part of a FEI/Thermo
 pharmaceutical consortium linking 5 pharmaceutical companies with academic and industrial
 partners.


 CEB
 Over the assessment period, CEB has interacted with >35 industrial companies. Exemplars are
 the Beacon project with AstraZeneca (7 Beacon-funded PDRAs, 11 PhDs) that links the global
 biologics research and development arm of AstraZeneca with CEB to produce breakthroughs in
 biopharmaceutical development. Research includes cell engineering, continuous processing,
 formulation, and analytical science, to support potential new therapies.
 CEB hosts the Cambridge Infinitus Research Centre, CIRCE, (1 SRA, 6 PDRAs, 2 PHDs) with the
 mission to research the biological activity of natural compounds in the context of ageing diseases.
 The programme has been approved for another £4M funding cycle, starting in Sept. 2020.
 Shell has a partnership between CEB’s Magnetic Resonance Research Centre (MRRC) and
 company laboratories in Houston and Amsterdam. The work is based on the MRRC’s expertise in
 adsorption, transport and reaction in porous media, and has been supported by a donation which
 has established a capability for MRI under process conditions.
 Through the Syntech and Sensors CDTs, CEB co-ordinates research with more than 30 industrial
 partners, leading to more than 20 industry-funded research studentships over the assessment
 period.


 CUED
 Over 170 industrial partners have supported research during the assessment period, with 38% of
 industrial grants (54% by value) from companies outside the UK. CUED has a long-standing
 research partnership with Rolls-Royce plc, which includes the University Gas Turbine Partnership


                                                                                              Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (UGTP, in place since 2001). The UGTP funds two members of academic staff, 12 researchers,
 nine PhD students and four support staff. Two Impact Case Studies – compressor blade leading
 edges and s-ducts – have followed from this partnership. The collaboration with Rolls-Royce has
 expanded into new fields over the assessment period, with CUED breadth and multi-disciplinarity
 in research supporting broadening Rolls-Royce inter-disciplinary needs in new fields, including
 electric propulsion. An example is the EPSRC ASiMoV Prosperity Partnership with Rolls-Royce
 on advanced computing and simulation (£14.1M, 2018‒2023), in which CUED is one of 5
 university partners. CUED has a framework agreement with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries that
 supports two academic staff (since 2008), two senior College Research Fellows, and 10 research
 projects annually supporting 6 PDRAs and 5 research students. Much of the research is centred
 in the Whittle Laboratory, which works closely with Rolls-Royce, Mitsubishi and Siemens on
 turbomachinery; its future work will concentrate on decarbonising aviation and land-based power.
 The Laing O’Rourke Centre for Construction Engineering and Technology, started 2010 and
 renewed in 2020 for a further 10 years, receives annual funding of £1M from Laing O’Rourke and
 supports three academic staff (1 Professor, 2 Lecturers). In 2019 the Toyota-Cambridge Centre
 for Next Generation Artificial Intelligence was formed with a £2.5M contribution from Toyota
 Europe. Two lectureships have been created with the support, and framework agreements
 developed for additional targeted research projects supported by Toyota. The Huawei-Cambridge
 AI Centre was created in 2019 with £5M over 5 years for a joint centre between CUED and the
 Department of Computer Science and Technology (CST). The Centre supports 5 PhD
 studentships per year between CUED and CST. Examples of other centres include: the Centre for
 Advanced Photonics and Electronics, a partnership between CUED and 5 companies and the
 EPSRC Centre for Innovative Manufacturing in Large-Area Electronics, with 9 academic and 64
 industrial partners. Other major companies with strong research connections to CUED include
 Arm Ltd, Boeing, Dyson and Jaguar Land Rover. CUED has been successful in each round of the
 EPSRC Prosperity Partnership scheme for university/business consortia, with 5-year Prosperity
 partnerships with BT (2017), Rolls-Royce (2018, mentioned above) and Microsoft (2019).
 The Cambridge Centre for Smart Infrastructure and Construction is funded by Innovate UK,
 EPSRC and industry to support the development and deployment of leading sensing and data
 analysis technologies through collaboration with partners. The Cambridge Service Alliance,
 founded 2010, involves CUED, IfM and leading engineering firms, e.g. BAE Systems. The Alliance
 provides access to research for companies and a framework for members to engage consultancy
 advice. IfM also hosts the Digital Supply Chains Consortium, transferring supply-chain research
 into practice. CUED received Boeing Supplier of the Year awards in 2017 and 2018.


 4.4 Public Engagement
 DMSM
 DMSM has a strong track record, and examples during the assessment period include over 70
 public engagement and outreach lectures both within the UK and abroad (e.g. through the
 auspices of the IoP, CPS, Royal Society). Further examples include the Royal Society Summer
 Exhibition in 2015 (led by Rae) entitled ‘Engineering Atoms’ and seen by ~14,000 members of the
 public, including 2,500 school students. DMSM is also active in shaping public policy with 8 staff
 on Research Council committees. Oliver spoke to the Science and Technology Select Committee
 about the impact of funding policies on the diversity of the STEM community.




                                                                                           Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 CEB
 The Department employs a Communications Manager who promotes research outputs through
 news on the website, social media channels, external newsletters and press releases.
 Departmental research has featured on national and local TV news programmes, radio
 programmes and online trade media websites. CEB takes part in the Cambridge Science Festival
 every year. Fruk is the Public Engagement Coordinator for the School of Technology, a Member
 of UCAM’s Public Engagement Advisory Group to the Vice-Chancellor, a regular contributor to
 BBC Radio Cambridgeshire, and has organised public science-art exhibitions in the UK and
 Germany, such as the 3D Molecules that Changed the World exhibition in 2016. Stranks has
 developed a Primary Schools Energy-Mapping Challenge to encourage pupils in areas of high
 socio-economic deprivation to explore renewable energy generation. Molloy from 2015‒18 ran
 Science Makers at the Cambridge Makespace as a monthly hands-on public session for 15‒25
 people, building low-cost scientific instrumentation. In 2016, she founded Cambridge
 Biomakespace, a community laboratory attracting 50 members and has hosted >100 public talks
 and workshops.
 The yearly research team challenges offered to PhD student cohorts by the Sensors CDT have
 generated global impact and influenced national policy, e.g. in Argentina and Kenya, and have led
 to numerous awards, including the 2019 UCAM VC award for collaboration and impact.


 CUED
 The Department publicises its research and engages with the public through open events, a
 dynamic web presence, social media and newsletters. Engagement events include the
 “Cambridge Robogals” robotics events for school-aged girls, engineering summer schools and
 masterclasses for school-aged children, the Climate Change Lecture Series and outreach events
 on International Women in Engineering Day. Members of CUED have presented their research
 for non-specialist audiences on the BBC, ITV and The Naked Scientist, and at events including
 the Hay Festival, Cambridge Science Festival, Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition, Pint of
 Science Festival, Cheltenham Science Festival, TedX, and British Consulate Science Café. Hunt
 won the 2015 RAEng Rooke Award for the public promotion of engineering. Public engagement
 is supported by the CUED Communication and Marketing Office and a full-time Outreach Officer.
 The Research Office provides training and guidance for staff on communicating research to the
 public.


 4.5 Contributions to the Discipline
 International
 Academic staff have chaired or served on Boards or Review Committees for academic institutions
 and funding agencies worldwide, including: AMMRF (Australia), NCEM, LBNL, Oak Ridge
 National Laboratory, NSF Materials Science Division Committee of Advisors, SLAC Proposal
 Review Boards, NASA 2040 Vision Panel for Materials Strategy (National Academies, USA), ERC
 Advanced Researcher Grants Panels, Helmholtz Centrum Assessor, Danish National Research
 Foundation, Finnish Academy of Science, Bangalore-Cambridge Innovation Network (India),
 Swiss National Science Foundation, Max Planck Institute for Polymer Research, Scientific
 Advisory Board Max Planck Institute for Molecular Medicine (Germany), NTNU Trondheim
 Research Evaluation Committee (Norway), Tyndall National Institute (Ireland), Strategic Advisory
 Board (SRAB) of the Austrian Institute of Technology, International Board of the MacDiarmid


                                                                                          Page 38
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institute for Advanced Materials (New Zealand). Staff have also served on committees of the
 Federation of European Materials Societies, and the Materials Research Society (US).
 Leadership and Membership of Major Committees ‒ UK
 Staff have chaired or served on committees for EPSRC, IOM3, IOP, RAEng, Royal Society and
 Royal Society of Chemistry. Highlights include members of the UoA being: Treasurer and Vice-
 President of the Royal Society; Chair and Member of Royal Society URF Panel A, and Royal
 Society Newton Fellowship Panel; President and Senior Vice-President IOM3; President and Past-
 President European Microscopy Society; Chair Biomedical Engineering Panel, RAEng; Chair
 Biomedical Applications Division, IOM3; President of the RAEng; President of the Institution of
 Civil Engineers; Chair, ISIS Facility Board; Members of the Queen Elizabeth Prize for Engineering
 Search Group; and STFC Physical Sciences and Engineering Advisory Panel (Chair, Deputy Chair
 and Member).
 Contributions to Government
 MacKay was Chief Scientific Adviser, Department of Energy and Climate Change until October
 2014, and knighted in 2016. Dowling served on the Prime Minister's Council of Science and
 Technology (2014-19); Mair serves on the House of Lords Select Committee on Science and
 Technology; Evans is co-Chair of the Parliamentary Manufacturing Commission; Dowling was a
 non-executive board member of the Department for Business Innovation and Skills (BIS, 2014-
 2016) and the Board for BEIS (2017-18); Guthrie served on the Scrutiny Panel for Thames Water
 and the Environment Agency's Local Flood Risk Research Steering Group; Neely served on the
 Blackett Review Expert Team for GO-Science Report on Services; Girolami serves on the
 Defence Science Executive Committee of the Ministry of Defence; Weller serves on the board of
 the Centre for Data Ethics and Innovation; Shwageraus serves on the Nuclear Innovation and
 Research Advisory Board. The Review of Business-University Research Collaborations (2015)
 was chaired by Dowling. Gladden is Executive Chair of EPSRC. Christie is on the Government’s
 Environmental Decontamination Committee. Clarkson chairs Sub-Panel 12 of REF 2021.
 Industrial Boards
 Staff are supported in taking on industrial advisory roles. Examples include Dowling chairing the
 BP Technical Advisory Council and Fleck chairing the Rolls-Royce Manufacturing and Structures
 Scientific Advisory Board. Over 60 members of the UoA have held company directorships,
 spanning start-ups through to multinationals (e.g. BP plc, Smiths Group plc).


 4.6 Indicators of Wider Influence and Contribution
 Members of the Departments have given over 330 invited plenary/keynote lectures at major
 international conferences and prestigious named lectures. They are editors/associate editors of
 74 journals, and members of over 230 editorial boards.
 The UoA has 17 Fellows of the Royal Society including Midgley (elected 2014), Robertson and
 Ghahramani (2015) and Deshpande and Young (2020); and 21 Fellows of the Royal Academy
 of Engineering including Fitzgerald (elected 2014), Udrea (2015), Woodland (2016), Allwood,
 Prager and Purnell (2017), Langley and Neely (2018).
 The UoA has 3 (2 new) members of the US National Academy of Engineering, 1 Fellow of
 American Association for Advancement of Science, 1 Foreign Member of the Chinese Academy
 of Engineering, 1 Fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 1 Foreign
 Associate of the French Academy of Sciences and 1 Foreign Fellow National Academy of
 Sciences, India, 3 Fellows of the Royal Aeronautical Society, 9 (6 new) Fellows of the Institution

                                                                                           Page 39
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Engineering and Technology, 5 (1 new) Fellows of the Institute of Physics, 2 Fellows of the
 Institution of Mechanical Engineers, 8 Fellows of the Institution of Chemical Engineers, 10 Fellows
 of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 1 Fellow of the Institution of Civil Engineers,
 1 Fellow of the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 1 Fellow of the International
 Speech Communication Association, 2 Fellows of the Materials Research Society, 2 members of
 Academia Europaea, 2 members of the European Academy of Sciences, 2 Fellows of the Royal
 Society of Chemistry, 1 Fellow of IoM3, 1 Fellow of the Royal Microscopical Society.
 Honours include: Dowling OM (2016), Gladden DBE for services to chemical engineering (2020),
 Bhadeshia knighted for services to science and technology (2015), Cheetham knighted (2020),
 Best CBE for services to biomaterials engineering (2017), Schooling and Neely OBEs for
 services to engineering and digital construction (2019 and 2020, respectively), Ferrari Knight
 Officer of the Order of the Star of Italy (2017), Glowacki Knight Cross of Polonia Restituta for
 services to science (2014).
 Major prizes and awards from learned societies and professional bodies include: IoP (Rayleigh
 Silver Medal, Joule Medal, Rosalind Franklin Medal and Prize), Royal Society (Royal Medal (×2),
 Wolfson Research Merit Award, Mullard Medal), IoM3 (Gold award, Futers Gold Medal, Cook-
 Ablett Award, Kroll Medal (×2), Griffith Medal (×2)), AWT Germany (Martens Medal), Learned
 Society of Wales (Dillwyn Medal), Royal Society of Chemistry (MacroGroup Young Researchers
 Medal), UK Society for Biomaterials (President’s Prize (×2)), UK MRC (Suffrage Science Award
 (×2)), RAEng (Armourers and Brasiers Medal, Mitchell Award), IEEE (Wong Medal, James
 Flanagan Speech and Audio Processing Award), RMS (Medal for Innovation in Applied
 Microscopy), European Academy of Sciences (Pascal Medal), American Institute of Chemists
 (Chemical Pioneer Award), ASM International (Saveur Achievement Award), IFW Dresden
 (Leibniz Medal), ASM International (deMille Campbell Memorial Lectureship), IChemE (Young
 Researcher Award), The Chemical College Board of Engineers Australia (Brodie Medal),
 German Society for Aeronautics and Astronautics (Prandtl Ring), Engineering Professors’
 Council President’s Prize, IMechE (Watt International Gold Medal), Royal Philosophical Society
 of Glasgow (Kelvin Medal), Institute of Acoustics (Engineering Medal), Sir Misha Black Medal for
 Distinguished Services to Design Education, Institution of Civil Engineers (Telford Prize,
 President’s Medal), Gruber Foundation (Gruber International Prize), British Liquid Crystal
 Society (Hilsum Medal), American Chemical Society (Nano Award Lectureship), American
 Carbon Society (Pettinos Award), Institution of Engineering and Technology (Achievement
 Medal for Manufacturing), ASME (Koiter Medal), EUROMECH Solid Mechanics Prize,
 International Union of Theoretical and Applied Mechanics (Hill Prize).
 During the assessment period, members have been awarded significant grants and working
 fellowships: ERC grants (×7), Royal Commission of 1851 Fellowships (×4), EPSRC Fellowships
 (×6), UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (1), MRC Career Development Award (1), Royal Academy
 of Engineering Fellowships (×5), Wellcome Trust Fellowships (×3), Leverhulme Trust Fellowships
 (×3) and Marie Curie Fellowships (×17), Helmholtz Society International Fellowship (1),
 Leverhulme Trust/RAEng Senior Research Fellowship (1), Winton Advanced Research
 Fellowship (1); RAEng Chair in Emerging Technologies (1).
 Members of the UoA led and contributed to numerous external EDI programmes, including
 Women in Science and Women in Aerospace events, Women in Graphene, EDI at the Alan Turing
 Institute. Dowling is patron of the Women's Engineering Society.
 Recognitions of ECRs and postdoctoral researchers include for example: Metals Journal (Young
 Investigator Award), Rank Prize Fund (Lecturer Prize), World Economic Forum (Young Scientist
 Award), USERN Prize in Physical Sciences 2018, awarded by the UNESCO Universal Scientific


                                                                                                  Page 40
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Education and Research Network, Spanish Royal Society of Physics (Young Researcher
 Experimental Physics Prize), Forbes Magazine (30 under 30 (×2)).




                                                                            Page 41
