Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Wolverhampton

 Unit of Assessment: 28 - History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 a) The Centre for Historical Research

 The History submission at Wolverhampton reflects the activity of staff in the University’s Centre
 for Historical Research (CHR). The CHR is the research centre of the Department for History,
 Politics and War Studies, and is located within the broader teaching and research environment of
 the School of Social, Political and Historical Studies in the Faculty of Arts, Business and Social
 Sciences.

 The CHR comprises 36 members of staff and is led by the management group of Benson, Buckley,
 Constantine, Gildart, Hussey, O’Kane and Ugolini. Its role is to further original research and
 maximise its dissemination and impact. To this end, it supports the research activities of staff and
 doctoral students, and provides financial support for conference attendance, archival research and
 public engagement initiatives. All staff are allocated £1,000 p.a. towards the costs of these core
 activities and are invited to apply for further funding from the Centre where funds permit. In this
 way, the CHR has been able to consolidate existing research strengths and develop new fields of
 inquiry, an ongoing process facilitated in the current REF cycle through the award of significant
 external income and the strategic recruitment of new staff.

 Within the CHR, three main research clusters facilitate scholarly exchange between colleagues
 working in similar areas, although their composition is fluid, and collaboration between staff across
 clusters and throughout the Faculty is promoted through workshops, seminars and mentoring.

 i) Class, gender and generation

 Colleagues working in this cluster have continued to publish innovative research since 2014. Their
 work on labour history, gender history and on the history of youth culture deserves particular
 emphasis and is summarised below.

 In connection with the AHRC-funded research project ‘On Behalf of The People: Work, Community
 and Class in the British Coal Industry’, Gildart, as Principal Investigator, together with post-doctoral
 researchers Curtis and Millar, have explored the development of the industry, its politics, and the
 culture and identity of those who lived and worked in mining communities. Their research sheds
 new light on the industrial disputes of 1972, 1974 and 1984/5, and on the political evolution of
 public ownership, gender relations in mining communities, and the social impact of
 deindustrialization (further details are provided in Section 3). Gildart is also lead editor of the
 Dictionary of Labour Biography (DLB), which brings together work by international researchers
 and has a long-established reputation as a research tool for scholars of nineteenth- and twentieth-
 century British history. Recent volumes (14: 2017) and (15: 2019) have paid especial attention to
 ethnic diversity in the history of labour and to the contributions of women to the trade union
 movement. The CHR’s interest in ethnicity and gender as categories of historical enquiry is also
 reflected in Tomlinson’s work on the British second-wave feminist movement, in Ugolini’s research
 on masculinity, and in the studies of female hospital social workers published by Gosling-Page.

 Since 2014 Glen and Gildart’s work on late 20th Century youth subculture and popular music has
 led to the first sustained critical examinations of Northern Soul and of the British Music Press, and
 to a series of additional publications on pop music, cinema-going and counterculture. Cunningham
 has also published a succession of original studies on the very different youth culture of rambling
 and hostelling, exploring the ethos and politics of the YHA, and (with Constantine) tracing the
 development of the international hosting movement in the inter-war years. These publications
 together comprise an important part of the UoA’s overall output submission for 2021.

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ii) War and conflict

 CHR staff work on diverse aspects of the operational history of war and on its social and cultural
 impact. Of particular note is the depth of departmental expertise in the First World War. Badsey,
 Buckley, Constantine, Jones, McEwen, Sheffield, Ugolini and Wilkinson have all published
 extensively on the subject. Sheffield’s work on the experience and agency of Anzac soldiers,
 Ugolini’s exploration of conscription and male conduct, Wilkinson’s study of British POWs in
 Germany, and Badsey’s research on propaganda, are illustrative of the broad range of subjects
 explored in the current cycle. Wolverhampton’s position as a leading centre for research in this
 field was underscored in September 2018, when the university hosted a major international
 conference on the First World War and its aftermath to coincide with the centennial
 commemorations (details in Section 4).

 Buckley’s research on the RAF and Steinert’s on child forced labour under Nazism are examples
 of the valuable work that is also being done on the history of the Second World War.
 Wolverhampton hosted conferences on Operation Market Garden in September 2014 and on El
 Alamein and the War in the Mediterranean in September 2017. Steinert continues to play a leading
 role in the ongoing conference series ‘Beyond Camps and Forced Labour’. First held in 2003, the
 fifth (in 2015) and sixth (2018) of these interdisciplinary conferences on the survivors of Nazi
 persecution have been held in the current REF period.

 A separate strand of research in this cluster focuses upon terrorism and conflict resolution.
 Cunningham’s work on political apology, Norton’s and O’Kane’s on Northern Ireland, and
 Kassimeris’ research on Greek terrorism, are indicative of the important collective contribution
 made by CHR staff to this field of enquiry.

 iii) Retailing and distribution

 Research in this area is coordinated by the Centre for the History of Retailing and Distribution
 (CHORD), established in 1998 by Benson as an international hub for research in this area. Now
 under Ugolini’s leadership, this research centre hosts the annual CHORD conference, which
 remains the major international forum for scholarly exchange in the field, as well as workshops on
 a range of themes, a popular programme of on-line seminars and ‘taster’ events, and a thriving
 series of related blog publications.

 Colleagues working in this area publish on a range of topics. Constantine’s research on the Sinti
 and Roma has been influenced by the group’s interest in itinerant trade and its regulation, and on
 the marginalisation of traveling groups. Hussey and Ponsonby’s work on material culture, the work
 of Hawkins on brand development and entrepreneurship, and Ugolini’s research into military
 uniforms, are indicative of the diversity of the research conducted within the cluster.


 b) Geographical focus and interdisciplinarity

 The CHR’s strengths in British and Irish History are apparent from the UoA’s Output Submission,
 particularly its focus upon 20th century English social history, British military history, and on
 Northern Ireland. Several additional areas of collective expertise should also be noted. The
 research of Burns, Fuller and Hawkins on US history, and that of Constantine, Steinert, Dennis
 and Laporte on modern Germany are perhaps the two most prominent. In the latter case, a long-
 established German History Working Group facilitates scholarly exchange between CHR
 members and colleagues in Wolverhampton and in Germany. Staff interest in the history of military
 conflict - whether this concerns the different theatres of war, the captured, the displaced or
 deported - also means that a great deal of CHR research is necessarily international in scope.

 CHR researchers engage in collaborative and inter-disciplinary projects across the University.
 Burns’ expertise in the teaching of history has led to a joint undertaking with colleagues in the

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institute of Education, and in 2019 a new BA programme ‘History with Education QTS’ began
 under his guidance. Recent work on industrial relations between Gildart with Seifert and Perchard
 in the Wolverhampton Business School could also be cited here. The research of both Gosling-
 Page and Curtis, with their focus upon health care provision, is also notably outward looking, and
 shaped by its engagement with the broader medical knowledge base. Gosling-Page’s research
 on voluntary action places him at the intersection of a number of different academic disciplines.
 He regularly collaborates with colleagues in Social Policy and Sociology, and also supervises post-
 graduate research in the Institute of Health (Faculty of Education, Health and Wellbeing).


 c) Performance and objectives

 i) Review of activity

 In the submission for REF2014 we outlined our commitment to maintaining the vitality and
 sustainability of our research by enhancing existing expertise and developing new research
 projects. With the appointment of Gary Sheffield to a chair in military history, we made it a priority
 to broaden our commitment to research on the Great War. The three key aims listed in REF2014
 - the establishment of a First World War Research Group, the validation of a new MA in First World
 War Studies, and the organisation of an international conference - have all been realised in the
 current REF cycle. In 2014, we also committed to new research projects on British occupation
 policy in Germany and post-war humanitarian assistance, and to develop our research on
 consumption, youth, fatherhood and popular culture. A great deal of high-quality work has since
 been carried out in these areas. As evidenced in the UoA’s Output submission, it includes Hussey
 and Ponsonby’s case-study of material culture, Constantine and Cunningham’s work on Anglo-
 German relations, Steinert’s research on the liberation of Belsen, Ugolini’s work on the father-son
 relationship, and Gildart’s and Glen’s work on youth sub-cultures.

 The strategy outlined in REF2014 pointed to the need to encourage staff to make regular
 applications for external funding, and this is now recognised as a core activity for all CHR
 members. It is supported by both the CHR and Faculty and pursued within the broader allocation
 of research hours (set at 400 for Lecturers and Readers and 620 for Professors out of a total of
 1597 contracted hours). Colleagues receive assistance in the preparation of research proposals
 from the University’s Project Support Office and can apply to its External Income Generation
 Funds Programme for financial support to aid in the preparation of such bids. Together, these
 measures have contributed to a greatly improved record of grant capture. In the period 2008-2014
 staff secured £350,000 of external income for research. In the current cycle, this figure has
 increased markedly to £847,817 and, in connection with the AHRC-funded project on mining
 history, we have been able to expand our team of researchers as a result.

 Since 2014, the CHR has made it a strategic priority to broaden engagement with non-academic
 partners, with a view to enhancing the social value of the research that we carry out. All research
 staff in the CHR are keen that their expertise helps to shape the broader political and cultural
 environment in which we live. Public engagement is also welcomed because it influences historical
 practice for the better, changing both what we study and the approaches to research that we
 adopt.

 ii) Open Access and the dissemination and impact of research expertise

 Since 2014 the CHR has made its research more accessible to an external audience. The
 University’s Open Access policy has maintained the requirement to deposit completed research
 within three months of acceptance for publication. Deposit in our institutional repository - WIRE -
 has been mandatory since the policy was implemented in 2010/11. The CHR welcomed these
 opportunities to share its research, and, in close cooperation with the university’s Library Services,
 has implemented procedures to ensure that staff publications including monographs and book
 chapters are uploaded swiftly where publisher embargoes permit. In the case of Gosling-Page’s


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 monograph Payment and Philanthropy, funding from the Wellcome Trust ensured that it was made
 freely available online at the point of publication.

 The CHR hosts a number of Open Access collections that support research within the University
 and beyond. These include the Dictionary of Labour Biography Archive, containing entries on 950
 individuals and organisations linked to trade unions, socialist organisations and Labour Members
 of Parliament. This has long served as an important resource for academics, as well as local and
 family historians. We also host the free, online Dictionary of Traded Goods and Commodities
 (1550-1820), which includes entries for more than 4000 terms used to label and describe traded
 goods in early modern England. Two freely accessible collections are of particular value to military
 historians: the New Model Army Regimental Lists Database, established by Wanklyn, which
 collates details of officers who fought for Parliament in conflicts between 1642 and 1660, and an
 archive of over 50 interviews with British Army veterans of the North-West European Campaign
 of 1944/45. This important resource continues to inform the teaching and research of staff in the
 Centre and is in the process of being digitised and placed online. As part of the AHRC-funded
 mining history project, researchers have also recently begun to compile a freely accessible
 database containing 98 interviews with retired coal miners and their families, along with a digitised
 series of key coal industry publications including Coal News and The Miner.

 The dissemination and impact of our research is evident in the broad range of activities undertaken
 by CHR staff outlined throughout this document. Some of this activity has been brought into
 sharper focus in the Unit’s two Impact Case Studies (ICS) for REF2021. The first of these details
 the way in which the research and engagement of Gildart and others has transformed the
 educational provision of the General Federation of Trade Unions (GFTU). This was achieved by
 working with affiliated organisations such as the Musicians’ Union, the Social Workers’ Union and
 the Professional Footballers’ Association as creative participants in the process of documenting
 and marking their own histories, including at the youth festivals of the GFTU. The second ICS
 reflects our expertise in military history and its impact on the public commemoration of war and on
 military education. It highlights Sheffield’s influence as an advisor to the Department of Culture,
 Media and Sport and its decision to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Amiens
 in 2018. It also showcases Wolverhampton’s new MA in Air, Space and Cyber Power, developed
 in partnership with the Ministry of Defence, and the manner in which this programme has
 enhanced the intellectual capital of the RAF.

 iii) Future strategic objectives

 Our objective in the coming years is to sustain the vitality of historical research at Wolverhampton
 and to further its dissemination and impact. To this end the CHR will support and develop the
 research of the three clusters, continuing the excellent work of colleagues begun in the cycle to
 2021. Research currently in progress will lead to the publication of a number of studies, including
 on deindustrialisation and popular culture, the persecution of Europe’s Sinti and Roma; the Peace
 Process in Northern Ireland; the parent-child relationship and mental illness, British and Dominion
 soldiers in the two world wars, and on Operation Market Garden.

 We will build upon our strong track record of engagement with partner organisations beyond the
 academy and continue to stimulate and shape historical debate in the public sphere. Maintaining
 our ties with local communities and the GFTU, its affiliate organisations, and the MoD, will be part
 of this endeavour, but we will look to expand such activities and broaden the impact of our
 research. The AHRC-funded ‘On Behalf of the People’, and the public engagement activities
 undertaken in connection with this project have provided us with an important foundation here,
 and it is envisaged that the publications arising from this research will underpin an Impact Case
 Study for the coming REF period. A recent initiative by Wilkinson to develop GCSE resource packs
 on the Great War with Pearson, and with Oxford, Cambridge and RSA Examinations, is another
 project, currently in its early stages, which we may choose to pursue further.

 The CHR recognises the important role that it plays within the broader educational landscape of
 the Black Country. The research-led teaching of our students is part of this, but we will look to

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strengthen our relationships with a variety of local bodies, including schools, local history
 associations and heritage organisations such as the Black Country Living Museum and the
 museums of the UNESCO world heritage site at Ironbridge Gorge. Collaboration of this kind
 promotes a collective, critical engagement with the past, enhancing our community’s appreciation
 of its diverse nature and origins, and helping to shape its sense of identity and purpose in the
 present. The research expertise of the CHR means that it is particularly well-placed to address the
 history of social conflict in the region. The workshops on rioting led by Kassimeris and O’Kane in
 2014 and 2016, and the projects undertaken by Hirsh and Glen which addressed the racist legacy
 of local MP Enoch Powell (details in sections 3 and 4) will serve as exemplars for such
 collaborative work after 2021.

 We face challenges in the short term given the impact of the pandemic, which has affected
 research activity of all kinds and looks set to do so for months to come. Through this period of
 disruption, and in the period of renewal to follow, the CHR will continue to foster the research
 activity of staff, post-doctoral researchers and doctoral students. The period following 2021 will
 also see some staff retire from the department. Recruitment will seek to offset the loss of their
 expertise, to address the gender imbalance within the Centre, and to build new research profiles
 within the CHR, this with a particular view to expanding its scope for interdisciplinary research.

 2. People


 a) Staff

 i) The Centre for Historical Research

 The CHR is open and inclusive, comprising all members of staff employed in the department as
 well as our Honorary Research Fellows (HRFs) and Emeritus Professors. In July 2020 there were
 36 members of the CHR, including 22 Category A staff in the UoA REF submission, two staff who
 do not have significant responsibility for research at present (but whose role may well change),
 two post-doctoral researchers employed in connection with the AHRC project, seven HRFs
 (Laporte, Caterall, Jackson, Mitchell, McEwen, Ponsonby and Toplis) and the Emeritus Professors
 Benson, Dennis, and Wanklyn. In 2014 the Unit returned 16 members of staff. The 22 members
 of the CHR submitting outputs this time include 17 full-time, permanent staff contracted to carry
 out both teaching and research, and five colleagues on fixed-term contracts: Wilkinson and Glen
 on research-only contracts (both .5), Krause (full-time), Gray (.3) and Burczynska (.5) who all
 teach and research. We also included outputs from Natalie Thomlinson, who was a Category A
 staff until she left Wolverhampton to take up a post at the University of Reading in 2018.

 ii) Recruitment

 The recruitment strategy of the CHR seeks to appoint staff who ensure continuity to the
 established research and teaching profile, but who also bring fresh approaches to their respective
 fields. In the cycle to 2021, the appointment of Wilkinson, a specialist on prisoners of war, and the
 addition of HRF McEwen, who has focused upon the medical history of the Great War, both
 strengthened an already impressive profile in this area, whilst the additions of Curtis and Millar
 (who adopts gender and oral-historical approaches in her work) enhanced existing departmental
 expertise in the field of labour history. Two permanent appointments have allowed the CHR to
 develop its research portfolio: Gosling-Page, who focuses on health-care provision, and Burns,
 whose major research area is American Imperialism. His appointment, and that of Krause, a
 specialist in colonial rebellion, means that colonial history and subaltern studies may now be
 developed as an area of collective expertise. Constantine and Jones have both published in this
 area previously. The arrivals of Gosling-Page and Burns also enhance the interdisciplinarity of
 CHR research, as outlined in Section 1.

 Recent recruitment practice has also been guided by the intent to broaden departmental
 engagement with public and third sector bodies. The appointment of the military historian and

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 retired RAF Air Commodore Gray, and of Burczynska, in connection with the new MA in Air, Space
 and Cyber Power, and the recruitment of Gosling-Page, whose research has led to extensive
 collaboration with the voluntary sector, are examples of this.

 iii) Staff development

 The CHR supports the intellectual and professional development of its members. All Category A
 staff are allocated a reduction in teaching hours in order to pursue their research and have each
 been given one semester-long sabbatical in the current REF cycle. Procedures for career
 progression are clear and transparent. The University-wide annual readership and professorship
 schemes are open to everyone with the requisite records of publication and research activity.
 Since 2014, Ugolini, Gildart and Kassimeris have been promoted from Reader to Professor, and
 O’Kane, Fuller and Hawkins from Senior Lecturer to Reader. All staff benefit from Faculty-wide
 mentoring and rigorous annual appraisal. Until 2019, staff submitted annual research forms to the
 CHR management committee, recording their research activity, publications arising, and other
 activities connected with wider dissemination and impact. These also listed new external funding
 applications and awards and new postgraduate supervision, information which in turn informed
 annual appraisal. In 2019, the Activity Forms were superseded, and the process streamlined,
 when the University adopted Symplectic’s Elements information management software.

 iv) Early career researchers (ECRs)

 The CHR provides ECRs with the material support they need to conduct their research. Archival
 work conducted by Burns in the US in 2019 for his monograph on William Taft was funded by the
 Centre and may be cited as an example here. In previous cycles, colleagues have also applied
 successfully to the University-wide Early Researcher Award Scheme (ERAS) which provides
 mentoring and financial assistance of up to £5,000 towards the research of staff who have
 completed their doctorate in the previous five years. ECRs are also integrated into the work of the
 CHR’s research clusters, where they work alongside senior colleagues on funding bids and
 towards the publication of joint-authored outputs. Ongoing work between Watkiss and Gildart on
 the social history of Disco, and between Gildart, Curtis and Millar in connection with the AHRC
 project, are examples of this. As the representative of staff at Lecturer and Senior Lecturer levels
 on the CHR Committee, Constantine has acted as a mentor to Gosling-Page and Burns since their
 appointment. The career progression of ECRs is also supported. In recognition of their valuable
 contribution to the work of the Department, both Gosling-Page and Burns have been advanced
 from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer since their arrival.

 v) Support for exchanges, research, and impact

 The CHR is responsible for the identification of research priorities and the subsequent allocation
 of resources. It does so in conjunction with the Faculty Executive Team, the Faculty Research
 Committee, the University’s Dean of Research, and the Office of the Vice-Chancellor. The CHR
 plays a key role in ensuring that the scholarly infrastructure is in place to enable all of its staff to
 produce world-leading research. It does so by supervising the operational development of
 research across the Centre and by ensuring that research and impact activity are properly funded
 and included in the annual staff workload allocation. Through its representation on the Faculty and
 University Research Committees, it also shapes the strategic development of research at Faculty
 and University level.

 Collaborative projects involving staff place particular emphasis on the involvement of institutions
 and organisations outside of higher education. Annual CHORD workshops on historic textiles and
 dress attract speakers and participants from national and local heritage organisations and historic
 houses. Two conferences held in 2014 and 2016 and coordinated by Kassimeris and O’Kane on
 ‘Why People Riot’ were also both characterised by a strong non-academic presence, serving to
 facilitate the exchange of ideas between scholars and representatives from a range of public
 bodies including the West Midlands Police and local government. A further example is the ongoing
 series of Study Days led by the First World War Research Group which are held three times a

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 year and open to the public. They interlock with a series of First World War Public Lectures given
 by external speakers and funded by the Western Front Association.

 Our partnership with the GFTU, which has seen staff and postgraduate students run workshops
 on labour history as part of its educational programme, may also be cited here. As part of its duty
 to manage the research budget, the CHR Management Group allocated additional funds for travel
 and expenses connected to the development and delivery of the GFTU Case Study. The visits
 made by colleagues to the GFTU headquarters in Quorn, which also proved crucial in the
 development of the successful funding bids outlined in Section 3, were financed in this way.


 b) Research students

 i) Recruitment

 As of July 31 2020, CHR staff were supervising 39 full and part-time doctoral students, a significant
 increase on the 20 research students recorded in our return for REF2014. Since 2014 CHR staff
 have supervised 11 PhD theses to completion. Imaginative, original doctoral research on a wide
 variety of topics is being carried out under CHR staff supervision, including on the commemoration
 and remembrance of war, on Quaker humanitarian relief, on anti-racism in the 1970s and on the
 social consequences of de-industrialisation. Our improved recruitment of research students is in
 part a consequence of the introduction of four new Masters programmes in History. An MA in
 Second World War Studies and an MA in the History of Britain and the First World War were set
 up following a successful bid to the University’s Research Investment Fund in 2014. October 2018
 saw the first iteration of a new MA in Twentieth Century Britain, and, in September 2019, the first
 RAF recruits were enrolled on the new MA in Air, Space and Cyber Power Studies. Five of our
 doctoral students are graduates of our Masters programmes.

 ii) Support and integration

 Postgraduates are supervised by a team of researchers selected for their different expertise and
 with a view to providing optimal support for their students. Supervisors undertake mandatory
 training prior to accepting doctoral students and receive additional training thereafter via the
 Doctoral College’s Research Supervisors' Development Programme. History students receive
 discipline-specific training, including in historical research methodologies, on preparing
 conference papers, publishing their work, and the requirements of the thesis and the viva
 examination. Their career development is further supported through their involvement in the
 delivery of the Department’s undergraduate curriculum. Doctoral students in History have been
 able to draw upon funds of up to £500 p.a. from the CHR’s postgraduate research budget to cover
 the cost of activities such as conference attendance and research visits. Requests for support
 exceeding this amount are supported where CHR funds allow.

 Our postgraduate students play a full role in the research community, contributing, for example,
 to the CHR seminar programme and to CHORD conferences and workshops. Three doctoral
 students presented papers at the centennial conference on the Great War, and a fourth was part
 of the team that visited Japan in connection with the ESRC-funded project on mining heritage
 (details in Section 3). A new Women’s History Group, initiated by Ugolini, and a Labour History
 Reading Group, set up by Gildart for postgraduate and postdoctoral researchers, foster scholarly
 exchange between new and established researchers and help to maintain the vitality of historical
 research at Wolverhampton. Under the guidance of CHR staff, and in the inclusive environment
 of the Department, many of our doctoral students begin careers in history and cognate subjects.
 Leonie Jackson (currently at the University of Huddersfield) and Jenny Gilbert-Evans (at the Black
 Country Studies Centre), who graduated in 2015 and 2016 respectively, are two recent examples.

 As the University is not a recipient of the research councils’ block-grant studentship funds, we
 have accessed alternative sources to fund doctoral research. In 2015, the CHR itself funded two
 fee-waiver scholarships and our partnership with the GFTU has resulted in the Federation funding

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 one doctoral student to research its history from its foundation in 1899. The British Commission
 for Military History and the Black Country Society have provided financial support for two further
 PhD students. The CHR also has an established record of attracting self-funding and part-time
 postgraduate students, many of whom combine research with employment. The recruitment
 process is open and rigorous, and all members of recruitment panels are briefed on equal
 opportunities. This has resulted in an increasingly diverse student community in terms of gender,
 age and socio-economic background, although we recognise that more work needs to be done to
 attract female applicants. In July 2020 just over a quarter (10) of our doctoral students were
 female.


 c) Equality and Diversity

 The CHR recognises that creative, innovative research is furthered through the recruitment of
 scholars from different cultural and educational backgrounds. It enables the CHR, as a collective
 unit, to bring differing perspectives to bear on historical enquiry. Current staff come from a variety
 of social backgrounds, and from a range of countries including the UK, Italy, Germany, Greece,
 New Zealand, Poland and the United States. Since 2014, the Management Committee has looked
 to address the gender imbalance within the CHR and can claim an improved record of attracting
 female applicants to advertised posts. In the present cycle this has led to a more balanced
 recruitment of new researchers, including the appointments of Burczynska, Hirsch, Millar,
 Tomlinson, and (HRF) McEwen, although departures in the same period have unfortunately
 undone some of these gains. CHR staff are represented on the University’s Women in Research
 group and are engaged in a long-standing collaboration with its Black and Ethnic Minorities
 Experience project, not least through involvement in the annual programme for Black History
 Month. CHR staff are part of the University’s LGBT Staff Network and help to organise events for
 LGBT History Month in February each year. As part of Disability History Month colleagues have
 also presented papers on aspects of their work, most recently Gosling-Page in December 2019,
 who spoke on the charity St Dunstan’s, and its re-training of blinded veterans after the Great War.

 The CHR supports equality and diversity by promoting flexible working and by providing facilities
 for the integration of part-time and honorary staff. Across the University, staff who have taken
 parental or carers’ leave, or who have needed to take long-term medical leave, are also supported
 in several ways. During their absence they agree keeping-in-touch (KIT) days to ensure their
 wellbeing and continued sense of inclusion. All those returning from career breaks are encouraged
 to engage a mentor, and to seek the advice and support of the CHR as they recommence their
 research.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 a) External Income generation

 The CHR’s commitment to sharing its expertise with local communities and public and third sector
 bodies informs its strategy for grant capture. This focus on mutually beneficent projects has proven
 successful in the current cycle and UoA staff have attracted substantial financial support from
 major UK funding bodies and comparable international organisations. The CHR’s strength in the
 field of labour history was recognised in 2017 with the award of an AHRC Research Grant worth
 £655,736 for ‘On Behalf of The People’ a major research project on the history of the British Coal
 Industry. Led by Gildart as Principal Investigator it focused on eight collieries and their
 communities: Annesley-Bentinck (Nottingham), Bickershaw (Lancashire), Easington (Durham),
 Markham (Derbyshire), Point of Ayr (Flintshire), Prince of Wales (Yorkshire) and Tower (Cynon
 Valley). The research was developed in partnership with the national mining museums of England,
 Wales and Scotland and the GFTU. UKRI provided an additional £72,000 when COVID-19
 disrupted a series of public engagement activities scheduled for 2020. The additional grant met
 the cost of extending the employment of the post-doctoral researchers involved, and of developing
 a public exhibition, now due to open in 2021.

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Gildart’s expertise in the social history of mining led to further international collaborations which
 have attracted significant additional funding. He was Co-Investigator on the ESRC-funded project
 ‘New Directions in Coal Mining History and Heritage’ awarded £43,484 in 2019. This collaboration
 brought together UK and Japanese historians, archivists, and former coal miners in a series of
 workshops in Sheffield, Barnsley, Tokyo and Kyushu, where participants shared best practice on
 the dissemination of historical research beyond the academy and engaged ex-mining communities
 in the preservation of their own heritage. In May 2020 Gildart was Co-Applicant on a successful
 bid by an international team of researchers awarded $2.5 million by the Canadian Social Sciences
 and Humanities Research Council. On this seven-year project entitled ‘Deindustrialisation and the
 Politics of Our Time’ the Wolverhampton researchers will be exploring how industrial decline in
 mining communities in the 1970s and 1980s was reflected in popular music and youth subculture.

 Since 2014 Ugolini has secured funding amounting to £20,000 for the Centre for the History of
 Retailing and Distribution and in 2018 Hirsch successfully bid for Heritage Lottery funding worth
 £9,400 in connection with her work on the impact of Enoch Powell’s ‘Rivers of Blood’ speech. In
 2018, Fuller was also awarded a Caird Short-term Research Fellowship worth £4,800 by the
 National Maritime Museum, Greenwich. In 2020, Hawkins, together with Frank Challenger, the
 former CEO of the Wolverhampton Lighthouse Arts Centre, received a grant of £5,682 from the
 Windrush Day Grant Scheme for the BE-ME Foundation Project ‘Windrush Generation
 Experiences On-line’.

 In the course of his work on survivors of National Socialist persecution and on children’s
 experience of the Second World War, Steinert has secured awards from a range of funding bodies.
 His research has been sponsored by Yad Vashem, and the foundation Remembrance,
 Responsibility, Future, who provided substantial grants to support both the 5th and 6th international
 conferences on ‘Beyond camps and forced labour’ and the 3rd international conference on
 ‘Children and War’ held in Salzburg in July 2016 which Steinert co-organised. In the current cycle
 some £70,000 has been made available to the University for these purposes. The 6th international
 conference was also supported through an additional £35,000 from the Toni Schiff Memorial Fund.
 In 2015 Steinert was awarded a senior fellowship at the Vienna Wiesenthal Institute for Holocaust
 Studies worth £18,000.

 To date, the AHRC Voices of War and Peace Engagement Centre has provided £3,500 to CHR
 staff for public engagement work. Jones is Co-Investigator of the Centre. As part of a joint initiative
 with the National Football Museum and colleagues at De Montfort University, Sheffield has
 secured funding of £10,000 from the Oxford United Community Trust to establish a ‘Football and
 War’ network, an initiative which forms part of a wider project to use the history of the game in
 wartime as an educational vehicle for schools and communities. A full breakdown of History
 research income by source is included in REF 4b.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 a) Partnerships, community engagement and impact

 The material in the following sections showcases the vital social contribution of the Unit,
 highlighting our partnerships with public and third sector providers and our engagement with
 community groups. As indicated above, formal partnerships have been agreed with the MoD, the
 GFTU and the National Mining Museums which have led to the impact detailed in the UoA’s Case
 Studies for REF2021. In embedding our expertise in their educational programmes and
 exhibitions, we have helped to shape the curricula and teaching practice of a broad field of
 educators, enriching the learning experience of children and adults from a diverse range of social
 and cultural backgrounds. Colleagues also give regular talks to schools and local history societies,
 and the workshops and conferences we organise involve the participation of non-academics,
 whether as interested individuals or as members of associations and community groups. The
 project initiated by Hirsch in 2018 to mark the 50th anniversary of Wolverhampton MP Enoch

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Powell’s notorious ‘Rivers of Blood’ speech deserves special mention in this context. It brought
 together the local community at a series of public events to address Powell’s legacy. This
 programme of activity, developed further by Glen, included a theatre production by pupils at West
 Park Primary School, a workshop with former pupils who had attended the school in 1968, and a
 major exhibition at Wolverhampton’s Art Gallery. Collectively these interventions played a central
 role in confronting Powell’s racist vision fifty years on.


 b) Media work

 Staff in the CHR are consulted regularly on a range of historical matters by the major national and
 international media organisations, outlets which enable colleagues to bring their expertise to a
 much wider audience.

 The extensive media coverage of the First World War Centenary provided the CHR’s military
 historians with many opportunities to influence the way the War is remembered and understood.
 Sheffield appeared in discussion with Professor Sir Richard Evans on the subject of the First World
 War on BBC Radio 4 in January 2014 and Badsey took part in Radio 5’s ‘Five Live Remembers’
 from St Philip’s Cathedral in Birmingham on 4 August 2014 and was interviewed for BBC2’s
 Gallipoli: When Murdoch Went to War, broadcast on the 25 April 2015. He subsequently advised
 the programme makers of Radio 4’s Voices of the First World War in July 2017 and was
 interviewed in June 2018 for ZDF’s television series on the Second World War. Buckley was
 interviewed for Radio 4’s The World at One on the subject of the 1940 campaign and has acted
 as a consultant for the BBC/ Slitherine computer game Battleground.

 Gildart’s expertise has been called upon in a number of recent high-profile documentaries. He was
 consulted as part of BBC Radio’s coverage of the thirtieth anniversary of the Miners’ Strike and
 has contributed to BBC television programmes on post-war Britain, and to Mods and Rockers
 Rebooted, broadcast in August 2014. More recently he acted as a consultant for the four-part
 series A History of the European Working Class by the acclaimed director Stan Neumann and was
 interviewed in the final part (‘Revolution’) which aired on ARTE in May 2020. He was the leading
 historical expert on series 17, episode 1 of the BBC’s hugely popular Who Do You Think You Are?
 which followed the actor Jodie Whittaker’s investigation of her family history. Filming for the
 episode was completed in February 2020, and it was first broadcast in October that year.


 c) Wider academic influence

 i) Research councils, university research panels, editorial positions

 CHR Staff play important roles in the work of the Research Councils and on other national and
 international bodies. Badsey was appointed as a member of the AHRC’s Peer Review College in
 2017; Gildart is currently a member of the Australian Research Council and Ugolini has been an
 invited Member of the Pasold Research Fund since 2004. We also perform a central role in
 planning, monitoring and managing University research at Wolverhampton. Buckley is Head of
 School Research and, with Gildart, also a member of the Faculty and University Research
 Committees. In July 2020, Gildart was appointed Chair of the University’s Professoriate.

 CHR staff undertake editorial responsibilities for numerous historical journals. Buckley is on the
 editorial board of the British Journal of Military History; Burns edited The Bridge: Journal of
 Educational Research-Informed Practice between 2014 and 2016 and is currently on the board of
 Management in Education. Fuller is Associate Editor of the International Journal of Naval History
 and Gildart serves on the editorial boards of Socialist History, Historical Studies in Industrial
 Relations, and Llafur: the Journal of Welsh People’s History. Kassimeris is on the board of Critical
 Studies on Terrorism. Ugolini remained co-editor of Textile History until 2016, becoming sole editor
 in that year, and is currently on the boards of the History of Retailing and Consumption, and the
 Journal of Management History. Badsey, Buckley and Fuller edit the Wolverhampton Military

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Studies series of monographs for Helion, the specialist military history publisher. Benson, Hawkins
 and Ugolini are all on the editorial board of the Journal of Historical Research in Marketing.

 ii) Seminars, workshops and conferences

 Throughout the year the CHR invites speakers to present their research as part of its regular
 seminar series. These are open to staff and students and form an integral part of the research
 culture of the department, providing a platform for CHR scholars, post-graduates and visiting
 speakers to present and discuss their work. In 2018, for example, Buckley and Sheffield gave
 papers (on Cornelius Ryan, and on Combat motivation), with scholars from City University, London
 and the Universities of Manchester, Nottingham, Edinburgh and Canberra also presenting on a
 range of topics that year.

 To coincide with the centennial commemorations, Badsey, Sheffield, Ugolini and Wilkinson
 organised the major international conference ‘The End of the War and the Reshaping of a
 Century'. This event was held at Wolverhampton over three days in September 2018, and
 developed in collaboration with heritage agencies, museums, art galleries, schools and community
 groups involved in First World War research and commemoration. Over 50 speakers attended,
 and keynote lectures were presented by distinguished scholars in the field, including John Horne,
 Alison Fell, Peter Frankopan, Hew Strachan, Jay Winter and our own Gary Sheffield and Laura
 Ugolini.

 With colleagues at Royal Holloway and Birkbeck College, Steinert co-organised the 5th and 6th
 interdisciplinary conferences ‘Beyond Camps and Forced Labour’ in 2015 and 2018, both
 attracting over 100 speakers. In collaboration with academics at the University of Salzburg, and in
 association with the UN Office of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Children
 and Armed Conflict, he also organised the conference ‘Children and War’ hosted in Salzburg in
 2016. More recently, in November 2019, Steinert co-organized the conference ‘Children, War and
 Forced Migration. Past and Present’ also in Salzburg.

 O’Kane’s role in organising the ‘Why People Riot’ conferences has been noted above. He and
 Norton were also instrumental in the School’s hosting of the National Museums, Northern Ireland
 traveling exhibition ‘Voices of ’68’ in April 2019, which addressed the pivotal events of that year
 and the civil rights movement in Northern Ireland on the eve of the outbreak of the Troubles.
 O’Kane and Norton both spoke at its launch.

 Under Ugolini’s leadership the Centre for the History of Retailing and Distribution continues to host
 the leading international annual conference in this field. For two decades now the CHORD
 conferences have been a vital forum for scholarly exchange, bringing together established
 academics, early career scholars and researchers from heritage and charitable institutions across
 Europe, the US and Australasia. Recent events have explored, in successive years, the changing
 patterns of retailing and consumption from the early modern period through to the twentieth
 century. The conference in September 2019 included contributions from scholars from the UK,
 France, Switzerland, Italy and Finland, and from staff working at the Salvation Army International
 Heritage Centre, London and the museums of the UNESCO world heritage site at Ironbridge
 Gorge. CHORD also runs workshops twice yearly which focus on more specific historical themes,
 such as that held in June 2020, via Zoom, which explored the relationship between retailing,
 distribution and the natural world.

 iii) Research networks

 Staff in the department play important roles in national and international research networks.
 Ugolini was a member of the AHRC-funded network ‘Tailored Trades: Clothes, Labour and
 Professional Communities (1880-1939)’ and Gildart is a co-founder of the AHRC-sponsored
 ‘Subcultures Network’, established in 2011 and funded between 2013 and 2015 to foster inter-
 disciplinary research into youth culture, popular music and social change. A central concern of this
 collaboration is to help policy makers understand how youth cultures change and the diverse ways

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in which young people give voice to their political views. This Network generated the series
 Palgrave Studies in the History of Sub-Cultures and Popular Music, which Gildart co-edits and
 which includes Glen’s 2019 monograph Youth and Permissive Social Change in British Music
 Papers, 1967-1983.

 Wilkinson is co-founder and, up until Jan 2019, lead committee member of the AHRC-supported
 First World War Network, a network for early career and postgraduate researchers working on any
 aspect of the War. As indicated above Jones is Co-Investigator of the AHRC’s ‘Voices of War and
 Peace’, one of the five Engagement Centres established by the Council to connect academic and
 public histories during the centennial commemorations. As part of this project, Jones has
 contributed to the ‘Frontline’ series of articles hosted by the project’s website.

 iv) Peer review and external examination

 We have acted as referees for a broad range of historical journals and continue to evaluate
 proposals for the major academic publishers. The latter include Bloomsbury Academic (Gildart),
 Continuum (O’Kane), Palgrave Macmillan (Gildart, Ugolini), Polity (Jones), Routledge (Benson,
 Constantine, Gildart, Hawkins), and the University presses of Edinburgh (Ugolini), Liverpool
 (Gildart), Manchester (O’Kane, Ugolini), Oxford (O’Kane), Wales (Gildart) and Yale (Badsey). We
 have also acted as referees for funding applications, including those made to the AHRC (Gildart,
 Badsey), British Academy (Gildart), Australian Research Council (Gildart), Pasold Research Fund
 (Ugolini), Wellcome Trust (Ugolini), ESRC (Badsey), and the Social Sciences and Humanities and
 Research Council of Canada (Badsey). In the current cycle we have acted as external examiners
 at Edinburgh and Birkbeck (Badsey), Exeter (Fuller), Salford, Glasgow, Exeter, Huddersfield,
 Sheffield (Gildart), Leeds and Kings College London (Sheffield), Royal Holloway (Steinert) and
 Oxford and Brighton (Ugolini).

 v) Scholarly awards, fellowships and invited keynotes

 CHR staff have received international recognition for their work in the cycle to 2021. In 2014,
 Buckley was awarded the Templer Medal from the Society for Army Historical Research for
 Monty’s Men (2013). In the same year Stemming the Tide (also 2013), edited by Jones, and
 containing essays by Jones, Badsey and Sheffield, was declared runner-up. In November 2020,
 Steinert was awarded the prestigious Yad Vashem International Book Prize for his 2018 work
 Holocaust und Zwangsarbeit on child forced labour. Badsey, Benson, Buckley, Curtis, Gildart,
 Sheffield and Ugolini are all Fellows of the Royal Historical Society. Buckley is a member of the
 Chief of the Air Staff Advisory Group at the Royal Air Force, Royal Air Force College, Cranwell.
 Steinert held a Senior Fellowship at the Vienna Wiesenthal Institute for Holocaust Studies between
 March and August 2015 and, in 2016, Burns was a Barringer Research Fellow at the Monticello
 Institute, Virginia. Fuller is currently an Associate Professor of History at the University of Maryland
 University College and in 2018 held a Caird Short-term Research Fellowship from the National
 Maritime Museum, Greenwich.

 CHR Staff are regularly invited as keynote speakers to symposia and conferences. In 2014,
 Badsey spoke on ‘The First World War in British and German Cultures of Remembrance’ at the
 33rd Annual Conference of the Prinz-Albert-Gesellschaft E.V. in Coburg, and the following year
 on ‘Alternate Spaces of War’ at the University of Plymouth. In Tokyo, in September 2019, he
 delivered the keynote paper on ‘The Unexpected Expansion of Conflicts’ at the International
 Forum on War History convened by the Japanese Ministry of Defense (National Institute of
 Defense Studies). Keynote presentations were given by Buckley at the 26th Annual Canadian
 Military History Colloquial, Wilfrid Laurier University, Ontario in 2015, by Gildart, at the Wellcome-
 funded conference ‘Working Environments and the Body’ held at the University of Shanghai in
 April 2018, and by Jones, at the First World War Research Symposium held at the Portuguese
 Defence Academy in Lisbon in 2015. Sheffield delivered keynote addresses at the Western Front
 Association Irish Branches Conference, held in Cork in 2015 and in 2017 at the 28th Annual
 Canadian Military History Colloquial in Ontario. In November that year, Ugolini gave the keynote
 at the British Records Association Annual Conference held in London.

                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 vi) Professional subject associations

 We also play a prominent role in the work of professional associations. Badsey organised the
 British Commission for Military History’s 5th Annual Conference on New Research in Military
 History, held here at Wolverhampton in November 2014; Buckley is a committee member of the
 Society for Military History; Dannehl is on the Steering Committee of History UK; Fuller is a Fellow
 of the US Naval Historical Centre, Washington DC; Gildart is an Executive Board Member of the
 Labour History Society and also a Member of the Advisory Board for the Modern Records Centre,
 University of Warwick; Gosling-Page is the Communications Officer for the Social History Society;
 Hawkins is a Member of the Board of Directors of the Historical Analysis and Research in
 Marketing Association; Jones is a council member for the Army Records Society; O’Kane is Co-
 Convenor of the Irish Politics Group of the Political Studies Association; Sheffield is a Member of
 the Council of Society of Army Historical Research and currently serves as President of both the
 Western Front Association and the International Guild of Battlefield Guides.




                                                                                             Page 13
