Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 17 Business & Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Unit context and structure
 Southampton Business School (SBS) is successful, growing, international and diverse, hosting a
 vibrant and collegial community of researchers. Although SBS’s performance in REF2014 was
 relatively strong, there was a belief that it could be further improved. A five-year School-level
 strategy was developed in 2014, together with a new management team from 2015. The rationale
 behind this strategy was twofold: to consolidate core strengths (e.g. business analytics,
 management sciences, accounting and finance), and to grow sustainably in new identified areas
 (entrepreneurship, innovation and project management), aligning with the University Strategy
 (REF5a§1.2). This resulted in significant investments in research, including increased internal
 pump-priming research funds, personal research budgets, and notably academic research staff,
 increasing from 56.4 FTE (59 headcount (18F,41M)) in 2014 to 94.9 FTE (100 headcount
 (28F,72M)) in 2020. We have also become more international, increasing from 50% non-UK
 (EU/EEA and Rest of World) in REF2014 to 64% today.
 SBS has grown substantially in breadth and size over the last five years, now comprising six
 Departments, covering all core management disciplines: Accounting (DoA), Banking and Finance
 (DBF), Decision Analytics and Risk (DAR), Digital and Data-Driven Marketing (DDDM), Human
 Resource Management and Organisational Behaviour (HRMOB), and Strategy Innovation and
 Entrepreneurship (DSIE). The purpose of our Departments is to promote excellence in
 interdisciplinary research, consultancy and education in key management areas such as
 accountancy, banking, finance, risk and management science.
 Research activity within SBS is coordinated through eight multidisciplinary research centres
 (RCs), which are subsidiary to Departments. The longest established RC is the Centre for
 Operational Research, Management Sciences and Information Systems (CORMSIS), which
 includes 33 SBS staff, nine staff from the School of Mathematical Sciences, plus three staff from
 Health Sciences. This total of 45 permanent academic staff makes CORMSIS one of the UK’s
 largest groups of researchers in Operational Research and Management Sciences. The other
 seven RCs are: the Centre for Risk Research (CRR); Centre for Research in Accounting,
 Accountability and Governance (CRAAG); Centre for Marketing Research (CMR); Centre for
 Empirical Research in Finance and Banking (CERFIB); Centre for Digital Finance (CDF); Centre
 for Research on Work and Organisations (CWO); and the Centre for Inclusive and Sustainable
 Entrepreneurship and Innovation (CISEI). See Figure 1.
 The purpose of our RCs is to generate and disseminate knowledge, understanding and practical
 impact. Each RC has a distinctive research vision. For example, CORMSIS covers the whole
 spectrum from theoretical mathematical developments to problem structuring and knowledge
 management and has internationally-renowned expertise in the specific areas of risk, optimisation,
 finance and health, and CISEI plays a pivotal role in connecting several strands of sustainability,
 diversity and inclusiveness in the main domains of entrepreneurship and innovation research. RCs
 are led by Directors, typically senior staff, operating alongside Departmental Heads. In addition,
 the RCs foster co-working and ownership of the research mission/direction by enabling our Early
 Career Researchers (ECRs) to develop their careers and thrive in their fields of interest. Staff
 belong to one or more RC, e.g. there is overlap in membership between CRR and CERFIB. All
 RCs hold regular seminar series and some, e.g. CORMSIS, run an overseas academic visitor
 programme which enables visitors to undertake scholarly activity at SBS.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




          Figure 1: Six Departments (Orange) and how they link to eight RCs (blue)
 Our research areas have world-leading expertise, e.g. Operational Research (OR), transportation
 and logistics, healthcare modelling, human resource management, credit scoring and credit risk
 analysis. OR is ranked 37th in the 2020 QS world rankings, 12th in Europe and 7th in the UK. In
 addition, SBS researchers collaborate in UKRI-funded and EU-funded projects in many of the
 University’s areas of global excellence, such as computer science, engineering, health sciences
 and demography.
 People are critical to our sustainable growth and SBS has recruited internationally at all levels
 (non-UK staff have increased from 46% (in REF2014) to 64% (Table 2,§2)). Our recruitment
 strategy balances three requirements:
    a) appointing outstanding researchers to achieve critical mass in new areas;
    b) maintaining vitality and research intensity in established areas of research strength; and
    c) appointing staff with teaching expertise and business experience to cover core topics
       required by a business school.
 This recruitment strategy has expanded SBS’s academic research staff numbers and
 strengthened (and broadened) our research foci, e.g. marketing, and strategy and innovation. We
 have established several new research themes; selected through a deliberate process of targeted
 horizon-scanning, e.g. in the era of “big data”, digital marketing and digital finance are fast-growing
 emergent themes, where SBS exploits its traditional strength in quantitative analytics,
 collaborating with other areas such as Electronics and Computer Sciences.


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2 Research strategy
 Oversight of research strategy and impact development is led by the Deputy Head of School
 Research & Enterprise (DHoSRE). Our strategy reflects the four principles explicit in the
 University’s 2016 research strategy (REF5a§1.2): quality, sustainability, internationalisation and
 collegiality.
 In REF2014, we set ambitious targets for sustainable growth, research excellence and meaningful
 impact, and highlighted a strategy to become an internationally-recognised, research-led Business
 School. Thus, a rebranding of Southampton Management School (SMS) to SBS took place in
 2015. SBS duly refreshed its research strategy in early 2016, setting out a vision to become a
 Business School that is truly distinctive via its multidisciplinary and integrated approach,
 enhancing its world‐class cutting‐edge research to shape future business practice through
 delivering social and economic impact. Our mission is to deliver management research and
 education with rigour and relevance. In tandem, SBS prioritised connections with industry as a
 vehicle to further deliver impactful research. Four objectives were defined to guide the research
 activities of SBS:
    •   To deliver world-class research through maintaining a strong publication portfolio in
        international journals, impact on businesses and the public sector and attracting research
        funding by promoting a thriving research culture to attract internationally-recognised
        colleagues.
    •   To establish and invest in at least one RC per Department, to support research excellence
        through hosting seminars, attending conferences, inviting visitors and engaging with the
        international research community.
    •   To develop interdisciplinary research collaborations within the University of Southampton
        (UoS) and with external partners.
    •   To increase the quantity and diversity of research grant income by (1) enhancing internal
        staff training and administrative support for research grant bid writing, (2) encouraging
        large multidisciplinary research grant bids, especially with mathematical sciences,
        engineering and computer sciences, and (3) diversifying SBS’s portfolio of research
        funders.
 A fifth objective was added in late 2019 to reflect our commitment to ‘horizon-scan’ to respond to
 developments in emergent areas of growth in response to our fast-changing world.
 Each of the above objectives has been achieved over the REF period, evidenced as follows:
    •   Our delivery of world-class research is evidenced through our strong publication portfolio,
        producing over 1,770 publications, including 67 books, 1,057 journal articles, 101 book
        chapters and 29 reports with 1,499 external/international collaborators from 74 countries.
        Impact on businesses/public sector can be seen in §1.3 and the successes of our thriving
        research culture are evidenced in §4.
    •   Eight RCs have been established and all Departments own at least one RC ((§1.1,Figure
        1), and evidence of their success in creating and supporting our colleagues in achieving
        research excellence is evidenced throughout §4.
    •   Our focus on interdisciplinary research has led to the formation of sustainable
        collaborations within UoS and with external partners (§1.5, §4.1).
    •   Our commitment to supporting colleagues with research bid applications has led to an
        increase in average annual grant income, coupled with a successful diversification of our
        research funders over the REF period (§3.2).
    •   Horizon-scanning has led to research on the digital age (§1.5), e.g. in digital finance
        research into crypto-currencies, artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning, and ways


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         to embed sustainability into business practice in a world where climate change is now
         considered a global emergency (CDF, CRR).
 Our seven REF impact case studies (ICSs) (§1.3) demonstrate our REF2014 commitment to lead
 on (rather than co-investigate) research projects.
 1.3 Impact and Enterprise strategy
 Oversight of impact development is led by SBS’s Impact Champion and DHoSRE. We also have
 a dedicated Enterprise Division, connecting colleagues with industry executives, partners and
 practitioners, to better understand and respond to business-critical issues. Enterprise activities
 promoting sustainable, collaborative relationships are prioritised and inform our research agenda.
 SBS’s mission, vision and values were refreshed in March 2020. One key goal is to utilise our
 expertise to co-create sustainable solutions with regional and global organisations to change the
 world for the better (REF5a§1.2). Thus, a new Enterprise Strategy 2020 was developed to
 maximise SBS’s opportunity to connect with local, regional and global organisations (REF5a§2.3).
 Two key strategic research priorities were identified:
    •    Developing links and engaging with external organisations and alumni to promote
         research, creating opportunities for collaboration and consultancy to develop impact; and
    •    Providing an internal environment conducive to all staff, building relationships with
         business/industry for research collaboration and output.
 In response to the strategic priorities highlighted above, three research-focused objectives were
 agreed in consultation with the Enterprise Committee and the School Executive Group:
    •    Creating an effective structure of support for enterprise activities.
    •    Engaging staff in consultancy projects; enhancing visibility, advocacy, impact and revenue.
    •    Maximising opportunities for corporate engagement with SBS enterprise activities by
         effective publicity.
 To retain existing colleagues and attract new staff, SBS is mindful of the financial and time cost
 implications of activities supporting impact generation. Our staffing strategy aligns with our Impact
 and Enterprise strategy priorities by encouraging our colleagues to apply for School-level, as well
 as University-level schemes, e.g. the ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA). Impact generation
 is recognised within SBS annual appraisals, and in staff promotions (Baden to L7, Brito, So,
 Martinez-Sykora to L6 and Vithana to L5). Colleagues benefit from the availability of SBS small
 grants and impact funding, and Research and Innovation Services (RIS) support for IAA bids
 (§4.2). The Public Engagement with Research (PERu) and Public Policy Southampton (PP|S)
 units (REF5a§2.9) identify potential pathways to impact and FSS Research Excellence
 Framework Officers support impact-generation and evidence-gathering. SBS encourages
 collaboration with industry through KTPs and mKTPs.
 Our ICSs demonstrate a strong commitment by colleagues to connect academic research findings
 with key stakeholders in the business world and policy-makers to develop sustainable solutions to
 real-world problems:
 1.3.1   Baden’s (CWO) research has contributed to environmental benefits and improved
         economic competitiveness within the UK’s £6.2bn hairdressing industry. In 2015 the
         industry changed its default recommendation, recommending that the UK’s 55,000
         hairdressers reduce shampooing from twice to just once. This recommendation and
         information on greener products and practices were embedded in training for the estimated
         84,000 people that have taken haircare apprenticeships since 2015. Since its launch in
         2016, 135 salons and 2,560 stylists in 14 countries have gained the research-based
         Sustainable Salon Certification. Adopting the changes required for certification saves the
         average salon 286,000 litres of water and 24,150 kWh of energy every year, leading to an
         estimated collective annual saving for 135 certified salons of more than £700K.
         Sustainability training resources have been adapted for use in water-scarce countries like

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Mauritius and Malta. Baden won the ESRC Outstanding Impact in Business and Enterprise
         Prize in 2018.
 1.3.2   Brailsford’s computer simulation models (CORMSIS) are now in routine use by the Sri
         Lankan Ministry of Health for planning the recruitment and training of health professionals.
         As a direct result of the first model, for dental surgeons, over 1.5 million people with no
         previous access to state-funded care are now able to visit a dentist once a year, leading
         to a significant improvement in population oral health and the number of unemployed
         qualified dentists fell from over 250 in 2010 to zero. In 2016, the Ministry established a
         Human Resources Division to support its 125,000-strong workforce, and since 2018
         simulation models are used to plan postgraduate medical training in 56 specialties.
 1.3.3   Research by Mues, Bravo, So, Baesens, Thomas and Bijak (CORMSIS) has benefited
         companies and regulators worldwide, achieving impact in two areas: improving lending
         modelling practices and providing fairer access to credit. The researchers supported new
         legislation regarding data privacy in credit scoring and the FCA's new rules on credit cards,
         supported the management of portfolios worth billions of pounds (Banco Ripley), whilst
         being linked to tens of millions in cost savings, and the work on alternative data has helped
         Fintech start-up Grandata develop new solutions that improve financial inclusion.
 1.3.4   Tauringana’s (CRAAG) work on sustainability reporting in developing countries led to the
         training of 105 companies (mainly belonging to Uganda Manufacturers Association (UMA))
         on how to prepare sustainability reports in Uganda. Organisations produced their
         sustainability report and uploaded them on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) database.
         To encourage more organisations to prepare sustainability reports, UMA and the University
         of Southampton have launched a sustainability reporting quality mark, issued to any
         Ugandan organisation that produces and uploads its sustainability report on the GRI
         database. UMA also announced a new policy that recommends companies that hold a
         sustainability quality mark to potential buyers ahead of the rest. The research has led to a
         direct impact on Uganda’s progress towards achieving Sustainable Development Goal
         (SDG) 12, Target 6.
 1.3.5   Research into experiential learning by Baden (CWO) found that positive solution-based
         news stories are more effective than catastrophic stories or cautionary tales at inspiring
         ethical/sustainable behaviour and mindsets. This research has had impacts in the news
         sector, raising public awareness of the adverse effect of the dominance of negative news
         and supporting the design of high-profile initiatives by leading media organisations
         (including BBC and The Guardian) that have engaged several million people in a more
         constructive, solutions-focused approach to journalism. The research has informed the
         content of ‘constructive journalism’ training in the UK and Europe.
 1.3.6   Mues, Baesens, Bravo and Thomas (CORMSIS) undertook a new research track on
         fraud analytics in 2012, leading to methodological advances in the use of network data and
         machine learning since 2014, benefiting a variety of sectors including public services,
         financial services and the insurance industry. A novel network-based algorithm, GOTCHA!,
         is currently being applied by the Belgian social security service, the on-demand delivery
         unicorn Rappi and evaluated by firms such as AG Insurance, to reduce fraud. Through a
         proof-of-concept study, the research on text mining led to its adoption for car insurance
         fraud detection by a joint venture of the leading 14 insurance companies in Chile. The
         research also enabled Lloyds Banking Group to adopt a powerful machine learning
         technique, ‘random forests’, thus increasing the accuracy of fraud detection.
 1.3.7   Research on risk and reliability of marine autonomous systems (MAS) developed by Brito
         (CRR) has underpinned a collaboration with ASV Ltd., via a KTP, leading to the
         implementation of risk and reliability processes enabling the company to develop marine
         autonomous systems for commercial applications. The company was able to expand into
         a new market, namely oil and gas, increase its product line by 50% and create an internal
         department focused on risk and reliability and invested £500K in the creation of a risk and

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        reliability department, resulting in the employment of two safety systems personnel. In
        addition, statistical survivor estimator models developed by Brito have been used to inform
        a mission conducted by autonomous underwater vehicles to gather evidence to support
        the Canadian Government’s submission to the United Nations Convention on the Law of
        the Sea (UNCLOS) to extend its jurisdiction beyond 200 nautical miles.
 In addition to our seven ICSs, there are many other examples of research rooted in helping
 organisations improve their efficiency and effectiveness (§4.2).
 1.4 Research Funding
 SBS’s research strategy, in combination with staff growth, has facilitated a diversification of
 funding away from a reliance on EPSRC grants, to a wider range of sources, e.g. from professional
 associations in fields such as HRM (CIPD) and accounting (CIMA) to Government agencies (NHS
 and the British Council), charities (Leverhulme, Leadership Foundation for Higher Education) and
 most recently Arts Council England. KTPs are another source of funding, examples being Brito
 (autonomous surface vehicles) and Johnson (investment management support). Recent changes
 in KTP funding policy introducing mKTPs in 2019 presents additional opportunities for SBS which
 are being actively explored (Operations Management and Project Management teams). Another
 key area of focus is the Industrial Strategy and the Strength in Places Fund (Digital Marketing
 team).
 Table 1: Number and Value (£) of Research Funding Awards

              2013/14    2014/15    2015/16    2016/17 2017/18      2018/19 2019/20          Total

   Number         8          12         11         6         2          8         15          62


  Value (£)    369,628    615,043    988,044   158,735    39,508    444,176    926,092 £3,541,2263



 Since 2014, SBS has generated a total of 62 awards, worth in excess of £3.5M and broken down
 by academic year in Table 1. There was a decline to a low number of two awards in 2017/18,
 which reflects retirement of key personnel (Johnson), departure of leading research income
 generators (Bektas, Bennell) and a challenging UK funding climate. Since then, the number of
 awards has recovered strongly, reflecting a growth in staff numbers and an emphasis on
 increasing the number of bids (Kunc, Parry). Our refreshed research strategy aims to build on
 this recent success over the next REF period (§1.2).

 1.5 Research interdisciplinarity
 Originally, as an Accounting and Management Sciences department within a large university with
 a strong computing, engineering, medicine and science focus, SBS has historically possessed
 distinct strengths in conducting interdisciplinary research. We support interdisciplinary research in
 four key ways: First, extra resources are offered directly to support the activities and operations of
 our highly interdisciplinary-oriented RCs (e.g. CRR and CORMSIS). For instance, two industrial
 liaison officers were appointed to support knowledge transfer and impact activities of CORMSIS.
 Second, by providing targeted small internal (pump-prime) grants that prioritise funding
 interdisciplinary-oriented projects (Brito’s work (£10K) with the national ambulance service (with
 Health Sciences); Chowdhury’s project (£5K) with Rohingya refugees). Third, SBS prioritises and
 encourages interdisciplinary research grant applications, e.g. colleagues submitted 122
 interdisciplinary research bids which secured £1.56M interdisciplinary research grant income over
 the period under review. Finally, SBS encourages members to jointly supervise PGRs with
 colleagues from other disciplines; 47 PGRs were jointly supervised successfully to completion with
 colleagues from Electronics and Computer Sciences (ECS), Health Sciences, Mathematical
 Sciences and Social Sciences over the REF period.

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SBS also builds closer working relationships with other parts of UoS (e.g. ECS, Psychology,
 Artificial Intelligence via the Web Sciences Institute (WSI), Sustainability via Geography and the
 Environment and Mathematical Sciences) through leveraging colleagues’ expertise and
 harnessing links with industry and research funders to develop research collaborations that utilise
 the reputation and expertise from within SBS. For example, CORMSIS is a long-standing joint
 venture with Mathematical Sciences that continues to produce new methods and models to enable
 organisations to improve their performance, from healthcare workforce planning and decision
 scenario modelling (Brailsford, Klein, Penn) to the sea-ferry industry (Martinez-Sykora, So).
 Colleagues (Beigi, Parry, Veliziotis) are members of the Work Futures Research Centre (WFRC)
 which is a strategic interdisciplinary RC focusing on all aspects of work, drawing membership from
 Sociology, Social Policy, Criminology, as well as SBS. WFRC aims to bring together
 interdisciplinary expertise to facilitate research collaboration, consultancy and innovation.

 1.6 Research Integrity
 We are committed to upholding the highest standards of research integrity in line with UoS’s policy
 as a signatory to the national Concordat to Support Research Integrity. UoS’s Research Integrity
 and Governance Committee (RIGC) (REF5a§2.8) leads on policy development and provides
 further guidance through the Faculty’s Associate Dean for Research and Enterprise (ADRE) who
 chairs the Faculty Research Ethics Committee (FREC). FREC provides specialist advice on
 research ethics and supports colleagues through the process of obtaining ethics approval for
 research involving human participants or data, and provides direction on procedures, policies and
 complex cases.
 Beigi is Faculty Research Integrity Champion (FRIC) and maintains the intranet-based FSS
 Research Integrity Corner, supports staff and postgraduate research students (PGRs) with training
 and advice, and is part of a wider University network of FRICs. Research ethics and integrity
 issues are discussed regularly by DHoSRE and FRIC at Departmental and School meetings and
 away days. Ethics and research integrity matters are considered at Faculty Research Committee
 (FRC) twice a year. Guidance and procedures are communicated to staff and students through
 DHoSRE and ADRE, via an online researcher portal (Ethics Corner), and ERGOII, the Ethics and
 Research Governance Online approval system. ADRE prepares the Faculty’s annual research
 integrity report for discussion and review by the FRIC and RIGC.
 Our Ethics Champion (Frei) chairs the SBS Ethics, Responsibility and Sustainability Committee,
 and sits on the FSS Research Ethics Committee and SBS Research Committee, ensuring strong
 connections and development of SBS’s research integrity culture. All staff and PGRs must obtain
 ethical approval of their research via ERGOII before collecting any data. All types of research
 conducted by staff are subject to peer review. For research grants and collaborations, the peer
 review process is overseen and implemented by the DHoSRE who approves all research grant
 submissions. Researchers are required to incorporate feedback and make recommended
 changes before submission, checked and signed off by DHoSRE. For academic research papers,
 the process is overseen by heads or deputy heads of departments and RCs. In addition, PGRs’
 research is subject to peer review by assessors, who are independent of the supervisory team. All
 new PGRs and ECRs must undertake ethics training via two compulsory online courses “Ethical
 Research” and “Research Integrity”.
 1.7 Future direction
 For the period to 2026, we have identified five strategic objectives:
    •   Expanding and investing in our RCs to establish ourselves as global pioneers in thought
        leadership, theory and practice. New RCs are in development (e.g. Centre for Health
        Analytics and the Product Return Research Group).
    •   Enhancing policy impact of research through facilitating direct engagement with
        government agencies (e.g. the Low Pay Commission) through PERu and PP|S.
    •   Continuing to increase the quantity and diversity of research income by: (i) attracting new
        talent; (ii) enhancing staff training and administrative support for research grant bid writing;

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        and (iii) encouraging large multidisciplinary research grant bids to leverage our strong local,
        regional, national and international collaborations.
    •   Enhancing our enterprise activities with corporate partners through round-table
        discussions, seminars, consultancy projects, and Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
        (KTPs) and management KTPs (mKTPs), leading to industry-relevant research outputs
        and impact.
    •   A budget to specifically support impact case study development along with 20% of time
        allocated to impact case study writers annually.
 1.8 Open research environment
 SBS is committed to encouraging and meeting open research requirements: open (gold and
 green) access, open data and data management, in line with the policies of research councils and
 UoS. Outputs from research council-funded projects are open access. Through University
 subscriptions with major publishers, publications in journals such as Journal of Business Ethics
 are automatically open access. Where appropriate, SBS pays for gold open access publication,
 which is either automatically approved and paid as part of a research grant requirement or paid if
 considered high impact. In the latter case, it is assessed and recommended by the DHoSRE and
 approved by the Head of School (HoS). Since 2014, there have been at least ten gold open access
 publications. As part of their data plans for external research bid and non-external research bid
 supported projects and outputs, staff are regularly reminded to deposit their accepted outputs,
 within three months, into PURE (research information management system), with a compliance
 rate of 88%, which has risen from 62% in 2014. We also encourage staff to share their research
 findings in alternative ways, such as academic social media, Academia and ResearchGate. All
 research outputs are also self-archived in our UoS institutional repository ePrints (REF5a§2.4).
 SBS has achieved a strong digital presence through ORCID, Academia, Google Scholar,
 ResearchGate and SSRN, amongst others. SBS won the prestigious 3rd Annual WRDS-SSRN
 Innovation Award for the EMEA region in 2019. This award recognises AACSB accredited Schools
 that have made a commitment to financial research, with an elevated visibility, impact and
 credibility of their research. The award consisted of a plaque and $10K grant to SBS’s general
 research fund. In line with UoS’s signature to the San Francisco Declaration on Research
 Assessment (DORA), we are also committed to a policy of fair access and responsible use of
 research metrics.

 2. People
 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 People are critical to our sustainable growth. SBS’s staffing strategy over the REF period has been
 one of expansion and internationalisation, enhancing our thriving research culture (§4) in line with
 our research strategy (§1.2) to conduct sustainable world-class impactful research (§1.3). We
 have incorporated the University’s Core Principles of Collegiality, Quality, Internationalisation and
 Sustainability into its strategic planning (REF5a§1.2). SBS has made incremental change,
 carefully scaling up our ambitions and activities.
 We have made significant investment in new appointments that have strengthened research
 intensity. Research capacity has grown, with 94.93 FTE staff being returned compared with 34.4
 FTE (61% of REF-eligible staff) in REF2014. Total staff numbers in SBS have increased from 59
 to 100 over the REF period. We have recruited internationally, “rising stars” (Wang, Yarovaya,
 Barak, Veliziotis, Angell and Chowdhury) as well as “established researchers” including (Agyie-
 Boapeah, Jory, Frei, Lopez and Nayak) and has successfully retained some of its most
 outstanding PGR students as ECRs (Bakoush, Penn). Several outstanding research-led
 professorial appointments were made in fields where SBS needed leadership succession, e.g.
 Kunc, in Decision Analytics and Risk, Shukla, in Marketing and Daskalaki and Rogers in Human
 Resource Management, Ntim and Tauringana in Accounting and Brown, in Operations
 Management. Internationalisation of SBS staff has increased since 2014. Table 2 highlights that
 non-UK/EU appointments have increased by 179% over the REF period.

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        Table 2: SBS Research Staff Internationalisation
         Nationality                   2021                  2014                Growth
         UK                          36 (36%)              32 (54%)               +12%
         European                    25 (25%)              13 (22%)               +92%
         Rest of World               39 (39%)              14 (24%)               +179%
         Total head count           100 (100%)            59 (100%)               +69%

 Staff development
 SBS enhanced its points-based workload allocation model (WAM) to enable staff to contribute in
 ways best suiting their capabilities and specialisms. Research-contracted staff are allocated
 approximately 40% of their time for research and impact activities. Highly productive researchers
 (in terms of high-quality publications and/or grant income) are rewarded with extra WAM research
 points. Staff are also given additional WAM allowance for supervision and line managing research
 staff. All new appointments and internal promotions are conducted using rigorous selection criteria
 and giving careful consideration to equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI). Staff on recruitment and
 promotion panels participate in unconscious bias training, as well as EDI training. For
 appointments at Associate Professor or above, selection criteria include an international reputation
 (based on external references) and a track record of high-quality publications, grant income and
 PGR supervision (REF5a§3.7). For junior level appointments, we adopt a “talent spotting”
 approach to identify future potential.
 From Table 3, the age group categories which grew the most over the REF period are 36-45 (+5%)
 and 46-55 (+8%). Overall, 60% of SBS staff are aged under 46, which corresponds to an
 international, youthful and vibrant research environment.

        Table 3: SBS Research Staff by Age Category
            Age Group                2021                  2014                 Change
               26-35               19 (19%)              18 (31%)                -12%
               36-45               41 (41%)              21 (36%)                 +5%
               46-55               27 (27%)              11 (19%)                 +8%
               56-65               10 (10%)              8 (14%)                  -4%
                 66+                3 (3%)                1 (2%)                  +1%
               Totals             100 (100%)            59 (100%)

 SBS colleagues, in particular new staff and ECRs benefit from an extensive University-level
 support programme that includes awareness-raising of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers (CSCDR) (REF5a§3.5), through the Faculty and SBS Induction
 Processes. UoS hosts a dedicated website References and Resources for Research Staff making
 staff aware of a broad range of opportunities to facilitate their careers and improve their well-being,
 including tailored resources for women in academia, skills development and leadership
 workshops, and maintains a dedicated intranet site showcasing research excellence and success
 stories on a monthly basis.
 Established measures of career development support, e.g. appraisals, mentoring and probation
 are complemented by research training opportunities offered at University and Faculty level
 (including Gradbook, Staffbook, and The Centre for Higher Education Practice (CHEP)). CHEP
 promotes academic professional learning for every member of University staff, in all areas of
 academic activity and at every stage of their career (REF5a§3.5). Annual appraisals are an
 opportunity to identify training to meet research needs whilst reviewing successes over the


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 previous year. ECRs are provided with a mentor in their first three years, to support with grant
 applications, writing and publishing academic papers and preparing conference presentations.
 SBS has established several measures for supporting staff development which are aligned with
 the CSCDR to support the career progression of colleagues that include an annual research-staff
 away-day and collegial support in RCs. Our research-staff away-day identifies priorities and
 strategic aims, providing colleagues with an opportunity to share best practice and research ideas.
 RCs hold regular “brown-bag” seminars to facilitate the sharing and mutually supportive critiquing
 of papers in progress. In their RCs, ECRs benefit from feedback on papers and research
 proposals. Senior colleagues invite ECRs to join PhD supervisory teams to gain experience that
 is very important at the beginning of their careers.
 UoS was a founding signatory of the Athena SWAN Charter and currently holds a Silver Athena
 SWAN Award. SBS is working towards making a submission for a Bronze Award in 2022. SBS
 has an explicit strategy of mentoring and supporting women to apply for promotion. A decade ago,
 SBS had no female professors and in 2020 has six (Daskalaki and five of whom were promoted
 internally (Baden, Brailsford, Costanzo, Karatas-Ozkan, Sung)). CORMSIS is active in
 promoting women in OR/Analytics, e.g. Brailsford is the only person to have won the Goodeve
 Medal three times, awarded in recognition of the most outstanding contribution to the philosophy,
 theory or practice of OR published in the Journal of the OR Society.
 Since 2014, seven staff (2F and 5M) were promoted from lectureship (L4) to lectureship (L5)
 (Gong, Malagila, Papakyriakou, Vithana, Wang, Zhang Q., Zhang Z.), additionally twelve staff,
 (3F and 9M) were promoted from lectureship (L5) to associate professorship (L6) (Baxter, Beigi,
 Brito, Chipulu, Dawson, Degl’Innocenti, Ma, Martinez-Sykora, Marshall, Ramogulou, So and
 Zalata).
 2.2 Research students
 SBS has a successful, diverse and sustainable PhD programme. In 2019/20, a total of 85 PGR
 students (80 FTE) were supervised. This number fluctuates from year-to-year. In 2020, 45% of
 our PGR students were female; 27% from the UK, 8% from the EU and 65% overseas. Of the total
 (159.7) SBS PhD degrees awarded since 2014, 36.6% were female (FPE=57.1) while 102.6
 (63.4%) were male. Several highly competitive PhD studentships were offered each year to ensure
 that we attracted outstanding applicants from the global pool (Table 4).

 Table 4: Doctoral Students Completed
 PGR                     2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Total
 DBA             FPE         1        4         4        7         1        1         0
 Admissions
                 FTE         1        3         3        5         1        1         0
 DBA No.         FPE         8       11        12       16        13       10        10
 Students
                 FTE         6        8         9       12        10        8         8
 DBA Completions             -        -         -        -         -        1         2        3

 PhD             FPE        13       38        12       14        19       12        19
 Admissions
                 FTE        12       37        12       14        18       12        19
 PhD No.         FPE       101       119      113       95        94       83        85
 students
                 FTE        95       114      108       91        89       78        80

 PhD Completions          18.20     30.00    20.00     20.30    26.25     29.05    15.85    159.65

 PGR                     2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Total



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 As of July 2020, ten Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) students are enrolled on our
 burgeoning programme, which started in 2011/12. There were three DBA completions during the
 REF period. DBA students have only recently started completing in the latter part of the REF cycle
 because of their part-time status. Quite often students need to suspend their studies due to
 external pressures, thus elongating the time span between initial enrolment and final graduation.
 Over the REF period, SBS hosted 39 UKRI-funded doctoral students to completion via the
 University’s EPSRC, ESRC, Web Science and Complexity Doctoral Training Centres, the latter
 two involving cross-disciplinary research links with Computer Science. Additionally, PGRs are
 supported by funders such as research councils, charities and overseas governments. All PGRs
 are associated with at least one RC and are encouraged to participate in its seminar series; we
 also organise Doctoral Colloquia where PGRs present their research to each other. Academic
 staff are given a WAM allowance for PGR supervision, which recognises the time commitment
 involved in providing top-quality supervision. SBS offers PGRs rigorous research training through
 modules in qualitative, quantitative and mixed research methods, advanced software, data
 analysis and presentation techniques. Finally, SBS operates a PGR Publication Award Scheme
 to reward students who publish their research in peer-reviewed scientific journals. The scheme
 provides awards of up to £1K for an accepted paper and since 2014, 26 awards were made to
 successful PGRs during their enrolment.
 The Faculty Graduate School (FGS) oversees doctoral research activity across FSS, including:
    (a) Recruiting the best potential candidates through rigorously managing the studentship
        application processes.
    (b) Overseeing a research skills training programme which equips PGRs for an increasingly
        diverse global research environment.
    (c) Monitoring its activities and identifying areas where practical steps and actions are needed
        to improve PGR experience.
    (d) Promoting diversity and equality in all aspects of recruitment and PGR progression.
    (e) Implementing UoS’s regulatory and quality assurance frameworks to adhere to appropriate
        academic standards.
 FGS has responsibility for developing and delivering its vision and strategy. The FGS Advisory
 Group has PGR representatives from each School. PGRs are also represented on a number of
 other Faculty committees, e.g. the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee. FGS provides
 financial support for every PGR for conference attendance (£750 in 2019-20). FGS is fully aligned
 with the University’s Doctoral College (DC) which co-ordinates PGR activities and doctoral training
 across all five Faculties.
 PGR performance is closely monitored through a formal University-wide PGR-Tracker system and
 evaluated by supervisors, requiring PGRs to continuously record their progress, achievements
 and training activities. A formal examination must be passed every year (e.g. Progression reviews
 to ensure the quality and quantity of the research is appropriate at PhD level).
 SBS Graduate School operationalises Faculty Doctoral College strategy and offers a supportive
 environment for PGRs throughout their PG research journey. UoS is a signatory to the CSCDR
 and has been actively implementing its seven Principles since January 2009 (§2.1).
 The DC implements the PGR Code of Practice, setting out the rights and responsibilities of
 Schools, supervisors and PGRs. It provides a range of experiential learning opportunities (e.g.
 demonstrating and teaching; internships; peer-coaching; outreach and public engagement
 through School/Faculty and University-level initiatives such as a Research Showcase, PGR
 conferences, Doctoral Colloquia, and Grad Book) by working in partnership with academic
 disciplines and UoS training providers (e.g. iSolutions, Library, Careers & Employability Service)
 to ensure a tailored and high-quality experience for all PGRs, including delivery of a professional
 development programme aligning with the Researcher Development Framework (RDF). Face-to-
 face programmes are complemented by a suite of on-line researcher development resources

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 available via Blackboard™. PGRs also have the opportunity to participate in intensive training and
 development activities, for example external Summer-Schools such as Cumberland Lodge: Life
 Beyond the PhD, and the RENKEI Researcher Development Summer School. Provision for late-
 stage PGRs is being enhanced, particularly to support their transition to employment, which
 includes piloting a new Career & Leadership residential programme. Careers guidance for PGRs
 is provided through our Careers & Employability Service (REF5a§3.6).
 As part of SBS’s physical infrastructure, PGRs have well-equipped shared offices, allocated based
 on individual needs, with continuous access between 6.00am and 11.00pm daily.

 2.3 Supporting and Promoting Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 EDI research practices in SBS: These are framed by UoS’s ethos and core principles
 (REF5a§1.2) and by the CSCDR (Principle 6). EDI is at the heart of our working practices as
 exemplified by the following:
 Study leave arrangements: The opportunity to apply for research leave is offered on a strategic
 and competitive basis to staff who have completed at least three years of service and based on
 one semester for every seven semesters worked (REF5a§3.2). Three flexible modes of sabbatical
 are offered: mode 1, sabbatical taken in semester 1; mode 2, sabbatical taken in semester 2; or
 mode 3, sabbatical taken by way of a total workload reduction across the whole academic year. A
 total of 29 researchers were approved to take a sabbatical over the REF period by a panel
 comprising HoS, DHoSRE and the SBS Research Committee and the Dean (Table 5). A guidance
 document makes clear that the panel considers applicants’ seniority and personal circumstances
 (e.g. illness, pregnancy) that might affect their profile and track record.
                        Table 5: EDI and Sabbaticals
                                         White BAME         Male     Female
                        Number             15       14        20        9
                        % of Total        52%      48%      69%       31%

 Supporting flexible and/or remote working: We offer flexible working, job sharing, career
 breaks and voluntary reduced hours to accommodate a range of personal circumstances
 (including disability, religion and caring responsibilities). Our staff are invited to adjust their
 timetables to facilitate, e.g. childcaring, disabilities and or religious commitments. Those with
 caring responsibilities are eligible for up to five hours a week for drop-off and pick-up non-teaching
 time.
 Career pathways for part-time (PT) and fixed term staff and Early Career Researcher (ECR)
 security: Our policy is to appoint ECRs as permanent lecturers rather than on fixed-term contracts
 to promote mental wellbeing, job security and in turn, to foster sustainability. Staff on PT contracts
 can access promotion on the same basis as full-time staff and receive support from their Head of
 Department (HoD), DHoSRE and HoS. In 2019/20, there were eleven SBS staff on PT fractional
 contracts.
 Supporting conference attendance and other necessary travel for staff and PGRs with
 caring responsibilities: SBS recognises that travel for presenting at conferences and other
 research and impact-related activity forms an integral part of being an academic researcher. Staff
 whose personal circumstances make travelling difficult (e.g. caring responsibilities, disabilities)
 are encouraged to work with the DHoSRE and their RC director to explore alternative ways of
 presenting research at events (e.g. using the SBS Research Support Fund to host events at
 Southampton).
 Supporting funding applications and access to research funding: To promote inclusivity, all
 colleagues seeking access to research funding can seek advice from the collegial environment of
 their RC, apply to access internal funds (SBS Research Support Fund) and receive feedback on
 draft applications. Within UoS more broadly, researchers draw on the support of RIS, PERu and
 PP|S, as well as applying for ESRC IAAs. SBS pays the cost of editing research outputs and bids,


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 together with transcribing and translation (e.g. research interviews and materials) for all
 researchers, including non-native English Language users.
 Staff returning from periods of Research Leave: Colleagues receive targeted support returning
 from research, compassionate and maternity/paternity leaves to help them to adjust seamlessly
 back to their research and work environment, e.g. being offered flexible and graduated workload
 arrangements, often starting with a reduced workload, and gradually increasing to full load over
 an academic year. Recent beneficiaries include Al-sayed, Degl’Innocenti, Karatas-Oskan,
 Mues, Ntim and Wang W.
 Promotion: Line managers/HoDs and staff discuss career aspirations and promotion plans
 annually. HoS also meets with staff monthly for an informal group discussion of SBS matters and
 to encourage staff to discuss their career aspirations and plans with their line managers/HoDs to
 apply for promotion when appropriate. REF selection decisions to include or exclude outputs are
 not used as a basis for decisions relating to promotion, aligning to the UoS REF2021 Code of
 Practice (REF5a). Similarly, DHoSRE and HoDs work closely with individual researchers who, due
 to physical or mental illness or other personal circumstances (e.g. parental and caring
 responsibilities), have struggled to produce publications, to identify particular challenges and draw
 up tailored research plans.
 Gender: In 2020, our staff has a gender mix of 28% females, and numbers have fluctuated from
 year to year (Table 6). Staff numbers have grown for both females and males at equal rates since
 2014 (56%). Out of a total headcount of 100, the number of women in SBS has risen to 28 from
 18.
           Table 6: SBS Research Staff by Gender
          Gender                      2021                 2014                Growth
          Female                    28 (28%)             18 (31%)               +56%
          Male                      72 (72%)             41 (69%)               +57%
                        Total     100 (100%)            59 (100%)

 Gender balance at Level 7 (full professor): the proportion of women was 30% (14M and 6F),
 representing a significant gender rebalancing since 2014. At lecturer level, 35% (14) were female
 out of a total of 40 staff (Table 7).

          Table 7: SBS Research Staff: Gender by Level (2020)
          Gender/Level              Lecturer         Associate Prof.       Full Professor
          Female                    14 (35%)             8 (20%)               6 (30%)
          Male                      26 (65%)             32 (80%)             14 (70%)
                        Total      40 (100%)            40 (100%)            20 (100%)
 We ensure that shortlisting, interview and promotion panels are gender-balanced and adhere to
 UoS policies.
 Diversity has increased with 50% of our staff currently from Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic
 (BAME) backgrounds, which has significantly increased from a proportion of only 27% of staff in
 2014 (Table 8). At a senior level, seven of our twenty professors (35%) identify as BAME.
          Table 8: SBS Research Staff by Ethnicity
          Ethnicity                   2021                 2014                Growth
          White                     46 (46%)             34 (58%)               +35%
          BAME                      50 (50%)             16 (27%)              +213%
          Unknown                    4 (4%)              9 (15%)
                        Total     100 (100%)            59 (100%)               +69%

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 EDI and the REF: SBS’s research leadership is acutely aware of the need for proactive steps to
 counter the risk of unconscious biases that may play a role in the quality-review and selection of
 outputs and ICSs, as well as in the support and priority given to different areas of research.
 Unconscious bias training is mandatory for all our staff and additional EDI training made
 compulsory for REF decision-makers. Selection of ICSs were made based on impact on the wider
 society by a committee of senior staff tasked to mitigate bias. Procedures for assessing the quality
 of outputs were made as free as possible from bias by combining internal and external reviews,
 checked by DHoSRE and with follow-up meetings between DHoSRE and individual staff to
 discuss feedback and fairness.
 Wellbeing: We have a Staff Wellbeing Champion (Kandiah), who organises weekly wellbeing,
 mindfulness, relaxation, spiritual and prayer sessions for staff in a dedicated and well-equipped
 staff common room (moved on-line during COVID-19).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Total grant income received by SBS during the REF period exceeds £3.9M (Table 9). Traditional
 areas of strength have continued to attract grant funding, e.g. £1.45M EPSRC Freight Traffic
 Control 2050 collaborative project between four Universities and Transport for London and other
 freight operators; The National Institute of Health Research (NIHR), £900K project bringing
 together four Universities (Southampton, Leicester, Sheffield and the LSE). Additionally, we have
 successfully diversified our funding sources over the REF period: RCs have attracted grant
 funding from Arts Council England, EPSRC, ESRC, GCHQ, EU Commission, Royal Society,
 British Academy, British Council, Leverhulme, NIHR, and many commercial, public and third
 sector organisations, e.g. the Alan Turing Institute, Audencia Foundation, BAE systems, CIMA,
 EU Intellectual Property Office, HEA, Gateways Research Fund, Huawei, London Borough of
 Tower Hamlets, Munich Re., Seven Investment Management, Star Financial Systems, and the
 Web Science Institute.

 3.1 Research funding and strategies for generating research income
 Our research incentivisation policy offers generous research time and support allowance for
 successful research grant holders. SBS implemented strategies to generate research income in a
 very competitive funding landscape. Strategic investments were made in training, mentoring and
 expert coaching for staff, e.g. in 2017-2018 investing £10K in external research grant-writing
 coaching and mentoring programme. Since 2014, more than 40 colleagues, mostly ECRs, were
 funded to attend research presentation and data analyses training. SBS also runs a competitive
 small research grants annual scheme, offering up to £10K to “pump-prime” staff research, bid
 writing and impact generation, with the expectation that successful applicants will apply for
 additional external funding. On average, 20 small grants are made annually, mostly to ECRs, e.g.
 Frei (Sustainability in Product Returns, Small Grant, £5K, 2019), leading to ESRC Grant funding
 of £227,171 (Forecasting and influencing Product Returns and fraud rates in a COVID-19 world)
 and Parry (Future of Work Research, Small Grant, £1K, 2020) leading to an ESRC Grant award
 of £214,820 (How is the COVID-19 accidental experiment around working from home changing
 the way the UK will work after the lockdown?). These support structures provide opportunities for
 capacity-building particularly for ECRs/junior colleagues, providing experience in application
 writing, peer-review, and research project management. SBS provides a flexible personal
 research support allowance (£3K p.a. and scope to claim for more, where appropriate), used for
 travel for conference participation and to buy books, hardware, and software.
 RCs are central to research income and impact generation. Since 2014, £4.37M (approximately
 £625K per academic year) was invested to fund RC activities, including seminars, appointments,
 visiting academics and professorships. RCs aim to improve their bid success rate by engaging in
 interdisciplinary bids with national and international partners. Since 2014, SBS’s sources of
 research income and funders focuses not only on large traditional areas of external grant strength,
 such as EPSRC, BA, ESRC and NERC, but also small- to medium-sized bids to:


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Professional Chartered (e.g. Accounting – CIMA, ICAEW; HRMOB – CIPD; Marketing -
        CIM; Project Management - CAPM).
    •   Association funding (e.g. British Council, Fellowships, Leverhulme, Government, and
        quasi-Government bodies (NHS, Leadership Foundation, local Government).
    •   Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF).
    •   Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund (ISCF).
 Performance of RCs and individuals are monitored with direct reporting to SBS Research
 Committee. Highly productive RCs are offered additional funding, e.g. for extra staff appointments:
 CORMSIS employs full-time industry liaison colleagues, as well as two joint appointments
 (Nguyen, Beullens) with Mathematical Sciences.

 3.2 Research grant applications, income and awards
 Whereas Table 1 (§1.5) highlights 62 research awards achieved during REF2021, Table 9
 provides a detailed breakdown of external funding during the REF period, demonstrating a high
 degree of diversity in our sources of funding and funders, including research councils, the
 European Commission, charitable trusts, third sector partners and local government agencies and
 authorities, demonstrating flexibility, quality and reach with regard to income generation. SBS’s
 total grant income exceeds £3.9M. This equates to an average annual income of £0.56M
 (compared to £0.53M in REF2014).

   Table 9: Main External funding over the REF2021 period                        Total Research
                                                                                   Income (£)
   Classification of Fund Provider
    1 UKRI Research Councils, Royal Society, British Academy                     £1,147,711

    2 UK-based charities (open competitive process)                              £47,948

    3 UK-based charities (other)                                                 £26,867

    4 UK cent gov bodies/ local authorities, health and hospital authorities     £1,017,762

    5 UK cent gov tax credits for research and development expenditure           £102,562

    6 UK industry, commerce and public corporations                              £855,219
    7 EU government bodies                                                       £275,894

    8 EU other                                                                   £46,801

    9 Non-EU industry, commerce and public corporations                          £334,960
   10 Non-EU other                                                               £69,078

   11 Other Sources                                                              £24,439
   Total                                                                         £3,949,240


 Panel(a) of Figure 2 (below) relates to Table 9 (above), and depicts each of the eleven categories
 in a pie chart. As a contrast, Panel(b) (below) presents funding in each of the eleven categories
 for REF2014. Funding sources have diversified since 2014 and are less reliant on EPSRC
 (Category 1 light blue), with notable expansion into industry- and Government/health-funding
 (Categories 4 (yellow) and 6 (green)).




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

             (a) REF2021 External funding                    (b) REF2014 External funding
                as a proportion of total                        as a proportion of total




         1    2   3    4   5   6   7   8   9   10   11   1    2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10   11

                      Figure 2: Funding categories as a proportion of total income

 All eight RCs contributed towards attracting grants from diverse sources and funders (e.g. British
 Academy, British Council, ESRC, EU, Huawei, Leverhulme, London Capital, NERC),
 nevertheless, our RCs (CORMSIS, CRR) that focus on our traditional areas of strength attracted
 the majority of our grant funding, especially from the EPSRC and NHS.
 Examples of funded projects are:
   •   Baden (ESRC, ‘Embedding sustainability in the hairdressing curriculum - sustainable
       solutions for the hair & beauty sector’, £96,322, 2014-2016).

   •   Brailsford (NHS, ‘NIHR emergency care’, £138,683, 2018-2021).
   •   Karatas-Ozkan (‘British Council Newton Institutional Links’, £157,208, 2016-2018).
   •   Ma (Huawei, ‘Failure detection algorithm for SDN/NFV environment’, £172,241, 2016-2017).

   •   McGroarty (Seven Investment Management LLP, ‘Strategic asset allocation in an uncertain
       environment’, £247,000, 2015-2017).
   •   Nguyen (EPSRC, ‘Cooperative game theory: New mathematical and algorithmic
       approaches’, £419,229, 2017-2022).
   •   Onggo (EPSRC, ‘Designing a resilient food supply network for natural disasters in West
       Java Indonesia using simulation optimisation method’, £248,815, 2019-2021).
   •   Parry (ESRC, ‘How is the COVID-19 accidental experiment around working from home
       changing the way the UK will work after lockdown?’, £214,000, 2020-2022).

 3.3 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
 Research policy and strategy is driven by DHoSRE, liaising with ADRE, FRC and RIS to exploit
 interdisciplinary opportunities. The ADRE and DHoSREs meet each month to discuss and share
 insights into research and enterprise issues relating to individual Schools/Departments and to FSS
 generally. Within SBS, the DHoSRE is supported by the six HoDs and the eight RC Directors.
 Departmental staff are line-managed by HoDs and RC Directors with responsibility for research,
 as well as ensuring that colleagues are supported in developing individual research plans through
 annual appraisals. SBS manages its research budget through the DHoSRE where HoDs and
 Directors of RCs have devolved research budgets. SBS Research Committee and HoS exercise
 advisory oversight on spending. Research leave (sabbaticals) and internal small grants are
 reviewed and approved by SBS Research Leave and Grants Committee. All research bids are
 subject to SBS’s internal peer-review process, administered by the DHoSRE.


                                                                                                    Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research is well supported administratively. The DHoSRE is supported permanently by a
 dedicated team of administrative staff, focusing on different aspects, such as REF impact, output
 and environment, as well as School and programme accreditations (e.g. AACSB, AMBA). Each
 RC also has a dedicated administrator to support with activities, e.g. research seminars and
 conference planning. UoS’s dedicated Finance Research Hub provides research bid costing and
 processing, while the Faculty Finance team supports staff conference attendance and expense
 processing. RIS assists in identifying funding opportunities, advising on funding schemes, and
 facilitating academic collaborations, industrial interactions and knowledge transfer.
 RIS provides a range of support, advice and training to SBS staff. These include bid proposal
 reviews and justification of resources for UKRI and EU applications; provision of specialist advice
 on research ethics, including support with ERGOII; contract management advice and support on
 contracts and liaisons with third parties and training and workshop sessions on a range of topics
 for ECRs. The ESRC IAA supports impact-oriented research activities of colleagues in SBS (§4).
 UoS provides funding for impact generation activities centrally (REF5a§2.3), e.g. Baden
 (hairdressing), So (Red Funnel Ferries), Tauringana (sustainability) and Brito (autonomous
 surface vehicles). PERu supports our staff with training and expert advice on designing and
 executing impactful research by incorporating high quality public engagement activities into
 research grants and projects. Similarly, PP|S supports (through training, advice and policy
 opportunities) SBS colleagues on how to make effective and impactful contributions to public
 policy.

 3.4 Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact
 SBS has access to a wide range of powerful computing, research databases and statistical
 software; for example, WRDS data, Thomson ONE Banker, DataStream, Boardex and Fame
 along with Bloomberg terminal access, Financial Times electronic subscription, Stata, EViews and
 SPSS along with survey tools, such as Qualtrics to support researchers. The University Library
 enables access to Business and Management journals and books (available electronically where
 possible). SBS has an internally funded system to finance editing or copy editing of draft staff
 papers and research bids and pays for journal submission fees (primarily in the Accounting,
 Banking and Finance disciplines), professional (and learned) association membership fees along
 with interview translation and transcription costs. iSolutions provides computing and IT support to
 all staff and students (REF5a§3.7).
 Opened in 2019, the new Centenary building on Highfield Campus has dramatically improved the
 physical infrastructure for SBS, which boasts a state-of-the-art MBA suite, replete with Harvard
 style lecture theatre and breakout rooms. Our staff offices and meeting rooms are in a convenient
 adjacent building.

 3.5 EDI issues in accessing infrastructure supporting research and impact
 As acknowledged in §2.3, not all individuals are equally placed to take advantage of the research
 and impact support infrastructure. For instance, the personal research allowance for researchers
 and PGRs is generally intended to support travel for conference attendance. However, travel may
 be more difficult for researchers with significant caring responsibilities and/or disabilities.
 Accordingly, SBS takes a flexible view on a case-by-case basis and will allow expenditure on other
 research or impact-related activities. The Library where most of SBS’s research and scholarly
 materials are kept is accessible to all staff regardless of any disabilities. We ensure researchers
 are regularly assessed to provide ergonomically-appropriate equipment, especially computer
 screens, taking into account different levels of personal disability and need.

 3.6 The cross-HEI shared and collaborative use of research infrastructure, facilities and
 expertise in relation to research and impact activities
 We encourage and support cross-HEI shared and collaborative use of research infrastructure,
 facilities and expertise in developing research and impact generation activities. Examples include:



                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   CRAAG (e.g. Broad) has been involved in the Worldwide Universities Network (WUN)
       collaborative higher education governance research with colleagues from six Universities
       (Southampton, Bristol, Essex, Ghana, Vietnam (DaNang and Foreign Trade Universities))
       in four countries (Ghana, Nigeria, UK and Vietnam).

   •   CORMSIS supports researchers at Southampton (Mathematical Sciences, Engineering,
       Computer Science), but also regionally (e.g. Bournemouth, Portsmouth, Surrey, Sussex),
       nationally (Imperial College, Lancaster, Warwick) and internationally (Belgium (KU Leuven),
       Canada (British Columbia), China (Dalian), Germany (Magdeburg), Spain ( Barcelona), US
       (Pennsylvania State, Michigan)).

   •   As noted in §2.1, PERu provides an institutional platform for our researchers to engage with
       different stakeholders and publics in the form of live events/shows, training and
       development, and public engagement networks, evaluation and funding, e.g. participation
       in PERu’s ‘bringing research to life roadshows’ (Brailsford, 2017, Baden, 2018, Dawson,
       2019).

   •   Similarly, PP|S helps connect SBS’s researchers with policymakers through Fellowship
       programmes, capacity building and engagement activities (e.g. policy consultations, events
       and training) to better support evidence-based policymaking, e.g. Degl’Innocenti (SME
       Finance, Parliament, Treasury Committee, 2018) and Brito (integration of Innovate UK with
       research, BEIS, 2016).

   •   Through DSIE/CISEI, SBS has strong research interests in entrepreneurship and
       innovation. UoS’s Future Worlds and Science Park offer state-of-the-art incubation facilities
       for business start-ups, mentorships, events and public engagement opportunities for our
       staff and students, e.g. Baxter, Costanzo, Grinevich, Karatas-Ozkan have worked closely
       with Future Worlds in generating impact through pedagogic research and teaching students’
       entrepreneurship and innovation skills, and supporting entrepreneurship-oriented student
       societies such as Enactus (which creates social enterprises focused around environmental,
       economic and social sustainability, thereby improving the lives of over 50,000 people in
       other countries) (REF5a§2.3) and the student-led initiative Fish on Toast (working to nurture
       and develop the next generation of entrepreneurs by encouraging a culture of innovation,
       inspiration and collaboration).

   •   Annual SBS enterprise-industry events (2016-2020), monthly evening seminars and
       professorial (Kunc, Mishra, Ntim, Singh and Shukla) inaugural lecture series provide
       opportunities for researchers to generate impact through direct engagement with potential
       collaborators.




                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Our goal to achieving research excellence can only be realised by instilling a constructive and
 inclusive research culture to support the development of all SBS colleagues from PGRs/ECRS
 through to Professors, by creating and sustaining impactful opportunities for scholarly
 dissemination. Following our research strategy objective (§1.2), SBS collaborates extensively with
 the UoS community, academic institutions, industries and policymakers across the UK and
 overseas. Vibrant seminar series provide opportunities for development and growth, through
 encouraging sustainable research collaborations (Figure 3).




                                               External academic Institutions:
                                               UK, European and
                                               International




                      Within SBS:                                                Interdisciplinary - UOS
                      Eight Research centres              SBS                    Mathematical Sciences
                      Six Departments                                            Health Sciences
                      PGRs




                                                Industry and policy-makers:
                                                Corporations, SMEs
                                                Government departments
                                                Quangos



                      Figure 3: SBS Interdisciplinarity and Collaborations


 4.1 Sustainable research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 We encourage sustainable, collaborative relationships in finding solutions to real-world business
 challenges in two ways. SBS co-ordinates corporate engagement opportunities connecting
 colleagues with industry executives, partners and practitioners to better understand and respond
 to business-critical issues. The Director of Enterprise (Bennett) is responsible for steering the
 Impact and Enterprise Strategy (§1.3) to create sustainable and mutually beneficial relationships
 with corporates, small- and medium-sized enterprises, third sector organisations, Government
 departments and professional bodies. HoDs and School Executive Group members are
 responsible for implementing the enterprise strategic objectives across SBS. The Enterprise Team
 maintain our connectivity to the world of practice, using the Corporate Relationship Management
 system.
 SBS actively encourages collaboration with industry, in particular through KTPs (and mKTPs).
 Over the REF period, our researchers engaged in over ten solution-oriented KTPs, e.g.
 Autonomous Surface Vehicles Limited (Brito), Seven Investment Management LLP (McGroarty)
 and Star Financial Systems Ltd. (Sung) of over £1M in value.
 SBS Internationalisation strategy has led to colleagues continuing to form research networks and
 partnerships with international academic institutions, e.g. Brailsford (former Chair of the European
 Working Group on Operational Research Applied to Health Services), with links to University of

                                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Toronto (Canada), University of Melbourne (Australia), University of Vienna (Austria) and the
 National Healthcare Group of Singapore; Johnson collaborates with University of Sydney
 (Australia), Clark University (Massachusetts, USA), University of Hamburg (Germany), Humboldt
 University (Germany), Macao Polytechnic Institute (Macao), National Taipei University of
 Technology (Taiwan), Asia Pacific Association for Gambling Studies, Tunghai University (Taiwan),
 Chulalongkorn University (Thailand), Macao University of Science and Technology (Macao);
 Broad conducted research with VN-UK (Vietnam), University of Ghana (Ghana), University of
 Cape Town (South Africa), University of Dar-Es-Salaam (Tanzania) and University of Mauritius
 (Mauritius).
 In 2020, SBS negotiated bilateral research collaborations with Audencia Business School, France
 and T.A. Pai Management Institute (TAPMI), India, (both top-ranked Business Schools, holding
 double Accreditation (AMBA and AACSB)) to promote future sustainable collaborations across all
 areas of research, including PhD supervision.
 All our Departments, RCs and individual colleagues foster strong links with academic disciplines
 within the wider University, to develop research groups and promote opportunities for
 interdisciplinary research collaborations via CORMSIS, members have expertise in mutual
 research methodologies (predictive and prescriptive analytics (Mues, Bravo, So, Bijak,
 Baesens)), continuous optimisation (Beullens), discrete optimisation (Beullens, Martinez-
 Sykora), risk and uncertainty (Ma, Brito, Sung, Martinez-Sykora, Yu), and simulation
 (Brailsford, Kunc, McGroarty, Onggo)). Examples of collaborative research with Mathematical
 Sciences include the digital economy (McGroarty, Ma, So), energy, engineering and revenue
 management (Martinez-Sykora), finance (McGroarty, Ma), supply chain management (Beullens,
 Brown, Martinez-Sykora, Frei), transport and logistics (Beullens, Martinez-Sykora, Onggo) and
 web analytics and marketing analytics (Mues, So). Examples of cross-cutting research
 collaborations with Health Sciences include scheduling, cutting and packing (Martinez-Sykora)
 and healthcare (Brailsford, Klein, Onggo).
 All RCs host regular seminar series (scheduled weekly or semi-monthly). Members and guest
 speakers share their research with colleagues and PGRs, which has helped to raise our profile
 nationally and internationally. Since 2014, SBS has hosted more than 580 seminars, e.g.
 CORMSIS has convened 152 seminars, including 28 speakers from renowned international
 institutions (Pennsylvania State University, University of Madrid, University of Cape Town). SBS’s
 collaborative relationship via CORMSIS has led to 39 successful PhD projects, 16 of which were
 jointly supervised with colleagues from Mathematical Sciences; CISEI, CMR and CWO organised
 in excess of 100 seminars, 25 were presented by international speakers (USA, Canada, Australia
 and Denmark).
 Successful collaborations can be measured by the plethora of high-quality research publications,
 many co-authored with authors from external centres of excellence, as evidenced by our REF2021
 outputs submission. Since 2014, several SBS authors have received Best Papers Awards for their
 publications, e.g. Lui (International Review of Financial Analysis (2014)), Baesens (European
 Journal of Operational Research (2017)) and Chowdhury (Critical Management Learning and
 Education (2020)).

 4.2 Staff interactions and engagement with key research users to develop impact
 In addition to our seven impact case studies (§1.3), other examples of research which has made
 a difference to organisations to improve their efficiency and effectiveness include: making the
 business case for the Living Wage (Vithana), understanding the impact of social media on
 purchasing decisions (Nisar and Yeung), developing new modelling tools to optimise the packing
 of ‘growing cabinets’ in the premium hospitality sector (Martinez-Sykora) and understanding
 board decision-making in higher education (Marnet and Soobaroyen).
 Since 2014, colleagues have secured IAA funding e.g. Ma and colleagues (Effective Risk
 Management for Big Data-Supported Mobile Finance (£21,000)), Baden (£9,383.30) (Promotion
 of Sustainable Hairdressing); Huang and colleagues ‘Reducing Waiting Times in Emergency

                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Departments’ (£9,374.81) (all in 2016); Costanzo, Karatas-Ozkan and Ibrahim awarded
 £6,254.06 for their project on ‘Social Entrepreneurship and Social (2017); Vithana, Baruch and
 Ntim receiving an award of £57,000 in 2017 to develop their interdisciplinary project ‘Investment
 case behind living wage accreditation’; in 2018, Vithana, Baruch and Ntim also received an award
 of £56,500 (together with Aviva Plc.) for another collaborative project ‘Incorporating the broad
 Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) agenda in investment analysis: case of climate
 related engagements’; So, Bravo and Mues received £18,579 to fund their research ‘Using
 advanced analytics to support national central banks in managing their banknote production’
 (2019).
 SBS has growing strengths in its research portfolio including digital finance (McGroarty), risk
 management (Mues, Bravo), operations management (Brown), ethics in business practice
 (Baden), sustainability in business practice (Baden, Tauringana), governance (Ntim) and
 careers (Baruch), as well as emerging research areas responding to the needs of the digital age:
 e.g. cryptocurrencies (Yarovaya), agile change and project management (Brown). Sustainability
 is a key theme in our research strategy, e.g. sustainable and ethical business practice (Baden’s
 work to reduce water wastage in the hairdressing sector) and Tauringana’s engagement with
 manufacturers in Uganda to produce sustainability reports to incentivise environmental and social
 change. Tauringana co-founded a new Non-Governmental Organisation called Transparency for
 Sustainable Development (Uganda) in 2020 to assist the country’s progress in achieving UN SDG
 12 (responsible consumption and production).
 4.3 Wider contributions of SBS staff to the economy and society
 Sung, Ma and Johnson (CRR and CDF) developed powerful forecasting tools to predict behaviour
 of spread traders, leading to a company (Star Financial Systems Ltd.) supporting a bid for a full
 KTP, which was awarded by ESRC and Trustee Savings Bank. The project was awarded the
 Certificate of Excellence by Innovate UK and awarded the highest grade of ‘Outstanding’ by the
 KTP Grading Panel.
 The project was deemed ‘industry changing’ and outstanding. As a direct result, Star Financial
 Systems Ltd. initiated the start-up of a spin-off company, Analytic AI. The company Chairman
 declared “The KTP has also enabled us to unlock the potential of the data we hold on behalf of
 clients, so that we can now provide data analytics products to improve their risk management
 decisions. The Directors of our business are confident that these key developments, which stem
 directly from the KTP, will produce profits of around £2M p.a. within three years”.
 Since 2017, Vithana, Ntim and Baruch (CRAAG and CWO) worked with Aviva Investors (UK),
 Living Wage Foundation (UK) and the London Stock Exchange to conduct research highlighting
 the economic benefits of paying a real living wage to employees. The research enabled Aviva to
 articulate the benefits of living wage accreditation to investment companies, leading to an increase
 in the number of accredited firms, and also resulted in businesses achieving United Nations
 Sustainable Development Goals 8 (Decent work and economic growth) and 10 (Reduced
 inequalities).
 So, Martinez-Sykora and Bennell’s (CORMSIS) EPSRC-funded project with sea-ferry companies
 (e.g. Red Funnel, operating between Isle of Wight and the mainland) was aimed at developing
 pricing and allocation solutions to increase the efficiency of ferry services and ensure that pricing
 properly reflected the cost of placing a vehicle into the limited deck space. The work has wide-
 ranging implications in a number of industry sectors, particularly in optimal pricing for freight, where
 the packing efficiency is considered when setting delivery charges.
 Commencing in June 2020, Parry (CWO) leads an ESRC-funded project designed to support
 economic recovery from the COVID-19 crisis, investigating the impact of home working, together
 with partners based in the Institution for Employment Studies, and Half the Sky (a consultancy
 specialising in flexible work). The research focuses on how the pandemic has affected two different
 UK sectors: professional services and public administration, analysing the longer-term implications



                                                                                                Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of working from home, identifying which new behaviours and working practices should be
 encouraged to remain.
 In July 2020, Shukla was invited to join a high-level working group 'Trust in Public Institutions' in
 the Government Office for Science on COVID-19 areas of research interest, organised by
 Government Chief Scientific Adviser (Professor Sir Patrick Vallance) and the Executive Chair of
 the ESRC (Professor Jennifer Rubin). The purpose is to shape the scientific agenda and funding
 streams in the area.
 4.4 Engagement with diverse communities and publics through research
 Our colleagues have engaged with a range of diverse communities and publics over the REF
 period in the following ways:
 The Enterprise Team organises annual enterprise-industry joint events (‘working in partnership
 with SBS’), involving hosting local businesses, regional and national executives of companies,
 small business owners, charities, local government officials, professionals, practitioners, regulators
 and other policymakers and the general public. The primary aim of the event is to showcase the
 latest research and create two-way conversations connecting staff with industry to explore
 research projects, consultancy projects and KTPs.
 The Enterprise Team also hosts a professorial inaugural lecture series for recently promoted or
 appointed professors to disseminate their research. Since 2014, six professorial inaugural lectures
 were convened (Ntim, Mishra, Shukla, Fraher, Kunc and Singh), each attended by
 approximately 200 members, mainly from industry, resulting in collaborations with organisations
 (JP Morgan, RNLI, Ordnance Survey, Carnival Plc, Astute Technical Recruitment, Stannah,
 Southern Co-Op, Blake Morgan and CMA Recruitment).
 Further, the Enterprise Team organises monthly evening seminars, creating opportunities for
 colleagues to share insights from their research and interact with members from industry and the
 broader public and users of research. The seminars are often delivered by members from industry,
 rather than academics. Since 2014, there were over 45 evening seminars, attended by
 approximately 2,000 members from industry.
 PERu also offers a platform for SBS researchers to engage with the public, e.g. 2019 Human
 Worlds Festival, John Hansard Gallery (3D interactive model explaining risk factors) where
 Dawson (CRR) attended the ‘Hands on Humanities’ public engagement event organised by
 Southampton City Council, showcasing his 3D model of the ‘IPAT formula’ to engage the public in
 discussions and highlight awareness of factors driving contemporary risks to the natural
 environment.

 4.5 Contribution to the sustainability of Business and Management
 We contribute to the sustainability of the discipline of Business and Management through
 collaboration with industry, via policy initiatives and through dissemination in journals and
 conferences, e.g. by working collaboratively with external organisations to catalyse more
 sustainable business models via research, impact and outreach activities. As a society, we should
 be consuming around a fifth of what we consume currently, yet most business models are
 predicated on increasing consumption. For this reason, colleagues are actively involved in debates
 around shifting from ownership models to access/sharing models, e.g. Baden (CWO) and Frei
 (CORMSIS) presented at the 7th International Workshop on the ‘Sharing Economy’ in Barcelona
 and ‘Organizing Sustainably: Actors, Institutions, and Practices’ in Chania, Crete (2020). Baden
 also delivered a session on Sustainable Business Model Innovation at the EURAM Conference,
 Lisbon (2019).
 Costanzo and Karatas-Ozkan (CISEI) and Gong (CORMSIS) delivered an industry-sponsored
 workshop on ‘Sustainable Supply Chain Management in Emerging Countries’, focusing on the
 themes of employee engagement/empowerment, value-chain management in designing and
 implementing corporate social responsibility programmes to build business resilience (2019). The
 workshop marked the beginning of an academic-industry partnership for knowledge exchange

                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 between the CORMISIS-CISEI researchers, business leaders and consultants operating in
 emerging economies.
 Our colleagues conduct research contributing to addressing Governmental sustainable future
 priorities, such as the Grand Challenges embedded within the UK Industrial Strategy: Artificial
 Intelligence and Data (cutting-edge research into cryptocurrency (bitcoin and virtual cash systems))
 by Yarovaya (CDF), Mishra (CERFIB), cyber-security (interdisciplinary collaboration with
 Electronics and Computer Science Ma (CRR), Big Data, Ma, Sung (CRR), Johnson (CRR), Nisar
 (CWO), McGroarty (CDF), Ageing Society, Brailsford (CORMSIS) collaborating with University
 of Leicester in NIHR-funded research on modelling, Clean Growth and Future of Mobility: Electric
 Vehicles NS SatNav, Grinevich (CISEI) (EPRSC collaborative project with Aston University),
 Autonomous Vehicles and risk, Brito (CRR).
 SBS colleagues demonstrate good citizenship in the sustainability of the discipline, e.g. since
 2014, colleagues are, or have been Editors-in-Chief of the following journals: Health Systems
 (Brailsford); International Journal of Operations and Production Management (Brown). Associate
 Editors for the following journals: Human Relations (Beigi); European Journal of Finance (Mishra,
 Wolfe); Human Resources Management (Baruch); Editors of special issues in: International
 Journal of Operations and Production Management (Brown); European Journal of Operational
 Research (Kunc, Mues); Information Sciences (Bravo); Critical Perspectives on Accounting
 (Ntim); Journal of Business Research (Shukla); and were or are on the Editorial Boards of over
 20 international journals.
 SBS has hosted several major conferences since 2014, e.g. the 8th International Conference on
 Computational Logistics (2017), SanEco Sustainability Conference (2016), BAM Corporate
 Governance Conference (2019), 4th India Global Summit (2019), 2nd Cryptocurrency Research
 Conference (2019) and 3rd Cryptocurrency Research Conference (2020 hosted virtually).

 4.6 Indicators of wider influence by SBS colleagues
 We have also influenced research-related activities in the following ways:
 Presenting over 20 keynote lectures at international conferences and other prestigious events to
 academics, industry experts and policymakers, e.g. Grinevich was invited by the Friedrich Ebert
 Foundation in Berlin to give a keynote speech at a conference on Sharing Economy – New
 Communality or New Hypercapitalism in 2016. Baruch gave a keynote speech in the “Career twists
 in the future of work”, held at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Belgium in November 2016. Baden was
 a keynote speaker at the 5th International Conference on Social responsibility, Ethics and
 Sustainable Business, Milan, October 2016. Bravo was a keynote speaker at the IEEE EVIC 2017,
 in Santiago, Chile, on the topic of: ‘Big Data and Business Analytics: Data Analysis for Knowledge
 Discovery’, in December 2016. Bennell delivered a one-hour keynote speech on ‘Get packing!
 Key concepts and future directions in cutting and packing problem’ at the International Federation
 of Operational Research (OR) Societies Conference 2017, Quebec, Canada (2017).
 Katsikopoulos delivered a keynote lecture at the ORBIT [Behavioural Aspects of Operational
 Research Interventions in Transformational Projects] Workshop organised by the Warwick
 Business School (Shard campus), in June 2018. Higgs delivered keynotes in successive years
 (2015 and 2016) at the International Conference of Research in Management, Economics and
 Accounting (Istanbul). Beigi gave two keynote presentations at the International Management
 Conference in 2017 on ‘Work-family interface and social media’ and at the Chartered Association
 of Business Schools Annual Learning, Teaching and Student Experience in 2018.
 SBS colleagues make a strong contribution to the wider research community via academic
 association memberships and appointments to key positions within learned societies, e.g. Bennell
 appointed Chair and Co-ordinator of the European Working Group in Cutting and Packing
 (ESICUP) (a Working Group within the European Federation of Operational Research Societies).
 Ntim elected in 2018 as Chairperson of the British Accounting and Finance Association’s (BAFA)
 Special Interest Group (SIG) on Accounting and Finance in Emerging Economies (AFEE). Wolfe
 appointed (in 2020) to the Advisory Board of the BAFA Financial Markets and Institutions Special

                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Interest Group. Broad elected as Vice Chair of the Council of Chartered Association of Business
 Schools in 2018. Katsikopoulos elected Academic Chair of the Operational Research Society’s
 Special Interest Group in Behavioural OR, commencing October 2018. Onggo elected as Member
 of the General Council of The Operational Research Society commencing January 2020 to
 December 2022. Beigi appointed as a member of the Research Activities Committee, University
 Forum for Human Resource Development (UFHRD) until 2021. Baruch elected a Fellow of the
 British Academy of Management (BAM) in 2016, and since 2019, Marnet is a Member of the BAM
 Corporate Governance Special Interest Group Committee.
 SBS colleagues made noteworthy contributions to the European Academy of Management
 (EURAM) since 2014: Baruch appointed Vice President for Research in 2016. In 2017, Karatas-
 Ozkan elected Chair of EURAM Doctoral Colloquium (one of the flagship events of EURAM for the
 doctoral community) and awarded EURAM Fellowship status at the 2019 annual conference in
 Portugal. Costanzo was an invited speaker on “Qualitative Research” and mentor at the 2018
 EURAM Doctoral Colloquium (Iceland).
 We have also been invited as experts by industry leaders, policy-makers and academic institutions
 (national and international), which is testament to quality of our research-active staff, e.g. Johnson
 elected Vice President of the Asia Pacific Association for Gambling Studies (APAGS) in 2016 (an
 international academic network of scholars, professionals, regulators, and policy-makers focussed
 on gambling research). Tauringana elected as the President of the African Accounting and
 Finance Association for a two-year term in 2017. Bravo designated as foreign expert on the
 project "Digital Crime Observatory in Chile: An intelligent system to support the Chilean automotive
 industry, regarding theft of vehicles and accessories" (2016); Gong elected as an expert member
 of the Purchasing and Supply Chain Management Expert Committee member by China Federation
 of Logistics & Purchasing (CFLP) (2020).
 Veliziotis appointed by the Greek Minister of Labour to serve as a member of the Committee of
 Independent Experts to advise the Ministry on the determination of the statutory level of the
 minimum wage for the Greek economy (2018); Baden was an invited expert at an All Party Political
 Group on Beauty, Aesthetics and Wellbeing panel event at Westminster on what the beauty
 industry is doing to be more sustainable (2020). In June 2020, Mukherjee was invited by the Indian
 Institute of Foreign Trade (IIFT is an autonomous body under the Indian Ministry of Human
 Resource Development within the Government of India) to participate in a virtual panel discussion
 on “Trade, Finance and Economic Development in a Post-Covid Scenario”. Written evidence was
 submitted by Al-Kaddour and Ntim to UK Parliament’s Public Accounts Committee’s Consultation
 on UK Government’s Management of Tax Reliefs in June 2020. Shukla received an invitation in
 July 2020 to join a high-level working group 'Trust in Public Institutions' focusing on COVID-19
 areas of research interest, organised by Government Chief Scientific Adviser, Professor Sir Patrick
 Vallance and the Executive Chair of the Economic and Social Research Council, Professor
 Jennifer Rubin. Parry was Parliamentary Office for Science and Technology (POST) on a research
 project ‘Understanding the outcomes and impact from PhD Fellowship Schemes’, evaluating policy
 internship across Westminster and devolved administrations.
 In academic settings, Brown was a member of an expert panel assessing the quality of research
 and impact at Aalto Business School in Finland, in 2018. Wolfe was invited to join the
 multidisciplinary Business Research Unit of Instituto Universitário de Lisboa (Portugal) as a
 member of the International Scientific Advisory Board in 2018 and 2019, and further, became a
 member of the Academic Board of the London Institute of Banking and Finance (LIBF) in May
 2019.
 Since 2014, SBS colleagues have refereed research proposals for national and international
 funding providers, e.g. ESRC (Ma, Hanoch, Wolfe), EPSRC (Brailsford), NIHR (Brailsford,
 Klein), Health Foundation (Brailsford), British Council (Brailsford, Frei), Royal Society
 (Brailsford, Ma), UKRI-NERC (Brito), NSERC (Brailsford), ZonMW (Brailsford), Science
 Foundation Ireland (McGroarty), INRC (Ma).


                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SBS colleagues hold membership roles for Research Councils, both nationally and overseas, e.g.
 National (British Academy, British Council, Carnegie Trust, EPSRC, ESRC, Josef Rowntree
 Foundation, Leverhulme Trust; NERC) (Baden, Baruch, Brailsford, Brown, Costanzo, Kunc,
 Mishra, Mues, Nisar, Ntim, Nguyen, Onggo), European (CNRS-France Research Funding,
 France, Georgian Science Foundation, Georgia, Leibniz Association, Germany, National Science
 Centre, Poland, Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research) (Kizys, Mishra, Ntim), and
 International (Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council, Canada) (Costanzo, Ntim). In
 addition, Nguyen contributed to the EPSRC Workshop on Strategy for Mathematical Sciences.
 Nisar is a member of the ESRC Funding Commissioning Panel Member and So is a member of
 ESRC Peer Review College.
 SBS colleagues have won prestigious prizes, honours and esteem awards since 2014: Brailsford
 received her third Goodeve Medal from the Operational Research (OR) Society and is the first
 person to have been awarded three times and Brailsford also received The Companionship of
 Operational Research (2016). SBS won the 3rd annual SSRN/WRDS Innovation Award for the
 EMEA region in 2019 (a plaque and $10K cash prize for outstanding financial research). Baden’s
 embedding Sustainability in Hairdressing research won the ESRC Outstanding Impact in Business
 and Enterprise Award (2018). Karatas-Ozkan was elected Fellow of the European Academy of
 Management (EURAM). Nguyen won a 5-year EPSRC Early Career Fellowship award worth more
 than £400K. Bravo was appointed as Fellow of the Turing Institute in 2018. Baruch was appointed
 Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences (2015) and Fellow of the British Academy of
 Management (2016). Baruch and Bektas were ranked in the Stanford University exclusive top-
 100 list of business and management researchers based in Europe for world-leading research
 outputs appearing in discipline journals in 2017.
 Research produced by several colleagues in SBS is regularly covered by the specialised press
 and policy portals. For example:
    •   Newspapers: Financial Times, Guardian, Independent, Sunday Times, Daily Mail. (Kizys,
        Ntim, Ramoglou, Shukla).
    •   Radio: BBC Radio, BBC 5Live, BBC Solent, Cape Town Radio, City Am (Baden, Baruch,
        Hidayah, Kizys, Mishra, Ntim, Shukla).
    •   Television: BBC News, CNBC, CCTV, US, TRT News, Sky News, UK, South Korean TV
        News, Ugandan TV News (Baden, Baruch, Ntim, Tauringana).
 Blogs/Magazines/News Portal/Social Media: Business Week, Conversation, Dow Jones, Financial
 Director, European Business Review, Investment Weekly News, Investment and Pensions Europe,
 LSE Review, National Post, Times Higher Education, Reuters, Washington Post, EuroNews, MSN,
 World Economic Forum (Baden, Kizys, Kunc, Nisar, Ntim, Ramaglou, Shukla).




                                                                                        Page 25
