Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Robert Gordon University (RGU)

 Unit of Assessment: 12 - Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Content & structure
 Research at the Engineering unit is creating a vibrant, sustainable and expanding community with
 the vision to be recognised internationally for our impactful research in our core themes:

       Advanced Materials (Faisal, lead): focus on materials, manufacturing, testing and
        condition monitoring (10 academics, 2 RFs, 15 PhDs). Research includes development of
        novel, new, functional materials and their applications, nanomaterial safety in consumer
        products, coatings, improved understanding of damage, failure envelopes mitigation and
        fracture mechanics in commercial products, circular economy and waste management
        solutions. The team has established partnerships in Oil & Gas, Energy, Transport,
        Chemical, Processing and other safety-critical industries.
       Environmental Engineering (Lawton, lead): focus on developing technologies and
        processes in treatment of water, soil and waste oil using chemistry and electrochemistry
        (4 academics, 4 RFs, 5 PhDs). Research includes development of biotechnologies for
        algae detection and generation of bioproducts, environmental sensors and tracers
        detection of a range of compounds in air, water and soil. This includes development of
        reference materials and monitoring regimes, including novel photocatalytic reactors and
        new methods of wastewater treatment.
       Energy (Hossain, lead): theme encompasses diverse activities in flow modelling, oil and
        gas, membrane technology and renewable energy (12 academics, 35 PhD students). The
        group is problem-focused including development of tools and techniques for the energy
        sector including oil and gas, energy transition and the renewable energy (hydrogen, wind,
        tidal and solar) sector. The key topics include multiphase flow induced vibration, hydro
        cyclone separator, multiphase flow assurance, integrated sand management, geo-
        mechanics, enhanced oil recovery, hydrogen production and purification, carbon capture
        and storage, and battery technologies.
       Instrumentation & Sensors (Prabhu, lead): recently developed following an investment
        in the expansion of the Unit’s Electrical and Electronic Engineering expertise and
        knowledge base (11 academics, 2 PDRAs,12 PhD students including 7 new early career
        researchers (ECRs)). The research in instrumentation investigates the design, modelling,
        control, simulation, communications and development of autonomous systems and
        devices. Research in sensors covers wide range of fields including photochemistry,
        environmental tracers and sensors, clean technology, photocatalysis, photonics,
        spectroscopy, biosensors, instrumentation, environmental sensing, and monitoring.

 1.2 Research Strategy
 The Unit’s strategic aims are:

        To develop research that has long-term, transformative and sustained impact on our
         society in its core themes: Advanced Materials, Environmental Engineering, Energy,
         and Instrumentations & Sensors.
       To be recognised as the source of knowledge and technical expertise for industry,
         governments, and society, in our core themes.
       To sustain the growing volume, quality and impact of research carried out.
 Our research made steady progress from RAE2008 to REF2014 (GPA 2.10 to 2.85 overall).
 However, following the REF2014, the Unit has experienced a high turnover of staff (52 staff left,
 including 16 due to retirement), which means the process of rebuilding the Unit’s capacity is still
 in progress. In parallel, the University implemented major structural and operational changes
 following REF2014 with the dissolution of Research Institutes in 2015 and the Academic Faculties
 in 2016, moving to a School-based structure that has enabled the increase in cross-School,
 interdisciplinary activities, and the alignment of research to teaching and the establishment of a
 single Graduate School.
                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research leadership has also been consolidated through the appointment of an Academic
 Strategic Lead (Njuguna) to develop and implement the research strategy at Unit level. The core
 strategic achievements during the REF2021 period have centred on:

       Increasing the number of PhDs (from 36/yr to 60/yr) and improving PhD completions (from
        26 to 53)
       Supporting career progression of research staff (nine ECRs to Senior Researchers and 12
        to independent researchers; and seven postdoctoral Research Fellows (RFs) to Lecturers)
        plus growing the number of mid-career researchers (four to 14).
       Increasing the volume of high-quality publications (from 33/yr in 2014 to 70/yr in 2021)
       Growing research and commercialisation income. Four start-ups created by research staff.
        Research activities have engaged over 80 business, around 30% of which are start-ups
        developing innovative technologies, six KTP projects and supported >20 now
        commercialized industrial engineering products.

 Additional significant strategic achievements over the REF period include:

       Contributing to national emergencies by redirecting resources to manufacture PPE and
        face shielding for Grampian NHS and securing Scottish Funding Council (SFC) funding for
        designing advanced PPE to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic.
       Supporting the creation of National Subsea Centre (NSC), a £40 million RGU partnership
        with the Oil and Gas Technology Centre (OGTC) and industry, as a part of the Aberdeen
        City Region Deal. Launched in 2020, the NSC aims to tackle challenges in subsea
        engineering; to deliver cost-effective, faster, smarter and cleaner technology which will be
        developed with, and deployed across, the industry.
       Developing new strategic collaborations with Scottish Research Partnership in Engineering
        (SRPe) that has led to partnerships with other universities in two European Regional
        Development Fund (ERDF) funded initiatives (£3.7M for the Medical Devices
        Manufacturing Centre) and a collaboration with University of Strathclyde in Digital
        Manufacturing Skills Academy (£3M) delivered through National Manufacturing Institute
        Scotland (NMIS).
       Building a strong foundation for industrial collaboration to increase income with demand-
        led applied research as evidenced by the growing number of projects with industrial
        collaborations (see, Section 4.2).
       Continuous leadership and management of the Sand Management Network, a group of
        over 30 organisations (including BP, Shell, Chevron, Baker Hughes, Total among others)
        with interest in Research & Development to tackle problems in Oil and Gas (O&G)
        exploration and production to meet regional, national and international research
        challenges.
       Institutional and departmental Investment of ~£10m in improvement of engineering
        laboratory facilities through major projects and collaborations, including the Materials
        testing Lab, Manufacturing facilities, Membrane Processing Lab, Composites Lab, Multi-
        phase flow loops, ROV pool and Wavetank, Laser Lab, CyanoSol Lab and joint venture
        between KCA Deutag Ltd/RGU DART® training facility; £500,000 Wood Group Foundation
        investment to develop Energy Transition Institute (previously named ‘Oil and Gas
        Institute’).
       Establishment of four start-ups (d-Finger Ltd, SafeInflux Ltd, LITESTAT Limited, neoSome
        Ltd); two US Patents awards, five non-disclosures and Materials Testing Services
        consultancy business.
       Hosting/organising international conferences, including SPIE’s “Counterterrorism, Crime
        Fighting, Forensics and Surveillance Technologies”; IEEE’s ‘Sensors’; MTS/IEEE
        ‘OCEANS 2018’ International Conference on Structural NanoComposites Series
        (NANOSTRUC 2014, 2016,2018), Hydrogen Forum; and hosting 46 visiting researchers,
        nine of international standing.



                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Improving research KPIs compared to REF2014, with a total research income of £4.67m
         (42.7% increase), 493 outputs produced (50% increase, and new revenue stream in
         commercial research income (from £0 to £2.9m).
        Growth in research-led teaching, more alignment of research expertise with teaching
         programmes; and development of biomedical, manufacturing & design courses aligned
         with research knowledge base including formation of a new Advanced Materials and
         Instrumentation & Sensors research groups.

     Our future strategic goals for the next five years are briefly stated as:

        Increase research active staff number through large/midsize externally funded projects and
         doubling the research staff time allocation FTE to 18.
        Develop competitive, sustainable critical mass of researchers through our interdisciplinary
         research groups by investing in PhD studentship and attractive staff retention plan.
        Significantly increase research/commercialisation income (from UK/International) to £3M
         annual turnover by 2024 and £4M by 2026, by creating a culture of grant writing through
         provision of training and mentoring, fostering productive collaborations.
        Achieve an overall research excellence recognized to be in top 30 in REF2028 for the
         relevant unit of assessment, by increasing the number of staff producing nationally and
         internationally recognised high-quality outputs (3*/4*) to 30.
        Increase the number of RFs (six), PhD/EngD registered students (≥80) and completion of
         (20/yr) PhD/EngD students by 2024.

 1.3 Impact strategy
 The Unit recognises the importance of impact, which remains a strategic priority and a core driver
 for its research activities. To sustain and maximise the impact of our research, the Unit aims to:
       Provide specialist training to broaden staff knowledge of research impact.
       Continue our work with partners in developing countries to sustain the impact of our
          research in advancing drinking water quality worldwide.
       Sustain existing activities with industry stakeholders, such as the Sand Management
          Network, Materials and Engineering Testing Services, Interface, and the National Subsea
          Centre, and establish new partnerships as a route to deliver impact.
       Develop a series of public engagement events to promote the impact of our research and
          to encourage further collaboration for future activities with potential for further impact to the
          wider society.
       Enhance business engagement and enterprise through the KTP network, Interface, and
          Scottish Enterprise.
       Develop a more effective process for collecting impact evidence of our research projects.
       Increase transparency and reduce current barriers in IPR permitting, licensing, and
          insurance support.
       Engage with Schools, Colleges, and Institutes to develop training and guidance, including
          through the Aberdeen Festivals and Science Weeks.

 During the REF2021 assessment period, we have undertaken several initiatives to support and
 stimulate the development of impactful research within our Unit. In 2019, several research staff
 attended the Impact Workshop organised by the University’s Research Strategy & Policy office.
 This has enabled staff to consider impact from the inception stages of our research projects. In
 addition, we have capitalised on commercial projects to foster long-term partnerships with industry
 collaborators, as well as enabled student placements. Furthermore, research active staff are
 encouraged to and have participated in industry and professional events such as Offshore Europe,
 SubseaExpo, Euroforum (organise by SMN), SPE and IEEE conferences and collaborated/co-
 designed research projects with engaged industrial and academic collaborations companies
 (examples in Section 4).

 Our research impact is achieved through working directly with end users, which is one of our key
 strengths. This can be evidenced by, among others, our research into improving toughness of

                                                                                                    Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 materials to enhance functional performance that has driven economic growth and cost-saving
 innovations in engineering products worldwide (Impact Case Study 1). This study has led to the
 development of novel materials and technologies, which have since been successfully applied in
 new commercialised pipe and pipeline products in the O&G sector, as well as in improvements in
 building safety and cost-effectiveness in the Construction industry in Dubai, Singapore and Far
 East Asia. Furthermore, research led by our Environmental team has supported the development
 of World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines, and underpinned international detection methods
 and water treatment strategies worldwide (Impact Case Study 2). Our in-house algal
 biotechnology generates the world’s largest supply of cyanotoxins (17 individual toxins, c. 50
 products) (transfer price>£2 million since 2009) used by stakeholders worldwide establishing and
 maintaining monitoring programmes, optimising water treatment and establishing health benefits.


 1.4 Interdisciplinary Research
 Research staff in the Unit have extensive opportunities to interact with specialists in other
 disciplines, including internal and external seminars, and the development and delivery of cross-
 school courses such as the BEng/MSc Biomedical Technology. Furthermore, our research staff
 also have access to shared facilities with other schools, including the School of Pharmacy and
 Life Sciences, Scott Sutherland School of Architecture and the School of Computing. This has
 enabled several interdisciplinary projects, including but not limited to:

    -   Research on safety of nanomaterials looking at safety regulation and policy in occupation
        health, toxicology and ecotoxicology, materials science and engineering, which involved
        Technalia and Inkoa (Spain), CSIRO (Australia), Cranfield University, RGU and Imperial
        College and Vito (Belgium).
    -   Study on fuzzy logic application into value of information assessment in O&G projects, a
        collaboration between the School of Engineering and the School of Computing.
    -   A collaborative research between control engineering and computational sciences on
        innovative solution for UAV swarms which mimic the chaotic dynamics of ant colony.
    -   Research on drilling fluid waste between chemists, analytical sciences, materials science
        and engineering to address circular economy challenges, in partnership with Dundee
        University, Northumbria University, University of South Africa (S Africa) and Cracow
        University of Technology (Poland).

 The Unit does recognise, however, a requirement to develop more incentives to allow more
 researchers to continue their research in fields complementary to their own. This would include:

    -   Creating mechanisms for interdisciplinary work to be evaluated by panels on which multiple
        disciplines are represented.
    -   Providing collaboration opportunities for researchers to learn from scholars in other fields.
    -   Funding sabbaticals and visiting-scholar grants for researchers to work in multidisciplinary
        groups.

 1.5 Open Research Environment
 Engineering research embraces an open research culture including sharing of research data,
 delivery of academic seminars, newsletters and staff-student activities. A core strategy is that all
 research supported by the Unit must be collaborative. All staff are required to ensure publications
 which conform with requirements for open access, and institutional support is also provided. We
 monitor open access compliance via three-monthly reports, reviewing and discussing compliance
 at the research committee meetings. Our submission open access compliance (96,2%) reflects
 this commitment. Sharing of raw data is managed at institutional level with input from the Unit.
 Every project and PhD student must create a data management plan. Data is stored and regularly
 backed up using Institutional data repository (RGU OpenAir) hosting over >5000 outputs.

 1.6 Integrity




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School of Engineering has a Research Ethics & Integrity Committee chaired by the Research
 Lead (Njuguna) and comprised by senior researchers (Faisal, Steel, Mamdud, Prabhu) and
 support staff (Shanks and Stevenson (secretary)). Environmental Engineering research is
 overseen by the School of Pharmacy and Life Sciences Ethics Committee. The individual
 Committee meets quarterly, and its remit is to ensure all ethical aspects of the School’s research
 activities are in accordance with RGU’s Ethics Policy (2017) and the Concordat to Support
 Research (2019).

 In addition to the above mechanisms, all University’s research funding applications are required
 to undergo a meticulous process of internal authorisation, which includes the review and approval
 of Ethics self-assessment questionnaires. This process is overseen by the Research Strategy &
 Policy office.


 2. People
 2.1 Staffing strategy
 All academic staff within the Unit are on Teaching & Research contracts, in accordance with
 Scottish employment law for post-1992 institutions. The distribution of teaching and research
 workload is determined by the line managers within the Unit. They allocate duties through the
 annual Employee Performance Review (EPR), a transparent process that enables academics to
 discuss their priorities and objectives, which include their time allocation for research.

 In this Unit submission, 16 of the academic staff are active researchers, of which four are ECR,
 seven are mid-career researchers and five are at Professorial grades. The current submission
 consists of 15.8 FTE, and the Unit highly supports researchers to become independent
 researchers through the provision of a strong collaborative environment. All submitted staff are
 on permanent contracts.

 At RGU, research is managed under the leadership of the Vice-Principal for Research, through
 the Heads of School and Academic Strategic Leads (ASLs). In this Unit, the latter is responsible
 for developing and updating our research strategy as well as the development of staff. Our ASL
 organises bi-monthly research meetings with the theme leads to cement the foundations of our
 strategy, and the Engineering Research Committee meets quarterly to review implementation and
 progress of the strategy, reporting back to the Unit/University Senior Management Team.

 Succession planning is at forefront of our strategy to develop future research. Since REF2014, a
 significant number of ECRs have been recruited to replace a high volume of staff who have retired
 and to cover Unit expansion. Each ECR follows a probationary process under the guidance of a
 line manager, being appraised annually through their EPR and being supported through
 collaboration with other academic colleagues.

 ECRs are allocated to one of the thematic areas under the theme lead and supported through
 mentoring and in producing high-quality publications and encouraged engage in research projects
 with senior researchers as Co-PIs. Whilst during this assessment period many ECRs did not meet
 the requirements of independent researcher as set out in the RGU Code of Practice, the Unit is
 currently setting out plans to create effective mechanisms to support and guide them towards
 research independency status.

 In 2018, new role profiles were implemented for Reader and Senior Lecturer giving progression
 to higher grades as well as well-defined routes to Professorial grades. In the Unit, staff are
 supported through mentoring, guidance, and networking opportunities. This has led to two
 Professorial (Edwards, Njuguna) and three Reader (Hossain, Prabhu, Faisal) promotions since
 2018.

 2.2 Staff development
 Our EPR process allows a degree of flexibility in allocating research duties and direction of career
 at different stages of career progression. Our staff are set clear objectives related to grant income,

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 publications, and postdoc/PhDs supervision in their appraisals and have ring-fenced time to
 achieve these objectives. However, it has been challenging to relieve staff from teaching and
 administration duties (a matter the Unit plans to address in its strategy). Staff at all career stages
 can apply for Sabbatical leave (institutional policy) with the support from the School.

 We offer an excellent support platform for staff to collaborate with industry. We work closely with
 research networks such as Scottish Innovation and Technology Centres; O&G Innovation Centre
 (OGIC); Industrial Biotechnology Innovation Centre (iBioIC); Sand Management Network;
 Innovation Centre for sensing; Imaging and Internet of Things (IoT); Oil and Gas Technology
 Centre (OGTC); and Energy Technology Partnership (ETP). Moreover, extensive networks with
 industry have been built through participating in industry events such as Offshore Europe, Subsea
 Expo, All-Energy and professional body events IMechE, SPE, IOM3, IMarEST, and EI.
 Professional body events are held at RGU and our staff volunteer in their committees.

 Our staff also have access to leadership and professional development programmes supported
 by RGU. Several our staff have taken part in these programmes (see below), and we will continue
 to support such involvement.
     - Pioneer: RGU Future Leaders' Programme - 3
     - Voyager: RGU Middle Managers' Programme (ILM Level 5 Certificate in Leadership and
        Management) - 4
     - Discoverer: RGU First Line and Aspiring Managers' Programme (ILM Level 3 Award in
        Leadership and Management) - 4
     - Aurora: Women in Leadership Programme - 5
     - The RGU Manager (for new managers) - 4
     - Pedagogical training programme– All staff
     - PhD supervision training programme – All PhD supervisors
     - Staff Wellness (physical and mental health) programmes – All staff
     - Research Ethical and Integrity programme – 1
     - Health and safety training programme – all staff
     - Innovation and research commercialisation – 6
     - RGU Skills4Success - 9

 The Skills4Success portfolio of staff development workshops help staff with professional and
 interpersonal skills such as time management, communication, and personal effectiveness. The
 Unit also offers staff individual coaching sessions with experienced leadership coaches, team
 development, facilitation, and other bespoke development interventions.

 2.3 Research Students
 The Unit has made significant investments in attracting excellent PHD/EngD students through
 offering fee-only and full-stipend studentship. Furthermore, to address the skills gap resulted from
 the departure of senior staff, the Unit has supported the development of 20 ECRs as co-PhD
 supervisors, guided by experienced researchers. Looking ahead, the Unit aims to focus
 investment on ECRs towards research independency.

 Since, REF2014 the School has offered studentships to a total of 28 students, investing £1.3
 million on fees and stipends. These students published 29 journal articles and participated in 50
 conferences, with 100% completion within 3.5 years. The Unit will continue to support this initiative
 through further investment.




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research students are a diverse group, of whom 80% are international students. The cohort
 is predominantly male (76%), which is not unusual in this discipline. Looking ahead, similarly to
 our staff recruitment approach, we aim to actively encourage applications from female students.
 During the REF2021 period, the completed PhD students have been funded through e.g. The
 Carnegie Trust (1); Commonwealth Scholarship (1); Research Pooling Energy Technology
 Partnership/Northern Research Partnership (ETP/NRP) (2); The Petroleum Technology
 Development Fund (PTDF) (7); Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) (3); Sonatrack (1);
 PTQI (1); Kuwait Petroleum (1); School funded studentship (28); Engineering staff (3) and self-
 funding. The Unit is a major recipient of PTDF studentship funding for being a well-regarded centre
 for O&G related research.

 PhD students are recruited following success application and interview. The progress of the
 research journey is managed by the School and the Graduate School. After induction, students
 attend a week-long PgCert module (the first of two modules) in Research Methods. Within three
 months of enrolment, students submit their PhD/EngD registration form indicating a supervisory
 team.

 The supervisory team consists of first and co-supervisors. Within two months of attending the first
 PgCert Module, students submit a report setting out a Research proposal, a RESSA form and a
 personal development plan (PDP), which are marked and returned with detailed feedback. After
 one year, a student attends the second module on Research Methods and submit a progress
 report with a RESSA form and a PDP plan, following which the report is marked and feedback
 provided. After 12-15 months, students submit a transfer proposal and attend a transfer viva
 conducted by an independent assessor, following which the successful students move on to the
 PhD phase, while unsuccessful student get an opportunity for a resit or work towards MPhil/MSc
 by Research.

 Each year, student’s fill an annual review form which gives an opportunity to student to voice any
 concerns independent of the supervisory team. Following the meeting, a detailed plan of action is
 drawn and in difficult cases, the issue is raised to the Graduate School Lead (GSL). Students have
 opportunity to meet with the Head of School and the GSL on a one-to-one basis or through
 Student-Staff Liaison Committee meetings. The PhD students’ representative is also a member of
 the respective School Academic Board. The School provides funds for PhD students to attend
 international conferences. The Unit has made presenting at the School Research Seminar
 mandatory before attending international conferences.

 Attending the School Research Seminar Series is also mandatory for PhD students. Since 2014,
 44 research seminars were organised by the School. These seminars included presentations from
 research students (53), academic staff (13) and external speakers (32), providing the students an
 opportunity to learn and interact with international and national researchers.

 In addition, the Graduate School runs Researcher Training Programme throughout the year and
 online training materials are provided through the RGU Campus Moodle (VLE portal) to develop
 their skills for their future career. The Graduate School organises Residential Retreats Days for
 the research students with extensive training on thesis writing, facing viva and career planning.
 Research students co-develop data management plan with their supervisory and upon approval
 are allocated data repository.

 Health and Safety training is mandatory for research students who often work as demonstrators
 in tutorial and lab sessions and can join the training programme to become Associate Fellow of
 the Higher Education Academy. Since 2014, four PhD students joined the Unit as Lecturers.
 Furthermore, research students often work part-time as a research assistant in short-term funded
 projects.




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research students are required to produce a career development plan using Research CV planner
 in their PgCert Research Method Reports. The Research Degrees Co-ordinator is involved
 throughout a student’s PhD journey from admission, registration, progress monitoring, transfer,
 and PhD examination. We have implemented a strategy for monitoring and managing student
 progress which resulted in time completion rate within the registration period improving from 30 %
 to 47%.

 Our PhD students won several prizes including SPE Student Bursary, SPE European Regional
 Student Paper Contest and Best Conference Presentations. PhD student interviews are featured
 in the quarterly School Research newsletter, where students discuss about their research project,
 motivation and career aspirations. Social events are organised through Research Students
 Association. PhD students have been supported throughout the COVID-19 period with extension
 of registration, hardship fund and well-being support as well as individual needs regularly
 assessed by the Graduate School to minimise disruption. Recent survey shows that 85% of
 Engineering PhD students are satisfied with overall research degree experience with 98% satisfied
 with their supervision. Furthermore, 86% are also satisfied with the support provided during
 COVID-19.

 2.4 Equality and Diversity
 Our Unit comprises a diverse group of researchers drawn from a wide cross-section of society,
 provides support and a conducive environment to enable them to progress with their research
 career. We are the most diverse Unit in RGU. We embrace a positive attitude towards the
 promotion of equality and diversity and take pride in creating a working, educational and social
 atmosphere that is inclusive of everyone. We share the belief that equality is a way to ensure
 successful team performance by increasing its diversity, acknowledging the fact that organisations
 with a diverse workforce are more progressive in terms of innovative ideas and skills than those
 without it. This is not limited to gender equality but covers age and cultural diversity.
 Unit has 78/22 male to female academic staffing ratio and stands at 77.4% to 22.6% in current
 PGR cohort, with overall 12.9% White, 66.1% Black and 21% Asian representation. In this
 Engineering submission, 12% of submitted staff are ECR,19% of submitted staff are female, 44%
 submitted staff are white; 56%BAME.

 As part of the University’s Equality and Diversity Policy, all staff are expected to be aware of and
 comply with the policy’s principles and complete the mandatory training in Equality and Diversity.

 Our policies support flexible working patterns as well as working from home and part-time working,
 through the implementation of University policies such as Family Friendly, Flexible Working and
 Sickness Absence Policies. The Sabbatical Policy is also made available to all research staff at
 any career stage. The success of this policy is clearly demonstrated by accomplishments of Prof
 Edwards, who during her sabbatical has successfully applied as a Principal Investigator for funding
 of £1,18 million (BBSRC/NERC Safe and Sustainable shellfish consortium grant), plus a further
 £250,000 from industry 2018-2021, and £160,000 from KTP with Scottish Bioenergy on
 valorisation of algal material 2018-2020. Prof Edwards was also awarded £1,281,487 on the ‘In-
 reservoir destruction of Blue-Green Algae and their toxins’ project as a Co-Investigator.

 Staff and students’ wellbeing is also well supported. Balance of teaching and research work is
 managed through workload modelling with annual EPRs allowing staff to review workload with line
 managers to facilitate a favourable working environment. RGU has dedicated wellbeing webpage
 (WorkLife) with support made available to staff and students (for example, 24/7 helpline).

 To promote diversity from the onset, research students and ECR staff are encouraged to join the
 RGU early career researcher (ECR) Network which is managed by the Research Strategy & Policy
 Department and the Graduate School. Another important network is the Engineering Female staff
 supported through the Aurora programme and a developing ‘Woman in Engineering Group’ of
 about 70 members (staff and students).



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income:
 Overview of Research income during the assessment period:

  Income Sources      2013 - 2014 -         2015 - 2016 - 2017 - 2018 - 2019 -
                      14     15             16     17     18     19     20
  BEIS Research 39.55% 29.54%               18.83% 28.77% 21.32% 31.31% 51.23%
  Councils,      The
  Royal     Society,
  British Academy
  and The Royal
  Society          of
  Edinburgh
  UK-based            0.31%  0.36%          0        0        0.73%    1.26%    0.11%
  charities (open
  competitive
  process)
  UK-based            0      0              0        0        0        0        0
  charities (other)
  UK          central 12.34% 12.12%         31.57%   32.3%    14.92%   13.02%   11.41%
  government
  bodies/local
  authorities,
  health         and
  hospital
  authorities
  UK          central 0      0              0.21%    0        0        0        0
  government tax
  credits         for
  research       and
  development
  expenditure
  UK       industry, 20.98% 19.03%          15.26%   14.21%   16.76%   19.42%   13.51%
  commerce       and
  public
  corporations
  UK other sources 0.05%     0.72%          0        0.66%    14.45%   13.54%   0.39%

  EU government         1.67%   2.69%       2.61%    0.62%    0        0        0
  bodies
  EU-based              0       0           0        0        0        0        0
  charities (open
  competitive
  process)
  EU        industry,   0       0           0        0        0.15%    0        1.57%
  commerce       and
  public
  corporations
  EU      (excluding    0       0           0        0        0        0        0
  UK) other
  Non-EU-based          0       0           0        0        0        0        0
  charities (open
  competitive
  process)

                                                                                        Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Non-EU industry 25.1%           23.05%     17.88%    18.78%     28%        20.76%     20.18%
  commerce     and
  public
  corporations
  Non-EU other     0              13.11%     13.64%    4.66%      3.67%      0.69%      1.6%



 The Unit also attracted additional direct industrial funding (80 projects, worth £2.9m plus in-kind
 contribution. The Sand Management Network which is after 20 yrs is now moving on to Phase
 10, has had an impact on the dissemination and implementation of best practice across the O&G
 industry in relation to new techniques, products, health and safety and the environment. This has
 led to the development of sand management technologies and workflows to improve the economic
 viability and enable safe operation of sand prone fields in the North Sea. Many of our ECRs have
 successfully obtained grants (41 projects, worth £537k cash & in-kind) through Innovation
 Vouchers from the Scottish Funding Council, directly working in collaboration with industry.

 Our Wave Tank has attracted funding to develop innovative wave energy solutions to power
 subsea small pool developments (£100K from the OGIC). A wind tunnel has been used to develop
 and test innovative vertical axis wind turbines. Material testing facilities attracted consultancy
 worth £200k and mostly leading to research projects. Our research has also benefitted from
 institutional Pump Priming funding to develop lab facilities for electrochemical testing focussing on
 solar energy harnessing and vertical axis wind turbine testing. As part of the continuous work in
 collaboration with our Environmental Engineering team, we have supplied Enzo Life Sciences
 commercial bioactive compounds resulting in funding of £1.5 million since 2014.

 3.2 Infrastructure:
 Administrative support at the Unit is provided by two dedicated staff, with each PhD student being
 supported by a technical staff. Investment in IT infrastructure includes High-Performance
 Workstations, Virtual Computing Machine, and a new streamlined data repository (Worktribe).
 Research is well supported by the Library with online access to all major journals and, where not
 available, through inter library loan. Staff and students have 24/7 access to the Library during the
 exams period, to support those with caring responsibilities and other personal/professional
 priorities. Our research dissemination is supported through RGU’s Open Access.

 The Unit’s research also benefits from access to shared facilities with other HEIs, such as access
 to the FlowWave tank at Edinburgh and UK National Supercomputing ARCHER. We have
 secured Neutron beam time (total 17 days, worth £300k) at ISIS Neutron and Muon Source
 (Engine-X) at Rutherford Appleton Laboratory (Didcot, Oxford) for carrying out research to study
 spatial and directional distribution of strains in materials.        An EPSRC Digital Surface
 Manufacturing grant, allowed access to the air plasma spray (APS) facility at the University of
 Nottingham.

 Our project SIRENA got access and use of the unique particle emission measurements facilities
 at the Flemish Institute for Technological Research (VITO) in Belgium, (through European
 Commission funded ‘QualityNano Transnational Access’) to research nanoparticle aerosols
 release and mechanisms for occupation health workers safety protection.

 3.3 Facilities
 The Engineering Unit is based at our £135 million Garthdee Campus in Aberdeen. The Unit shares
 facilities mainly between School of Engineering and School of Pharmacy and Life Sciences.
 Strategic investment has been made to support the research development within the four core
 themes of the Unit.

 3.3.1 Energy Facilities
 Recent investment to set up the National Subsea Centre (NSC) will significantly benefit the Unit’s
 research, providing access to state-of-the-art Subsea Engineering and Computational facilities.

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Recently 2 new professors have been appointed in NSC with engineering and computational
 backgrounds, who will help the development of cross-disciplinary research activities.

 Current facilities include:

     (i)        Hydrodynamic Multi-Phase Flow laboratory: The facility includes a customised
                large-scale multi-phase flow loop instrumented that supports the Unit’s sand
                management research. The lab also has a Remote Operated Vehicle (ROV) Pool (a
                3m-deep test tank for underwater robotics and subsea projects), a 1Hz Wave Tank
                (1600mm water depth, 500mm wide and 1300mm length to the beach end), and a Plint
                TE 44 subsonic model Wind Tunnel (up to 20 m/s). The lab is complemented with
                computational fluid dynamic modelling and simulation tools such as Ansys Fluent and
                CFX, Comsol and OpenFoam. A well engineering lab undertakes research on
                ultradeepwater and unconventional shale and heavy oil fields; and the Power lab
                hosting AC induction machines, DC machines and respective drives and transformers
                to support research in power generation. We also have an actuated solar energy
                harnessing plant, a research facility hosted at the roof top of Sir Ian Wood Building that
                supports solar energy research.
     (ii)       Process Integration and Membrane Technology laboratory: This facility had very
                high impact in REF2014 and has recently seen further significant commercial
                investment after a change in focus from Oil & Gas towards Carbon Capture and
                Storage (CCS), Hydrogen, and alternative fuels. The lab is equipped with gas
                chromatography mass spectrometry (GC-MS) systems and Quantachrome nitrogen
                adsorption analyser (BET), and low and high-temperature multi-gasses reactors. The
                lab possesses 20 novel, fully automated catalytic membrane reactor-separators pilot
                units evaluated (at different operating process parameters and real treatment
                conditions) to study gas and liquid mixture separations and for catalytic processes.
     (iii)      The DART (Dynamic Advanced Response Training) simulation suite: The DART
                is a multimillion-pound investment unique in Europe that provides realistic, real-time
                training within a virtual drilling environment. This includes the latest DS6000 simulator
                which is used in the research and development of new drilling technologies. It also
                includes older simulators for training in the technology used to support future
                decommissioning work in the North Sea.


 3.3.2 Advanced Materials Facilities
 As part of their ongoing research activities, this group regularly makes use of facilities and
 resources at ARCHER, STFC Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Henry Royce Institute, Diamond
 Light Source (Didcot) and SALSA (Grenoble, France). The current facilities are:

     i)      Nanocomposites & Composites Labs: This facility was developed after REF2014 and
             recent investment was made in a composites manufacturing lab to support our growing
             research in this field. Equipment available include extruder for materials compounding,
             Fiaxell’s Solid Oxide Fuel Cell (SOFC) high temperature electrochemical device for energy
             materials research, nanomaterials synthesis lab supporting inhouse synthesis of graphene
             oxide, polymer blending, polymer synthesis, and nanoparticles modification research.
     ii) Materials testing and characterisation: although it still requires further investment,
         significant development has been demonstrated in this area since REF2014. It has
         become central to the Unit’s Materials Testing consultancy business to industry. It includes
         Instron (x4) and Denson (x1) Universal Testing Machines, thermal conductivity, engine test
         beds for fuel nano additives testing, ballistic impact testing, microscopy, and spectroscopy
         (X-Ray Photo Spectroscopy, UV (Ultra-violet) spectrophotometers etc), a corrosion testing
         lab and related testing/sample instrumentation capability. Cross-university equipment pool
         offers access to analytical equipment such as Zeiss EVO Scanning electron microscope



                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         (SEM), Oxford Instrument system energy dispersive X-ray analyser (EDXA), Fourier
         Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FT-IR) and GC-MS systems.
    iii) Design and Manufacturing: these facilities include a Manufacturing workshop with a
         series of CNC machines comprising a Vertical Machining Centre (XYZ 710 VMC) as well
         as manual machines and a welding lab. The Unit has recently invested in industrial scale
         3D printing equipment (Intamsys FUNMAT Pro) enabling further inter-school access to 15
         fused deposition modelling rapid prototype machine, Metal additive machine (an EOS
         m100), vacuum forming machine, textile fabrication and two Laser and direct metal laser
         sintering machines. Also host a series of engineering softwares (ANSYS FEA suite,
         Solidworks, data mining etc) to support manufacturing and design.


 3.3.3 Environmental Engineering Facilities
 Research within this theme is benefitted through access to the following facilities:

    i)   CyanoSol Lab: these state-of-the-art facilities for algal/cyanobacterial production, down-
         stream processing and supporting analytics are essential to facilitate research and
         sustainable revenue (Impact Case Study 2). RGU is equipped with water and wastewater
         treatment research state-of-art analytical, microbial and molecular facilities.
         The RGU team has a long-standing international reputation for excellence in the field of
         cyanotoxins. Allied with their extensive expertise and experience in the subject, the impact
         of their research is enabled by access to cutting-edge facilities including gas
         chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS); multiple high-performance liquid
         chromatography (HPLC) systems with a wide range of detection capability (photo diode
         array, fluorescence, evaporative light scattering); and ultra-performance liquid
         chromatography coupled to quadrupole time-of flight mass spectrometer (UPLC-QTOF) to
         support untargeted metabolite analysis and ultra-performance liquid chromatography,
         coupled to triple quadrupole mass spectrometer (UPLC-MS/MS) for targeted metabolite
         analysis. The team have bespoke facilities for algal culturing (>1200 L), downstream
         processing, and automated flash and high-performance liquid chromatography purification
         systems (mass/UV/VIS guided).
         This capability currently supports two GCRF projects (BBSRC ‘Bio-based Solution to
         Eliminate Cyanotoxins in Drinking Water’ and EPSRC ‘In-reservoir destruction of Blue-
         Green Algae and their toxins’), a BBSRC/NERC project on Safe and Sustainable Shellfish,
         and industrial funding from Enzo Life Sciences. The team are actively involved in
         networking hubs, such as UK Harmful Algae (UKHA) and UK Algae, all of which present
         excellent opportunities for training, funding and networking for ECR development.
         In addition, RGU’s membership of the SFC-funded Industrial Biotechnology Innovation
         Centre (IBioIC) facilities gives access to two resource centres, based at Strathclyde and
         Heriot Watt Universities. Bespoke technologies such as Next Generation Sequencing
         facilities are normally outsourced to Scottish Universities Life Science Alliance (SULSA), a
         research pooling partnership between Scottish Universities and supported by the Scottish
         Funding Council, providing cutting-edge technologies at centres of excellence.


    ii) The Centre for Research in Energy and the Environment (CREE): laboratory facilities
        include Perkin-Elmer absorption spectrometer, fluorescent spectrometer, Edinburgh
        Instrument’s fluorescent lifetime spectrometer, Raman spectrometer, optical spectrograph,
        a range of UV, visible, NIR lasers including nanosecond & femtosecond lasers, high
        temperature glass melting furnaces, electrochemical analyser and photocatalysis lab.
 These facilities have attracted collaborative research projects with international and national
 universities as well as research organisations and industries. These include funding from Innovate
 UK, Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP), EPSRC, UK-India Education and Research Initiative
 (UKIERI), Scottish Funding Council and Scottish Innovation Centres - Centre for Sensor and
 Imaging Systems (CENSIS), IBioIC (Industrial Biotechnology Innovation Centre), SAIC

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Sustainable Aquaculture Innovation Centre), CSIC (Construction Scotland Innovation Centre)
 and the Data Lab.


 3.3.4 Instrumentation & Sensors Facilities
 The Instrumentation & Sensors Research Group shares facilities with the other three groups. It
 also hosts its dedicated Laser Lab with equipment includes Ar Ion, Diode Lasers He-Ne, Nd YAG
 (1064 nm) Tunable Nd YAG (190-1500 nm), Optical Fibres and Solid-State Lasers (450 nm, 472
 nm, 488 nm). The Biomedical Laboratory development is currently at early stages and will
 capitalise on existing facilities at onset. We will focus on Minimally Invasive Surgery using Robotic
 assisted systems, hyperspectral imaging, and fibre sensors. This will be aimed to provide reliable
 and affordable diagnostic development with high sensitivity, fast response, low cost, and real time
 sensing.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Academic Research Collaboration Examples
 The Unit’s research on nanomaterials safety looking at nanoparticles release from nanoproducts,
 and both toxicology and eco-toxicology has contributed significantly to academic, standards,
 protocols and industrial practices. This is a collaboration with Technalia (A Egizabal, Spain); VITO
 NV (E Frijns, Belgium), Cranfield University (V Marchante), University of the Basque Country (MP
 Cajaraville, Spain), Imperial College (H Zhu) and Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial
 Research Organisation (CSIRO) (JA Schutz, Australia). This collaboration has also led to PhD
 graduates being appointed to key roles in the industry (incl. S Sachse as Materials Product
 Manager at Lego/ECCO; A Irfan as Toxicologist at BASF/Shell; A Nassiopoulos as Head of
 Composites at Prodrive; F Silva as Critical Failure Analyst at Rolls Royce, L Gendra as Research
 Fellow at WMG). The outcomes of this collaboration were widely published (>20 Journal papers
 and two textbooks on ‘Health and Environmental Safety of Nanomaterials’) and have attracted
 funding from EC Life+ H2020 QualityNano Project; Nanosafety Stream of the Advanced Materials
 Transformational Capability Platform (Australia) and the Basque Government.

 Polymer nanocomposites research collaboration focused on materials design at a nanoscale level,
 surface modification of inorganic nanoparticles and hybridization to achieve macroscale
 properties. UKIERI collaboration with University of North Maharashtra (India) funded by DST-
 UKIERI; Rajiv Gandhi National Junior Research Fellowship; and Newton-CONFAQ funding. It has
 also been industrially exploited by Shapoorji & Pallonji Pvt. Ltd (Indian multinational) in the
 development of new ballistic protection products using the new resin grade/composites (Impact
 case study 1). Lithium-Ion Battery (LIB) based on the bipolar material-MXene is central to the
 research collaboration with Yanshan University (China), Southwest University of Science (China),
 Beijing Engineering Center for Hierarchical Catalysts (China), University of Houston (USA) and
 University of Western Ontario (Canada).

 A collaboration network of Scottish Universities (RGU, Glasgow, Edinburgh, Strathclyde, West of
 Scotland) initially under the CombGen Consortium funded by the Carnegie Trust and EPSRC has
 been focusing on biomass waste for gasification and combustion process. The collaboration has
 expanded to create The Farm Waste Utilisation Group comprising farms in Forfar, Inverurie,
 Peterhead and Dingwall. The network has received funding from Interface Food and Drink (IFD
 GBER Scheme). Collaboration with Dr Claribelle Nwogu at University of Owerri (Nigeria) has
 focused on mailto:Membranes and Process and led to creation of a new Africa Centre of
 Excellence in Future Energies & Electrochemical Systems (ACE-FEES) at the Federal University
 of Owerri (Nigeria), a $6 million project funded by the World Bank.

 The research on wastewater treatment involves collaboration with researchers at Cranfield
 University and University of Bath. Research focusing on Cyanotoxin was undertaken in
 collaboration with Jagiellonian University (Poland). The water treatment collaboration research
 has attracted funding from EPSRC; EPSRC Impact Acceleration; UK Water Industry Research;
 BBSRC/NERC (£1.2 million) Joint Call in Aquaculture, EC’s Erasmus Mundus, Scottish
 Government Hydro Nation Scholars Programme and EPSRC/GCRF. Research in partnership with

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 water utilities companies such as Northumbrian Water, Scottish Water, Wessex Water, Anglian
 Water, Severn Trent Water, Yorkshire Water and United Utilities has identified, for the first-time,
 activated sludge operational conditions for enhanced micropollutant removal from wastewater. In
 addition, Cogerh, a Brazilian water company, has adopted the work detoxification on the
 cyanotoxins and design of TiO2-photocatalytic water treatment, in development of routine use of
 TiO2 photocatalysis close.

 The Unit has hosted a series of visits from experienced and young researchers. Examples
 including Dr Josef Hlinka & Dr Roohi Haghpanahan who carried out experiments related to
 corrosion of anodized titanium/ hydroxyapatite & analyse electromagnetic properties of materials
 and led to a journal and conference proceeding output. Dr C Hu (South China Agricultural
 University) visited the Unit for 12 months working on ‘Distributed Video Coding. Dr Renganathan,
 Vellore Institute of Technology, India provided new skills training to RGU on using Open Source
 CFD, and OpenFoam.

 As part of research staff and students UK-India collaboration research, Prof S Mishra and his PhD
 student have visited RGU (for over 12 months) and RGU staff and student visited North
 Maharashtra University funded by DST-UKIERI. Prof R Grose and Prof B Praveen (India) on
 sensors embedding technology, Mr O Skar (Norway) for Shell on oil and gas applications and on
 new materials impact on food science safety with Prof M Younes (Ex-Director, World Health
 Organisation, WHO).

 4.2 User/Industry Collaboration examples
 Co-developing research ideas with end users in Orkney Islands is a unique initiative that led to
 solving waste management problems. The Unit’s research activities also supported a number of
 SMEs through Innovation Voucher to take company innovation and entrepreneurial work to the
 next stage. DART simulator has been used to train industry staff in realistic, real-time within a
 virtual drilling environment. The team has engaged significantly with industrial businesses.

 Examples include subsea pipeline structural integrity and insulation materials with Subsea 7, high-
 power cables insulations and pipe installation products with Technip FMC Ltd, materials behaviour
 evaluation with Stork Engineering (a Flour Company) and thermal spray coatings with Saudi
 Aramco (Saudi Arabia). KTP projects also evidence our growing applied research with Rubber
 Atkins Ltd on downhole drilling tool elastomer seals and HarperUK on subsea autonomous
 systems. Research with Shapoorji & Pallonji (India) has focused on novel composite materials
 and manufacturing challenges in products development for construction industry.

 Partnership with Saudi Aramco, AWE plc (UK), Oil Technics Ltd, Xi Engineering and Sand
 Monitoring Services SMS Ltd in oil and gas sector. We collaborate with Petroleumsoft Ltd in
 developing new innovative approach for the accurate quantification of vertical transverse isotropy
 (VTI). Further, McAlpha Inc (Canada) is committed to our research in membrane and process for
 compact catalytic systems for three-phase chemical reactions (gas-solid-liquid). It builds on and
 extends the reach of our Patent US8501151 licensed to Gas2 Ltd (RGU spinout company) that
 generated £17.5 million in inward capital investment (2008-2013).

 Research on micropollutants in water has involved collaboration with Northumbrian Water, Anglian
 Water, Severn Trent Water, Yorkshire Water and United Utilities using pilot-scale wastewater
 treatment plant (WTP) to inform operation of their WTPs to achieve micropollutant discharge limits,
 mitigating the need for expensive tertiary treatments. Further research collaboration is with
 Wessex Water and Scottish Water reed bed systems for sustainable low-cost treatment of
 emerging pollutants. Research on the fate of cyanobacteria in drinking water treatment plant
 lagoon has been a focus of collaboration with South Australian Water Corporation (Australia) and
 detoxification of the cyanotoxins with a Brazilian water company Cogerh (Brazil). A collaboration
 with CEFAS (Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science), West Country Mussels,
 Cromarty Mussels and Association of Scottish Shellfish Growers has enabled the detection of
 potent cyanotoxins, in water, shellfish and health food supplements ensuring these products are
 safe for human consumption.

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research on waste oil treatment is central to our KTP industrial collaboration with SureClean Ltd
 (now NCR). We have had an industrial contract with CNOOC international to develop tools for
 predicting pressure drop in a Buzzard Water Injection Flowline for slurry flow and designing an
 innovative de-aerating nozzle for filling bottles for Foodmek; and development innovative capsule
 dishwasher in partnership with Loch Electronics Limited.

 4.3 Wider influence, contribution to and recognition by the research base
 RGU is represented by Steel on the Board of the Energy Technology Partnership ETP, a Research
 pooling partnership in Scotland focusing on Energy and funded by the Scottish Funding Council
 (SFC). Steel is the Chair of Sand Management Network. The Scottish Research Partnership
 (SRPe) is another research pooling in Engineering where Njuguna represents RGU in the
 Manufacturing Thematic Committee. Both the ETP and SRPe have recently each co-founded a
 PhD studentship. Further Njuguna and Steel represent the Engineering Unit engagement in the
 National Subsea Centre collaboration with Oil and Gas Technology Centre (OGTC) and action
 groups leadership with Energy Institute (Oluyemi, Steel); Society of Marine and Underwater
 Engineering (Iyalla).

 Our research contributes to scholarly work including Editor-in-Chief (Oluyemi) of Petroleum
 Engineering (Springers) book series; Associate Editor of “International Journal of Condition
 Monitoring and Diagnostic Engineering Management” (Asim); Editorial Board membership in
 Energies, MDPI (Hossain) and Njuguna in the Polymer and Composite Materials (Springer Book
 Series), Open Engineering (De Gruyter), Frontiers of Materials (Frontiers), Polymer (MDPI),
 Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer (Praise Worthy Prize), Current Nanotoxicity and Prevention
 (Betham Science);

 Our researchers have held Guest Editorship in Special Issues including Monitoring and Simulation
 for Battery System, Processes: Electrochemical Materials in Batteries (Fernandez);
 "Micromechanics and Surface Engineering of Metals" (MDPI, 2021) (Faisal); Journal of
 Nanomaterials (Hindawi, 2015) on ‘Materials Properties Characterization by Molecular Dynamics
 Simulation Techniques’ (Faisal); Surface Functionalization and Applications of Organic/Inorganic
 Hybrid Nanomaterials (Fernandez). Water (McCullagh); "Sensing in Oil and Gas Applications"
 (2018/19, Prabhu); Advancements in Wind Turbine Technology (Asim), Multiphase Flow
 Modelling for Renewable Energy, Energies’ (Hossain); Fibers, 2019 (Njuguna) and Journal of
 Materials on ‘Futuristic Materials’ (2014,2016; 2018; Njuguna).

 They are also involved in both national and international grants peer review process including the
 EPSRC Reviewer College Full membership (Edwards, Lawton, Asim, Njuguna, Faisal, Prabhu,
 Hossain); BBSRC (Edwards, Prabhu); MRC (Prabhu; Njuguna); IBioIC (Edwards, Njuguna,
 Prabhu), Scottish Institute of Re-Manufacturing (Njuguna), OGIC and ETP (Steel) and SRPe
 (Njuguna).

 Researchers are also involved in international activities as regular reviewers for Commonwealth
 Scholarship Commission (Hossain); UKIERI (Prabhu, Njuguna), GIAN, India (Hossain);
 Bangladesh Energy & Power Research Council (Hossain); SIFT panel for round 5 for the UKRI
 Future Leaders Fellowship (McCullagh); EC H2020 Batteries 2019 (H2020) (Fernandez) and
 Israel Science Foundation (Prabhu). Njuguna is involved in various European Commission
 programmes, M.NET, Nayung Technical University (Singapore), FCT Portugal, Kazakhstan
 National Center of Science and Technology, South Africa STC and Singapore’s A*STAR Group.
 Our researchers are also involved in learned communities through conference organisations such
 Conference Chair for SPIE conference on “Counterterrorism, Crime Fighting, Forensics and
 Surveillance Technologies” as part of the SPIE symposium on Security and Defence, 2020, 2019,
 2018 (Prabhu); Technical Chair for the IEEE OCEANS’17 conference at AECC, Aberdeen, June
 2017 (Prabhu); the International Webinar on Modeling Thermo-Fluids, organized by School of
 Mechanical Engineering, Vellore Institute of Technology, Chennai on 8th August 2020 (Hossain);
 International Webinar on Computational Fluid Dynamics and Energy Efficient Technologies, 11th
 December 2020 (Hossain). Njuguna has organised and co-chaired the NANOSTRUC bi-annual


                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conference series (2014, 2016, 2018) while Oluyemi is part of technical organising committee of
 SMN/SPE Euro Forum bi-annual conferences (2014, 2016, 2018, 2020).




                                                                                        Page 16
