Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: University of Central Lancashire

  Unit of Assessment: UoA12 – Engineering

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Structure
Research in UoA12 comprises engineering and functional materials conducted in the Schools of
Engineering and Natural Sciences. It combines research submitted across three UoAs in REF2014:
Electrical and Electronic Engineering Metallurgy and Materials (UoA13), General Engineering (UoA15),
and Architecture, Built Environment and Planning (UoA16).
Since 2014 the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) has committed sustained, strategic
investment to expand research as well as innovation and enterprise (I+E) in Engineering. An
(additional) new building, staff and equipment have contributed to significant increases in both scale
and scope, including a 93% increase in external funding, an 84% increase in PhD completions
and a 35% increase in journal publications compared with REF2014. Table 1.1 compares key
metrics for 2021 with aggregated data for UoAs 13, 15 and 16 in REF2014.

Table 1.1 Key performance indicators

                                Research          PhD          Research income       Completions
             Staff FTE
                                 income        completions         per FTE             per FTE
  2014          29.5             £5.6M             38.75            £189,830              1.31
  2021      48.6 (+64%)      £10.8M (+93%)     71.5 (+84%)      £222,222 (+17%)      1.47 (+12%)


Publication strategy has included implementing an open access approach to deposit publications,
data and other outputs on the Institutional Repository (Central Lancashire Online Knowledge, CLoK)
and encouraging publication in peer reviewed journals, leading to an increase in journal output (Table
1.2).

Table 1.2 Publication details

                Journal papers               Conference papers               Book chapters
  2014                 377                           423                            67
  2021             510 (+35%)                    157 (-63%)                     25 (-63%)


We have invested £50M in Engineering since 2015. Key to our expansion and impact
development is the £35M, 7,000 m2 Engineering Innovation Centre (EIC), a ‘signature project’
within the Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP) Economic Plan. It has involved co-investment
including: £5M (HEFCE), £5.8M European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and £10.5M
Local Growth Deal. These investments and active collaborative network of over 200 organisations,
have made a critical contribution to the Government’s Industrial Strategy, involving the development
of the Northern Powerhouse and the private sector.
Activities since 2014 have been integrated by five subject themes, supported by research centres
and groups as detailed below:
 (i)   Digital Engineering (Profs Shark/Matuszewski; 7.5 returned FTE, 7.33 Current PhD,
       10.5 Completions, 9 PDRA, 4 Graduate Engineers, 6 Project Engineers, 2 Business
       Development Officers): Applied Digital Signal and Image Progressing Research Centre

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        (ADSIP), Advanced Digital Manufacturing Technology Research Centre (ADMT), Computer
        Vision and Machine Learning Group (CVML).
(ii)    General Engineering (Profs Sherrington/Ansell/Dr Francis; 19 returned FTE, 16.67
        Current PhD, 13 Completions, 6 PDRA, 1 Research Engineer): Aerospace and Sensing
        Group (AASG), Innovation Clinic, Jost Institute for Tribotechnology (JIfT), including:
        Intelligent Machines and Maintenance and Additive Manufacturing), John Tyndall Institute
        (JTI), (incorporating Energy and Engineering Simulation).
(iii)   Functional Materials (Profs Reddy/Eccles; 10.6 returned FTE, 8 Current PhD, 22.25
        Completions, 4 PDRA): Centre for Smart materials.
(iv)    Fire Science and Fire Engineering (Profs Hull/Stec; 6 returned FTE, 5.67 Current PhD,
        8 Completions, 8 PDRA): Centre for Fire and Hazards Science (CFHS) and Fire
        Engineering Research Group (FERG).
(v)     Construction Management and Environmental Engineering (Profs Liyanage/Williams;
        5.5 returned FTE, 11.5 Current PhD, 17.75 Completions, 3 PDRA , 5 Research
        Assistants, 1 Research Fellow, 1 Project Engineer, 7 Business Engagement Officers):
        Centre for Sustainable Transitions (ST), Centre for Waste Management (CfWM), Earthworm
        Research Group (ERG).
Research groups operate both independently and in fruitful collaboration. For example:
    •   CFHS have projects with the AASG employing UAVs to assess environmental pollution from
        fires in waste storage facilities.
    •   CVML has worked with JTI to apply machine learning to predict energy demand.
    •   ST have worked with CfWM to address waste management issues in relation to community
        resilience.

1.2 Achievement of strategic aims
We have developed an integrated agenda addressing local, regional, national and international
priorities whilst aligning with UK Industrial Strategy. For example, in transport (supporting growth
and productivity in aerospace) and in applying AI for diagnosis of disease (supporting the healthy
ageing agenda). We have increased interdisciplinary collaboration across the sciences,
engineering and health/social sciences supporting clean growth (e.g. developing water pollution
treatment) and supported longer independent living (e.g. through new approaches to drug delivery).
We have supported the UK “places agenda”, working with partners, contributing to regional
development of the Northern Powerhouse, and national competitiveness through collaboration
with key companies such as BAE Systems, Johnson Matthey, and Sellafield Ltd.
Our reach and impact has been extensive and includes:
   • Environmental management, e.g. research to turn automotive shredder residue from old
     vehicles into a saleable product and electrical energy, reducing environmental impact and
     diverting material from landfill. (Awarded “Most Innovative Contribution to Business-
     University Collaboration”, Times Higher Education Awards, 2018).
   • Business enhancement, using our ERDF programmes to drive local growth and
     regeneration, over 500 business assists have delivered new product generation and job
     retention/creation.
   • Positive societal influences, encompassing contributions to review of the Grenfell disaster
     and a sustained outreach programme reaching over 40,000 people via platforms such as the
     Lancashire Science Festival and the IET Faraday Challenge.
   • Treatment and diagnosis of illness, Interdisciplinary collaboration with partners in Europe

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      and the UK, including DEFRA and NHS, has led to several innovations, including:
       o Identifying Fire Officer’s clothing as sources of potential carcinogenic materials.
       o Improving surgical practice by modelling haemodynamics and microvascular
         anastomoses.
       o Development of molecular imprinted polymers to identify and destroy viruses.
       o Development of a well-being self-assessment device for early detection and monitoring
         of cardio-vascular conditions.
   • International support, for example, enhancing research and innovation in disaster
     resilience in association with Local Government Agencies in Asia.

1.3 Research integrity
Our research is bound by a commitment to research integrity set out in UCLan’s Code of Conduct
for Research and Ethical Principles. These documents are reviewed annually by the Committee for
Ethics and Integrity. All research meets sector specific ethical standards. For example, work
involving creation or testing of autonomous and intelligent systems is conducted in accordance with
the ethical principles of the IEEE Ethically Aligned Design Guidance Document (IEEE, 2019). We
are also committed to following the Global Code of Conduct for Research in Resource-Poor Settings
(relevant to our work is Asia). All PGR and staff research projects must gain formal ethical
approval prior to being conducted, with an ethics submission directed to the University Ethics
Review Panel specific to the project. Where activities involve any external organisation for which
separate and specific ethics clearance is required (e.g. NHS), all relevant approval processes are
followed. To maintain our high standards, we provide dedicated training and seminars on “Research
Integrity and Ethics” for all staff and research students, with the most recent seminar on “Artificial
Intelligence and Ethics” delivered by leading experts in June 2020.

1.4 Achieving research and impact ambitions 2014–2021 and 2021 onwards
Progress towards discipline specific goals outlined by the principal themes in their 2014 REF returns
is summarised below along with their strategic aims for the next REF.

(i) Digital Engineering

2014-2020 Performance
This group has grown from strength to strength with each research assessment. ADSIP (signal and
image processing) emerged after RAE2001, ADMT (digital manufacturing) following RAE2008 and
CVML (computer vision, machine learning and AI) following REF2014. Since 2014, the group’s grant
portfolio rose from £3.8M to over £7M. Through national and international collaboration with over
30 universities and companies, we have established a world leading position in:
   • ADSIP on medical acoustic emission as a new clinical tool for joint diagnosis,
   • CVML on well-being self-assessment and computational automation of decision support in
     endoscopy,
   • ADMT on 3D ultrasonic tomography for industrial non-destructive evaluation.
By utilising the unique digital manufacturing platform developed in the last REF for ICT-enabled
manufacturing execution, ADMT has undertaken research for major manufacturing primes and small
and medium enterprises (SMEs) in the region, and transformed the local digital manufacturing
landscape by supporting numerous Lancashire manufacturing companies to adopt smart digital
technology solutions.


                                                                                              Page 3
 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2021-2028 Strategic Goals
   • Focus on developing medical acoustic emission into a major new discipline to support early
     detection, monitoring and treatment of common musculoskeletal diseases, thereby maintaining
     its global lead.
   • Grow development of AI technologies to unlock the diagnostic potential of biomedical data.
     CVML will push applications in multiple areas including scientific (e.g. earth observations),
     industrial (e.g. energy), and social (e.g. affective computing).
   • Extend the ADMT research agenda to deliver benefits of Industry 4.0 to ADMT’s network
     of regional manufacturers through £1.7M secured funding. ADMT will focus on
     development of lifecycle-based digital twins of processes, products and services, and integrate
     them towards an organic whole for data-driven monitoring and optimisation.

(ii) General Engineering
 General Engineering comprises four research groups supported by £2.8M income. Since 2014 we
 have focused on driving expansion in the breadth of topics addressed. In particular, introducing
 activities in aerospace, sensing and additive manufacturing (AM).

 2014-2020 Performance
 Aerospace engineering was established as a new area in 2014. It aims to strengthen Lancashire’s
 position as a National Centre of Excellence for Aerospace. Research and development in aerospace
 includes accelerating development of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and their mission systems
 in areas such as:
   • swarm optimisation,
   • aerial sensors for landmine detection,
   • application of graphene enhanced (GE) technologies which led to several world firsts (GE wing
     coatings (2015)/GE carbon-fibre wing (2016), full GE blended fuselage UAV (2018)),
   • applying aerospace technology in the medical sector, developing ultrasound wearable medical
     devices to treat children with Nocturnal Enuresis.
 The Innovation Clinic, funded by the LEP and ERDF, has delivered business support and product
 development to enhance competitiveness of SMEs, increasing their innovation capacity and
 productivity. It has also provided a conduit for commercialising research, supported by eight staff
 and academics, developing new products/services from concept to launch. Since 2014 it has:
   • Delivered workshops, tailored 1-2-1 advice, feasibility assessments and new product
     development.
   • Assisted 220 SMEs, created 22.36 jobs, and developed 22 research collaborations.
 From 2014 JIfT pioneered development of “tribotronics” (active tribological components/systems).
 Working with academic/industrial partners, a range of tribotronic devices, were built and evaluated.
 JIfT also founded, and leads, the “European Tribotronics Network”, an informal consortium of
 academia and industry. Innovation in tribotronics has precipitated expansion in staffing (3.6
 additional FTE) and resources in allied developments especially condition monitoring, AM resources
 and systems reliability.
 From a base in nuclear engineering, JTI has developed a broader scope of activity. Research now
 includes:
   • Energy, especially energy distribution, demand prediction and generation. Including:
        o modelling of energy consumption profiles, involving interdisciplinary work in machine

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          learning to enable large-scale renewable energy system design,
       o new methods for wind turbine blade design,
       o legacy waste management of aerodynamic components, including predictive
         computational modelling to determine progressive damage and ultimate service life.
   • Medical applications involving interdisciplinary studies with clinical staff, mathematicians and
     engineers conducting computational haemodynamics, modelling of bone (especially damaged
     mandibles) and design of replacement prosthetics.

2021- 2028 Strategic Goals
   • Establish UCLan as a lead institution for UAV technology, specialising in sensor applications
     and AI and creating a ‘Lancashire Innovation Drone Zone’ to support UAV related businesses
     and end users.
   • Advance the delivery of KT to the region’s SME community through the Innovation Clinic. This
     includes adopting research developments to deliver solutions, over several sectors.
   • Develop novel tribotronic components, sensors and actuators with integration of
     components/systems into practical uses employing the internet of things.
   • Develop a range of novel AM processes, including, manufacture of large-scale components,
     use of recycled polymers and freeform printing with hollow tubes.
   • Use AM to underpin the design and manufacture of a broader class of components and
     “intelligent machines”, especially within health technology.
   • Develop and apply AI based predictive capabilities in energy research.
   • Extend interdisciplinary activity, especially within clinical engineering/medical technology.

(iii) Functional Materials

2014-2020 Performance
The Functional Materials Group (FMG) has delivered significant, interdisciplinary advances in
surface science and catalysis, carbon nanoscience, nuclear separation science, biomaterials
science and magnetic nanomaterials impacting healthcare technologies and the environment.
Highlights include:
   • approximately £1M in competitive funding from UKRI; UK-based Charities; UK and Non-EU
     Industry and EU to support 4 PDRA/Fs and contributing to 22.25 PhD completions (123%
     increase on REF2014),
   • patents WO2016042337A1 (large-scale production of fluorescent materials based on C-dots;);
     WO2010139972 granted in 2014 (commercialising MIP technology as novel nucleant for
     protein crystallization) and WO2015059445 (reprocessing nuclear waste or spent nuclear fuel),
   • magnetic nanoparticles-based nucleic acid separation technology leading to a commercial
     product with Q-bioanalytic GmbH, Germany,
   • translation of spectroscopy into the clinical environment leading to the establishment of the
     International Society for Clinical Spectroscopy (CLIRSPEC) to improve cancer diagnosis and
     prognosis.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2021- 2028 Strategic Goals
   • Address Grand Challenges in clean growth (impacting climate change; next generation fuel
     cycles and nuclear waste legacies) and ageing society (impacting disease diagnostics and
     therapeutics for healthcare provision).
   • Expand regional, national and international academic collaborations, initiate clinical links and
     target UKRI, UK-based Charities and industrial funds, part-supported by UCLan investment.
   • Strengthen and grow our industrial collaborative links with diagnostic and waste management
     companies Sellafield Ltd and NNL; and explore opportunities to license/commercialise our
     functional materials research.

(iv) Fire Science and Fire Engineering
We provide multidisciplinary research supporting science, industry and government. Income
(£1.4M) and researcher numbers (14) have doubled from 2013. Focus has progressively shifted
from fire science and fire-retardant chemistry to short and long-term hazards of fire effluents and
residues. The 2017 Grenfell Tower fire had a profound influence on the importance and direction of
our work.

2014-2020 Performance
   • 2014-17, new fire-retardant formulations were developed for timber (KTP/Lonza, £160K); using
     carbon nanotubes (EU DEROCA £351K); and in collaboration with leading Chinese experts.
     Work also included developing low smoke toxicity insulation products; and developing drone-
     based analysis of large waste fire smoke.
   • 2017-20, Prof Stec’s interaction with the highest-level UK institutions illustrates the shift in
     focus.
       o She found high levels of carcinogenic and toxic substances around the Grenfell site
         leading to her appointment as the leading expert to the Scientific Advisory Group on
         Grenfell Environmental Contamination, chaired by Sir Patrick Vallance and including
         Professor Chris Witty.
       o Appointed to Dame Judith Hackitt’s Review of Building Regulations.
       o Appointed expert witness to Grenfell Tower Inquiry to investigate fire derived residues
         and quantify the extent of penetration and toxicity of smoke from individual products in the
         Tower.
       o She presented our research, in person, to the House of Commons Environmental Audit
         Committee.
       o Her analysis of firefighters’ PPE for carcinogenic and other harmful substances led to a
         £250K project with the Fire Brigades Union.
   • Alongside this high-profile work, interest in improved fire safety led to two additional funded
     PhD studentships in fire toxicity (£80K), and fire-safe intumescent coating development
     (£80K), KTP on fire toxicity (Silentnight £160K) and research on risk and reliability.

2021-2028 Strategic Goals
   • Development of new fire-safe products (considering fire retardancy and fire toxicity).
   • Providing regulators with tools to regulate smoke toxicity alongside flammability.
   • Providing the evidence to minimise firefighter’s exposure to toxic fire effluents and residues.
   • Practical investigations into the toxicity of pyrogenic atmospheric particles.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(v) Construction Management and Environmental Engineering:

2014-2020 Performance
  • Since 2014 there has been a dramatic increase in research activity. Over 15 PhD students
    have been recruited, with 17.75 MPhil/PhD completions (compared to one completion
    REF2014) and the Research grant portfolio has increased from £511K (REF2014) to over
    £7M during the current REF period (~1300% increase).
  • The group has engaged business and public sectors to support resource efficiency and carbon
    reduction. Three ERDF programmes have delivered innovation and environmental support to
    SMEs within North-West England helping the move to net-zero carbon targets through
    business engagement activities by 2050. The work has assisted 110 SMEs, provided
    £191,276 worth of grants to install green/low carbon technologies, saved 1,175 tCO 2eq
    and engaged in 10 research collaborations.

2021-2028 Strategic Goals
  • Expansion of waste management support within China, Vietnam, Philippines, Indonesia and
    Sri Lanka (the worst locations for plastic waste pollution). Extending research outcomes from
    the joint thermal UCLan/Recycling Lives processing facility to support the development and
    exploitation of appropriate technologies, fitting in with local needs, and cultural and social
    paradigms.
  • Build on newly developed techniques in earthworm ecology for application in agroecosystems
    (involving collaboration Finland and Austria). To examine ecosystem engineering interactions
    between earthworms and crops leading to pathogen suppression.
  • Continue to build national and EU/international networks expanding activities on management
    and recovery relating the impacts of disasters to ensure continuity of critical services,
    infrastructure and build capacity of staff and communities.

1.5 Future Operational Structure
From August 2019 research staff were grouped into UCLan Research Institutes/Centres to:
  • increase focus on national and international priorities,
  • improve planning/resourcing,
  • facilitate multi-disciplinary activity,
  • focus attention toward local, national and international strategic priorities.
Four UCLan Research Centres, relevant to UoA12, accommodate existing research groups. These
are for: Engineering, Fire and Hazards Science, Smart Materials and Sustainable Transitions.
The Research Centre for Engineering will focus on research and impact development responding
directly to Industrial Strategy and other priorities as in Table 1.3.
The Centres for Sustainable Transitions, Fire and Hazards Science and Smart Materials
(incorporating Functional Materials) will contribute to Clean Growth. Smart Materials will also
contribute to Ageing Society.
The UoA has three general strategic targets for the next REF:
  • increasing capacity, including expansion of the research student population. (Supported by
    a range of initiatives particularly international collaboration with organisations in the Middle
    East),



                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   • increased research in healthcare, including multi-disciplinary development of sensors,
     medical devices and therapeutics, involving collaboration between the Functional Materials
     group and Engineering researchers,
   • explicit growth of impact delivery, Supported by commitment to the Knowledge Exchange
     Concordat, collaboration with other centres in UCLan, targeting of internal funding to projects
     with strong potential impact, training activities related to impact planning, and increased
     contact with public and commercial organisations through the EIC.

Table 1.3 UCLan Research Centre for Engineering
              Strategy Area                Research groups

  Future of Mobility                       Aerospace and Sensing Group
  Ageing Society
  Intelligent Machines and                 Jost Institute for Tribotechnology
  Maintenance                              John Tyndall Institute
  Ageing Society
  Product Design                           Innovation Clinic
  Digital Manufacturing                    Advanced Digital Manufacturing Technology
                                           Research Centre
  Artificial Intelligence and Data         Applied Signal and Image Processing Research
  Analysis                                 Centre
                                           Computer Vision and Machine Learning Group
  Clean Growth                             Centre for Waste Management
                                           Earthworm Research Group




  2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy and research development
UCLan has been awarded the European HR Excellence in Research award, acknowledging
alignment to the European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment.
This incorporates the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and national
evaluation/benchmarking of our implementation plans.
Since REF2014, we have targeted recruitment of research active staff, increasing the proportion of
researchers by replacing departing “teaching-only” lecturers with active researchers (18 new
appointments since 2014). This strategy has been complemented by supporting existing staff to
study for a PhD, sponsored both financially and by time allocation, followed by progression to
“Significant Responsibility for Research” (SRfR) status on completion. In recent years, four staff have
developed their careers in this way. Four others are currently working towards a doctorate.
More explicit allocations of time for research/I+E activity have been introduced within workload
modelling, with a minimum of 20% FTE for SRfRs, 10%-20% FTE for staff developing a research
profile and up to 10% FTE for staff wishing to have limited involvement in research. This has resulted
in greater transparency of workload management, more targeted appraisal objective
setting/accountability, and a significantly higher level of research/I+E activity. The success of this
strategy is evidenced by growth in number of staff returned in 2021 (48.6) compared with
REF2014 (29.5) and the increase in ECRs. Seven staff are included as ECRs in REF2021.


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.2 Staff - Equality, diversity and inclusion
We value and celebrate diversity. Research staff and students come from a wide range of
backgrounds with individual needs, beliefs and values. We follow University policies for equality,
diversity and inclusion and aim to develop good practice and positive attitudes across the UoA. We
believe that all people should have an equal opportunity to learn and develop. The University is a
member of Athena Swan, the Stonewall Diversity Champions Programme, AccessAble,
Disability Confident, holds a Mindful Employer Charter Mark and the UNICEF Baby Friendly
Initiative Gold Award. Our values are reflected in the approaches detailed below.

2.2.1 Staff - Application process
The UoA recruits internationally, following a policy of equality and diversity to attract the
strongest possible candidates. The cultural and ethnic diversity of our submission reflects this
approach. Vacancies are advertised internationally via the web and applications are made through
an online system to facilitate wide reach. All applicants with declared disabilities, meeting the
essential criteria, are offered an interview.

2.2.2 Gender balance
Table 2.1 compares the gender balance of REF2014, the University population, staff eligible for
UoA12 and those returned for REF20121.

Table 2.1 Staff gender comparison
                                                        REF2021
  Gender    REF2014                  University                              UoA12
                          Eligible staff    Submitted staff     Eligible staff   Submitted staff
  Female       44%             53%                44%               23%               18%
   Male        56%             47%                56%               77%               82%

Figures for UoA12 and the return are broadly consistent with HESA data for UK university
engineering departments (~20% women) and we are encouraged that the proportion of female
staff returned exceeds that normally found in UK engineering industry. (The Learning and Work
Institute reports 9% of the UK engineering workforce is female).
The School of Engineering has several women in leadership and decision-making roles, ensuring a
broad range of views and perspectives inform our strategic direction. One of the professors leading
REF preparations is female, a female represents the school in negotiations with employers,
the Head of School and Deputy Head (Academic) are female and over the REF period we have
employed a female Outreach Officer who provided an important role model encouraging young
female students towards engineering. The School of Engineering has an Athena Swan Steering
Group and a “Women in Engineering Network” to support communication, encourage engagement
in gender equality, organise events and support women's careers. It has recently submitted an
application seeking a School level Bronze Athena Swan Award.

2.2.3 Ethnicity, culture and race
We embrace the 2010 Equality Act pro-actively discouraging discrimination and follow the Royal
Academy of Engineering Equal Opportunity Guidelines. Anti-discrimination training and unconscious
bias training is mandatory for all. The UoA encompasses a wide variety of staff backgrounds. Table
2.2 details the balance of race when compared to UoA 2014 and the current balance within the
University, eligible staff and the UoA.

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Table 2.2 Staff racial balance
                                                                  REF2021
                                               University                          UoA12
     Race            REF2014
                                                      Submitted                        Submitted
                                      Eligible staff                    Eligible staff
                                                          staff                            staff
     Asian               6%                6%              5%               11%          11.76%
     Black               3%                3%              3%                8%           5.88%
     Mixed               3%                2%              3%                1%             0%
     Other                0                4%              6%               15%          19.61%
     BAME
                        12%                14%              17%              35%             37.25%
      total
     White              80%                83%              80%              60%             60.78%

   Not stated            9%                 3%               3%               5%             1.96%



The UoA reflects the balance of race within the eligible staff group and exhibits a significantly
larger proportion of the BAME population than the University as whole. The returned
percentage also significantly exceeds that in the REF2014 population. We believe that the global
span of our research collaboration and its racial diversity is one of the factors driving the development
of our international research network. Understanding other ethnicities and their cultures leads to
innovation, creativity, increases in scale and improved financial performance. There may also be
other, less tangible, benefits including greater motivation for individuals and improved staff retention
based on “job satisfaction”.

2.2.4 Age profile
Table 2.3 details the age profile of the return in comparison with that of UoA 2014, the current
balance within the University and the eligible staff group. It is evident that there is a slightly smaller
proportion of younger staff in the return than there is for the University as a whole. The data also
illustrates that in this UoA younger staff are more likely to be included than those at later career
stages pointing favourably to the development of an increasingly vibrant research culture in
the future.

Table 2.3 Staff age profile
                                                                  REF2021
                                               University                           UoA12
       Age           REF2014
                                                       Submitted                           Submitted
                                    Eligible staff                      Eligible staff
                                                         staff                               staff
       ≤ 30             6%                3%                1%               2%              1.96%
      31-40             27%              23%                25%              18%             19.60%
      41-50             35%              31%                33%              33%             41.17%
      51-60             25%              34%                30%              31%             21.56%
   61 and over          6%               10%                11%              17%             15.69%

2.3 Staff - Research development
A self-identified group of staff, defined as an ECR forum, work together to actively plan their own
programme of activities to support their personal development following guiding principles from

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Vitae. These activities augment formal development planning within staff appraisal processes. We
assist ECRs to develop into research active roles by requiring that requests for University funded
PhD Research Studentships must include at least one and preferably two ECRs within the
Supervisory Team. Mentorship and guidance of the Supervisory Team is then provided throughout
the project by an experienced supervisor, often a Professor.
Research training includes: approaches to securing external funds; the Research Excellence
Framework; planning impact pathways; research governance, integrity, policies and ethics; scholarly
communications, open access (publications and data), public engagement, publishing models;
career development planning (including the Concordat and the role of Vitae); intellectual property
management and commercialisation.
Staff development in I+E has been supported by appointment of two high-profile industrialists, with
one at Professorial level. Their role is to facilitate industry links and drive development of industrially
based research, supporting academic staff, particularly in areas related to aerospace.
Explicit time allocations are made to support development of developmental research activities. For
example, within the School of Natural Sciences:
   • originally recruited as Guild Research Fellows, Kelarakis and Kulkarni were supported by a
     three-year period of reduced teaching workload to build their research capacity,
   • Readman and Zlatogorsky were each given research focus sabbaticals for 6 months,
   • Sen was allocated research time to apply for a Royal Society Industrial Fellowship to work in
     Feedwater Ltd. and develop a nanoparticle-based Legionella test-kit.

2.4 Staff - Mentorship in research
Research development has included the appointment of two experienced individuals as
“Research Mentors”. One is a distinguished Professor from a Russell Group university the other
an accomplished researcher from industry. Their role is to guide and support staff in the preparation
of requests for grant funding and the preparation of output, providing appraisal and support for
preparation of funding proposals. All staff may request support from these colleagues, but their
activity is focussed on those with less experience.

2.5 Staff - Reward and recognition
All staff are encouraged to participate in research or I+E and there have been nine promotions to
the role of Reader and Professor (including three BAME (one female), and one additional
female). Promotion is based on formally recognised achievements in either research or I+E
pathways, to encourage and reward exceptional engagement in these areas. Examples are:
   • Ansell: appointed as Principal Lecturer in 2012, promoted to Professor in 2018 in recognition
     of contributions to aerospace engineering research, innovation and enterprise (Innovation
     route),
   • Liyanage: recruited as Lecturer in 2008, promoted to Senior Lecturer (2011), Reader (2015)
     and Professor (2019) in recognition of her research in construction, facilities management and
     disaster resilience research nationally and internationally,
   • Reddy: recruited as Senior Lecturer in 2016, promoted to Reader (2016), then Professor of
     Biomaterials and Analytical Chemistry (2018) in recognition of his internationally leading
     research in synthetic receptors and their application to biosensors,
   • Stec: recruited as Lecturer in 2007, promoted to Senior Lecturer (2010), Reader (2012) and
     Professor (2017). She is internationally leading in the toxicity of fire effluents and residues,



                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  • Williams: recruited as a Lecturer in 2006, promoted to Senior Lecturer (2008), Principal
    Lecturer (2012), then Professor (2018) in recognition of applied research and knowledge
    transfer activities within the environment and resource field (Innovation route).

2.6 Staff - Development for innovation and enterprise
Responding to regional and national strategies, the School of Engineering has embarked on an
integrated strategic development plan to help academic staff expand I+E work. It has developed a
programme of increased support for industry supported by the EIC with:
  • Three large ERDF supported schemes with teams including administrators, engineers,
    designers, software engineers, etc., ensure a rapid response to urgent industrial enquiries,
    while facilitating academic staff engagement with I+E activities on a longer timescale.
  • Staff specifically supporting development of industrial applications in aerospace.
  • An EIC Innovation Manager to co-ordinate support for industry and community activity,
    conferences, events, training activity, summer schools, professional institution meetings, visits
    by local schools, and commercial activity.
  • Strong links with AMRC (North West), with their north-west base in university buildings
    facilitating a range of opportunities for staff to develop collaborative I+E activity.

2.7 Recruitment, training and support of Post Graduate Research (PGR) students
UCLan Graduate School (GS) and Student Registry (SR) oversee recruitment, training, support and
progression of PGRs, ensuring that policies, procedures, quality frameworks and regulations are
applied uniformly. Working with Research Degree Tutors, Supervisory Teams and Examiners,
GS/SR also manage progression, training and examination arrangments.

2.7.1 Student recruitment
Funded PhD opportunities are advertised internationally via the web and awarded following public
advertisement and competitive interview. Candidates holding their own financial support may apply
to become students at any time following an admission process similar to that for funded projects.
The UoA is working to increase the PGR establishment and research supervision capacity. One
aspect of this involves agreements with partner university campuses in Egypt. Staff from partner
campuses can study on PhD programmes at UCLan under favourable fee arrangements partly
funded by Erasmus+ (2018-1-UK01-KA10, 2019-1-UK01-KA107, €1.7m) supporting 30 PhD
positions. Up to 15 additional PhD positions will be supported by Summer School income.

2.7.2 Student training and support
PhD programmes are designed in co-operation with students on a bespoke basis addressing
individual needs. They incorporate: a research plan, technical training, research skills training and
workshop/conference attendance. Training is selected from a portfolio and is available in either on-
line or face-to-face format. Research skills training has been mapped to the Vitae Researcher
Development Framework and has received the HR Excellence in Research award.
Within our research environment:
  • Action plans and progress reviews are documented at mandatory, regular meetings between
    PGRs and Supervisory Teams.
  • PGRs play an active role organising/participating in events at School, national and international
    levels.
  • UCLan hosts the Three Minute Thesis (3MT) competition and an Annual PGR Conference.


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  • The School of Engineering hosts an “Engineering Expo”, showcasing undergraduate and PGR
    projects (3MT and poster sessions).
  • There are research seminars, reading groups, workshops, international conferences.
  • There is competition participation. (Competition successes include: MICCAI (1st in two
    challenges, Quebec 2017), Mission of Tribology (1st London 2017), Best Paper Award at
    ICIAR 2014 (San Francisco).
  • There is a “hands-on” equipment operating philosophy, PGRs can access training, including
    on-line video support, to develop operating skills for equipment including SEM, EDX, AFM.
  • Contact with staff from other universities and companies is facilitated through a programme of
    visiting researchers and placements with collaborators.
  • Some research students are involved in collaborative projects, some are multi-national.
  • To aid teaching skills development, training in teaching is provided by the Centre for
    Collaborative Learning, providing access to professional recognition with Advance HE
    (commonly D1).
  • PGRs are invited to paid employment within Summer School operation (delivered to
    undergraduates) by the School of Engineering.
  • To facilitate undergraduate involvement in research we offer a range of final year projects allied
    to research activities.
  • We operate an Undergraduate Research Internship Programme.
  • PGRs volunteer to support weekly meetings of Engineering Societies, strengthening the
    network between undergraduate and postgraduate population and encouraging
    communication between the two groups.
  • The UoA offer funding to support PGR led activities.
  • PGRs are invited to identify their representatives at school and University level.
  • We encourage PGRs to contribute to the PGR Society.
  • Channels to listen and respond to the PGR student voice are provided.

2.8 PGR Student diversity, gender and cultural balance
Our approach to diversity in the PGR population embraces the University principles of inclusivity.
Data presented below is drawn from HESA data for the cost centres of engineering and chemistry
at UCLan, representing UoA12 at UCLan (with 34.4 FTE students) and these subjects nationally.
Table 2.4 details the gender balance for PGRs. It can be seen that UCLan demonstrates a slightly
more representative balance of gender than the sector in general.

Table 2.4 PGR gender balance (2019-20)

                                                                          Representative
                                      Equivalent UK group
                                                                          UCLan UoA12
               Male                             69%                             63%
              Female                            30%                             37%


PGRs are admitted from a wide range of backgrounds, countries, faiths and gender. BAME
admissions to UCLan are slightly above those for the sector as a whole, with 10% BAME


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
admissions in the sector and 13% BAME admissions at UCLan. UCLan supports initiatives to
encourage greater levels of BAME participation and develops general BAME focused support, for
example “Race in Focus” studentships to understand inequalities within HE.
Applications from disabled students are welcomed at UCLan and there are support services to
facilitate progress for a wide range of disabilities. The proportion of research students with a known
disability at UCLan (7.8%) is about the same as that of the sector (7.5%).

2.9 PGR - Progression following award
The number of PhD completions in this REF period is 71.5, an increase of 85% over REF2014
(+12% per FTE), underlining our commitment to enhancing research activity.
Graduating PGRs have progressed to Post-Doctoral positions, senior positions in industry/academia
and further training/education in the UK and overseas. Example destinations include: Universities of
Edinburgh, Aberdeen, York (Canada), Shah Abdul Latif (Pakistan), and companies: National Nuclear
Laboratory, Electricity North West and Ove Arup.
Five former UCLan PGRs have joined UCLan as lecturers delivering topics in fire science, nuclear
technology, mechatronics and intelligent machines.

2.10 Research environment - Continuous improvement processes
The UoA regularly reviews and reports on the quality of the research environment to develop
improvement plans through consultation with key stakeholders. For example:
   • PGRs give feedback through formal and informal routes. Formal feedback through the PGR
     Experience Survey (PRES), Research Degree Tutor Annual Report and Annual Progress
     Review. Less formally via PhD Supervisors, student representatives, the Student President
     and Staff Student Liaison group. Formal Action Plans are formed, actioned and reviewed
     annually, informal comments are generally actioned as they arise.
   • Research staff feedback is received at regular meetings, including discussions accompanying
     weekly seminar events, Professors Forum and a substantial annual summer meeting where
     longer-term plans are developed to improve research practices.
   • Research Centre Heads compile Annual Reports reviewing outputs, impacts and
     achievements.
   • The Researcher Concordat is addressed by ECR forum activities, appraisal discussions and
     extensive institutional activities to communicate and address the Concordat Principles,
   • Sabbatical opportunities have supported research developments.

  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income: UoA overview
Since 2014 external research, innovation and knowledge transfer funding claimed from funders (i.e.
not including match and other support) has increased to £10.8M (£1.5M pa) from £5.6M (£1.1M
pa) including a 350% increase in EU funding. Recognising the potential impact of Brexit, we are
working towards diversification of funding streams. With £6M in awarded grants over the last three
years of REF2021 we anticipate research income will grow strongly in the next REF cycle.
Research, returned in UoA 20, is also conducted by School of Engineering staff on the interaction
between engineering and social policy. It includes participation in a €3M Horizon 2020 Euratom
research project, History of Nuclear Energy and Society (HoNESt) with 24 EU member states, the
USA and Russia, focusing on the interaction between nuclear energy and society.


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3.2 Research group funding
Research groups in this submission adopted their own funding strategies, focusing on different
sources. Key examples of funding income are provided below.

(i) Digital Engineering:
Through a strategy of growing from successful bids in the previous REF and leveraging regional
advantages for impactful research, it has led to a larger grant portfolio of over £7M (total project
value over £22M), which include:
  • £331K from EU FP7 for the SEMEOTICONS project to develop sensing and data analytics
    technologies for well-being self-assessment.
  • £393K from EPSRC for the project on reconfigurable assembly system with in-process quality
    improvement.
  • £103K from MRC for the project on knee acoustic emission.
  • £673K from BAE Maritime for a series of projects and an industrial PhD studentship on
    ultrasonic weld inspection.
  • £95K from EPSRC and BAE Military Air and Information for a CASE studentship on energy
    driven manufacturing execution.
  • £5M from ERDF for the project of Digital Integrated Manufacturing Execution (DigitME) and its
    extensions.
  • £292K from RGF for the Growing Autonomous Mission Management Applications (GAMMA)
    programme.
  • £40K from STFC CDN+ for Machine Learning System for Computational Automation of Early
    Cancer Detection in Colonoscopy.

(ii) General Engineering:
This group’s income was £2.8M. Our priority was to establish capability in aerospace, aligning with
LEP regional strategy and aiming to support ~13,200 aerospace jobs in the LEP area (~15.6% of
the manufacturing workforce) with aerospace activities to support and grow this local industry.
Collaborative SME projects include:
  • Intelligent Diversion Assistant (£40K), pilot emergency decision support technology.
  • Aerial Uptake £31.5K (EU Interreg) promoting drone use and influencing policy instruments.
  • Flight Guardian (£27K), monitoring analogue aircraft instruments advising pilots of potential
    failures/unsafe situations.
  • Impact Classification System (£15K), developing graphene-based impact measurement
    sensors and classification software.
Aerospace spin-off projects include:
  • £83K (SBRI) and £238K (NIHR) wearable medical device development for children with
    nocturnal enuresis.
  • £47K (InnovateUK) Nano-tooling, proof-of-concept automotive GE tooling.
Additionally, £1.21M (LEP capital equipment funding) was awarded in 2020 (EIC Extension:
Drone Command and Control Centre), supporting industry on drone innovations.




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(iii) Functional Materials
Enabled by £930,000 in research funding, FMG research has focused on disease diagnostics, drug
delivery and infection control; nanomedicine and radioactive waste treatment. Examples include:
   • A grant portfolio comprising EPSRC (£273K), CASE studentship from Johnson Matthey (£33K)
     and National Nuclear Laboratories (£43.6K) to develop zeolite catalysts; advanced
     nanostructured hybrid composite materials for radioactive wastewater treatment;
     chromatographic separation techniques for Actinides; and decontamination of C-14 from
     irradiated graphite.
   • Wellcome Trust (collaborating with The Pirbright Institute), Royal Society, UKIERI and Daiwa
     Anglo-Japanese Foundation (totalling £129K) to investigate smart materials (molecularly
     imprinted polymers) for protein and virus biosensor development.
   • DEFRA, FERA, MOD, Rosemere Cancer Foundation and Lancashire Teaching Hospital NHS
     Foundation Trust (£101K) to develop non-invasive vibrational spectroscopic methods for
     disease diagnosis; assessing drugs of abuse and application to clinical practice.
   • UCLan Biomedical Technology (Shenzhen) Ltd., UK (£90K), UKIERI and the British Council
     (£83K) collaborating with Feedwater Ltd., UK; Hosokawa Micron Ltd; UK; Tata Chemical Ltd.;
     Delhi University (India); and ECUST (China) to deliver magnetic nanoparticles-based
     technologies to remove arsenic from groundwater.
   • Daphne Jackson Fellowship (£70K) to investigate magnetic nanoparticles for drug delivery;
     and two EU DTA3/COFUND PhD fellowships (£200K) to investigate smart materials-based
     viral detection and therapeutics for healthy ageing.
   • PhD funding (£68K) from BZA, Nuclear Decommissioning Authority and Magnesium Elecktron
     to develop ion-exchange materials for heavy metal separation.

(iv) Fire Science and Fire Engineering
Our underlying strategy has been to work directly with research users (industry, government and
other agencies). Income of £1.4M was acquired:
   • [Text removed for publication].
   • £351K from European FP7 to develop replacements for brominated flame retardants based on
     carbon nanotubes (DEROCA); £97K from Saint-Gobain to develop fire-safe insulation
     products.
   • [Text removed for publication].
   • [Text removed for publication].
   • £67K (of £250K) from the Fire Brigades Union to investigate the exposure of firefighters to
     carcinogenic and toxic fire effluents and residues.
   • £20K (of £160K) from Silentnight Beds/Innovate UK (KTP project) to develop fire-safe beds.
We also benefit from significant in-kind funding (estimated at £320K) from a consortium led by the
Fire Protection Association, for large scale testing in their BS8414 facility (see impact case study);
each test costs £80K.

(v) Construction Management and Environmental Engineering:
Group's total grant portfolio is over £7M. This includes:
   • £14M multi-regional ECO-I NW (2020-2023), UCLan share £665K.



                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  • £13M INTERREG Circle (Concrete solution dRaining for the CLimate and Environment,
    2020-2023), UCLan share £660K.
  • £2.7M ERDF MaCaW (Making Carbon Work, 2017-2023), UCLan share 100%.
  • £2M Eco-innovation Cumbria (2016-2020), UCLan share £233K.
  • £1.4M ERASMUS+ “EwasteR” (Electrical Reuse training programme with third sector
    organizations across Europe) 2014-2016), UCLan share £89K.
  • €1.5M H2020 BENEFIT (Business models for enhancing funding and enabling Finance of
    infrastructure in transport 2014-2016), UCLan share €130K.
  • €1M Euro-China ESRC ODESSA (Optimising care delivery models to support ageing-in-
    place, 2016-2019) UCLan share £217,941.
  • €1M ERASMUS+ BRITAE (Building Resilience in Tropical Agro-Ecosystesm, 2020-2023)
    UCLan share €131K.
  • €1M ERASMUS+ CABARET (Capacity Building in Asia for Resilience EducaTion, 2017-
    2020) UCLan share €66K.
  • €1M ERASMUS+ ASCENT (Advancing Skill Creation to ENhance Transformation, 2016-
    2019) UCLan share €83K.
  • €1M ERASMUS+ SECRA (Strengthening University-Enterprise Collaboration for Resilient
    Communities in Asia, 2021-2024) UCLan share €131K.
  • €0.5M ERASMUS+ REGARD (Rebuilding AfteR Displacement, 2019-2022) UCLan share
    €92K.
  • £120K two jointly funded studentships with Myerscough College on sustainable food
    production (2019-2022).
  • £100K for a DTA3/COFUND Marie Skłodowska-Curie PhD fellowship on Energy Trading
    Models (2020-2023).
  • Three Innovate UK-KTP awards: £123K Equestrian Surfaces (2014-2016), £135K Frank
    Whittle Partnership on Building Information Modelling (2015-2018), £213K Recycling Lives
    (2016-2018), additional £173K Recycling Lives (2020-2023).
With Brexit and removal of EU structural funding, we will seek funding through the proposed UK
Shared Prosperity Fund, which will focus on innovation and research, the digital agenda, support for
SMEs and low-carbon economy.

3.3 Infrastructure and Facilities
Major developments of infrastructure have supported expansion. Key amongst these is a £35M
investment in a 7,000 m2 Engineering Innovation Centre and equipment to support growth in
innovative engineering activities. This development is part of an overall £50M investment in UCLan
Engineering since 2015 and was identified as a signature project within the LEP’s economic plans.
The EIC was supported through significant co-investment including £5M HEFCE, £5.8M ERDF and
£10.5M Local Growth Deal. It opened in November 2019, providing several state-of-the-art
laboratories, including equipment for Additive Manufacture (AM), Intelligent Machines and
Maintenance (IMM), Fire and combustion, and Aerospace It aims to promote multidisciplinary
activity in research and innovation/enterprise between academics and industry to provide a
focus for regional partnerships.




                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(i) Digital Engineering:
Facilities have been continuously extended and updated to support research/industrial activities.
Equipped with 3 Fanuc and Kuka robots, a prototyping CNC, RFID and IOT/IIOT systems, the ADMT
digital manufacturing platform now offers a unique laboratory-based production line with 6
reconfigurable stations for simulation of data-driven automated manufacturing execution. It
has been recognised as a valuable asset for the region’s manufacturing sector and has been
extensively used to support over 100 SMEs for technology trial run and take-up. Furthermore, the
group now has a state-of-the-art full-matrix-capture phased-array ultrasonic system for industrial
non-destructive evaluation, and a unique angle-and-force based acoustic emission system for
medical non-invasive diagnosis of joints. The group also have access to multiple camera systems,
3D scanners, high-speed and thermal imaging systems to support research on visual information
processing, including biomedical imaging (e.g. neonatal imaging), objects real-time characterisation
and manipulation, 3D mapping and navigation.

(ii) General Engineering:
Significant investment has supported developments in aerospace. This includes a Flight Simulation
Suite supporting collaborative research to enhance flight safety with AI based technologies, and
access to a site to flight test UAV technology. UCLan has invested in facilities to design and
manufacture UAVs, with particular focus upon improving the flight safety and utility of drones for civic
applications. We have received £1.21M from the LEP to invest in drone technology to support
growth of the UAV sector in Lancashire. Over £430K of equipment procurement from that grant
was placed during this REF period, and full investment will be complete by March 2021. Two wind
tunnels have been procured enabling subsonic and supersonic testing.
Research in human factors is a significant part of the Innovation Clinic programme. The EIC has
made a £76K investment in data capture technology. Human Centred design and engineering
capability has been enhanced through resource efficiency solutions supported by VR and rapid
prototyping/manufacturing solutions enhancing KT and research development capability.
JIfT have focused on developing a suite of test equipment for research on condition monitoring and
development of tribotronic components/intelligent machines. It is located in a new EIC laboratory
and partly funded by income from summer schools. The equipment facilitates investigations on
bearings, transmissions, lip seals, piston-ring packs, etc. using novel sensors/actuators allowing
development of demonstration systems for future components and machines in collaboration with
companies, e.g. James Walker Ltd., Michell Bearings, Micromass plc. and the Royal Mail. There is
also an excellent tribology laboratory including: SEM (with EDX), nano-indentation facilities, scratch
tester, vacuum/high temperature friction/wear test apparatus, and other tribometers to support
essential fundamental measurements in tribology.
JTI simulation studies use UCLan’s High Performance Computer and high specification PC systems
with packages such as ANSYS and COMSOL. These facilities support multi-disciplinary
collaboration with partners such as the NHS in projects on predictive modelling for healthcare (e.g.
modelling of haemodynamics / microvascular anastomoses), Sellafield Ltd. and North Composites
Engineering (addressing structural integrity of composite materials and components).

(iii) Functional Materials
The impressive £12M purpose-built JB Firth Building houses research laboratories comprising a
wide range of state-of-the-art analytical and research facilities, constantly evolving to ensure
alignment with modern industry practice. Facilities are funded by UCLan, Research England QR
allocated funds, The Royal Society, nanoScale Biomagnetics, EU Framework VI and Q-bioanalytic
GmbH.
Analytical Suite facilities include:

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   • spectroscopies (FTIR, NMR with solid state probe, UV, GCMS, LCMS, ICPMS, fluorescence,
     Raman),
   • chromatography (HPLC, GCMS, LCMS, ICP-MS),
   • microscopies (optical, fluorescence, infra-red, SEM with EDX),
   • XRD.
They are used in characterisations of zeolites, lipid nanostructures, carbon dots and magnetic
nanoparticles with impact in additive manufacturing of tablets, water purification and nuclear waste
treatment technologies.
State-of-the-art equipment, located within 5 dedicated FMG research laboratories include:
   • Autolab potentiostats and quartz crystal microbalance (QCM-D) for electrochemical
     characterization of carbon nanomaterials, biomimetic materials and for biosensor development
     with impact in novel disease diagnostics and infection control.
   • Anton Parr Microwave for rapid nanoparticle synthesis, DLS for nanoparticle sizing,
     fluorescence lifetime spectroscopy, thermal analysis (TGA, DSC), BET surface area analyser.
   • Micromeritics Autopore IV Mercury porosimeter for nanocomposites analysis.
   • DM 100 Magnetic hyperthermia instrument (unique within the UK) for magnetic nanoparticles
     heating in targeted therapy applications.
   • Simulated Moving Bed (SMB) technology uniquely configured at UCLan for separation of
     inorganic cations (radionuclides).

(iv) Fire Science and Fire Engineering
We are very fortunate to have one the best fire research facilities in the world. The large fire
laboratory in the new EIC houses all the standard fire test equipment, and bespoke fire dynamics
experimental facilities (trench effect, flashover boxes, model houses and shopping mall for smoke
movement etc.). In addition, the existing fire laboratories (purpose-built in 2011) occupy 264m2 with
3 specialist facilities:
   • Pyrolysis laboratory (thermal analysis equipment including 2 x TGA FTIR, one also
     interfaced to GC-MS analysis, 2 x DSC, 2 x TGA, a UPLC-MS, a parallel plate rheometer with
     environmental chamber up to 550°C, a micro-scale combustion calorimeter, a benchtop mass
     spectrometer and cryogenic grinder etc.
   • Fire toxicity laboratory for quantifying the yield of toxic products from flaming combustion,
     equipped with the world’s widest range of standard techniques including ISO 19700, ISO 5659,
     EN 45545-2, ASTM E662, NF X 70-100, with complementary analytical facilities.
   • Clinical laboratory for analysis of human (firefighter) samples including GC-MS, GC-MS-MS,
     2 x UHPLC-MS, and automated Soxhlet extractor.

(v) Construction Management and Environmental Engineering
Work with Recycling Lives has enabled UCLan to enter a joint venture leading to the partnership
building and owning a £740,000 research facility. This thermal process facility will transform residue
into a saleable product and electrical energy; creating a closed-loop recycling solution and reducing
waste sent to UK landfill. The plant will be capable of processing 100 kg hr-1 offering significant
benefits for the waste management industry and supporting applied research.




                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Introduction
Our vision is to use the EIC to establish UCLan as a leading university for engineering innovation,
exploiting its location within one of the most important engineering and manufacturing areas in the
UK. Extensive investment has built a sustainable platform for collaboration with partners regionally,
nationally and internationally enhancing links to major employers. An EIC Industry Steering Group,
includes representatives from global companies such as Rolls Royce, BAE Systems and specialist
architecture practice Frank Whittle Partnership alongside the North West Aerospace Alliance and
The Manufacturing Institute, representing large numbers of supply chain companies and providing a
powerful insight into the research, skills and knowledge required to help them innovate.

4.2 Group collaboration, beneficiaries and audiences
The benefits of collaborations and partnerships in the context of contributions to the research base,
economy or society are detailed below.

(i) Digital Engineering:
Collaborative and interdisciplinary research, linked to user needs, is reflected in all projects with
examples below.
  • Internationally, ADSIP collaborated with North China University of Technology on hand vein-
    based biometric recognition funded by China National Natural Science Foundation, and
    Ukraine National Aerospace University on multi-channel signal processing funded by British
    Council, leading to exchange visits, joint publications, and a consumer-level high-security
    biometric system.
  • In Europe, CVML collaborated with 9 partners from 6 countries (including Italian National
    Research Council and Linköping University) on the SEMEOTICONS project and developed a
    well-being self-assessment device for early detection and monitoring of cardio-vascular
    conditions. There were also research collaborations with Cergy-Pontoise University on
    biomedical image analysis and with University of Côte d'Azur on tackling international machine
    learning challenges, which led to wining Medical Image Computing and Computer Assisted
    Intervention international challenge on Surgical Workflow Analysis.
  • Nationally, ADSIP collaborated with universities of Lancaster and Manchester, Imorphics,
    Mistras and local hospitals on clinical trial of acoustic emission for knee diagnosis and has
    discovered a significant cartilage thickness biomarker. ADMT collaborated with Warwick
    Manufacturing Group on reconfigurable manufacturing systems; and with AMEC, BAE
    Maritime and Bristol University on ultrasonic inspection of welds. The collaboration generated
    several novel algorithms, such as statistical modelling of material scattering for rapid defect
    identification, and computational ultrasonic tomography for replacement of hazardous
    radiographic inspection. CVML is developing machine learning systems for computational
    automation of early cancer detection in colonoscopy, supported by the DiRAC supercomputer
    facility.
  • Regionally, ADSIP collaborated with NWAA, BAE, National Nuclear Laboratory, universities
    of Lancaster, Liverpool, Manchester, and Salford on innovative civil applications of UAV, which
    supported 18 SMEs to complete 24 technology projects with ADSIP leading the work on
    surveillance security and intelligence. CVML collaborates with oncologists at Lancashire
    Teaching Hospital and radiologists at East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust (ELHT) on
    estimation of CT density heterogeneity to predict response to immunotherapy in renal cancer
    and works with the UCLAN THRIVE Centre and ELHT on development of novel thermal
    imaging monitoring system for neonatal care. ADMT collaborated with BAE on digital

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     manufacturing capabilities for aerospace platforms. This led to a best paper award for work on
     genetic optimisation of production schedules for variable renewable energy supply.
     Furthermore, through the DigitME project, ADMT has assisted 126 manufacturing SMEs,
     created 16 jobs, safeguarded 41 jobs, helped create 35 improved processes, and 14 new to
     firm products.

(ii) General Engineering
Collaboration covers a range of geographical scales.
  • Internationally, collaboration with NASA has produced mission critical software for solar
    science sounding rockets and UCLan are developing instrument pointing software for
    a grazing incidence X-ray spectrometer mission launching 2021. Collaboration on UAVs
    with the Cambodian Government's Mine Action Authority has enabled sharing of UCLan’s
    landmine detection sensor technology. Collaboration with almost 30 members from
    industrial/academic backgrounds across Europe has allowed us to form the European
    Tribotronics Network, to accelerate development and application of “tribotronics”. Research
    with the European Space Tribology Laboratory (ESTL) has enhanced understanding of
    lubricant degradation in space mechanisms, resulting in a system installation on the ESA
    Bepi-Colombo mission to Mercury. Ongoing work, supported by the Emirates Nuclear
    Energy Corporation, seeks to improve understanding of acceptance criteria for new
    nuclear builds.
  • Nationally, UCLan became a foundation partner of the Manchester Graphene Engineering
    Innovation Centre following work involving aerospace applications for graphene materials.
    UCLan successfully lead Preston’s bid in NESTA’s Flying High Challenge influencing national
    drone investment policy. SME collaborations include The Great Circle (flight safety systems),
    and Aspira (spraying UAVs). UCLan also built a wildfire photogrammetry Fire Service research
    drone and signed an MoU with BAE Systems to support UAV research. Collaborations with
    James Walker Ltd, to develop intelligent seals, has resulted in a novel design for a seal with
    controllable contact pressure. Other commercially relevant research has led to patent
    applications/awards:
       o   For nanoindentation/indentation testing of viscoelastic materials (application number
           1701591.8).
       o   To reduce corrosion in large two stroke marine engines (PCT/GB2016/052345).
       o   To estimate bladder status (granted WO2017017426A1).
     Research in the aerospace, energy and medical sectors is supported by collaboration with
     organisations such as BAE Systems, ANSYS-UK, Businesswise solutions, Bombardier Inc.,
     North Composites Engineering Ltd, Numeca-UK, Sellafield Ltd, NHS Health Care Trusts, etc.
     Simulation studies have impacted clinical practice, reducing the likelihood of failure of surgical
     procedures. Research in nuclear engineering has contributed to the development of novel
     methods to manage nuclear waste (using ion diffusion and cementitious products).
  • Regionally the Innovation Clinic project has supported 183 businesses, created 18 jobs and
    helped to launch 63 “new to the market” products since 2014. 223 businesses have
    received KT support delivering £1,217,980 Gross Value Added (GVA), lifting the average
    GVA of beneficiaries by £36,908. 18 research projects have been supported to date,
    mainly in association with transdisciplinary projects in the area of health.

(iii) Functional Materials
Academic collaborations include: University of Graz (Austria) for C-dot research; University of Sao
Paulo (Brazil) and University of Tokyo for biomimetic materials research; Delhi University; Tata

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institute of Fundamental Research (India); University of Manchester; Ilmenau Technical University
(Germany); ECUST and Shihezi University (China) for magnetic nanoparticle research leading to
water purification technologies; a UCLan-led consortium, including Reading University, and
Kyungpook National University and Chosun University (S Korea) to develop nanostructured hybrid
composites for Advanced Radioactive Waste treatment.
Industrial/Academic Partnerships leading to benefit of society and the economy include:
   • Feedwater Ltd and Hosokawa Micron Ltd in water treatment and materials processing
     respectively,
   • Partnering with organisations in China and India and Nanoscale Biomagnetics SL (Spain)
     leading to a nanoparticles-based technology for arsenic clean-up from ground water and
     producing a simple arsenic extraction kit used by local communities in groundwater-polluted
     states of West Bengal,
   • IQ-bioanalytic GmbH, Germany to produce a simple one step magnetic nanoparticles-
     based separation technique to replace the classical and laborious methods of
     separating biomolecules from cellular systems,
   • University of Manchester to develop radical new reprocessing technology, significantly
     reducing both CAPEX costs with consequential impacts in waste treatment and disposal.
Networks include the Society for Functional Nanomaterials offering a forum for academic
collaborations with industry and clinicians. UCLan’s Research Centre for Smart Materials has
attracted support from four Faculties and 50 academics. The Centre enables multidisciplinary teams
of research-active academics to collaborate and achieve an effective and sustainable critical mass
to address translational academic research.

(iv) Fire Science and Fire Engineering
Before the Grenfell Tower fire in June 2017, the group had a world-leading position in fire toxicity
and internationally competitive position in materials’ fire behaviour. Since the Grenfell disaster, fire
safety and regulatory compliance have moved up the national and international agenda, with our
expertise constantly in demand. Prof Hull’s work with mainstream media (over 20 national broadcast
media appearances, including BBC’s Breakfast, Newsnight and Panorama, ITV News, C4
Dispatches, World at One, Sky News etc.) has brought fire science to a much wider audience.
CHFS regularly collaborates outside UCLan. Within the UK, we are working with colleagues at
Imperial College and University College London, and Universities of Edinburgh (façade fires in the
aftermath of Grenfell), Birmingham (environmental contamination by flame-retardants), and key UK
institutions. Internationally, Stec works with Universities of Arizona, Waterloo, Stockholm, and Nordic
institutions (firefighter cancers), and Warsaw Medical University (toxic smoke injury). Hull has
extensive fire-retardancy networks in China (USTC, BIT, Sichuan, Zhejiang Universities) and Europe
with University of Lille-1, Danish Technical University, Abo Akademie etc. Outside academia
extensive cooperation with leading government institutes NIST, NRC (Canada), CSIRO (Australia),
BRANZ (New Zealand), NILIM, (Japan) RISE (Sweden) BAM and Fraunhofer Institute (Germany).
Impact Case studies describe this work in more detail:
   • Making Tall Buildings Safe from Fire: has led to the combustibles ban and a £3.5bn
     government budget for remediating flammable cladding.
   • Regulating Smoke Toxicity: has led to the launch of an £605K research project, led by
     MHCLG, with Hull in Steering Group, to assess the smoke toxicity of building products, and
     has also led to dramatic action in continental Europe and within the European Commission.
   • Protecting People from Toxic Fire Residue: describes the change in firefighters’ daily
     operations and has driven the environmental remediation around Grenfell Tower.
                                                                                               Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(v) Construction Management and Environmental Engineering:
Collaborative and interdisciplinary research is reflected in all projects across different
sectors/countries. Some examples are:
Academic: Collaborating with Universities across Europe, e.g. Belgium, Germany, Finland, Greece,
Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Serbia, in a Horizon 2020 BENEFIT project (2014-2016)
on Public Private Partnerships (PPPs) in Transport led to working with the UN Economic
Commission for Europe (UNECE) in developing policies on 1) PPP Rail Infrastructure, 2) PPP
Road Standards; as a result of recommendations from the 6th session on PPPs held in Geneva
(2014).
Industrial and third sector: We collaborated with local governments, industrial organisations,
European national training providers including ERIFO Vocational Training (Italy), IIBE Educational
Research Institute (Poland), Intercollege, CPC Cyprus Productivity Centre and third sector to build
innovative solutions to manage different waste streams, as part of EwasteR project: 2014-2016. This
led to the development of waste training courses and creation of an electrical reuse EU
competence license for workers to demonstrate their transferable skills.
Nationally, we worked with NGOs, Waste and Resource action Programme (WRAP), London Waste
and Recycling Board, Merseyside Waste Authority, Preston Council, Lancashire County Council,
and Southend Council. This resulted in the development and delivery of a National Recycling
Manager Training Scheme to all authorities in the UK.
Internationally, we collaborated with EU and Asian universities on five ERASMUS+ projects,
leading to many successful outputs, for example, through the ASCENT project (2016-2019),
University/Industry partnerships were identified as an essential medium for improving research and
innovation in building community resilience which led to:
  • Successful implementation of business incubators (about 10) in Sri Lankan Universities
    with the collaboration of the private sector and the Ministry of Social Empowerment and
    Primary Industries (2019).
  • Organising first University-Industry Engagement in Sri Lanka (October 2019) with an
    audience of 250 academic staff and researchers from Sri Lankan Universities, and private
    and public-sector stakeholders to showcase and brainstorm ideas for collaborations.
  • Conducting a livelihood programme for Displaced communities in landslide areas in Sri
    Lanka with University-Industry Collaboration (July 2019).
  • Securing another €1M ERASMUS+ grant (SECRA: 2021-2024), which UCLan is co-leading.

4.3 Covid response
UoA12 have supported the response to the pandemic by:
  • Collaborating with The Pirbright Institute, developing low-cost antibody-like smart materials,
    molecularly imprinted polymers (MIPs) with potential for the rapid detection and potential
    to capture and neutralise SARS-CoV-2.
  • Design and manufacture of 3D printed connectors to convert Continuous Positive Airway
    pressure (CPAP) masks to valve-less versions, allowing easier cleaning and assembly
    reducing likelihood of infection and accident, for Salford Hospital (~120 manufactured).
  • Developing emergency visors, initially 3D printed, but then manufactured using water jet
    technology, ~200 were manufactured for local hospitals, dentists, charities, care homes and
    UCLan security staff.




                                                                                          Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  • Supporting development of commercial bio-degradable PPE face visors. This involved the
    Innovation Clinic and other University partners and is now marketed by PPECO. The visors
    also have a substantially lower carbon footprint than conventional visors.

4.4 Public engagement
Public engagement has been supported by a full-time (PhD qualified) Engagement Officer. Activities
have been delivered collaboratively with the IET (Faraday Challenge), Royal Institution, Lancashire
Science Festival (attracting thousands of school children and members of the public), Big Bang Fair.
They also include contributions to “Comic Book Science” (an Impact Case Study for UCLan UoA 10)
as well as the National Festival of Making. There have been activities for Primary Schools, Year 12
students, events to encourage girls to science/engineering, FIRST® LEGO® tournaments and
involvement with robotics/engineering and “Primary Engineer”. The Engagement Officer has
provided informal training and mentoring for academic staff and PGRs involved in outreach.
Outreach has been supported by a portfolio of funding for public engagement from a range of sources
including the Royal Academy and HEFCE.

4.5 Esteem factors
UoA12 members have global influence and recognition within their profession through almost 100
professional appointments and awards. Some examples are:

Government or industrial panels (10 appointments):
  • Ansell: Chair Lancashire UAV Regional Steering Group
  • Shark: Panel Chair of Advanced Manufacturing & Engineering Programmatic Fund for
    Singapore, Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR); USA Department of
    Defense Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs: Panel Member
  • Stec: GTI, Hackitt Review, SAGE Env Cont, IARC
  • Hull: BEIS Furniture flammability; MHCLG Smoke Toxicity

Professional Bodies (Institutional) (10 appointments):
  • Hull: RSC expert to BSI Furniture flammability (FW/06) and smoke toxicity (FSH/16) technical
    committees; UK Principal Expert on Physical Fire Models to ISO TC92 (Fire Safety)
  • Stec: UK Principal Expert on Fire Chemistry to ISO TC92 (Fire Safety)
  • Shark: Member of IET Vision and Imaging Network Executive Committee, BINDT Aerospace
    Executive Committee
  • Sherrington: Executive Director ITC, Chair elect IMechE Tribology Group
  • Williams: Committee member NWCIWM, Scientific and Technical Group CIWM

Major Awards and Leadership (16 awards):
  • Feng / Sherrington / Rahnejat: Donald Julius Groen Prize (2015, 2017, 2020)
  • Kulkarni; Hind Rattan Award (2014) / Bharat Gaurav Award (2014)
  • Sen: Hind Rattan (Jewel of India) Award (2018)
  • Simo: IAAM Scientist Award (2019)
  • Taylor: Tribology Silver Medal (2020)

Editor in Chief / Associate Editor (7 appointments):


                                                                                           Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  • Liyanage: Journal of Built Environment Project and Asset Management
  • Rahnejat: Lubricants, Journal of Multi-body Dynamics
  • Shark: IET Image Processing; Journal of Machine Intelligence and Data Science (JMIDS)

Editorial Board (24 appointments):
  • Brooks: Intl Journal of Rapid Manufacturing
  • Kelarakis: Nanomaterials; Sensors; Journal of Nanomaterials; Frontiers in Nanotechnology
  • Kulkarni: Scientific Reports; Journal of Science Research International; Advances in
    Biomembranes and Lipid Self-Assembly; Advances in Planar Lipid Bilayers and Liposomes.
  • Liyanage: International Journal of Disaster Resilience in the Built Environment

Guest editorships for special issues of journals (12 appointments):
  • Kelarakis: Carbon-based nanomaterials as novel nanosensors, in: Journal of Nanomaterials.
  • Sen: Nanomedicine in: Future Medicine. London; Nano Bio Interface, in: Biomedicine, MDPI,
    Switzerland; Functional Nanomaterials in Industrial Applications: Academic-Industry Meet (29
    – 31st March 2016), in: Materials Today: Proceedings
  • Hull: Stec Polymer Degradation and Stability 2015

Leadership (Chair of conference) of International Conferences (14 appointments):
  • Liyanage: Chair, ‘University Industry Partnerships’ Policy Dialogue at the Final ASCENT
    (Advancing Skills Creation for Enhancing Transformation) Project Festival (Jan 2019)
  • Sen: Chair, International conference on “Functional Nanomaterials in Industrial Applications:
    Academy-Industry meeting”, 2016
  • Simo: IAAM Co-organiser, 9th ICSFFMT; 26th AAS/AIAA Space flight mechanics (Chair)
  • Matuszewski: Co-organiser of the International Workshop on Visual Computing and Machine
    Learning for Biomedical Applications (ViMabi’2019)




                                                                                        Page 25
