Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institution: University of South Wales

Unit of Assessment: C17 Business and Management Studies

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Unit context and structure

The Unit of Assessment (UoA) forms part of South Wales Business School (SWBS) within the
University of South Wales (USW). USW prides itself on being at the vanguard of innovative
change within Wales and internationally, enhancing prosperity and well-being both locally and
further afield. It applies knowledge and research to the real-life problems facing people,
businesses and communities – and aspires to provide unrivalled professional, vocationally-
focused education, and research-informed innovation and engagement. The UoA actively
engages in delivering this mission.

The UoA has strengthened its research footprint in terms of both output and impact since REF
2014, investing in and developing a strong mix of teaching and research-focused academic staff.
The UoA’s REF 2014 submission consisted of three Full-Time Equivalents (FTEs). Through the
recruitment, development and support of staff within the unit, this has grown to a submission of
20.6 FTEs for REF 2021. The UoA aims to be inclusive, supportive and encouraging, with high
expectations on individuals and teams. It is committed to bringing impactful research insights and
innovations into the lives of local, national and international communities and businesses.

The UoA consists of the following Research Clusters: Leadership and Human Resource
Management; Marketing, Tourism and Events Management; Supply Chain Management and
Procurement (SCOPE); Strategy, Management and Enterprise; The unit’s focus is
on impactful research and enhancing interactions between research, teaching, consultancy and
enterprise activities. The UoA’s REF 2021 submission reflects the diversity of the subject groups
and their research interests.

The UOA’s growing and vibrant research community has generated work with national and
international impact. All Research Clusters have Research Leads who support both early career
and established researchers by facilitating events such as workshops, cross-disciplinary
discussions, seminars and internal conferences which encourage cross-disciplinary collaborations
and discussions. These leads, who report to the Faculty Research Committee, include:
Leadership and Human Resource Management; Marketing, Tourism and Events
Management; Supply Chain Management and Procurement; Strategy Management and
Enterprise, Law. All staff are engaged in research and/or scholarly activity that underpins their
teaching. Equal respect is afforded to teaching and scholarly activity and research. Through the
formal cross-faculty research mentoring programme, the Research Leads facilitate activities
aimed at supporting ECRs as well as doctoral students, a policy which is central to the research
strategy of widening capacity.

Since the submission in REF 2014, the UoA has bolstered the vibrancy of its research community
by moving its accommodation to a more ‘open’ environment where offices are located closer to
one another. This has enabled greater discussion, debate and collaboration.


Research and Impact Strategy: The Past (2014-2021)

Following the REF 2014, the UoA’s overarching objective was to become a strong research group
capable of delivering impact and developing close, productive relationships with regional, national
and international partners. To facilitate this, the UoA’s primary Aims for the period 2014-2021
were as follows:
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



    1. Grow the UoA’s research capability and capacity: Achieved by increasing support for
       ECRs and continuing the professional development of existing research staff. Recruitment
       has focused on hiring new staff with proven research profiles.
    2. Produce original, high-quality and peer-reviewed research outputs which have
       impact: Staff members at all stages of their careers have been actively encouraged and
       trained to publish in high-quality journals. ECRs have been encouraged to disseminate
       their research via conferences and journals.
    3. Engage with public bodies and industry: The research base has been enhanced by
       developing innovation and business engagement. This has facilitated and supported by a
       broad, vibrant range of nationally and internationally significant, near market research in
       the areas of enterprise, innovation, social policy and supply chain theory, marketing,
       leadership and human resource management.
    4. Enrich the curriculum through continued development of research, innovation and
       enterprise: The UoA’s teaching has been informed by industry and research, using
       knowledge and materials gained through industry engagement, including Knowledge
       Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) and Strategic Insight Programmes.


Reflection and Progress (2014-2021)

The UoA’s research capability and capacity has grown through focused recruitment and
continued professional development (Aim 1). Key to this has been the support of Research and
Innovation Services (RISe), a dedicated University-wide team within Research and Business
Engagement that helps academic staff and postgraduate students maximise and promote the
impact of their research (economically, politically and culturally) and ensures a thriving academic
research base. It does this by providing wide-ranging expertise in funding development, attracting
and maximising external income by leading and supporting the funding process, administering
research and grant projects, finance and regulations. The USW Graduate School provides a
thriving and stimulating experience for post-graduate research students through programmes
such as the pan-Wales European Social Fund Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS),
across the University. The support received by UoA staff has resulted in successful funding
applications and research grants.

 UoA staff undertake both empirical and applied research. Thus, enabling the development of
 excellent relationships with significant regional, national and international partners (Aim 3).
 Through these relationships, further research was undertaken, generating substantial beneficial
 impacts on economic and social issues (Aim 2). For example, Rowling (Director of the South
 Wales Business Clinic, Razak (Senior Lecturer) and White (Professor of Operations
 Management) have been involved in a body of research which explores the triadic relationship
 between universities, industry and government in a Knowledge Society. According to this
 research, the ‘Entrepreneurial University’ is a central concept to the ‘triple helix’ approach to
 analysis, taking a proactive stance to putting knowledge to use as well as creating new
 knowledge. It operates according to an interactive, rather than a linear, model of innovation. As
 firms raise their technological capabilities, they engage in higher levels of training and knowledge
 sharing. Government acts as a public entrepreneur and venture capitalist, in addition to its
 traditional regulatory role in setting the rules of the game. This body of research considers the
 various aspects of a university’s ‘third’ mission of commercialising academic research and being
 involved in socio-economic development, such as firms, stakeholders, drivers, barriers, benefits
 and impact, university technology transfer and entrepreneurship, contribution to regional
 development, and government policies aimed to strengthen university-industry links.

The researchers’ work is exemplified in the collaborative research involving Razak, – ‘Organizing
practices of university, industry and government that facilitate (or impede) the transition to a
hybrid triple helix model of innovation’ (2017) – and the research involving Razak, Rowling and
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

White, – ‘Exploring Public Sector Supply Chain Management: A Triple Helix approach?’ (2016).
These examples form part of a growing body of UoA research in this area, which is key to the
ongoing strategy of delivering impact and potential consultancy.

The research of Razak and White sought to gain a deeper understanding of the role of
universities from two perspectives. First, by examining the micro-activities of government-funded
mechanisms by which universities contribute to national systems of innovation. And second, by
examining universities’ contributions to national systems of innovation. The researchers
established some necessary conditions for successful collaboration between universities and
industry, informing the development of the South Wales Business Clinic, and underpinning the
Clinic’s purpose to add value to lives, communities and the economy through the acquisition,
sharing and application of knowledge.

The South Wales Business Clinic (headed by Rowling) has also developed an initiative whereby
(mostly) undergraduate students operate a ‘consultancy firm’ providing advice to clients. The
service is offered to all types of companies (SMEs, multi-nationals, non-profits) and involves
students providing detailed analysis of real-world problems through reports and
recommendations. The Business Clinic facilitates mutually beneficial partnerships between
students, researchers and industry, working with organisations such as Welsh Centre for
International Affairs, Catnic (TATA Steel), All Creatures Great and Small and South Wales
Chamber of Commerce. “The work conducted by The Business Clinic is being used to shape the
next phase of our work.” - Susie Ventris, Chief Executive at Welsh Centre for International Affairs
(Aim 4).

The Women’s Entrepreneurship Hub and Centre for Enterprise, which sits within the Strategy,
Management and Enterprise cluster, was mentioned in REF 2014. Originally led by Pickernell,
Thomas (A) and other members of staff within USW, it was established to undertake research
and help overcome the challenges faced by aspiring and existing women entrepreneurs in the
modern business world. Atkinson now leads the Centre. In June 2019, she was shortlisted for
the national Celebrating Enterprise Award, run by the Small Firms Enterprise Development
Initiative (SFED) and the Institute of Enterprise and Entrepreneurs (IOEE). The awards ceremony
was staged at The House of Lords on 10th November, 2016. Atkinson became Director of the
£5m Women Adding Value to the Economy (WAVE) convergence European Social Funding
(ESF). Atkinson, supported by Christidi, look at the Developing Entrepreneurial Women –
Changing Horizons (DEWCH) Erasmus+ project, shaping a joint Masters in Gender and
Entrepreneurship and promoting entrepreneurship as a relevant career choice for women.
Atkinson also holds the Queens Award for Enterprise Promotion as well as the IECC Enterprise
Educator of the Year Award.

The UoA’s research with the Welsh Government investigating business support and challenges
for women entrepreneurs in Wales directly contributed to the development of two policy
documents: ‘Supporting Entrepreneurial Women in Wales: An Approach for Wales’ (Welsh Gov,
2019) and ‘Supporting Entrepreneurial Women in Wales: Two Year Action Plan’ (Welsh Gov,
2019).

Jones-Evans (OBE), Assistant Pro Vice-Chancellor for Enterprise, champions’ entrepreneurship
in Wales, has authored academic publications in the field of entrepreneurship and innovation, a
best-selling book on enterprise, and is a media commentator on economic development in Wales.
He chaired the advisory panel that led to the creation of the Development Bank of Wales and
developed high-profile events such as the Fast Growth 50 and the Wales Start-Up Awards. He is
also a member of ‘Be the Spark’, a joint venture with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
(MIT) that has developed an entrepreneurship strategy to ensure the best conditions and
environments to help start-ups grow. He is currently undertaking research into high-growth
businesses, entrepreneurship in Generation Z, and the characteristics of successful
entrepreneurs.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Rhisiart, Taylor, White, and Samuel, engaged in research in regeneration, development and the
future of work within the Welsh Economy and UK Wide, working with the Commission for
Employment and Skills. This research led to the adoption of follow-up research by the
Construction Industry Training Board into sector specific skills futures and influenced policy within
the Sector Skills Councils.

Investment has been made in the USW Exchange, a hub for creating connections that acts as
the ‘front door’ for business, providing access to the University’s expertise and talent (Aim 3).
There are two hubs – on the Treforest and City (Newport) campuses. This enables meaningful
exchanges between researchers, students, and industry, Third Sector and other stakeholders.
With the support of its engagement team, the USW Exchange facilitates opportunities for
research, development and knowledge exchange, work placements and internships. It also
provides expert contributions to learning and teaching, as well as professional development and
wider access to academic venues and technical facilities.

 In summary, UoA research capability and capacity growth (Aim 1) has been achieved through
 new staff appointments, the focused development of existing staff, Postgraduate Researcher
 (PGR) recruitment and supervision, and the development of a professional Doctorate of Business
 Administration (DBA).

 The production of impactful, original, high-quality and peer-reviewed research outputs (Aim 2) is
 evidenced by the works identified above.

 Engagement with public bodies and industry (Aim 3) is evidenced by the work of Atkinson in
 Welsh Government on Women’s Entrepreneurship, and Parfitt, Lee, and White’s work on public
 sector procurement policy. Added to this is the work of the USW Exchange in nurturing
 relationships with industry, communities and civic leaders. Rowling’s work in the Business
 Clinic, forging relationships between students and industry in the form of consultancy and
 problem-solving research, has also been key.

 The enrichment of the curriculum through continued research innovation and enterprise (Aim 4) is
 evidenced by the development of a professional doctoral programme (DBA). This is designed for
 senior managers and professionals who want to develop high-level research skills that can be
 used to make informed strategic decisions within their organisations (as well as forging strong
 relationships within the research community of the UoA). The unit also developed a Masters in
 Gender and Entrepreneurship with Erasmus funding of £188,547.

 The continued growth of the UoA’s research capacity and capabilities has led to funding
 opportunities, such as those secured by Atkinson above. Rowlands also secured Horizon 2020
 funding from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) for ASTUTE (Advanced
 Sustainable Manufacturing Technologies) 2020 East Wales applied research to ensure busineses
 across Wales can remain at the forefront of innovation, by collaborating with industry, to deliver
 high impact demand-led research development and innovation within the manufacturing sector
 across Wales.


 Research and Impact Strategy: The Future (2021-2027)

Given the dynamic nature of the research landscape, notwithstanding the recent challenges
posed by COVID-19, the UoA regularly reviews its research and impact strategy in line with
USW’s Research Strategy (2018-2028) and the ‘USW 2030 Vision’ – as outlined in the institution-
level statement (REF5a). Building on the UoA’s established areas of research, the UoA’s
overarching objective is to contribute to and engage with social policy, business policy and local,
national and international communities. The UoA should maximise positive impact for students,
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

partners and communities, be a knowledge creator, and make a difference, now and in the future,
through research and innovation. More specifically, the UoA’s strategic Aims for 2021-2030 are
to:

    1. Further enhance the rigour, significance, originality and impact of the unit’s research
       outputs, using multidisciplinary approaches to investigate ‘real-world’ issues in the
       Research Cluster areas outlined above, involving interaction with other disciplines.
    2. Increase the transformation of research into impact by building on past research and
       developing innovative new research in collaboration with regional, national and
       international stakeholders such as partners, industry and government
    3. Further develop the unit’s research environment by analysing and extending strategically
       defined priority areas and sustainable development goals.

The UoA will also contribute to the University’s wider Research Strategy and USW 2030 Vision by
focusing on the following targets, notwithstanding the inevitable challenges posed by COVID-19:

    1. Develop, retain and recruit high-quality staff to further strengthen the research, publication
       output and impact of Research Clusters.
    2. Increase collaboration, research and innovation grant funding, specifically targeting
       income that generates more world-leading outputs underpinned by translational impact
       that informs policy and practice.
    3. Extend the recruitment of postgraduate students.
    4. Provide all staff and students with high-quality support, training, development and
       dissemination opportunities.
    5. Build a strong professoriate to lead, guide and support.


Research and Impact Strategy: Delivery

Since the REF 2014 submission, the UoA has emphasised the importance of impactful research.
Staff development workshops familiarise and engage staff with the PURE research management
system’s impact module, which demonstrates how a wide range of impact activities can be
recorded. These workshops will be expanded and accentuated as part of induction and ongoing
professional development to include all ECRs and more experienced researchers.

Professors within each discipline will be responsible for driving and guiding research within their
areas, supported by Associate Professors and Research Cluster Leads. Current research groups
will be further developed and encouraged to seek and apply for funding. This will involve working
in conjunction with RISe, and attending training workshops on developing funding applications.

There are particularly strong pockets of research within the UoA, which have generated proven
impacts on society, business and policy – as evidenced in the unit’s REF 2021 three Impact Case
Study outputs. The UoA’s ambition is to develop similarly impactful outputs for each Research
Cluster. Therefore, as the unit moves forward, it will focus on the continued strengthening of
areas of research excellence to enhance international and national distinctiveness. The research
strategy for 2021-2030 aims to be succinct, inclusive, supportive and encouraging. There will be
high expectations on individuals and teams to build on existing support, establish a stronger
professoriate, nurture a pipeline of research talent and create an environment in which all
research students and staff thrive. The commitment is in line with that of USW, to develop the
next generation of researchers, ensuring they are provided with pathways to promotion in line with
the UK Concordat to support career development.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Ongoing planned research

White is furthering his work on social enterprise and understanding the factors that maintain and
constrain its growth and development. He also continues to critique the impact of nascent
information technologies upon ways of working. His research on sustainability is progressing,
from the study of the tools and techniques of waste analysis and reduction, to understanding and
overcoming the constraints of the dominant (yet antagonistic) deontic and aretaic discourses
within the extant literature.

Atkinson continues to extend her work as Co-Director of the Centre for Enterprise and head of
the Women’s Entrepreneurship Hub, exploring the longer-term impact of Welsh Government
policy framework Supporting Entrepreneurial Women in Wales: An approach for Wales, and
the 10 recommendations, along with dissemination of this research now that the embargo on use
of data has been lifted by Welsh Government.

 Jones-Evans continues to be a lead commentator and researcher on the subject of enterprise
 and entrepreneurship.

 Others who are continuing their research are Dobson, whose research on corporate
 manslaughter is continuing, and gaining attention from International media, with appearances on
 South Korean radio. Mawdsley on Bullying. Thomas (L) in Marketing, Yankholme and Thomas
 (S), tourism and Page and Cook in Social Capital and Human Resource Management and
 Gender Studies.

 The UoA works in partnership with ASTUTE 2020 (Advanced Sustainable Manufacturing
 Technologies) to strengthen the group of world-class academics and highly qualified project
 officers located in participating Welsh Higher Education Institutions (HEIs). The unit supports
 manufacturing companies in Wales, creating actionable knowledge and guiding decision-making
 in the manufacturing process. This work is organised under an overarching cross-disciplinary
 business research centre and coordinated under four themes: Supply Chain & Operations,
 Human Resource Management & Leadership, Marketing & Events, and Entrepreneurship.

An example of this partnership is the work of Rowland (principle investigator) along with Deacon.
As a partner institution in ASTUTE East (Advanced Sustainable Manufacturing Technologies)”,
part funded by the European Regional Development Fund through the Welsh Government and
participating higher education institutes and manufacturing companies in East Wales to
implement Industry 4.0 technologies within their manufacturing engineering systems. The broad
aim of the project is to ensure companies are both resilient and invested in the local economy,
creating quality employment within the region. The project will enable sustainable growth which is
transformational in the manufacturing industry of East Wales. This will be achieved through both
research development and industry support in Future Manufacturing Technologies. The
partnership of Welsh Universities and the knowledge exchange with industry, will harness
demand-led, collaborative research to improve the economic prosperity of the Region. The UoA
team specialises in quality management techniques, particularly regarding how emerging
technologies can be used to improve product and process quality. The team is currently
researching how statistical techniques such as ‘Taguchi methods’ can characterise complex
processes to ensure products are consistent while scaling up production.

In addition to the UoA’s broader Aims, the unit’s research leaders also have the following strategic
priorities:

    •   Enhance the research base by driving forward innovation and business engagement, and
        developing a broad and vibrant range of nationally and internationally significant, near-
        market research in all areas.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Enrich the curriculum through continued development of research, innovation and
        enterprise excellence brought about by KTPs and other industry engagement
        programmes.
    •   Foster Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and multidisciplinary collaborative activities that
        contribute to an innovation driven economy.
    •   Seek and increase research grant capture via engagement in national/investment
        collaborative research activities, identifying and supporting significant research and linking
        it to impact.
    •   Develop external collaborations to maximise capture of grant income.
    •   Maintain and develop the strengths of the unit’s distinctive Research Clusters.


2. People

Staffing strategy

The University of South Wales (USW) – and the basis of the UoA – were established through the
merger of the University of Wales Newport and the University of Glamorgan. The merger brought
together a large number of ECRs with research promise, and new staff have been recruited by
USW within the 2014-2021 period. The USW Academic Workload Model makes a time allocation
of 20% for staff with Significant Responsibility for Research, with professors allocated 30% from
2018-19. Within the context of USW as a post-92 institution, the team in the South Wales
Business School have varying levels of teaching and other duties. The UoA leader Cook is
allocated additional time within the Workload Model for research leadership. In addition,
timetabling is managed to allow a clear day for research per week and, when appropriate, to allow
for ‘light’ teaching terms. Research is a key element of USW’s Development and Performance
Review Scheme which includes a 12-month review in June-September and a mid-point review in
January-February. In addition, the UoA leader meets regularly with Unit members and offers
individual mentoring as and where appropriate.


Staff development

All USW staff have a formal annual Development and Performance Review with their line
manager, during which annual performance targets are set and assessed in partnership. These
are reviewed at six-month, mid-term intervals. Staff engagement in research activities is
supported, including through face-to-face sessions, workshops on research ethics and process,
and forums where ECRs, PGRs and more experienced academics can share their research.

In 2016, South Wales Business School held its first annual conference, set up and organised by
Amoncar. It is a vehicle for staff and postgraduate research students to present their research
and concepts. This conference series has been continued, managed by Cook, Atkinson,
Deacon and other academic staff. Many members of academic staff have presented, including
Cook, Mawdsley, Zheng and Woldie, along with Post Graduate Researchers. The key speaker
at the 2020 conference (theme: ‘Expanding Our Horizons’) was Warren Hutchinson, Managing
Director and founder of ELSE, a design consultancy whose clients have included Kodak, Shell,
Adidas, Bupa, The Rolling Stones, Vodaphone and Formula 1. The UoA believes its research
should be grounded in the realities and possibilities of society and business. 2020 has been a
challenging year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and the planned April conference date had to
be changed at short notice. Nevertheless, it was successfully staged online, demonstrating the
UoA’s ability to adapt to new channels of delivery.

All staff who wish to study towards a higher award and doctoral level qualification are supported.
In line with USW policy, they also have protected time to undertake research and study, mapped
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

onto Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework. We have academic staff who are either
studying at USW or at external institutions.

ALL staff – including Early Career Researchers (ECRs) – are encouraged to engage in research
and impactful activities. Internal promotion and development opportunities are offered within
SWBS before external recruitment is considered. New staff undergo a rigorous selection process,
which focuses on bringing value to the School and research community. All staff engage in an
annual Development and Performance Review Scheme with their line managers to discuss their
research skills and future opportunities. The pursuit of doctoral-level research is highly
encouraged. The appointment of ‘Research Cluster’ leads has also been a positive development
by offering opportunities to engage in academic discussions around ongoing and future research
ideas. The UoA has embraced inclusion and diversity within its REF 2021 submission, and
strongly believes in the importance of growing research capacity that can enhance and inform
teaching, impact and business engagement.

The UoA encourages female academics to engage in the year-long, in-house ‘Women’s
Development Programme’, USW’s women-only development series – with a commitment from the
University’s Vice Chancellor and her Executive Team the annual programme involves a series of
events run between September and June , and enables attendees to develop practical leadership
skills, enhanced personal skills and build networking opportunities, with input from guest speakers
from the worlds of business, academia and politics. The overall aim is to raise awareness of the
challenges facing women in academia. One academic, who is studying for her doctorate in
‘Metaphors in Supply Chain Management’ was one of the UoA staff members who participated in
this programme. Feedback has been excellent, with participants saying it was inspiring, powerful
and stimulating.

The University achieved the HR Excellence in Research Award in 2013, which acknowledges the
support provided to researchers, including those in the UoA. The future strategy is to focus on
deepening the UoA’s commitment to Equality Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I), leadership and
management development, academic career development, and the professional development of
research support staff.

Through the Higher Academic Awards (HAA) committee academics within the UoA are able to
apply for roles as Associate Professor (Readership) or Professor in one of four categories,
mirroring the strategic objectives and nature of USW. These are: 1. Research and Development;
2. Innovation and Engagement; 3. Teaching and Learning; and 4. Professional Practice. Advice
and guidance given on how to go about this, and what to include in the application. A successful
application was achieved by White, who was recently promoted from Associated Professor
(Reader) to Professor through the Research and Development route.

 The Research and Innovation Services (RISe) team arranges training and offers support in areas
 such as Impact Case Study writing and how to apply for funding grants (internal and external). It
 also offers ongoing support, as well as workshops on how to apply for higher professional
 recognition such as Associate Professor and Professor. There is training too on developing
 impact, capturing impact, public engagement, policy impact, innovation and the REF.

 USW holds an annual Impact Awards ceremony to celebrate the impact of research and
 knowledge exchange on the community and wider society, nationally and internationally. In 2019,
 the work of Parfit, Lee and White (‘National Procurement Policy Development: the case of
 reducing procurement spend in the Welsh Public and Private Sectors’) was a finalist for the Best
 Impact on the Economy category.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Internal Funding

The SWBS’s Dean of School ‘funding pot’ encourages ECRs to apply for funding across all
subject disciplines. Successful bids can be used to support research in a number of ways,
including attending workshops and research meetings and liaising with partners for engagement
and impact activities. A panel of senior researchers then reviews the bids. There is also a
Strategic Research and Impact Fund, which invests in impact and income generation activities
to support the REF 2021 submission and beyond. Allocations are made through a competitive
bidding process and successful applicants are required to submit a final report at project closure.
Project funding levels are for £50,000, £25,000 and £10,000 with direct costs including
investigator time and/or hourly paid lecturer cover.

 The UoA has successfully supervised Phd’s and DBA’s.

  Date period           Number of Doctoral          Number of Professional           Total
                        Degrees                     Doctorates
  1 August 2013 to        11 doctoral degree        9 professional doctorates        Total 20
  31 July 2014
  1 August 2014 to         6 doctoral degree        2 professional doctorates        Total 8
  31 July 2015
  1 August 2015 to         9 doctoral degree        3 professional doctorates        Total 12
  31 July 2016
  1 August 2016 to         7 doctoral degree        2 professional doctorates        Total 9
  31 July 2017
  1 August 2017 to         7 doctoral degree        4 professional doctorates        Total 11
  31 July 2018
  1 August 2018 to         7 doctoral degree        1 professional doctorates        Total 8
  31 July 2019
  1 August 2019 to         5 doctoral degree        3 professional doctorates        Total 8
  31 July 2020
  Total for all years     52 doctoral degree        24 professional doctorates       Total 76

The recruitment of exceptional PGRs from the UK and around the world is central to the UoA’s
research philosophy. Students are active across the UoA.

Full-time PGRs (MPhil/PhD) are co-located in close proximity to the research community and their
supervisors. Support mechanisms for PGRs have been strengthened through the introduction of
PhD Manager, a postgraduate research management system which keeps information in one
place, streamlining the process of supervision meetings, progression monitoring and examination
management and reporting. Support mechanisms have been further boosted through the
establishment of a Graduate School. The Graduate School runs induction workshops and
research skills training mapped onto Vitae’s Research Development Framework. This includes
training in academic writing, literature review, social media skills, employability, public speaking
and engagement, online skills, the transfer report and the viva. The Graduate School also runs an
annual postgraduate conference, at which each student’s supervisory team provides reports on
progress. The Graduate School looks after the postgraduate degree programme for the UoA,
providing overarching support and acting as a one-stop shop for advice and guidance. It oversees
the research student’s journey from application to award, delivering high-quality skills
development opportunities for postgraduate researchers, providing pathways for external
engagement, and the chance to apply for grants to engage in external events relevant to their
research.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

During COVID-19 restrictions, supervisors and PGRs continued to engage in meaningful
academic discussions and supervisions via online platforms. This has been facilitated by micro-
soft teams, skype and zoom.


Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I)

The UoA is committed to the University’s Strategic ED&I Plan, as outlined in the institution-level
environment statement, and inclusivity is at the core of the unit’s work. Members of the UoA are
active in a number of the university’s ED&I structures. USW has been awarded an Athena SWAN
bronze award for gender equality, diversity and inclusivity. Gender representation of South Wales
Business School multi-cultural and the female / male split is reasonably well-balanced (Full-Time:
50.35% Female / 49.65% Male – Part-Time: 66.44% Female / 33.56% Male). Within the UoA
submission it is 45.5% Female / 54.5% Male. 2 (two) are on fractional contracts). While women
are often underrepresented in Higher Education leadership positions, they occupy prominent
Faculty roles (Associate Head of School Deputy Director of School, Senior Manager). The duties
of wo(men) taking maternity/paternity or adoption leave are fully covered, including an overlap
period pre- and post-leave to ease the transition. Senior managers also allocate and monitor
workload and ensure that staff members’ research time is protected. Workload is individually
adjusted for staff facing periods of acute pressure or personal distress, and additional research
support is offered where possible.

 As part of the preparation for the REF 2021, there was training at the UoA on ‘unconscious’ bias
 and this has been adhered to throughout the REF process.

 The UoA is committed to promoting dignity, respect, inclusion and fairness. It seeks to attract,
 select and maintain a diverse range of people to work within SWBS, providing an open and
 transparent career development structure. The unit also aims to develop and maintain an
 inclusive approach to research where people within protected characteristic groups are promoted
 and barriers to participation removed. The UoA is working to provide a professional environment
 that is free from discrimination, harassment, bullying and victimisation, and promote a culture
 where all employees and students feel valued and respected.

 All staff have mandatory equality, diversity and inclusion training. In the 2017 Stonewall
 Workplace Equality Index. USW was the biggest climber among Welsh institutions and the third
 highest in the UK. The UoA, as part of USW, embraces diversity and different perspectives,
 values and attitudes. It seeks to create an environment where such differences are shared and
 explored, and where any unfair treatment or discrimination is challenged and eliminated. There
 are initiatives to support staff in achieving work-life balance such as flexible working, which may
 include changes in hours or patterns of work, part-time or part-year working and compressed
 hours.

 Support is provided for staff and research students returning from periods of leave (including
 parental leave), ill health, long-term illness and caring responsibilities. The needs are reviewed by
 occupational health professionals and phased returns are facilitated, along with a review and
 provision of any specialist equipment and or software such as voice recognition software, adapted
 workstations.


3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income

The UoA has secured grants from various sources including EU and national government bodies,
charities and industry, such as ASTUTE 2020 funding from Welsh Government. Knowledge
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS) funding is enabling research conducted by White and
others within Industry and other Higher Education Institutions to the value of £123,686 overall
enabling collaborative research in the ‘processes’ of strategic planning in Welsh Public Bodies.
This is done in partnership with Cardiff and Vale University Health Board and Vale of Glamorgan
Council.


Infrastructure and facilities

Research infrastructure and facilities have been strategically enhanced since 2014. The
development of the USW Exchange Hub has enabled relationships to be nurtured across industry
and regional businesses and communities. There is also a Post Graduate Centre which provides
a social learning space, meeting ‘pods’ and access to networked PCs, email, phones and
photocopiers which is valuable to the part-time distance-learning PGRs. It has also allowed the
appointment of External Engagement Managers who work to identify, establish and formalise new
relationships and partnerships across USW, bringing businesses and researchers together. Also,
the development of South Wales Business Clinic as discussed above.


4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The UoA’s staff have won international and national recognition, as evidenced by awards such as
Atkinson’s Queens Award for Enterprise Promotion and the strength and breadth of the unit’s
research output.

Collaborations, networks and partnerships

The Women’s Entrepreneurship Hub led by Atkinson, is committed to collaboration and
partnership, and is involved in a range of initiatives in conjunction with internal and external
partners. These range from colleagues across USW and women’s economic development and
business support organisations in Wales, to HEIs, chambers of commerce and women business
owners around the world. The Women Adding Value to the Economy (WAVE) project was
particularly important and aimed to tackle underlying issues relating to gender pay inequalities in
employment and self-employment. This project was funded by European Social Funding (ESF)
through the Welsh Government. The Women in Self Employment Resource (WISER) strand of
WAVE based at USW offered resources to empower and support aspiring women and women
already in self-employment via learning, networking and mentoring. WAVE WISER learning
offered a selection of courses that allowed participants to gain tools necessary for business start-
up and the theory and practice to move the business forward.

 Research is also being carried out by Atkinson for the Welsh Government investigating the
 challenges and business support experienced by women entrepreneurs and drew on the insights
 of 38 organisations, 23 business support organisations and 116 women entrepreneurs. This
 research directly contributed to the development and publication of Government policy and a two-
 year action plan. Going forward, it is also anticipated that the work of Women’s Entrepreneurship
 Hub will include more research active staff in USW and elsewhere.

 A collaboration with Oxford Brooks University on research around feed waste reduction is
 underway. This is an important area of research providing important impact in government,
 society and business, and is important ongoing research with output and impact potential in the
 future and it is envisaged will form part future REF submissions.

Shariat is an external member of the Durham Centre for Ethics and Law in the Life Sciences
(CELLS). Some of Shariat’s law colleagues are members of the Law Commission’s Welsh
Advisory Committee, a visiting Professor at the University of Paris and a member of the editorial
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

board of the Communication Law Journal. Cook is a Chartered Fellow of the Chartered Institute
of Personnel Development along with Mawdsley who hold professional membership this
demonstrates the professional element of SWBS.


Wider Activities and contribution to research, economy and society

Collectively, members of the UoA make a major contribution to the discipline. The collaborations
noted above are a strength of this submission and add value to the submitting unit’s research
culture. Our academic Staff are recognised nationally and internationally. Examples are given
below.


Editorial and Review activities

The value of editorial and review activities is recognised and an example is given below: -

    1. Editorial Board Members: Rowland, Editorial Advisory Board Total Quality
       Management; White, Strategic Change: Briefings in Entrepreneurial Finance; Deacon,
       International Journal for Research in Marketing and Entrepreneurship. Dobson, Editor of
       International Journal of Law and Management.
    2. Reviewers: White, Cytotherapy; Society and Business Review; Human Relations;
       International Journal of Public Sector Management; International Journal of Information
       Technology and Management; International Journal of Productivity and Performance
       Management; Journal of Non-profit and Public Sector Marketing; Production Planning and
       Control; Journal of Environmental Planning and Management; Business Process
       Management Journal; International Journal of Technology Management; International
       Journal of Production Economics; Supply Chain Management: An International Journal;
       International Journal of Public Sector Management. Cook, Journal of African Business;
       Personnel Review Journal; Leadership and Organisation Development Journal. Thomas
       (R), Journal of Product and Brand Management.


 The UoA’s goal is to further develop internationally-recognised research capabilities that promote
 excellence and innovation. The unit will continue to focus on research-related solutions that will
 benefit society and the economy – with learning and teaching based on insights from its research
 and innovation impact. With its strategic partners, the UoA will continue to address global
 challenges, acting as a catalyst for wider influence and support.
