Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Goldsmiths, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 23, Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview

The Department of Educational Studies at Goldsmiths has a long and established reputation for
undertaking research that is theoretically informed and which engages critically with policy
and practice through a diverse set of methodologies. In the 1930s its students and staff
lobbied parliament against savage cuts to education funding, campaigning instead for legislation
that would extend educational opportunity beyond the age of 14. Home also to the Goldsmiths’
Curriculum Laboratory Project, our department was a key player in open-ended, interdisciplinary
pedagogy throughout the 1960s and 70s. Since the 1980s it has helped to define student-centred
learning, adapting in contemporary times to meet the challenges of shifting student demographics
and a neoliberal politics that has dispersed responsibilities for education provision and governance
across new domains.

Today, our research has a defining focus on issues of social justice and learning to meet the
challenges of hyper-diversity in a world city. This central concern runs through the department’s
programmes, maintaining the critical edge characteristic of the historical tradition. Although now
framed by contemporary political cultures, our research continues to build on constructive
partnerships between university and community, locally and internationally, and to register loudly
as an important critical voice in challenging times.

The department’s strengths cross a number of fields, many of them drawing on contemporary
theory in new and exciting ways. In this census period, our researchers have produced work
across such areas as social policy and education administration, education and social equality,
language development and identity formation, learning and creativity, research ethics and
international education. Much of our work is embedded in the methodologies of the sociological
tradition. At the same time, our research has been influenced by such approaches as
posthumanism and new materialism, critical race theory, feminism and queer theory, theories of
place and embodiment and the affective turn. Our work has strong elements of the postcolonial
and the decolonial. It engages with critical theories of digital media, relations between creativity
and learning, and technologies of power in the global age. The result is a vibrant research context
which encourages and supports interdisciplinarity. While there is plenty of scope for fortuitous
innovation, the research environment rests firmly on solid foundations — on our sense of purpose,
our strategic planning and infrastructures which support our work.

Structure: Research Themes, Centres and Strategic Priorities

Goldsmiths’ standing in education research has continued to be marked out by a collaborative
ethos and a sustained commitment to: interdisciplinarity; theoretically informed research that
engages with policy and practice; and methodological diversity. The principles that guide this
research have been carried forward since REF2014 through three distinct but interconnecting
themes that incorporate both continuity and new developments in research expertise:


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1. Progressive pedagogies.

Drawing on long-standing traditions of student-centred learning, a considerable part of our
research in this period has been formulated around pedagogy. It includes conventional
historiographies of progressive education by LIEBOVICH, PITTFIELD and HOPE’s research into
teaching literature by PITTFIELD and HOPE, work on global citizenship and bilingualism by CHEN,
and TEAGUE’s work on pedagogy and counter politics that brings identity theory and theories of
governance to the micro-exchanges of the classroom.

This theme has been strengthened by the strategic appointment in this census period of ROSEN
whose advocacy of learning as creativity and the ‘poetics of everyday language’ extends far into
the public domain. ROSEN brings great vibrancy to the intellectual life of the department, staging
events that include public discussion with figures of high-profile in contemporary culture (e.g.,
Malorie Blackman, 2019). Through headlining conferences organised by the department on
reading (2017, 2019), he provides an important critical voice to our research and learning
environment and is central to the development of research into children’s literature. This is a new
development for the department in this census period that is also reflected in outputs produced by
HOPE, PITFIELD and MACLEROY.

The department’s digital literacy research led by MACLEROY and Anderson is connected with the
work on children’s literature. It uses innovatory research methods, including the positioning of
school children as co-researchers, to enable young people across the primary and secondary age
range to create and share multilingual digital stories. Supported through the Paul Hamlyn-funded
Critical Connections Projects (CC1 and CC II, 2012-17), this work offers an approach to language
learning, literacy and citizenship which recognises how far communication is enhanced when
plurilingual and digital resources are drawn upon purposefully and creatively.

In the related domain of language acquisition and leading on from earlier ESRC-funded work,
LYTRA’s research has provided important insights into literacies connected with faith settings,
while JESSEL has explored the kinds of learning that take place intergenerationally in and around
the home setting. ROS I SOLÉ’s ambitious attempt to carve out a new intellectual tradition for
language acquisition involves elements of affect. This work is learner-centred rather than system-
centred, a radical turn that links with the work of arts education in the department and draws on
new theoretical domains.

The arts’ strand of research activity has been built up in this census period through working the
space between arts’ practices and pedagogy and exploring and developing learning and learning
communities to promote social and cultural understanding and change. This has brought new fields
to the department in the form of children’s literature illustration, theoretical challenge in the shape
of new materialism by PAGE, as well as practical application and impact. SAYERS’ ArtScapers
project (funded by the University of Cambridge) for example, investigates changes in how local
councils can engage local communities in their arts’ programming strategies. Initially concerned
with aspects of aesthetics, politics, creativity and learning, this strand has been extended so that it
contributes to the emerging field of practice research. As well as linking with a Goldsmiths-wide
initiative, the development of practice research connects with the pedagogy on the MA Arts and
Learning and the PhD Art Practice and Learning programmes.




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2. Education and social justice

This theme is represented at a theoretical level by GEORGE’s work on injustice and inequality in
‘second modernity’. More applied research in this field is illustrated by research that addresses the
continuing ‘awarding gap’. Here ROLLOCK’s work is central. Recently funded to research the
career experiences and strategies of the UK’s Black female professors, ROLLOCK was asked to
serve in a specialist adviser role with a Home Affairs select committee (2019). Her influence in the
academic field is evident through a number of high-profile publications and role as co-editor of a
four-volume set on critical race theory published as part of the major themes in education series
(Routledge, 2018). Likewise, SHAIN’s funded projects have included ‘failing’ schools and
educational attainment, ‘Education of Syrian Refugees in Lebanon’ as well as research on how
British Muslim girls navigate the ’unequal education space in 9/11 England’ (Leverhulme, 2017-19),
the latter bringing together two strands usually treated separately: young people’s educational
aspirations and mediations of the war on terror. PEARCE’s work on racism in schools has also
explored teaching and learning approaches to race and racism and LEWIS studies the changing
attitudes towards cultural difference in schools. CLARK’s research on girls’ participation in sport
and health culture develops the department’s long-standing tradition of work on education, gender
and inequality. GEORGE, a pioneer here, has produced research in this census period on how
gender identities are related to ‘class inheritance’.

A number of researchers are active in areas that support LGBT young people and LGBT parents.
Research excellence can be found in CARLILE & Paechter’s, LGBTQI Parented Families and
Schools. Focusing on LGBT+ issues around families and schools, CARLILE received funding for
projects that address homophobic, biphobic and transphobic bullying in schools. She led the
project ‘Usualising LGBT+ people and issues in faith schools and schools serving faith
communities’ (Department for Education and Government Equalities Office) with outputs on trans
and non-binary young people’s experiences. Supported in her doctoral work by the department,
KENNEDY is also contributing to the emerging literature on the educational implications of
transgender issues.

3. The regulation of education governance and research ethics

Research within this strand explores the impact of neoliberalism on education culture. WILKINS’
work on technologies of self-management in school governorship, the management of local trusts
and corporate elitism has been featured in key research evaluation reports produced by major
national and international charity and private organisations. Likewise, TRAIANOU’s work on ethics
has illustrated how the autonomy of the researcher is under threat of ‘creeping regulation’. Her
work has influenced researchers and policy makers, not least through invited contributions to the
Centre of Education Research and Practice on ethical guidelines and her work on the misuse of
research findings by politicians (AQA, 2014). She has worked with the Academy of Social Sciences
to produce a set of generic ethical principles to apply across all disciplines. Her research on the
remaking of national education policy in conditions of 'structural adjustment’ in Greece (British
Academy/Leverhulme small research grant 2019-20), makes further contribution to research on the
‘modernisation’ of education in neoliberal Europe. GEORGE’s research analyses the culture of
change in teacher education and its effects on teacher trainees. There are strong implications for
policy and practice here, as there is in CLARK’s work on student decision-making in a marketised
HE system.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research centres. In line with our strategy articulated in REF 2014, our areas of research activity
continue to be focused through three research centres that speak to the research of the above
groupings and provide infrastructural support for research activities. They are comprised of:

   •   The Centre for Language, Culture and Learning (CLCL) led by MACLEROY was
       established in 2007. Its origins lie in Gregory’s intercollegiate group for cross-cultural
       research, which developed new understandings of learning in multilingual communities,
       leading to significant ESRC levels of funding. The tradition continues in CLCL, with a
       contemporary shift towards the intercultural, digital storytelling and children's writing and
       book illustration. The Centre continues to be energetically engaged in international
       collaborations and highly successful in relation to levels of external funding.
   •   The Centre for Arts and Learning (CAL) led by MATTHEWS was established in 2006 under
       the leadership of Atkinson to undertake innovative research into arts’ practices and their
       potential for developing learning communities that promote social and cultural
       understanding. Over this census period CAL has expanded and refined its terms of
       reference, developing a new position in terms of practice research into the arts and
       learning, which includes visual and performing arts, incorporating both traditional and
       emerging technologies, methods and output forms.
   •   The Centre for Identities and Social Justice (CISJ) led by GEORGE was launched in 2011
       to take a socio-cultural and critical perspective on identity and equity, including research on
       social class, gender, sexuality, race/ethnicity, religion, and dis/ability in education, as well
       as on broader social and educational research methodology issues. While continuing to
       produce research on these themes, it now also takes the lead on research and grant
       application in relation to the regulation of education governance and research ethics.

Future/Developing Initiatives and Priorities

In September 2018 the department rewrote its research strategy as part of a bid to replace a
number of senior academics (two-thirds of our professoriate having retired or moved on to new
posts elsewhere). One aim was to maintain a foundation to support, with strong research
leadership, our rising academics and the wider research culture of the department as a whole,
through the current and into the next REF period. Our successful recruitment of WILKINS,
(September 2019) as reader, and SHAIN, (January 2020) as professor, has been centrally
important to the achievement of that goal; their work is linked to key areas of the field that the
department is seeking to develop. SHAIN is an established and experienced academic with a
history of leadership, funding, and impactful research. Her Leverhulme-funded work (2017-19) led
to invited presentations in Norway and Sweden as well as presentations at conferences in Canada
and across the UK. Other funded work including ‘Raising attainment at key stage 1’ (Stoke City
Council, 2013-16) has produced academic outputs, reports and conference presentations in the
UK and America. WILKINS is developing an impressive profile with strong indicators of esteem
(e.g., adviser to iEdUk and Public Consulting Group (2015); speaker at The Key for Governors
(which provides information to 13,000 school governors in the UK). He has presented at 22
conferences in the census period and been invited as speaker at a further 23. He was funded by
the ESRC future research leaders’ scheme in 2015. Research leadership was also central in the
internal promotion of TRAIANOU to professor in the current REF period.

Our REF2014 aim to develop our research strands was successfully achieved through the centres
to encompass children’s literature and shape arts learning research in the direction of practice. We

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
achieved this through the engagement of ROSEN, the development of the MA Children’s Literature
and, through the Arts Practice research degree programme, the development of new critical
approaches. As well as providing scope for multi and interdisciplinarity, this complements the
perspective on new materialism offered by PAGE and the methodologies articulated by SAYERS
within her ArtScapers project.

Central to our research vision for 2021-2024, is supporting and strengthening the reputation of the
department and its staff against a tumultuous political and economic landscape. A major objective
is to maintain our inclusive and collaborative research culture, with a focus on building capacity for
high quality publications, grant development and research career development. Centres remain
key here, but new mechanisms will also be embedded to more strategically target higher levels of
direct-funded research. This includes reviewing the process of research planning and mentoring in
order to align the two more concretely and for both to feed more directly into individual annual
personal development reviews. Active bidding will also provide a more even pattern of funding in
comparison to recent years with a number of staff developing larger bids (see Section 4).

In line with Goldsmiths’ institutional strategy, we aim to build on existing partnerships to develop
opportunities for knowledge exchange and collaboration. Although the work of individuals provides
a solid foundation for these developments, strategically we have built our developing research
impact around groups of researchers rather than individuals, with early-stage projects on, for
example:

    •   ‘Revolutionising literacy and multilingualism in the digital age’, MACLEROY and Anderson
        in association with the British Film Institute, British Museum, Museum of London, National
        Maritime and National Resource Centre for Supplementary Education as external
        collaborators;
    •   Race and Schooling (including HOQUE’s work on disengaged/alienated youth and migrant
        communities from east London), with LEWIS and PEARCE as lead researchers;
    •   Social change and creative and material pedagogies: developing strategies for arts
        engagement that are informed by cultural theory and with a particular interest in inclusion -
        SAYERS and PAGE with collaborators including Cambridge Curiosity and Imagination,
        Tate Modern and Whitechapel Gallery.

 2. People

Staffing strategy and staff development

Our staff development strategy aims to provide a research environment that is attractive to new
researchers, supports and nurtures researchers at all stages of their careers, creates leaders for
the future, and provides strong and effective mentorship. Since 2014, this has been achieved
through the following strategies and staff development mechanisms:

The Department Research Committee (DRC) meets on a termly basis. It is informed through
different channels of communication with all department members as well as by College initiatives,
policies and strategies for research support, enabling the development of coherent strategy. DRC,
hosts termly half-day staff ‘Research Afternoon’ development sessions. Organised to give all
academic staff an opportunity to discuss ideas, topics have included research and education
policy, raising the quality of research publications, understanding the news media, ways of

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
researching in schools, our role in a political context, scholarship and engaging our publics. Staff
are invited to give presentations about their own research, impact, or other related work. In this
way colleagues can identify with the research process in different ways, share ideas and
suggestions across the centres as well as gain exposure to the different trajectories work can take
as it develops.

CISJ hosts a monthly Writing Group (open to all department staff), that successfully aids research
publication, targeting early career and mid-career researchers. Responsibility for it is shared by
GEORGE, WILKINS, and Mahony, a visiting professor who continues to provide substantial
expertise in this REF period. The department’s staff development sessions also link with the
College research support systems and the staff responsible for them are regularly invited to
provide input.

Staff development. While the department attracts conventional early-career researchers, many
more academic colleagues join the department with a portfolio of professional teaching and
experience at policy level in schools. This brings opportunities for research and impact in relation
to key sectors in the field and also the need for mechanisms to support research career building.
Staff are encouraged to take research degrees supported by department funding for up to 3 years.
In this REF period ten staff have been supported: SNOWDEN, GRIFFITHS and KIPLING (currently
studying for EdDs), DIXON and DENNIS (PhDs); POKU, HOPE, ALEXANDER, KENNEDY and
PITFIELD have successfully completed their doctorates. This mark of sustainability and support of
staff career development into research is also evident in the movement of staff onto teaching and
research contracts from teaching and scholarship contracts (LEWIS at Lecturer B level in 2018,
with transfer of MATTHEWS at Lecturer B level, and SAYERS at Senior Lecturer having been
recently agreed). Among the mechanisms that allow this extensive support to happen is our
established research mentoring scheme. The scheme was revised in the current REF period with
emphasis on discussion and comment on draft material relating to the mentee’s research activities,
including funding bids and outputs. Mentees discuss their overall research plans on a termly basis
with their mentors who are experienced researchers. As in REF2014, we have adopted an
inclusive approach to mentoring with all academic staff (across scholarship and research contracts
as well) being allocated a research mentor, and mentors and senior staff mentoring each other.
This approach is being reviewed to target mentoring more strategically to early and mid-career
staff in the next REF period, in order to maximise the opportunities for research capacity-building
and to increase returns on bidding activity.

All staff on teaching and research contracts are eligible to apply for dedicated research
time/leave of one term after having completed 9 continuous terms of undertaking teaching and
research. Applications are assessed and approved at DRC and must meet College-wide criteria.
To further build research capacity and support mid-career entrants who come with professional
credentials we have also instituted a departmental system of research leave for a period of up to
six weeks, which all staff members, including those on teaching and scholarship contracts, can
apply for. Applications are usually made to enable completion of a research degree, to support
staff meeting deadlines for a contracted book, or other activities deemed beneficial. Over the
current REF period 10 research leaves have been awarded.

Workload allocation is made for research and for roles that are held at departmental level
including the Director of Research, Impact Lead and Centre Heads, and at institutional level e.g.,
Traianou’s 0.2 FTE post as Academic Lead on the College Research Ethics and Integrity

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Committee. Each Centre receives funding from the department (£1000 p.a. until 2020; now
£1,500 p.a.), for development activities and to cover the costs of visiting speakers. Academic staff
receive an annual personal research allowance (£600), allocated on a proportional basis to staff on
fractional contracts. This supports personal research activities such as conference attendance if
presenting papers. In the current REF period, PEARCE, MATTHEWS, CARLILE, PAGE, SAYERS
have also been supported by internal funding, including College-wide seed funding initiatives for
early researchers.

In addition to the above-mentioned mechanisms for building research capacity and supporting
early and mid-career scholars and following the guidelines of the research development concordat,
we make particular efforts to develop the careers of our research assistants on funded projects.
Our policy is that senior staff directing projects write international peer-reviewed journal articles
collaboratively with research assistants. The latter are always named as co-authors and, where
appropriate, as lead author. They also co-present with project directors at research events, giving
their work visibility and introducing them to international networks. Chung, a research assistant
based in CLCL (2012-14 and 2015-17) published with Anderson and MACLEROY in 2014, 2016,
2018, and her Visiting Research Fellowship application is shortly to be considered.

Research students

The department’s doctoral programme attracts applications from home and overseas. International
students have come from, Greece, Germany, Turkey, China, USA, Israel, Slovenia, Jordan,
Mauritius and Egypt. Currently, 23 MPhil/PhD students are registered, (9 full-time, 14 part-time),
including 5 for the MPhil/PhD Art Practice and Learning programme established in 2014. Two of
these are from the art practice and learning programme with 8 across both programmes upgraded
from MPhil to PhD registration in the last two years. Thirty doctoral degrees were awarded in the
current period and over half of these (18) in the last three years (2017-2020), which indicates the
success of our new annual monitoring systems described below. The recruitment of new senior
staff will also enable us to increase capacity for MPhil/PhD supervision.

Since 2017 the department has been part of the education pathway of the South-east Network for
Social Sciences (SeNSS) consortium and offers fully funded ESRC scholarships. It is indicative
of the high quality of our research students that three of the five full ESRC scholarships which
Goldsmiths received in 2018 and 2019 were awarded to Educational Studies. All students in the
department (not just those funded) are able to benefit from the SeNSS scholarship schemes and
participate in cohort building activities, e.g., attending research methodology seminars and
advanced methods courses. The department also offers a scheme of competitive fees-only
bursaries that has attracted students from disciplines such as Sociology, and English Literature,
promoting development of an interdisciplinary culture in research. All PGR students are additionally
eligible to apply for funding to support conference attendance and presentation.

Many of our students hold a range of senior professional positions, for example in schools or in
museum and gallery education, studying part-time while transferring the knowledge gained through
their PhD study directly into practice. Some have returned to work in our department: STANGER
(AHRC scholarship) completed in 2018 and was appointed as 0.4FTE lecturer in the same year.
GILBERT, whose doctoral research on the use of autobiography to encourage creativity in the
literacy curriculum was published as an autobiographical novel, is now senior lecturer in education
and continues to publish. He also comments extensively in the national press, TV, and radio on

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
government education policy. FOSTER, a current PhD student who is also widely known as an
artist and arts educator, is employed on a 0.5FTE basis.

Doctoral students experience a rich and supportive research environment. In addition to core
research courses offered through the Doctoral Training Centre, the department provides its own
programme, a series of eight whole-day sessions on methods geared towards subject-specific
research training needs. First year students are required to attend and to give seminars on their
own work. Students also contribute to the College’s annual post-graduate conference, making
participation in the academic community more immanent and resulting in a natural progression to
external conferences. Doctoral supervision is well resourced; each student has two supervisors,
one of whom has always supervised to completion. In addition to the college monitoring systems
(annual progress report), the department has established annual monitoring and review
procedures to ensure timely completion. This monitoring and review system operates both in
terms of summative and formative assessment with research staff members (who are not their
supervisors), providing feedback to students on their submitted materials (both text and practice
where appropriate) in a scheduled meeting with the student. Training needs are identified at an
early stage, agreed jointly by the student and supervisory team and kept under regular review
through the use of the Supervision Record which operates as personal development and learning
plan for students.

One seminar per term for each of our centres is given by a research student, which provides
constructive feedback as well as contributing to the vitality of our research culture. In addition,
students are strongly encouraged to present at UK and international conferences and submit work
for publication. Among our PhD students, Quehl and Verguete will contribute a chapter each to
Decentring Language Education edited by members of the department. Our students’ research
puts them at the forefront of their field, and work emerging during or from their doctoral studies has
led to noteworthy publications, exhibitions and recognition. Examples include:

   •   Sayal-Bennett (2018), Diffractive Analysis: Embodied Encounters in Contemporary Artistic
       Video Practice. Tate Papers, no. 29.
   •   Stanger (2018), From Critical Education to an Embodied Pedagogy of Hope: Seeking a
       Liberatory Praxis with Black, Working Class Girls in the Neoliberal 16–19 College. Studies
       in Philosophy and Education 37(1).
   •   Stanger (2015), “Let me change it into my own style”: Cultural domination and material acts
       of resistance within an inner-city dance class. In Hickey-Moody and PAGE, (eds.) Arts,
       Pedagogy and Cultural Resistance.

Equality and Diversity

Educational Studies is committed to equality and diversity in the recruitment and support of all
staff, particularly focusing on the recruitment and support of BAME, LGBTQ+, disabled and
working-class staff. Of the 24 researchers returned to this REF, 19 identify as female and this is
reflected in the profile of publications with 70% of outputs also being returned by researchers who
identify as female. The department return includes 4 professors and 5 readers. Six of these 9
senior staff identify as female and 2 as BME. All submitted outputs were from researchers in the
over 35 category which to some extent reflects our strategic commitment to supporting colleagues
with a portfolio of professional teaching/experience to transfer to research careers.



                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The department takes a leading role in embedding the principles of equality and diversity at
institutional level. During the current census period, ROLLOCK was appointed as Goldsmiths’
Academic Lead for BAME Attainment while CARLILE played a formal role in championing
LGBTQ+ issues within the university. The Department’s Equalities Officer (DEO), POKU, co-
chaired the Goldsmiths Racial Equality Group, a forum set up to provide a critical and collective
voice on issues affecting BME staff within the institution. ROLLOCK’s research has also informed
training tools for equality and diversity at a national level via staff development and training offered
by Advance HE.

Having staff in these key roles has supported the department to critically reflect on how the
research environment can better support people with protected characteristics and caring
responsibilities. This includes conference attendance and/or travel to support research, support for
submission to funding applications, promotion and reward procedures and training, and the DRC
oversees the administration of internal research funding based on the principles of equality and
diversity so that all staff have access to these funds. The department has a fair workloads scheme
giving all staff equal opportunity to do research. Flexible and remote working is supported and
encouraged. During this assessment period staff have taken career breaks through unpaid leave,
had parental/maternity leave, and been granted support for remote working. All have continued to
have access to the research support in the department and the College during these periods and
have been fully supported on their return with adjusted working patterns and loads as appropriate.
Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff at all stages of their career are carefully
considered through the annual professional development review processes. Several of our senior
staff have requested reduced fractional contracts as part of a phased retirement process and all
have been accepted.

The department is committed to anti-racist pedagogy and practice and is currently engaged in the
extensive work of decolonising our curriculum guided by the DEO and a dedicated working group.
While Equality and Diversity is a standing item on the DRC agenda, the department recognises
that it needs to do more to embed equality and diversity in all research processes. In addition to
College level Equalities Impacts Assessment on major institutional policies, DRC has committed to
ensuring that all new departmental research policies undergo equalities’ scrutiny. DRC will also
conduct annual reviews of research related data to identify and plan to address any emerging
patterns of discrimination in research processes. Future planned departmental activities include
workshops designed to encourage underrepresented groups to apply for PGR
bursaries/scholarships with the first organised to take place in 2020/21.

Aligning with the general principles outlined in Goldsmiths’ Code of Practice, fairness and
transparency were key in making preparations for REF2021. In addition to clarifying individual
research needs in mentoring and personal development reviews, the draft documentation for the
REF submission including the methods for reviewing outputs was regularly made available to all
staff at DRC with a plan for consultation and feedback via centres. In line with College guidance,
the Head of Department and Director of Research were required to attend College training events
focused on how to mitigate the risk of unconscious bias in the outputs’ selection process. It is also
mandatory for all staff to undertake training into sexual violence/harassment and race awareness
so that all those involved in the reviewing of outputs received guidance and training on
unconscious bias. Moderated internal outputs scores were fed back to individuals with
opportunities for staff to query these.



                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income

Grant capture in the current REF period has supported our strategic commitment to extend critical
enquiry into new domains and to find new audiences. In the details given below, which are aligned
with our research themes, we demonstrate not only the research income of the department, the
range of funding of bodies involved and the diversity of research projects but also our capacities for
future development.

In relation to progressive pedagogies, the area of language, literacy and learning has received
funding for several projects. Leading on from a European Comenius project in conjunction with
Portugal (€90,000) and a Council of Europe development project (€63,960), MACLEROY and
Anderson’s Paul Hamlyn Foundation funding for Critical Connections (2012-14, £130,000) and
Critical Connections II: ‘Moving Forward with Multilingual Digital Storytelling’ (2015-17, £149,230)
has been central here. It has led to further funding from the AHRC Language Acts and
Worldmaking project for an international conference at Goldsmiths in the census period and a local
project, the Deptford Storytelling Project. Researchers from the same area were leading partners in
a larger Horizon 2020 bid with a focus on children’s voices, experiences, trajectories and
reconfiguring identities. Although not awarded, the collaborations involved with European countries
(France, Spain, Germany and Greece), together with other links to institutions in Jordan, Canada
and South Africa, are important markers of the vitality and sustainability of this work.

Building on a larger EU-funded project, JESSEL’s work on digital technologies has been funded by
the DFE (2013-15, £52,030; 2015-16, £12,910). This investigates the learning issues around
young children applying key programming concepts in problem solving and creative activities. His
research interests have also led to cross-departmental work with Psychology on cybermentoring
(2013-15, €1,242,044 European Commission DAPHNE III). Further links across language, literacy
and learning have been made through Gregory’s intercollegiate group for cross-cultural research
and through her Leverhulme Emeritus Research Fellowship (2017-19, £21,509), ‘Disappearing
Londoners: monolingual voices in a multilingual city’.

Arts’ practices and learning has been consistently supported through a series of awards and a
range of collaborations. These include: SAYERS’ work with Cambridge Curiosity and Imagination
for Contemporary Art Society and Insite Arts (Arts Advisers) on the role artists play in the
development of new places for living (2014-2017, University of Cambridge via North West
Cambridge Development, Arts Council of England) and PAGE’s work with SAYERS on ‘What is
Practice Research in Educational Studies?’, funded in 2015-16 by the Goldsmiths Research and
Enterprise office. SAYERS had research funded on practice research mentoring (2016-19, Tate
Modern) while MATTHEWS’ study of visual and discursive practices for the intersectional
representation and wellbeing of undergraduates in British Universities was again funded by
Goldsmiths’ Research and Enterprise. SAYERS with Griffin (UCL) has developed innovative work
on cultural engagement through skateboarding leading to funding from City Mill Skate and Moving
Together Hackney on behalf of Sports England and collaborations with Hackney Bumps and Rae
Smith, the award-winning designer. PAGE was funded in 2017-2018 from the Digital World Making
Fund for work on the development of a practice research journal. SAYERS’ review and evaluation
of the Wellcome Collection’s ‘Youth Programme’ (2014-18) was funded by Wellcome Trust.
Between 2015-17, GRIFFITHS and Johnston’s project on experimenting pedagogies based on

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
contemporary art practices in primary schools was funded by the European Commission (Creative
School Partnerships with Visual Artists).

ROLLOCK’s award for work on the career experiences and strategies of UK’s Black female
professors (UCU) has led to further bids on education and social justice including the Black-
White Degree Attainment Gap proposal (Nuffield) along with Race Equality Charter applications
(Rowntree/ECU) – both under consideration. Issues around ethnicity have also been pursued
though CARLILE’s work with Bernard in the Department of Social, Therapeutic and Community
Services (STaCS) - ‘Navigating the physical and emotional landscape of the neighbourhood: a
photography project with Black girls in SE London’ (Cities and Communities Funding). CARLILE
has worked with PEARCE and staff in STaCS on ‘Decolonising the curriculum: three pedagogical
approaches’, funded in 2018-19 as a Goldsmiths’ Teaching and Learning Centre fellowship. A
further collaboration on ‘Identity and impact: Goldsmiths’ staff diversity and the BAME student
attainment gap’ has been undertaken with Goldsmiths’ HR, Goldsmiths Library (CARLILE,
Goldsmiths Teaching and Learning Centre funded). CLARK has made funding bids that include the
ESRC Future Leaders Scheme (2015) and British Academy/Leverhulme small research grants
(2016). These bids on girls’ participation in sports link closely with her conference presentations
and papers to form an exemplar of a coherent research trajectory. Funded research on LGBT+
issues in education includes CARLILE’s project on ‘Combatting Homophobic, Biphobic and
Transphobic Bullying in Schools’.

In regard to the regulation of education governance and research ethics, TRAIANOU’s work
on austerity and a British Academy grant on national education policy in relation to Greece has led
to the involvement of colleagues from Sweden, France, Hungary, Greece, Italy, Spain and
Denmark in the preparation of an ERC funding bid on new forms of privatisation in schooling
across England, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. In collaboration with the University of Glasgow,
TRAIANOU has also applied for funding of a project ‘Disaster capitalism, alternative education and
exclusion: a European comparative study’(ERC). We anticipate work in this area to be extended
following the appointment of WILKINS who has submitted a bid to the ESRC on ‘A longitudinal
study of public trust and risk regulation in academy governance’ with further applications in
progress on: juridification and social care and education (Leverhulme Trust), and ‘Disaster
capitalism, alternative education and exclusion: A European comparative study’ (ERC). Within the
theme of education and social justice, SHAIN is developing an AHRC bid ‘Changing the Narrative’
(as PI) to build on her Leverhulme-funded research.

Overall, the above examples are indicative of the larger grants, including those from the UKRI, that
we are looking to support, develop and win funding for in the next REF period.

Infrastructure and facilities

Department Research Committee (DRC) provides strategic and administrative infrastructure for
research. Membership comprises all professors, readers, centre heads, heads of the MPhil/PhD
programmes and the head of department. It monitors research outputs and takes strategic
decisions regarding the allocation of dedicated research time and research development sessions.
Departmental strategy is reported annually to, and overseen institutionally by, Goldsmiths’
Research and Enterprise Committee (REC). The department additionally has representation on
key university committees: REC (TRAIANOU) and Goldsmiths Public Engagement (SAYERS).



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
As part of our infrastructure a dedicated research administrator supports the research centres
and the PhD programme. The department links closely with University research infrastructure to
generate grant income. News on funding opportunities from the Research Office and Enterprise
Office is disseminated weekly to staff and workshops are offered in relation to specific grant calls.
The department has additionally created a bank of online resources and guidance for staff on
processes such as: applying for research grants; requests for conference funding; submitting
ethical approval forms; requests for dedicated research leave and departmental study leave as well
as to share and communicate staff research activities, publications, successful funding bids and
public engagement involvement.

The work of Research centres is subject to annual review by DRC and triennial College-level
reviews. Each centre runs a seminar series devoted to contemporary issues which support the
development of new collaborations for bidding. Examples include a symposium on queering
children’s literature (2020) jointly sponsored by CLCL and CISJ featuring Dean Atta, MA Creative
Writing and Education alumnus and longlisted for the Carnegie Prize in 2020.

The centres are key mechanisms through which inter-departmental collaborations are formed.
CISJ members e.g., formed partnerships which led to collaborative bids with Psychology
(CARLILE), History (LIEBOVICH), the Centre for Feminist Research (GEORGE), and with local
authorities and schools (TEAGUE, CARLILE). Centres also provide the fora through which the
department formulates its critical identity and presents itself to the wider world, seeking allegiances
across a broad social, cultural and geographic terrain. Many centre events reflect this with
examples including: CAL’s seminar on radical pedagogy - Post War British Art; CISJ’s ‘Cuban
Artists on the Centrality of Culture and Community in Cuban Education’ and CLCL’s ‘Investigating
Arabic Early Literacy Development: an ethnographic study in a Saudi Arabian school (all 2016-17).
In short, the centres act as hubs for the department’s research community, attracting visiting
fellows and PhD students nationally and internationally.

Since 2017-18 procedures regarding appointment of visiting fellows were revised to enhance
their contributions to our research environment. Potential fellows are required in their application to
outline how their particular expertise and programme of work will contribute to the department, for
example, through offering professional and research collaboration with another institution, seminar
presentations for our research centres, or other research-informed contributions across our
teaching programmes. A staff member is nominated as lead departmental contact for each fellow
and shared office space with computers and other facilities is allocated.

Our doctoral students are a key element in contributing to the research environment of the
department. We provide dedicated work and meeting space with networked computers, scanners,
printers, and electronic access to past theses. To support methods, we have invested in film and
audio recording, and editing software, with technical support for students and staff. Additionally,
our practice research PhD students have individually dedicated space in a shared studio in the art
education teaching and workshop building. This space is also shared with the practice research
full-time MA students enabling access to the skills and knowledge of the art technician and
contributes to the strong practice research community-culture.

We ensure that MPhil/PhD students take full advantage of College infrastructure for training, to
which we also contribute. LYTRA, Head of the MPhil/PhD programme in Education is on the
Graduate School Funding Panel and contributes reports and attends the Panel for the periodic

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
review of postgraduate research programmes with PAGE, Head of the MPhil/PhD Art Practice and
Learning, a member of the College committee for practice research. Our heads of MPhil/PhD
programmes are also involved on the College panels for ESRC/SeNSS post-doctoral fellowships
and in the departmental selection of the Consortium for the Humanities and the Arts South-east
England (CHASE) studentships. WILKINS chairs the department’s Research Ethics and Integrity
Committee and TRAIANOU is 0.2 FTE academic lead on the College Research Ethics and
Integrity Committee.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Impact through Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

The department continues to develop its long-standing and leading profile locally, nationally and
internationally through forming new cross-disciplinary links and interdisciplinary research
within and beyond academia. In addition to outputs in the form of scholarly articles, reports,
books and chapters in books, our strategic aim is to contribute significantly to the story of
contemporary research development in the field of education.

The pedagogical tool developed by MACLEROY and Anderson as part of their Critical Connections
work has fostered new partnerships across 6 countries (2013-2020). The tool equips teachers with
digital skills that help students expand their multilingual repertoire through digital storytelling. It has
been integrated into a Virtual Open Course for Educators and used in 33 European Centre for
Modern Language member states. Digital stories have enabled the research to be communicated
in 15 languages including Arabic, Mandarin Chinese, Portuguese, Spanish, Tamil and Turkish.

ArtScapers, the complementary education programme designed by SAYERS (with PAGE and
Anderson) in 2016 to put children at the heart of placemaking, engages the community as it
explores how arts education can have a transformative effect in schools. The project has led
campaigners and political influencers, including Rob Hopkins (founder of the Transition
movement), Dame Fiona Reynolds (former Director General of the National Trust), Kevin Jones
(Education Adviser/Writer), Melissa Benn (journalist and arts education advocate), Tony Juniper
(Environmentalist) and Daniel Zeichner (Cambridge MP), to acknowledge the significance of the
programme in their ongoing campaign to reform the education system.

Among other ways, this story of contemporary research development in the field of education is
voiced through our research centre seminars, conferences and notably, ROSEN’s media work
(especially Radio 4) which reaches a wide audience and combines with his status as one of the
most well-known and respected public faces of education in the UK and beyond. Through this
educational discussion and debate, we broaden understanding of contemporary educational issues
and promote public engagement, spearheaded, for example, around creativity and its curricular
and pedagogical implications. This is complemented through our links to local community and
schools e.g., via Deptford Storytelling (MACLEROY). HOQUE’s extensive work in and around
Tower Hamlets on youth identity, Bangladeshi culture and Islam, and as presenter and researcher
for a 1hr BBC TV documentary examining the migration history and settlement of British
Bangladeshis (2020), and GILBERT’s Homeless Creative Writing Project (2017-18) and his
‘Creative Writing anthology of London Students’ Work’ (2016-17, 2017-18, 2018-19), are also
important sources of knowledge exchange and contribution to local public engagement and
society.

                                                                                                  Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



International links

The department has established networks with academics and professionals so that interests can
be developed with potential bid partners. CLCL has strong links with colleagues in Canada, China,
Cyprus, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, Spain, Taiwan, and New Zealand
and Australia. International conferences have been organised around multiliteracies in practice;
multilingual digital storytelling and the arts; and multilingual digital storytelling, museum artefacts
and the arts. Council of Europe projects under CLCL have led to a language policy publication on
‘Professional development for staff working in multilingual schools’ and a virtual open course
(VOC) entitled ‘Collaborative community approach to migrant education’. Invited presentations
linked to the second Hamlyn-funded Critical Connections project on ‘Learning inside and outside of
the school setting’ (2015) and ‘Researching digital learners’ (2016) were also given at the
University of Köln (JESSEL). Research leading on from a Comenius Regio Project has resulted in
a six-module training course for teachers in England and Portugal increasing knowledge about
methodology and strategies to develop and support intercultural understanding and linguistic
diversity (see). The CC II project has also led to: the production of a handbook for teachers which
included a chapter on embedding multilingual digital storytelling in teaching programmes and
school policy (presentation at an international conference at the University of Luxembourg (‘Digital
creation: multilingual identities in the making’, 2016) (MACLEROY); partnerships in Taiwan
providing opportunities to a research assistant (Chung) to organise a series of five workshops
including an advanced workshop at National Cheng Kung University. Work from the CC II project
was also presented at the ‘Speak to the Future Symposium’ (2016 and 2017), a large national
annual event.

Contribution to sustaining academic community and sharing ideas for new research is evident
throughout CISJ’s work. This has also had impact on policy and practice and is characterised by
important collaborations connecting research with recommendations, guidelines and new public
awareness. WILKINS’ work on governance has fed into research evaluation reports produced by
UNESCO, the Cambridge Primary Review Trust, the Victorian Student Representative Council, the
Royal Society of Arts, the Lloyd’s Banking Group StandingOut Pilot Project and UCL. SHAIN is a
member of the World Education Research Association International Research Network on Human
Rights Education led by Starkey (UCL) and Osler (Leeds) (2019-22). GEORGE’s influential
research into girl friendship groups has been turned into a film disseminated across London
schools. ROLLOCK’s work on the ‘achievement gap’ and the underrepresentation of Black Women
Professors was widely reported in the press and on BBC Radio 4 leading to ROLLOCK’s
appointment to the role of Specialist Advisor to the Home Affairs Select Committee’s Inquiry—'The
Macpherson Report: 20 Years On’. CARLILE’s work with LGBTQ+ and her work with the
transgender community continues to attract media attention.

International links developed through visiting fellows include Maria Garcia (University of Valencia),
and joint research bids (MACLEROY and Paola Dusi, University of Verona) recently submitted to
the Italian Government on identity and inclusion development through enhancement of language
proficiency and bi-cultural competence in pre-adolescents of Migrant origins.

Practice research



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Much work that helps sustain and open up a new area on enhancing academic recognition and
representation for practice research is carried out within CAL. Book publications include Arts,
Pedagogy and Cultural Resistance: New Materialisms and Placemaking: A new materialist theory
of pedagogy (PAGE). Practice and non-traditional outputs over the last five years include
exhibitions (PAGE, SAYERS), films (PAGE; SAYERS) and socially engaged practice-events
(PAGE, GRIFFITHS). Members have been involved in supporting the development of practice
research nationally and internationally through invited guest-speaking (SAYERS and PAGE) and
public engagement-impact (SAYERS). A special journal issue of MAI: Journal of Feminism and
Visual Culture, was developed by PAGE, Coleman (Goldsmiths, Sociology), and Palmer (Kingston
University) bringing together a collection of international feminist academics and artists working in
and across the social sciences, arts and humanities to examine the relevance and productiveness
of the new materialisms in doing and/or making research.

For a relatively small department, the above profile of activity and scope for networking is
evidenced and raised through our wide representation on key journals, grant awarding panels, and
engagements with other research audiences. Two international journals have been edited in the
department during the REF period: Pedagogy, Culture & Society (Paechter), and International
Journal of Art & Design Education (Atkinson and PAGE). Department members are on editorial
boards of international journals including Language & Education, Literacy, International Journal of
Inclusive Education, Education & Society, Policy Studies, Journal for Critical Education Policy
Studies, Journal for Education Policy Studies, International Journal of Bilingual Education,
Bilingualism and Linguistics and Education, Journal for Critical Education, British Journal of
Sociology of Education, Journal of Social Diversity and Journal of Global Faultlines, Journal of
Applied Social Theory. As special issue lead editor for the Journal of Language and Intercultural
Communication, ROS I SOLÉ’s ‘Vibrant Identities: vitalism, posthumanism and materiality’ has
been endorsed by Braidotti, with the volume also containing articles from LYTRA and MACLEROY
alongside renowned authors (eg Braidotti and Diane Dagenais). TRAIANOU’s article (with
Hammersley) was nominated for the SAGE Prize Award (2015) and TEAGUE’s article on ‘The
curriculum as a site of counter-politics’ was shortlisted for the British Journal of Sociology
Education’s Best Early Career Article Award (2018). Contributions to learned societies and
professional associations include MACLEROY’s membership of the NALDIC committee and the
advisory board for the Rothschild-funded Stephen Spender Trust. Grant review responsibilities
include: ESRC Peer Review Goldsmiths (GEORGE, JESSEL, TRAIANOU, WILKINS); ESRC
Grant Assessment Panel (JESSEL), and the Austrian Science Fund-'Richter-PEEK (programme
for arts-based research) and KU Leuven Research Council-Belgium (PAGE). TRAIANOU has been
invited to evaluate the teaching, research and administration of the Department of Primary
Education, Patria, Greece and GEORGE has co-convened an ERSC seminar series on ‘The
Pedagogical Response to the Changing Positions of Girls and Young Women’.

We see the above areas of influence together with the multiple evidences of evolving researcher
profiles as key bases in the specific fields that we influence and intend to build on, so that our
research intentions and critical articulations in challenging times are realised.




                                                                                             Page 15
