Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Nottingham

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 27 English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview

 UoA27 comprises 51 (49.7 FTE) academic staff (compared with 45 staff in REF 2014) based in
 English, one of three Schools in the Arts Faculty. We have well-established research areas in:
 text-editing and literary history (from the Anglo-Saxons and Vikings to the Contemporary);
 English language and linguistics; regional literatures and cultures; drama and performance; and
 creative writing. Our interdisciplinary research spans areas including Viking studies,
 onomastics, applied linguistics, health humanities, literature-history intersections and the digital
 humanities. The impact of our research is achieved through: public engagement using
 broadcast, print and digital media; public collaborative participation in research and KE;
 consultancies and collaborative partnerships across the heritage and culture industries, the
 public sector, and with national and international policy-makers. Our interdisciplinary centres –
 the Centre for Regional Literature and Culture (CRLC), the Centre for Research in Applied
 Linguistics (CRAL), the Centre for the Study of the Viking Age (CSVA), and the Institute for
 Name-Studies (INS) – embed research, impact, PE and grant capture at the core of our
 activities. We are major contributors to the Faculty’s cross-disciplinary Institute for Medieval
 Research (IMR), and to UoN’s interdisciplinary research structures (1.6); and central participants
 in UoN’s partnership with Nottingham UNESCO City of Literature, chairing the University-based
 City of Literature Steering Group. Guy played a leading role in the successful application for
 UNESCO Creative City status. We work collaboratively within the UoA (3 of our 4 impact case
 studies (ICS) are team-based), and with Horizon Digital Economy and Schools including
 Computer Science, Physics, Medicine and Health Sciences, Law, and Pharmacy, bringing new
 approaches to research in English Language and Literature.

 1.2 Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact during assessment period

 Research
 We have consolidated proven areas of research strength and established sustainable new
 areas. Outputs in 2014-20 included 40 monographs, 6 major scholarly editions, and 14 edited
 collections. A central aim to strengthen the postgraduate community has been achieved through
 funding from the EPSRC CDT (3 awards, part-funded by Cambridge UP, the Brain Tumour
 Charity, the Ordnance Survey), the ESRC (Nottingham DTC / Midlands Graduate School DTP)
 (8), and the Midlands 3 Cities DTP Consortium (M4C from 2019-20) (35 awards to date, a
 significant increase on the 9 AHRC BGP1 awards reported in REF 2014). We aimed to maintain
 our strong record of external grant capture: through our Research Centres (including the Institute
 for Name-Studies) we generated £2.4m in research income, and secured research awards
 totalling £10.9m in 2013-20, of which £2.1m was our share (see 3.1 for key successes). Our
 aim to diversify research collaborations produced the achievements summarised in the impact
 overview below and in 4.1-4. That overview also explains how we have addressed the aim to
 increase the use of digital technology to underpin innovative research and impact (see 3.1 for
 funded digital projects) The realisation of our aim to continue appointing and nurturing early
 career academics is detailed in 2.1. We aimed to direct investment to support research
 excellence in four key areas (all evidenced in REF2). The first was text-editing, manuscript
 scholarship, and literary history. Pratt, general editor of the Southey Letters project (Romantic
 Circles), completed work on the Collected Letters of Southey: Parts 5-6. Rounce, associate
 editor of the works of Jonathan Swift (CUP), co-edited Jonathan Swift, Irish Political Writings
 after 1725. Guy continued work on OUP’s Complete Works of Oscar Wilde (vol. XI forthcoming
 May 2021), supported by a Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship. Martin published The
 Maitland Quarto (AHRC-funded) and The Findern Manuscript, Kirwan published Shakespeare
 and the Idea of Apocrypha, and Head edited The Cambridge History of the English Short Story.
 In English language and applied linguistics, our pioneering work in literary linguistics and L2

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pedagogy continued with Sotirova, The Bloomsbury Companion to Stylistics; Stockwell, The
 Handbook of Stylistics and The Language of Surrealism; and Schmitt, An Introduction to Applied
 Linguistics, Third Edition. Muir (ECR), Dörnyei and Adolphs carried out the largest survey of
 linguistic role models to date, funded by an EPSRC IAA grant and CUP: ‘Role Models in
 Language Learning: Results of a Large-Scale International Survey’, Applied Linguistics (2019).
 Significant new EDI-focused sociolinguistic work was undertaken by Lucy Jones (‘Subverting
 transphobia and challenging ignorance’, Journal of Language and Discrimination, 2020),
 MacKenzie (Language, Gender and Parenthood Online), and Mullany (Professional
 Communication: Consultancy, Advocacy, Activism). Regional literature and culture produced
 The Life of D. H. Lawrence (Harrison), and Modernity and the English Rural Novel (Head);
 Moran’s The Theatre of D. H. Lawrence was supported by a British Academy Mid-Career
 Fellowship. Expansion of the School’s diverse research engagement with questions of place and
 identity is illustrated by Collins’s Theatre and Residual Culture: J. M. Synge and Pre-Christian
 Ireland and Ní Fhlathúin’s British India and Victorian Literary Culture (both CRLC), Evans’s
 Conceptualizing the Global in the Wake of the Postmodern, Jesch’s The Viking Diaspora
 (CSVA), and 3 major monographs by Baker, Carroll and Cavill from ‘The place-names of
 Shropshire’ project (£715k AHRC grant) (INS). Our research cluster on Scottish literature was
 consolidated by: Jackson, Writing Black Scotland; Royan, The International Companion to
 Scottish Literature, 1450-1650; and Martin, Premodern Scotland: Literature and Governance
 1420-1587. Creative writing has produced McGregor’s prize-winning Reservoir 13 (4.5) and
 The Reservoir Tapes; Welton’s The Number Poems and Squid Squad: A Novel; Legendre’s
 Keeping Time; and Matsumoto’s Urn and Drum. Continued cross-fertilisation between literary
 critics and creative practitioners is evidenced in Masters’s Novel Style, and Jordan’s Postdigital
 Storytelling; Masters and Jordan publish fiction as well as criticism. Central to our creative
 writing work, and uniting aspects of research in all four areas above, is engagement with the
 creative economy, as outlined below.

 Impact
 Since REF 2014, a robust impact strategy has enabled the UoA to:
 i) enhance existing and new collaborative and outreach relationships with diverse
      research users, beneficiaries and audiences, detailed in 4.1-4.
 ii) further embed impact into its postgraduate research training and development
      culture. Since 2014, all PGRs have completed compulsory training in KE and impact via the
      Arts Researcher Skills Programme, and optional sessions via our Postgraduate Seminar
      Series and UoN’s ‘Policy Impact and Public Engagement’ short courses (2.2). The success
      of this training provision is evident in the following indicative examples, including PGR
      contributions to all four ICS: under the auspices of the M3C/M4C doctoral training
      partnership (M3C-funded students in bold), Davies, Hawley-Sibbett and Wilcockson co-
      curated a public exhibition at Lakeside Arts alongside Marley (School-funded PGR),
      Cammish (Digital Transformations Hub-funded PGR) and May (ECR); Ashbridge and
      Connelly (V-C funded PGR) delivered research-led teaching sessions to secondary school
      students at the Brilliant Club; Magin and Croci (V-C funded PGR) delivered Vikings for
      Schools (ICS 1); Treacher and Neale worked with onomastics volunteers in Staffordshire
      Record Office (ICS 2); Miriam Jones (PT School-funded PGR) was archive lead at the
      Theatre Royal (ICS 4); PGR contributions to ICS 3 from Emerson (ERDF-funded), Howard
      and Harrington (ESRC-funded) furthered research consultancies, work to combat hate crime,
      and the international LGL Network.
 iii) maximise the user value of the digital outputs of the unit’s research, by developing
      digital tools and resources. The CSVA’s digital museum (emidsvikings.ac.uk) enhanced
      public understanding of East Midlands Viking heritage (50,000+ users from 142 countries)
      (ICS 1). The INS’s innovative web interface (staffordshireplacenames.esdm.co.uk) made
      available online a new dataset of 36,208 historical place-name forms (ICS 2). The MOOCs
      ‘How to Read Your Boss’ (Mullany, ICS 3) and ‘How to Read a Mind’ (Stockwell) reached
      global audiences of 46,000 and 60,000 respectively. Robinson’s open-source platform
      (ourtheatreroyal.org) empowered 60+ ‘Citizen Scholar’ volunteers to co-curate a new digital
      theatre archive (8,770 users from 77 countries) (ICS 4).


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 iv) use web and social media to maximise the profile of the unit’s research and impact
     and improve interaction with end users. Harvey’s Dementia Day-to-Day platform informs
     dementia charities, health practitioners, public health officers, carers of people with dementia
     and care professionals. Kirwan’s The Bardathon (http://blogs.nottingham.ac.uk/bardathon/)
     chronicles new productions of early modern plays and related films, documentaries, books
     and events (185,757 page views since 2013). Jesch’s blog
     (http://norseandviking.blogspot.com) has stimulated worldwide debate about the ‘Viking
     woman warrior’ controversy (ICS 1).
 v) expand our Continuing Professional Development (CPD) offer with emphasis on
     professional communicative practices. Research by Mullany and Atkins (employed 2013-
     18) underpins commissioned workshops delivered to NHS groups on workplace
     communications and clinical skills workshops for GP trainees and trainers, and CPD with
     public sector organisations, SMEs, and corporate businesses (ICS 3).

 1.3 Impact case studies: the approach to achieving impact

 Our collaborative, mainly team-based ICS reflect the breadth of our research in 1) Viking
 studies, 2) place-names, 3) applied linguistics, 4) regional theatre histories. Their long-standing
 collaborative relationships with organisations regionally in the Midlands, nationally including
 York and London, and internationally in East Africa, reach diverse communities at every level
 (4.1-3). They incorporate research-based outreach and KE as pre-cursors to the more focused
 activity from which the impact arises; they include a substantial component of PGR and
 postdoctoral involvement in KE and PE (ii above), and have as key components digital
 outputs of our research (iii above). ICS 3 includes a substantial CPD strand in professional
 communications (v above). While Covid interrupted scheduled activities in March-July 2020,
 impact continued to be produced through creative, responsive online delivery (ICS 2, 3).

 1.4 Open research

 The School’s historic commitment to an open research agenda is reflected in our ICS, founded
 on open digital projects and resources (1.2). Our Research and Knowledge Exchange
 Committee (RKEC) oversees implementation of UoN’s policies on open access (OA) and
 research data management (RDM) (REF5a 2.3) and has actively supported colleagues to go
 beyond the minimum OA policy requirements for REF2021. This has included: providing
 dedicated administrative support for OA, production of an Open Access Unlocked guide, OA and
 RDM training provision for all staff and PGR students (2.1, 2.2). Support for UKRI grant
 applicants’ data management plans is provided by the Library and the Digital Transformations
 Hub. PGRs are also supported to complete data management plans (2.2). Our success is
 evidenced by 169 OA outputs by staff and PGRs in the assessment period, including out-of-
 scope outputs (48 book chapters; 40 journal articles accepted for publication before 01 April
 2016). Jackson, Writing Black Scotland has been accepted for the OA initiative ‘Knowledge
 Unlatched’. These achievements build on our long-standing support for research reproducibility,
 with participation in OA AHRC-funded electronic editions and open-source digital platforms
 reported in RAE 2001 (e.g. Piers Plowman Electronic Archive) and RAE 2008 (e.g. ‘Mapping
 Performance Culture’), now extended via open-data availability: e.g. The Collected Letters of
 Robert Southey.

 1.5 Research ethics and integrity

 Institutional policies on research ethics (REF5a 2.4), including the Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity, govern all our work, overseen by RKEC. Our Research Ethics Officer (an
 academic colleague) sits on RKEC; and (an innovation since REF 2014) ‘Research Ethics’ are
 embedded in the School’s research governance structure as a standing item on RKEC’s
 agenda. We have led the way in researching and producing guidance on social media ethics via
 ‘CaSMa: Citizen-centered approaches to social media analysis’ (Adolphs CoI) (ESRC, 2014-
 2016, award of £361.6k, £72.3k school share); 7 outputs co-authored by Adolphs include


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Understanding academic attitudes towards the ethical challenges posed by social media
 research’, ACM SIGCAS Computers and Society (2016).

 1.6 Interdisciplinarity

 Our long tradition of interdisciplinary research, developed and sustained by our Research
 Centres, involves funded research and impact collaborations with local, national, and
 international partners (4.1-4). These activities are embedded and supported via UoN’s
 interdisciplinary structures: we lead the ‘Cultures and Communications’ Global Research
 Theme (Moran), co-lead the ‘Culture Matters’ Interdisciplinary Research Cluster (IRC) (Ní
 Fhlathúin), and contribute to the transdisciplinary ‘Rights Lab’ Beacon of Excellence (Collins,
 Moran; 3.2, 4.3-4) and the IRC (formerly RPA; REF5a 2.1) ‘Creative and Digital’. Through the
 last, we have participated in two tranches of EPSRC Digital Economy funding (Adolphs CoI,
 totalling £8m+ over the past 10 years; 3.1), forming part of a core team of over 50 researchers
 and building a wider network of 35 academic and 200 industry, public and third-sector partners.
 CRAL researchers collaborate with Physics, Medicine, and Health Sciences on the STEMM-
 CHANGE project (3.1 ii), enabling a multi-disciplinary approach to driving positive change in EDI
 culture and practices across STEMM subjects. Other successes are detailed in 3.1; and
 exemplars of how our innovative, interdisciplinary research projects and collaborations have
 enabled us to engage with and support diverse audiences in ICS 1-4 and 4.3.

 1.7 Strategic goals for research and impact, 2020-5

 We will build on the successes outlined above to continue fostering inclusive and
 interdisciplinary research and impact excellence, with the following strategic aims:

 i)   to develop the next generation of research leaders by continuing to appoint and nurture
      early-career academics (beginning with a transitional assistant professor appointment to
      ‘From Human Data to Personal Experience’; 3.1.ii), further embedding EDI in staff
      recruitment and progression procedures (2.1, 2.3), and enabling ECR-led research and
      impact projects;
 ii) to further strengthen the postgraduate community, through sustained investment, and
      through collaborative and externally-funded initiatives (e.g. a new ESRC DTP Midlands
      Graduate School collaborative studentship on hearing loss co-supervised with Hearing
      Science and part-funded by the hearing care company Sonova, 2021-);
 iii) to maintain our strong record of external grant capture, for both individual and multi-
      author/multi-institutional projects (the infrastructure to facilitate this aim is described in 3.1);
 iv) to diversify and strengthen research and impact collaborations through partnerships with
      business, the creative industries and public institutions;
 v) to support the vitality and sustainability of our research impact by fostering ICS teams from
      all levels, furthering team-based transdisciplinary approaches to local and global challenges,
      and harnessing institutional support via the UoN Impact Accelerator;
 vi) to continue investing in research and impact excellence in four key areas:

 Text-editing and literary history
 Our reputation for excellence in textual scholarship and literary history will be reinforced by
 major editions from Guy and Sutherland (The Complete Works of Oscar Wilde, Vol XII), Kirwan
 (Arden Shakespeare Winter’s Tale) and Pratt (Collected Letters of Robert Southey: Parts 7-12);
 and monographs by Davison, Green, Harrison, Mike Jones, Moran, Rounce, and Vincent.
 ‘Regional Museums in the time of Covid-19 and beyond’ (Pratt, Research England QR, £13.6k)
 will support heritage sector responses to Covid in Nottinghamshire and the Lake District.

 English language and applied linguistics
 Our problem-driven contributions to social and policy change will continue with Mullany’s The
 Sociolinguistics of Gender in Public Life, and her edited collection Globalisation, Geopolitics and
 Gender. Significant new work in literary linguistics and corpus stylistics will include The
 Language of Modernism (Sotirova) and Mind-Modelling (Stockwell). Our interdisciplinary work to

                                                                                                    Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mitigate the societal effects of Covid will include: ‘Coronavirus Discourses’, on public health
 messaging to BAME communities, Adolphs PI with Computer Science, Engineering and external
 partners (AHRC, £365.1k total); ‘Communicating Impactful Safeguarding for Generation Z during
 Covid-19’, Mullany and Lucy Jones (Research England QR, £14.4k).

 Regional literature and heritage
 Major publications will include The Place-Names of Shropshire: Part 12 (Baker and Carroll co-
 editors), and The Life of the Author: D. H. Lawrence (Harrison). Baker and Carroll (with History),
 ‘Review of Statues, Blue Plaques, Street Plaques and Street names in Nottingham which
 celebrate individuals directly involved in transatlantic slavery’ (ESRC IAA £4.4k) will constitute a
 timely response to current concerns about the legacies of slavery.

 Creative writing and critical practice
 An existing body of innovative works in fiction, poetry and criticism (1.2) will continue to expand
 with McGregor’s new novel Lean Fall Stand, Masters’s guest-edited special issue on ‘The New
 Stylism’ (Textual Practice) and Evans’s edited collection, Globalisation and Literary Studies.
 Jordan’s place- and story-based involvement in collaborative regional projects, e.g. ‘Future of
 the High Street’ with Nottingham City Council (Research England QR £15.3k), will further embed
 our impact in the East Midlands.

 Open Research
 We will continue to practice and advocate for OA and open data (1.4) and drive this agenda
 through co-organising ‘Open Access and the Future of Scholarly Publishing in the Arts’ (Covid-
 delayed), a symposium bringing together academics, PGRs, and OA practitioners to examine
 the implications of Plan S and map our approach to disciplinary issues surrounding open
 research in the arts.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Our Recruitment Strategy has three elements:
 i) to maintain diversity of research excellence following staffing changes. Expertise has
      been consolidated by new appointments in early modern literature and drama (Bloomfield,
      Bumke and Collins), applied linguistics (Buckler, Lucy Jones, Hunt, Muir and Thompson),
      and historical linguistics (Findell). Expertise in modern and contemporary literature has been
      extended through the appointments of Evans, Jackson and Masters; and in Creative Writing
      by Matsumoto’s appointment and McGregor’s move from 0.25 to 0.5 FTE.
 ii) to strengthen the 4 key areas prioritised for further consolidation and/or development
      (1.7.vi) by support for PGR recruitment (2.2), and by ECR recruitment via grant capture
      (3.1).
 iii) to recruit and support high-quality researchers regardless of personal circumstances.
      Our commitment to EDI is shown in the balance of research staff (54.9% men, 45.1%
      women), including six men and nine women professors (40% / 60%). Our ambition is to
      ensure that our recruitment processes are fair, and that they actively encourage diversity by
      attention to panel composition, the use of Equality Impact Assessments and use of targeted
      advertising. From 2020-21 vacancies are advertised with a statement that we particularly
      welcome applications from BAME candidates, who are currently underrepresented in our
      staff community; and all selection panel members will undertake compulsory unconscious
      bias training.

 Our Staff Development Strategy has two main ambitions:
 i) to encourage the career development of the next generation of academics to sustain
    the health of the discipline. We have a strong record of appointing and providing excellent
    support for early career researchers (e.g. Buckler, Bumke, Collins, Evans, Muir), benefiting
    from success in postdoctoral competitions (e.g. MacKenzie, British Academy Postdoctoral
    Fellow), and adding new research strengths by appointing outstanding mid-career

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     academics (e.g. Baker (previously on fixed-term research contract), Lucy Jones, Jordan).
     Support for ECRs is governed by UoN’s Concordat to Support the Career Development
     of Researchers (REF5a 3.1): for example, we continue to support end-contract postdoctoral
     researchers via honorary visiting fellowships (e.g. May).
 ii) to ensure that all staff are afforded maximum time to undertake research and are
     excellently mentored in shaping appropriate research priorities and accessing
     internal/external funding. Alongside University and Faculty support mechanisms (including
     a generous one semester in seven study-leave schedule) (REF5a 3.1), and time allocated
     for research in workload planning, School-centred structures to achieve these
     development goals include: a rigorous peer-mentoring scheme for grant applicants, including
     ECRs and post-doctoral researchers, supplemented at Faculty level by the Centre for
     Advanced Studies (CAS); over the period this has seen 36 successful external grant
     applications. An innovation since REF 2014 has been to assign a dedicated research mentor
     to support EC staff taking their first study leave. Since 2013, successful applications for
     competitive internal funding (PVC’s leave) allowed 15 staff (8 men, 7 women, 1 of each EC,
     5 of each mid-career) to extend the study-leave semester to a full year, enabling completion
     of major research and impact projects including Martin, Findern Manuscript; Kirwan,
     Shakespeare in the Theatre; ICS 2 and ICS 3.

 Mechanisms for supporting and enabling staff to engage successfully in KE and impact
 These were overhauled following REF 2014, leading to the appointment of an Academic Lead
 for Impact, a University REF Impact Manager and (at Faculty level) a REF and Impact Officer.
 We reconfigured our organisational infrastructure in line with this institutional expertise, creating
 the role of School Director of Research Impact, who sits on RKEC and works closely with the
 School DoR, ensuring impact is fully embedded in the School’s research planning; the role-
 holder also participates in UoN’s Expert Group on Impact and contributes to the training of
 PGRs. We employed Research Fellows (Zimmerman, Slinn, Kilby, Dale) to support ICS
 activities. Impact has been at the centre of the research ecology as a standing item on RKEC
 agendas since 2015. Our study leave policy (see above) supports research and impact activities,
 and the Arts Faculty PVC leave and PVC impact funding schemes offer additional support
 specifically for impact activities to researchers at every level. Targeted support for individual
 research plans and impact agendas has enabled several colleagues (Mullany x 2, Conklin,
 Carroll) to gain UoN Higher Education Innovation Fund ‘Hermes’ Fellowships, with Baker and
 Jesch receiving Faculty of Arts Impact Accelerator funding.

 University structures to ensure staff develop their potential
 The provision of training courses in Career Management, Research Methods, and Research
 Leadership and Management has produced substantial benefits for us: 26 members of the UoA
 (18 women, 8 men) have taken in-person or online courses run by UoN’s Leadership and
 Management Academy, and 3 members (all women) have taken part in the LMA coaching and
 mentoring scheme. Newly appointed staff complete a PGCHE, overseen by the Professional
 Development unit. We are supported via the University and Faculty’s investment in research
 leadership training: 9 (6 women, 3 men) have completed the Arts Faculty Leadership
 programme, and 3 (2 women, 1 man) have completed the University Research Leadership
 Programme. The School has provided research leadership in the Arts Faculty for much of this
 REF period (Adolphs, Faculty Director of RKE 2010-15; Pratt, Associate PVC for RKE 2019-);
 we co-founded and currently lead the Arts Faculty Leadership Programme (Pratt). Research
 and impact activity is formally recognised and rewarded through UoN’s Appraisal and
 Development Conversations scheme and promotions criteria (REF5a 3.1). Evidence for the
 success of these structures can be seen in a series of staff promotions over the period 2013-20:
 1 from a teaching-focused post to Assistant Professor (woman); 16 to Associate Professor (5
 women, 11 men); 7 to Professor (6 women, 1 man).

 2.2 Postgraduate research (PGR) students

 Recruitment and studentships
 We have recruited 151 new doctoral students since 2013-4, with funding from: the AHRC

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 M3C/M4C DTP (35, including a collaborative doctoral award with the British Library); ESRC (8);
 EPSRC (3; 1.2); Digital Transformations Hub scholarships (2); 12 School-funded Tuition
 Fee/Research Scholarships; 3 externally funded endowed scholarships and 1 other School
 award; 8 Vice-Chancellor’s (EU) awards; 1 EU Funded Scholarship (European Regional
 Development Fund (ERDF)); and 7 Vice-Chancellor’s (International) awards. A further 13
 students have been supported by awards from their home governments. This funding base
 reflects the diversity and internationalism of the School’s PhD cohort. Of the 59 FT and 16 PT
 students studying for a PhD in 2018-19, 51 were home students, 8 EU, and 16 international
 (including 2 whose degrees were awarded jointly with Beijing Foreign Studies University). PGR
 recruitment and support uphold School and University values of equality, diversity and inclusion
 (2.3; REF5a 3.5).

 Monitoring and support towards progress and successful completion
 107.93 FTE doctoral degrees were awarded during this cycle, compared to 68.57 FTE in REF
 2014. This sustained success comes from an increase in funded studentships and an effective
 supervisory, monitoring and support system, overseen by our RKEC within UoN’s support and
 governance structures (REF5a 3.3). All students are co-supervised, and cross-institutional
 supervision for M3C/M4C projects (19 in review period) enables students to benefit from
 expertise across the consortium. Supervisors provide at least 10 supervisions p.a. for FT
 students (6 for PT). Confirmation of PhD status is decided by a formal review in the summer of
 Year 1 (for FT; Year 2 for PT, with an Interim Report for PT in Year 1) led by an independent
 assessor, followed by supervisor-led progression reviews in subsequent years; M3C/M4C
 students are monitored through a comparable process of Mid-Year and End-of-Year Reviews.
 Documentary records of these processes are overseen by HEI M4C site directors. All PhD vivas
 have independent chairs.

 Integration into research culture and preparation for further research
 PGR development and professionalisation is achieved by: RKEC financial support for PGR
 research and conference trips (£22k in the census period awarded to 48 women, 16 men)
 facilitating research across disciplinary areas, including a PGR-led project for Viking Age
 archaeological training and networking in the Ukraine (CSVA, co-funded RKEC and CASCADE),
 12 library and manuscript research visits in the UK and America, 45 trips to national and
 international conferences, and funds for 7 postgraduate-led conferences/symposia); a fortnightly
 student-led PhD seminar; embedding PGRs in the work of our Centres by attaching Research
 Scholarships to them (4 in review period); enhanced provision of office space, IT and social
 facilities and administrative support for PGRs; access to specialised research equipment and
 resources (3.3); a dedicated Research Student Learning Community Forum; 9 staff-student
 reading groups; conference participation, including PGR-led sessions in School-hosted major
 international conferences (e.g. ‘BARS 2019: Romantic Facts and Fantasies’), and PGR-led
 conference organisation (e.g. ‘Approaching the Historical: A Symposium of Early Modern and
 Medieval Stylistics’); staff mentoring of postgraduate applications for external funding (e.g. two
 Theodora Bosanquet Bursaries: Grice, 2015; Miriam Jones 2018). PGRs co-authored (before or
 after graduation) 60+ research outputs with their supervisors in the census period, e.g. Kyriacou,
 Conklin and Thompson, ‘Passivizability of Idioms: Has the Wrong Tree Been Barked
 Up?’ Language and Speech, 63.2 (2019). The success of our strategy is further evidenced by
 major research outputs authored by students awarded PhDs since 2013, including single- and
 co-authored articles in some 118 academic journals, and 14 monographs, e.g. Haddow,
 Precarious Spectatorship: Theatre and Image in an Age of Emergencies (Manchester, 2019);
 Chloe Harrison, Cognitive Grammar in Contemporary Fiction (John Benjamins, 2017);
 Whickman, Blasphemy and Politics in Romantic Literature (Palgrave, 2020). Further selected
 indicators of success include a Leverhulme Study Abroad Fellowship at the University of Leiden
 (Van Renterghem, 2018-20); a Chinese Government Award for Outstanding Self-Financed
 Students Abroad (You, 2015); three Poetics and Linguistics Association Prizes for best
 newcomer article in Language and Literature (Rundquist 2014, Nuttall 2015, Castiglione 2017).

 PGRs are integrated into our open research environment through dedicated training provision:
 since 2014, all PGRs complete compulsory OA training via the Arts Researcher Skills

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Programme, complete a compulsory Data Management Plan in discussion with their supervisory
 team, and have access to UoN’s online Research Data Management training. All PGRs deposit
 their theses in the institutional repository on point of completion. PGRs are supported to publish
 gold OA where feasible, and the School promotes best practice by offering encouragement and
 training to deposit outputs for green route OA (1.4).

 Our PGRs participate in the broader university research culture via the Social Sciences and
 Arts Graduate Centre (SSAGC), and routinely host conferences, workshops and symposia
 through Faculty and University research networks including the Institute for Medieval Research
 and the Landscape, Space and Place Research Group. They participate in activities led by
 UoN’s RPAs/IRCs: Languages, Texts, and Society Journal, a PGR-run, open-access journal
 launched with RPA funds in 2017, has been staffed by our PGRs in roles including editor (x 2),
 peer review editor, book review editor (x 3), production editor and web editor (x 2). Our PGR
 successes in Researcher Academy competitions include 7 travel prizes awarded to 1 man and 6
 women (total £3.5k) since 2013. PGRs gain international experience via research visits
 facilitated by M3C/M4C, Universitas 21, Erasmus, and UoN’s China and Malaysia campuses,
 and participation in international conferences: e.g. the International Medieval Conference and
 flagship conferences of the British Association for Modernist Studies; the American Association
 For Applied Linguistics; the International Federation of Theatre Research.

 Skills development and career preparation
 All PGRs benefit from area-specific training conducted by their supervisors and training sessions
 (14 p.a.) delivered at our fortnightly Postgraduate Seminar Series. PGRs present their research
 and gain conference experience at our annual Postgraduate Symposium. All PGRs are
 members of the Researcher Academy and the SSAGC, which jointly deliver the Researcher
 Development Programme. We also participate in the ESRC-funded Midlands Graduate School.
 Students’ career preparation is supported by a Researcher Academy careers adviser and
 several SSAGC courses, including one-to-one application-writing sessions. M4C offers regular
 cohort and individual training. The Faculty provides funded access to language programmes for
 PGRs for whom they may be beneficial. 165 PGRs taught at Level 1 in 2013-20 following
 compulsory training, supported by module convenors and our Director of Teaching Affiliates. A
 new Researcher Academy-led scheme will enable PGRs to gain Advance HE Associate
 Fellowship.

 PGR engagement with business, industry and public/third sector bodies
 We facilitate postgraduate exchange with communities outside of academia via placements and
 external collaborations (1.2) and AHRC- and EPSRC-funded collaborative doctoral awards with
 local and national partners as detailed above. Our PGRs have benefitted from the SSAGC’s
 programme of placements and internships (e.g. Peacock, SME-funded placement with
 Nottingham-based organisation Baby People).

 The success of our strategy and mechanisms for PhD support and career preparation is
 evidenced by the significant number – 70 – of our 115 (107.93 FTE) completed PhDs securing
 research and/or teaching posts at HEIs.

 2.3 Equality, diversity, and inclusion

 Staff
 At the REF census date, our 51 (49.7 FTE) research staff comprise 28 (26.7 FTE) men, 23 (23
 FTE) women; one BAME colleague; 5 with a declared disability. 50 individuals are on permanent
 contracts (1 at 0.5 FTE and 1 at 0.2): 15 are Professors (6 men, 9 women), 15 Associate
 Professors (10 men, 5 women), and 20 Assistant Professors (12 men, 8 women); 1 woman is a
 full-time, fixed-term postdoctoral fellow. The current review period saw 12 promotions for men
 and 12 for women. To deliver our commitment to EDI outlined in UoN’s Strategic Delivery Plan
 (REF5a 3.5) we have implemented new initiatives since REF 2014. A new academic
 administrative role of Director of EDI (currently held by Lucy Jones) is responsible for ensuring
 that our School is an inclusive place to work and study. The role-holder chairs our new Equality,

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Diversity and Inclusion Committee (EDIC), which is responsible for monitoring data on staff
 and student recruitment, staff progression, and research grant success, and on which our
 Director of Research and Knowledge Exchange and Director of Graduate Studies sit as ex-
 officio members. EDI became a standing item on the RKEC agenda in this REF period, ensuring
 that it is embedded in the School’s research operational structure. Our Personnel Committee
 has oversight of the allocation of leadership and academic administrative roles, and works with
 the EDIC to ensure an appropriate balance of membership on all our committees, including
 RKEC. Other practices implemented since 2014 include: the scheduling of meetings within
 UoN’s core working hours (10am-4pm); mandatory online EDI training for all staff, with further in-
 person training for those in senior roles (see also 2.1.iii). Our wider involvement in EDI is shown
 in: Lucy Jones’s membership of the Athena Swan (Equality Challenge Unit) Panel; staff
 membership of University EDI networks, including the LGBTQ, Disability, and Women’s Staff
 Networks; our research on health discourse (Hunt), Black writing (Jackson), classroom dynamics
 in language-learning (Dörnyei, Muir), gender and the workplace (Mullany), globalisation and
 literature (Evans), LGBTQ identities (Lucy Jones, Mullany), and migrations and their legacies
 (Carroll, Jesch, Ní Fhlathúin).

 All FT and PT academic staff have a Personal Research and Scholarship Allowance of £600
 per year to assist with research expenses, travel, and conference fees (pro-rata for short-term
 contracts). We have a separate Conference Fund to which staff can apply for up to £1200 p.a.
 Staff are encouraged to apply additionally to the School Research Fund (overseen by RKEC)
 for pump-priming, scoping, and impact activities, including those where a protected
 characteristic necessitates further research support; and to external, Faculty, and University-
 wide internal schemes. We financially support UoN’s Conference and Training Care Fund
 enabling career development for those with caring responsibilities. All postdoctoral researchers
 and Teaching Associates can apply to RKEC and UoN’s Research Staff Travel Prize for funding
 to support research and impact activities.

 Staff on parental or long-term carer’s leave are encouraged to use Keeping in Touch (KIT) days
 to maintain contact with the School and to attend conferences (KIT days remain eligible for the
 Conference and Training Care Fund). All staff on leave have continued access to our facilities
 and email circulation lists. Staff have support from their line manager and HR to arrange a
 phased return to work where necessary. If parental leave falls when an individual would have
 been on School or PVC-supported leave, they take their leave in the semester immediately
 following, thus supporting their return to research. We offer flexible and remote working
 arrangements with HR support in line with University procedures. We support UoN’s flexible
 working policies and staff can request a permanent or fixed-term change to their contract. In the
 census period, one colleague took up this option to work part-time following maternity leave.

 These policies also applied to the 28 women and 16 men who held short-term R&T or T-focused
 contracts in the School during the review period; 15 are currently in permanent or short-term
 academic roles at UoN (13 women, 2 men) and 18 in other institutions.

 PGRs
 The diversity of our PGR cohort stems from recruitment, funding and support procedures in
 accord with UoN’s Equality and Diversity Code. Where PGRs disclose disabilities, we liaise with
 UoN’s Academic Support unit to ensure that appropriate adjustments and support are provided.
 PGR wellbeing is promoted locally via: pastoral support from supervisors (who act as Personal
 Tutors), our independent Postgraduate Student Advisor, Director of Graduate Studies, Senior
 Tutor, Faculty-based Student Support and Wellbeing Officers, UoN’s policies on PGR adoption,
 maternity, paternity and sick leave, and in this REF period the grant of six months’ Covid-19
 registration extension to students nearing completion (REF5a COVID-19 Annex). All PGRs
 undertake Display Screen Equipment reviews at induction and we provide ergonomic
 workstations as required. Of our 107.93 (FTE) completed PhDs, 15% declared a disability; 67%
 were women, 33% were men; 5% were Asian, 1% were Black, 8% were Chinese, 4% were
 Mixed, 69% were White. We offer flexible pathways and support part-time study; 18% of our
 completed students studied PT. Of the 144 individuals applying for doctoral study in 2018-19: 98

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 were women; and 45 men; 108 were from outside the UK. Of these 18 women and 6 men were
 made an offer; and 14 women and 4 men took up a place; 9 students from outside the UK were
 made offers and 4 accepted a place.

 EDI and REF
 Following the UoN Code of Practice (REF5a 3.6), our decision-making team completed
 unconscious bias training prior to selecting outputs. Individuals were invited to declare personal
 circumstances. Outputs were read by two internal reviewers, and calibration achieved by a
 reviewers’ group meeting and/or adjudication by a third reviewer. 40% of our outputs were
 returned by Professors, 32% by Associate Professors, and 28% by Assistant Professors or
 Postdoctoral Researchers; 51% were returned by men and 49% by women, closely reflecting
 our staff profile of 55: 45.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research awards and income

 From 2014 we have consolidated our strong record of externally-funded research awards
 established in the previous census period. We have implemented new strategies and
 processes for generating research income: we incentivise applicants for FEC grants of
 £100k+ by offering PIs the opportunity to apply for additional research time or Research
 Assistant support. FEC grant-winners (PIs and CoIs) have the time allocated on the grant to
 them honoured in full and in addition to the time allocated to research on the workload planner.
 Grant-winners (PIs and CoIs) on all external funding schemes, including FEC awards, are
 rewarded by the return of 1% of all income generated by the grant in each financial year for
 research expenses. This is supplemented by the Faculty of Arts Grant Incentivisation Scheme,
 which offers additional research time for PIs on FEC grants of £500k+ (£150k for EC PIs).

 Our research income of £2.4m (Research Councils 74.8%, Charities 19.1%, UK Government
 Bodies 4.2%, Industry 0.2%, non-EU based Charities 0.1%) is drawn from an increasingly
 diversified portfolio of sources including: JISC, income of £31.2k from award of £300k reported
 in 2014; 3 British Council awards (Conklin, Pellicer-Sanchez and Schmitt). Additional income
 came from sources not featured in HESA institutional statistics (e.g. NHS; Health Education
 England) and income-in-kind (e.g. staff time at the Institute for Social Transformation, Uganda).
 Since 2014, grant capture has enabled us to:
 i) embed impact into our research, extending both reach and significance, via: AHRC
      follow-on funding awards (Baker, Jesch, Pratt, Robinson, see below); and awards from the
      AHRC (ICS 1-4), the European Regional Development Fund (ICS 3), Leverhulme (ICS 2, 3),
      and UoN Arts Impact Accelerator awards including HERMES awards (ICS 2, 3).
 ii) forge transdisciplinary, collaborative projects that address serious global challenges,
      including: ‘Trusted Data-driven Products’, 2020-2025, EPSRC, £4.1m; ‘From Human Data to
      Personal Experience’, 2015-2020, EPSRC, £4.1m (both Adolphs CoI); a Royal Society
      APEX award for ‘Nettles and Networks: New Ways to Tackle Wound Infections’ (Lee, income
      of £60k from award of £92.4k); an EPSRC award for ‘STEMM-CHANGE: Uncovering
      Barriers to Inclusivity and Transforming Institutional Culture’ (Mullany and Lucy Jones,
      School income of £86.7k from total award of £523.7k); the AHRC-funded ‘Language, Gender
      and Leadership Network’ (Mullany, income £41.1k from award of £48.7k); a Leverhulme
      International Fellowship for ‘In Dialogue with the Past: Legacies of the Transatlantic Trade in
      Canada’s Modern-Day Slavery’ (Ward, income of £37.8k from award of £39.7k; taken at the
      University of Calgary, Canada).
 iii) diversify the interdisciplinary reach of our partnerships with internal and external
      collaborators (see 4.1-3, 3.2, and examples listed in bold under Research Centre grants
      below).
 iv) strengthen our reputation as a centre of research excellence through attracting and
      developing the next generation of scholars (MacKenzie, British Academy Postdoctoral
      Fellowship) and securing competitive external funding for visiting international
      scholars, including a British Academy Newton International Fellowship (Murphy, Loyola

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    University, USA) and a Fulbright Scholarship (Mulligan, University of Notre Dame, USA).
 v) publish outputs including 20+ major externally-funded articles, monographs, databases and
    scholarly editions.

 There has been extensive externally-funded and collaborative, single and interdisciplinary,
 research in the census period involving all our Research Centres. Major awards involving our
 staff as PI/CoIs evidence our key successes:

 CSVA and INS
 Grants have underpinned projects enhancing regional and national cultural heritage preservation
 and interpretation: AHRC funding supported ‘The Place-Names of Shropshire’ with the
 University of Wales and the English Place-Name Society (Carroll and Cavill, income of
 £404.5k from a total award of £715k reported in 2014); Baker and Carroll, income of £60.36k
 from AHRC Follow-on award of £75.82k for ‘Learning the Landscape through Language: Place-
 Names and Childhood Education’; Jesch, income of £142.1k from an AHRC Follow-on award of
 £145.8k for ‘Bringing Vikings Back to the East Midlands’, and income of £14.3k from an award of
 £61k (AHRC Research Fellowship, reported in 2014) for ‘The Viking Diaspora’; three
 Leverhulme research awards to Carroll for studies of ‘The Impact of Diaspora in the Making of
 Britain’ (income of £38.5k from a total award of £80k reported in 2014), ‘Travel and
 Communication in Anglo-Saxon England’ in collaboration with University College London
 (income of £116k from award of £122.6k), and ‘Flood and Flow: Place-Names and the Changing
 Hydrology of English and Welsh Rivers’ with the Universities of Leicester and Wales (income
 of £46.8k from award of £49.7k); Carroll, income of £32.2k from continued support from the
 British Academy’s Research Projects funding for the INS’s work with the English Place-Name
 Survey.

 CRLC
 Major projects have expanded work on theatre, place, and identity: a Leverhulme Major
 Research Fellowship for ‘Oscar Wilde’s Development as a Successful West End Dramatist’
 (Guy, income of £54.3k from award of £110.5k); a Philip Leverhulme Fellowship in performing
 and visual arts and a British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship for ‘The Drama of D.H. Lawrence:
 Regional Identity and Space’ (Moran, award and income of £70k; income of £83.2k from an
 award of £84k reported in 2014); AHRC follow-on funding for ‘Robert Southey's Keswick:
 Enhancing understanding of the literary culture of the northern Lake District’ (Pratt, income
 £46.8k from £66.5k award). Royan’s Leverhulme Research Fellowship for work on the Scots
 poet Gavin Douglas (income of £31.8k from an award of £35k reported in 2014) has
 strengthened our research in Scottish literature. Grant capture has also facilitated the School’s
 engagement with the creative industries, particularly through collaborative digital humanities
 projects: Robinson, AHRC award for ‘Integrated Immersive Inclusiveness’ in collaboration with
 Computer Science and Cultures, Languages and Area Studies (School income of £11.8 k
 from school award of 12.4k), and 2 AHRC Follow-On awards for, respectively, ‘Citizen
 Scholarship in Nottingham’ (income of £50.3k from award of £60.7k) (ICS 4) and ‘Making
 Accessibility Accessible: Maximising the Impact of the Integrated Immersive Inclusiveness
 Project’ (School income of £7.7k from school award of £9.5k).

 CRAL
 Digital humanities were central to collaborative awards in CRAL, notably: the AHRC-funded
 Creative Economy Knowledge Exchange in collaboration with Computer Science and
 Geography, ‘Archives, Audiences and Industrial Heritage’ (Adolphs CoI, award of £201k,
 School’s share £108k, reported in 2014; School income in census period of £48.8k); EPSRC
 funding for ‘From Human Data to Personal Experience’ in collaboration with Computer Science
 and Psychology (Adolphs, School income of £77.3k from School award of £135.3k); see also
 1.5. Grants have enabled us to continue producing innovative new research at the interface of
 language and literature, and in L1/L2 acquisition: AHRC funding (income of £141.7k from a total
 award of £200k reported in 2014) for ‘CLiC Dickens: Characterisation in the representation of
 speech and body language from a corpus linguistic perspective’, Stockwell (with Mahlberg,
 University of Birmingham); a Leverhulme International Fellowship for ‘Linguistic patterns in

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 first and second language acquisition: does input matter?’ (Conklin, income of £35.4k from
 award of £37.5k; taken at the Max Planck Institute, Nijmegen, Netherlands).

 A pattern of mentored research development, central to our research ethic, is evidenced by
 smaller awards secured by early- and mid-career staff: BA-funding for ‘Intertextual Joyce’
 (Davison, income of £7.5k from award reported in 2014); BA/Leverhulme Small Research Grants
 for ‘Language and LGBT Identity’ (Lucy Jones, income of £3.5k from award of £7.2k) and ‘The
 Cambridge Edition of the Complete Works of Henry James, Vol. 28’ (Scott, income of £2.7k from
 award of £3k). In further evidence of the successful development of EC staff: Buckler won a
 place on a British Academy-funded UK-South Africa Early Career Workshop on ‘Urban Lives’
 (£4.3k income from two awards totalling £4.5k), and Vincent gained a British Academy Rising
 Star award (£14.9k). A grant from the Society for Theatre Research (£0.5k) supported
 Sutherland’s work on George Alexander and the Work of the Actor-Manager, while she also
 published a further 8 outputs (supported by a successful application for PVC’s leave; 2.1) and
 gained promotion from a teaching-focused role to Assistant Professor.

 3.2 Organisational infrastructure and facilities to support research and impact

 We work closely with Research and Innovation, UoN’s lead department for research
 management; with the Researcher Academy, which supports postgraduates and ECRs with
 workshops, training and development; and at Faculty level with CAS, which offers facilities for
 postdoctoral and visiting fellows, space for hosting research events, and a research and
 business development team. CAS provides leadership on: internal and external strategic
 themes; interdisciplinarity; national and international collaborations and KE; enabling PhD and
 ECR participation in the Faculty research culture. In 2020/21 CAS will be expanded to form a
 dedicated Faculty research and KE support team.

 Since 2014 we have been awarded £441.8k of research and impact investment from UoN
 (including Beacons, IRCs, and other internal funding streams). This has supported activities
 central to our ICS: IRC/RPA funding for ‘Bringing Vikings Back to the East Midlands’ (Jesch,
 £23.3k); an International Collaboration Fund award for ‘The Medieval Runic Inscriptions of
 Bergen, Norway’ (Jesch, £893.8) (ICS 1); an Arts Faculty Digital Innovations Fund award for
 the INS (£12k) (ICS 2). It has also enabled staff to develop interdisciplinary projects that foster
 collaborative links with external partners, e.g. ‘Rights Lab’ support for ‘Performing Slavery’ with
 Hall Park Academy (Collins and Moran, £4.9k); RPA/IRC funding for ‘Lace2Place: An
 Immersive VR sprint’ with Mission Room and Nottingham Contemporary (Jordan, £15k).
 RPA/IRC funds have supported use of our specialist psycholinguistic lab facilities: ‘EMNED: the
 English-Mathematics Nottingham Eye-Tracking Database’ (Conklin, £5.9k); and ‘Studying
 Textual Variants’ (Conklin and Guy, £14.5k), resulting in 4 major articles. Investment has been
 crucial for supporting early- and mid-career staff developing collaborative projects and securing
 external grants, including: RPA/IRC funding for ‘Narrative and Identity: A Linguistic Analysis of
 Gender Dysphoric Patients’ Autobiographies’ with the Nottingham Centre for Transgender
 Health (Lucy Jones, £20.9k; ‘Identifying coping strategies used by patients at a transgender
 health clinic through analysis of free text autobiographical narratives’ is forthcoming in Health
 Expectations); International Collaboration Fund awards for ‘A Comparison of Passive Use in
 American and British English’ with UC Davis (Thompson, £4.5k) and ‘Attending to Poetry:
 Writing, Ethics and Attention’ with the University of Canberra (Vincent, £5k).

 UoN’s Digital Research Strategy (REF5a 4.1(d)) provides us with access to digital experts and
 technical resources to develop new digital research methods and outputs that support
 research and impact activity. Since 2014 this has included the place-names web interface (ICS
 2) and the digital Theatre Royal archive (ICS 4). The Multimedia Online Archive Service
 supported the Vikings digital museum (ICS 1).

 3.3 School and scholarly infrastructure

 The scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact includes excellent access to

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academic resources: the Manuscripts and Special Collections archive holds the D. H. Lawrence
 printed books and manuscript collections containing over 4,000 items, the Wollaton manuscripts,
 and Portland Collection. These holdings support research-informed teaching at all levels; and
 have informed major outputs (Harrison, Moran), and the co-curated exhibition described at 1.2.ii.
 The University Library holds the archives of Nottingham Playhouse Roundabout and the New
 Perspectives Theatre Company, two of our research partners. The INS reference library, housed
 within the School, is home to 4,500 specialist items including the collections of the English Place
 Name Society (EPNS). Significant outputs and impact related to work on these holdings is
 detailed in Section 1. Since REF 2014 we have invested £97k in three dedicated
 Psycholinguistics Laboratories, housing two state-of-the art EyeLink 1000+ eye-trackers and a
 BioSemi Active-Two Amplifier bio-potential measurement system. These laboratories have
 generated 30+ staff/PGR publications since 2014. We benefit from the School’s geographical
 integrity: PGR offices and staff offices (mostly single-occupancy) are clustered in one central
 building close to our main research library.

 Digital and IT resources are central to our research activity, and we have our own Web and
 Communications team in the School. RKEC, central to the development of research strategy,
 has a brief which also encompasses operational matters: oversight of outputs in relation to
 leave, annual monitoring of research ethics, liaising with Faculty of Arts Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Board and the Researcher Academy to ensure alignment to institutional
 and Faculty strategies and mechanisms (see 2.2 for detail on RKEC’s role in PhD support and
 mentoring, and 2.1 for research leave and funding allocations). It also oversees all EDI issues
 relating to research and impact, ensuring all research, impact and funding proposals are
 assessed for quality, ethics, and EDI implications before progressing to inspection by CAS and
 the Faculty Peer-Review College (see 2.3). Our dedicated operations staff support our hosting of
 high-profile research events (4.5) and the management and enhancement of office space and IT
 equipment for staff and PGRs.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Arrangements and support for research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Our research and impact collaborations internally and with external partners regionally,
 nationally and internationally are driven by our Research Centres and facilitated by RKEC and
 Faculty support (2.1), and by UoN’s interdisciplinary research infrastructure (1.6, 3.2).
 Interdisciplinary UoN collaborations are outlined in 4.4. Collaboration with external
 partners at all levels underpins all four of our ICS and many of our funded projects (see 3.1-2).

 Participation in national networks includes: Adolphs’ membership of the ESRC Strategic
 Advisory Network 2018-2020 and the External Advisory Board of the Alan Turing Institute ‘AI for
 Science and Government’ project; Baker’s participation in ‘Assemblies and Landscapes in
 Iceland 850-1950’ (Icelandic Science Foundation-funded) and the Royal Residences Network
 (Durham); Carroll’s role on the Advisory Board for the AHRC-funded Gersum Project and the
 ‘Monumentalising Kingship’ network. Internationally, Mullany leads the Language, Gender and
 Leadership (LGL) Network, bringing together MPs from the Ugandan and Kenyan Parliaments,
 representatives from UN Women Africa, NGOs and charities based in Uganda and Kenya,
 Citizens UK, academics and students from Makerere University (Kampala) and Moi University
 (Kenya), and colleagues from the UoN Rights Lab and UK students from Enactus in a cross-
 continental project benefitting NGOs, charities and women and girls in East Africa (ICS 3; 4.3-4).
 Lee leads the AncientBiotics research team with the University of Warwick and Georgia Tech,
 Atlanta (4.2). Further networks include: runic research groups in Norway and Sweden (Jesch);
 the Homo Debiles Research group in Bremen, Germany (Lee); stylistics research groups in Italy,
 Germany, and Tokyo (Stockwell); the British Academy-funded ‘Second Cities in the Circuits of
 Empire’ (Glasgow/Kolkata; Ní Fhlathúin); the interdisciplinary Mellon Foundation-funded
 ARCScholar network (Texas A&M; Pratt is the only UK member); the SSHRC-funded ‘Women
 and Regional Theatre in Britain and Ireland’ (Sutherland); a Newton Institutional Link application
 led by Leeds and the Indonesian University of Education (Muir (ECR) was a named consultant);

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and links with HEIs internationally including the Universities of: Bergen, Cork, Hanyang
 University (Korea), Illinois at Chicago, Innsbruck, Lund, Maryland, Oslo, Radboud (Nijmegen),
 Stanford (USA), Toronto, Waterloo (Ontario), Zayed University (Dubai).

 4.2 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences to develop impact
 and enrich our research environment

 In addition to our ICS 1-4 beneficiaries, and the diverse communities and publics detailed below
 (4.3), we have worked with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences across the culture,
 heritage, and education sectors. Staff at all levels, and our PGRs (1.2, 2.2), have enhanced
 long-standing relationships and established new ones with organisations and the wider public to
 maximise our impact and enrich our research environment.

 Our research has transformed the organisational culture and operational capacity of
 regional and national heritage and cultural organisations, museums and galleries,
 enhancing their ability to educate, influence and entertain (including ICS 1, 2, 4). Kirwan worked
 with the Folger Shakespeare Library, Shakespeare Birthplace Trust, the British Library, Bodleian
 Libraries, and the National Archives to curate part of Shakespeare Documented: An Online
 Exhibition (2016-) (https://shakespearedocumented.folger.edu/exhibition). Royan was academic
 advisor for The Buke of the Howlat (Birlinn 2016), supporting heritage and festival work for
 Historic Environment Scotland. Pratt is working with Keswick Museum and local schools in the
 Lake District to enhance understanding of the literary heritage of Robert Southey (1.7, 3.1).
 Vincent brought together poets, critics, school pupils and members of the public for ‘Poets
 Laureate then and now; National and Local Identities in Poetry’ (2016). Harrison and Moran are
 key facilitators of the annual D.H. Lawrence Festival of Culture, and Welton provided expert
 consultancy on the board of the Nottingham Festival of Literature. Our partnership with
 Nottingham UNESCO City of Literature is central to our work to preserve and enhance the
 literary and cultural heritage of the region and beyond (including ICS 4).

 Commentary and critique by our researchers has enhanced theatre practitioners’ and
 audiences’ understanding of literary and cultural history. Harrison led public discussion of:
 Husbands and Sons (National Theatre, 2016; c. 100 attendees) and D.H. Lawrence By Night
 and By Day (NEAT Festival, 2016). Harrison and Moran advised Stephen Lowe on Altitude
 Sickness (Nottingham Lakeside Arts, 2016). Moran acted as advisor and dramaturg to Martin
 Berry’s Lawrence double-bill (NEAT Festival, 2016). Jackson, Kirwan and Royan contributed
 pre-show talks (c. 50 attendees), on-site consultancy and a public symposium (c. 30 attendees)
 for the National Theatre of Scotland’s James Plays at the Theatre Royal, Nottingham (2016).
 Kirwan gave pre-show lectures for The Revenger’s Tragedy (Nottingham Playhouse, 2017; c. 80
 attendees) and Mucedorus (Shakespeare’s Globe Theatre, 2017; c. 50 attendees). Kirwan’s
 research also guided Passion in Practice during rehearsal of Doctor Faustus at Shakespeare’s
 Globe (2016), and underpinned educational packs and programme notes for Cheek by Jowl’s
 Measure for Measure and Pericles (2015, 2018).

 Our research enhances media reportage and raises public awareness through regular
 contributions to local, national and international broadcast, print and social media, and
 reaches a wider public via literary journalism in outlets including: Dublin Review of Books,
 Guardian, Literary Review, Tablet, Times Literary Supplement, New York Times, British Medical
 Journal blog, and The Conversation. Cavill regularly advises the BBC Pronunciation Unit on
 onomastics. Harrison and Moran’s regular consultancy for BBC radio and television has raised
 awareness of D.H. Lawrence’s life and work on programmes including Bargain Hunt (2018),
 Great British Railway Journeys (2018), Books that Made Britain (2016), Flog It! (2014) and a
 Culture Show Special (2013); and Bloomfield has appeared on BBC TV’s The Big Questions to
 discuss Shakespeare and the Bible. McGregor’s Reservoir Tapes was broadcast on BBC Radio
 4 in 2017 (c. 1m listeners). Mullany’s research on misogyny as a hate crime was featured on the
 BBC news (radio, TV and online), in the Guardian and Independent, and informed public
 understanding worldwide (up to 90m article views) (ICS 3); Lee’s work on AncientBiotics gained
 exposure in print and digital media, TV and radio in the UK, Europe and North America, featuring

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in BBC TV’s Science Stories and raising awareness of and interest in new cross-disciplinary
 approaches to modern health care problems.

 4.3 Engagement with and support for diverse communities and publics

 Supported by UoN’s interdisciplinary structures (1.6), we have formed partnerships locally,
 regionally, nationally and internationally, engaging collaboratively with diverse communities and
 publics. In Nottingham, Harvey’s research underpins shared reading groups that promote the
 health benefits of reading aloud in group contexts, reaching people with dementia in care
 homes and local hospitals, and local community groups in Lenton. Lucy Jones and Mullany
 have worked with UoN colleagues and the Nottingham Centre for Transgender Health to
 improve experience for transgender patients.

 At a regional level, Robinson has collaborated with UoN colleagues and the East Midlands
 company Red Earth Theatre to make theatre more accessible and inclusive for D/deaf
 audiences (3.1). Collins, Harrison, and Moran’s theatre workshops with Hall Park Academy,
 Eastwood (3.2; 4.4) and Nottingham University Samworth Academy have enhanced KS3 drama
 teaching and increased cultural engagement opportunities for the region’s schoolchildren.
 Matsumoto’s work with Nottingham Women’s Centre and Small Press Library in Liverpool has
 encouraged women to engage in small press publishing. Lucy Jones has worked with
 transgender and LGBT youth groups to understand how transgender identity is constructed
 as a positive force in the face of transphobic discrimination, and to inform social policy and
 practice by developing a framework for the qualitative sociolinguistic analysis of LGBT identity
 (3.1).

 Nationally, MacKenzie (BA-funded) has worked with LGBT, single, and/or adoptive parents to
 explore the role of digital media in the lives of marginalised family groups in the UK. The
 benefits of Mullany’s research for victims of misogyny/gender hate crime in the UK and East
 African NGOs and charities, women and girls in Uganda and Kenya are detailed in ICS 3.
 Research-informed teaching materials developed by Schmitt, Muir, and Dörnyei (CRAL) have
 improved language-learning and benefitted English Language teachers and students
 nationally and worldwide. Schmitt has advised on second language teaching and assessment for
 the Israeli and Costa Rican Ministries of Education, and HEIs in Spain, Netherlands, Austria,
 Belgium, Sweden, Dubai, and the USA.

 Colleagues at all levels have sustained engagements with existing publics, and reached new
 audiences, through: 120+ plenary and public lectures and keynotes, including talks in 12
 countries; 36 readings of poetry and prose by Legendre, Matsumoto, McGregor and Welton in
 locations including Nottingham, London, Edinburgh, Paris, New York, Vancouver; and
 contributions to public festivals of arts, culture, literature, and science across the UK (Buckler,
 Kirwan, Ramsay and others). Colleagues including Harrison, Masters and Matsumoto launched
 books with talks in locations including Nottingham, Manchester, and Edinburgh.

 4.4 Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline, support for interdisciplinary
 research, and responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives

 Our leadership of major professional associations and learned societies makes a key
 contribution to the sustainability of English as a discipline. Jesch and Carroll have served as
 President and Honorary Secretary of the English Place-Name Society. Royan is President and
 Martin is Executive Officer of the Scottish Text Society. Harrison is President of the D.H.
 Lawrence Society (Great Britain). Welton was Chair of the Nottingham Festival of Literature.
 Head, Pratt and Stockwell are Fellows of the English Association and Adolphs is a Fellow of the
 Academy of Social Sciences. Baker, Carroll and Jesch are Fellows of the Society of Antiquaries
 (London), and Jesch also of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland (Edinburgh), and the Royal
 Historical Society (London). Colleagues have also served as: elected member of the British
 Association of Applied Linguistics Special Interest Group on Language, Gender and Sexuality
 (Lucy Jones); Committee member of the British Association of Applied Linguistics Health and

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Science Communication Special Interest Group (Hunt); Trustee and Membership Officer of the
 British Shakespeare Association (Kirwan); Research Officer for the Theatre and Performance
 Research Association (Robinson); executive committee member of the Irish Society for Theatre
 Research (Collins). Internationally, service includes: elected member of the International Gender
 and Language Association Advisory Board (Lucy Jones); elected member of the International
 Sachsensymposion (Baker); Secretary General of Communications for the International
 Federation for Theatre Research (Collins).

 Support for interdisciplinary research came from UoN’s interdisciplinary research
 infrastructure (1.6). Funding from RPAs/IRCs enabled interdisciplinary collaborations with
 colleagues across UoN: e.g. Jordan worked with UoN’s NVIDIA Joint-Lab on Mixed Reality on
 ‘Lace2Place’ (Creative and Digital) (3.2); Matsumoto co-organised the ‘Modernist Art Writing’
 conference with Modern Languages and Cultures and Art History (Languages, Texts and
 Society); and Jesch worked alongside History and Archaeology in the British Identities RPA (see
 also 3.2). Through our Research Centres we have cultivated long-standing links with Widening
 Participation and Education to deliver enriching extra- and cross-curricular KS1-3 learning
 activities (CRLC, CSVA, INS; ICS 1, 2); and have conducted interdisciplinary research with UoN
 Horizon and Computer Science, enabling new technologies for enhancing cultural engagement
 across the East Midlands (CRLC; ICS 4) and in applied linguistics (CRAL; 3.1).

 UoN support for interdisciplinary research has also enabled our responsiveness to national
 and international priorities and initiatives. Our global challenge-led research on slavery is
 supported by the Rights Lab Beacon, which funded Moran and Collins’s work locally with Hall
 Park Academy on a performance exploring the history and legacies of African American
 slavery (3.2, 4.3). RPA funding supported Jesch’s ‘Bringing the Vikings Back to the East
 Midlands’ project, which enhanced professional and public understanding of the impact and
 legacy of migration in British history and identity (ICS 1). External funding from the M3C
 consortium is supporting Parnell’s doctoral research on Brexit-related immigration discourses.
 An award from the AHRC Global Challenges Research Fund supported Mullany’s international
 LGL Network (4.1), which has enhanced work towards the UN’s 2030 Sustainable
 Development Goal 5, Gender Equality in East Africa (ICS 3). Our agility in responding to the
 current pandemic is evidenced by new Research England QR-funded projects; our researchers
 are improving understanding of Covid-related public health discourses and EDI workplace
 narratives, and helping to safeguard young people and regional museums during the
 pandemic (1.7).

 4.5 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base

 We have enhanced the research base nationally and internationally through editorial work for
 16 scholarly journals including: Discourse, Context and Media; Language and Literature;
 Modern Language Journal; Second Language Research. We have served on the editorial
 boards of 32 scholarly journals including: Applied Linguistics; English Literature in Transition;
 Gender and Language; International Journal of Performance Arts and Digital Media;
 Shakespeare. We have edited book series including: The Revels Plays Companion Library, the
 Premodern Health series (Amsterdam UP), and the City Names Series (EPNS). Pratt is on the
 editorial advisory boards of the Edinburgh Edition of Walter Scott’s Poetry and The Letters of
 Elizabeth Montagu.

 We have shaped the future of research in English through our membership of national and
 international Research Councils and other funding bodies: 7 of us have been members of
 the AHRC Peer Review College, 2 are members of the AHRC Strategic College, 1 is member of
 the Peer Review College for UKRI’s Future Leaders Fellowships, and 1 served on the AHRC
 Council. Colleagues have reviewed for: British Academy, DAAD (German Academic Exchange
 Council), DFG (German Research Council), Dutch Research Council, ESRC, Irish Research
 Council, Israeli Research Council, Leverhulme Trust, Marie Curie Fellowships, National
 Research Council (Canada), National Science Foundation (USA), and Research Grants Council
 (Hong Kong).

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Members of the School from ECRs to Professors have made expert contributions to published
 research across all disciplinary areas by undertaking refereeing, advisory and consultancy work,
 including peer-review for over 130 scholarly journals and extensive peer-review of
 monographs for 15 academic presses, e.g. Bloomsbury, Boydell and Brewer, Broadview,
 Cambridge University Press, Manchester University Press, Oxford University Press, Palgrave,
 and Routledge. We represent the discipline as advisors and consultants to regional and
 national bodies including the Arts Council (Faber New Poets scheme), Phone-paid Service
 Authority, Derbyshire NHS Trust, Cambridge International Examinations, and AQA
 Examinations; and the international bodies listed in 4.1. We routinely serve as PhD external
 examiners, and as external reviewers in promotion processes, including professorial panels,
 nationally and internationally.

 We have enabled international and transdisciplinary research cross-fertilisation by hosting major
 national and international conferences and symposia (2236 delegates in total) including: the
 35th ICAME conference (2014); ‘Modernist Musics and Political Aesthetics’ (2015); the Midland
 Viking Symposium (2016, 2018); the Lavender Languages & Linguistics 24 conference (2017);
 the BARS Biennial International Conference (2019), and ‘Born Yesterday: Cross-disciplinary
 Investigations into Birth, Midwifery and Childhood’ (2019).

 Our standing within the discipline has been further recognised at all staff levels. We have
 been awarded visiting fellowships and professorships at: Folger Shakespeare Library
 (Kirwan); Fudan University, Shanghai (Cavill); University of Gothenburg (MacKenzie); Houghton
 Library, Harvard (Scott, Sutherland); NUI, Galway (Collins, Moran); University of Helsinki (Whitt);
 Keio University, Japan (Matthews); State University of Linguistics, Minsk, Belarus (Sotirova);
 Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen (Conklin); Moscow City University (Baker,
 Carroll); Sheffield Hallam (Mullany); Stanford University (Carroll); Harry Ransom Research
 Center, University of Texas at Austin (Moran); and Yale Beinecke Library (Bumke). Our research
 has been translated into: Dutch, French, German, Italian, Spanish, Catalan, Portuguese,
 Czech, Greek, Turkish, Polish, Serbian, Arabic, Farsi, Chinese, Japanese, and Korean. Awards,
 honours and other esteem indicators include: Dörnyei’s co-authored Motivating Learners,
 Motivating Teachers was ‘Highly Commended’ in the English-Speaking Union’s HRH The Duke
 of Edinburgh English Language Book Awards; McGregor received the E.M. Forster Award in
 Literature from the American Academy of Arts and Letters; his Reservoir 13 won the Costa
 Novel of the Year and the British Book Awards Book of the Year (Fiction) and was longlisted for
 the Man Booker Prize; Jesch’s contribution to interdisciplinary Viking Studies was recognised in
 July 2020 with her election as a Fellow of the British Academy.




                                                                                            Page 17
