Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Oxford
 Unit of Assessment: UoA 22A: Anthropology
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1. Context
UoA22a at the University of Oxford is a large and vibrant community (51 members of staff, 48.21
FTE) mainly centred in the School of Anthropology and Museum Ethnography (SAME). The
relationship between SAME and the rest of UoA22a is shown in Figure 1.




                                                                      From SAME to other UoAs




                                                        Archaeology 1FTE
                                                        Sociology 2 FTE
                                                        Politics 1FTE
                                                        Geography 1.5FTE
                                                        Area Studies 1FTE



Figure 1. UoA22a and anthropology FTEs submitted to other UoAs

In disciplinary terms, SAME is one of the most diverse and inclusive anthropology departments in
the UK, covering anthropology very broadly in its scientific, material, and social dimensions. We also
have multiple links to other disciplines both within and beyond the University, bridging into arts,
humanities, social, physical and life sciences. We embrace the expansive nature of anthropological
research methods and the need for ‘undisciplined scholarship’ (†Rayner1) in understanding the
manifold complexities of human beings in the world. Oxford Anthropology is committed to the


    1 † indicates deceased.


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
growth of Anthropology as a discipline whose reach ranges from global comparative approaches
to locally-focused ethnographic studies and includes the study of humans and other primates across
deep time and space. We are equally committed to contributing anthropological perspectives
to interdisciplinary efforts to solve contemporary problems. As a result, many large, multi- and
interdisciplinary programmes at the University of Oxford (hereafter Oxford) are led by, or involve,
anthropologists, bringing anthropology to bear on pressing global challenges such as migration,
global health, decolonising heritage and museums, and the study of the evolutionary and cultural
logics of social cohesion. These two core values -- a holistic approach to the discipline and a
commitment to interdisciplinarity in pursuit of impactful research -- underpin our strategy and make
Oxford's UoA22a submission distinctive.

We are committed to crafting a space of research freedom and creativity conducive to the production
of outstanding impactful research in key areas of scholarship. Recognising the diversity of
approaches and topics of study, as well as the challenges and opportunities this affords, we nurture
interactions and collaborations across different areas by being open to synergies as they arise, and
cross-fertilising ideas by facilitating dialogue through seminars and regular Research Away Days.
Methodologically, Anthropology at Oxford ranges from quantitative and global comparative
approaches through to in-depth, long-term and localised ethnographic studies. Much of our research
is interdisciplinary, recognising that complex issues and questions demand approaches
transcending a single disciplinary lens. This is reflected in our outputs, which include articles in
leading anthropology journals, classic single-authored monographs, collaborative papers both
ethnographic and scientific, experimental speculations on migrant futures, and multi-authored edited
volumes.

In our plans outlined in REF2014, we noted the challenge of being spread across multiple buildings,
resulting in missed opportunities for collaborations and synergies. This key strategic aim is now
coming to fruition with the allocation of space next to the Pitt Rivers Museum and planned investment
of £16.3million by the University. With this, we intend to house the whole School of Anthropology
under one roof to underpin the vibrancy and sustainability of our research. The move will take place
in 2023.

Other strategic aims in the coming years involve investment in certain key areas of research strength
and impact delivery, as set out in Section 1.3.1.

1.2. The Structure of the Unit
As noted above, the core of this UoA is the School of Anthropology and Museum Ethnography
(SAME) which provides a supportive and inclusive home to a diverse range of anthropological
research. Breadth within the UoA is both methodological as well as topical. We are committed to
supporting colleagues to develop individual and collective research agendas creatively and freely.
Nevertheless, the School identifies six key areas of research focus, underpinned by the thematic
research centres listed below (as shown in Figure 2):
         Migration and Mobility
         Origins and Evolution
         Social and Material Worlds
         Religion, Ritual and Politics
         Science, Technology and Environment
         Health and Wellbeing




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Close and long-standing ties to the Pitt Rivers Museum (PRM) underpin the UoA’s strengths in
material, visual, and museum anthropology. Research carried out in the Institute of Social and
Cultural Anthropology (ISCA) addresses a theoretically and geographically diverse range of
contemporary issues within material, medical, social and visual anthropology. Research on migration
and mobility, emphasising conceptual advances and interdisciplinary reach, knowledge exchange,
and policy, is supported by the Centre on Migration, Policy and Society (COMPAS), the main hub
for migration studies at Oxford, which includes the Migration Observatory and the Global Exchange
on Migration (both outward-facing units informing public policy and perceptions of migration). The
Institute for Science, Innovation and Society (InSIS) drives forward research in the areas of
technology, science, and the environment. The Institute of Cognitive and Evolutionary
Anthropology (ICEA) brings together research on primatology, evolutionary human sciences, and
cognitive approaches to culture, while the Centre for the Study of Social Cohesion (CSSC)
provides a home for interdisciplinary research on group bonding, ritual, and the global history of
religion.

This breadth of perspectives within the UoA feeds into our teaching and therefore into the preparation
of future cohorts of scholars. Building on a broad undergraduate degree located within SAME’s
Institute of Human Sciences, we offer eight MSc/MPhil programmes and two DPhil programmes,
including our new interdisciplinary DPhil in Migration Studies, started in 2019 (described further
below; Sections 1.3.1, 1.3.2, and 2.5).




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 2. The core of UoA22A - the School of Anthropology and Museum Ethnography – areas
of research focus and cross-cutting research units

The UoA has remained largely stable in size during the REF period, consolidating growth
experienced by the Unit up to REF2014 (REF2014, 55.8 FTE; REF2021, 48.21 FTE, although the
changing pattern of UoA returns between 2014 and 2021 make direct comparisons difficult). As
noted in Figure 1, a number of anthropologists in Oxford are also being returned in other UoAs, such
as Archaeology, Sociology, Politics, Geography and Area Studies.


1.3. Research and Impact Strategy
In REF 2014, Oxford Anthropology committed itself to establishing a renewed holistic and
collaborative approach to the subject, since contemporary problems do not respect conventional
disciplinary boundaries. This required the School not only to expand into new areas, such as
cognitive and evolutionary anthropology, migration studies, and science and technology studies, but
also to foster collaborations reaching beyond anthropology.

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The School of Anthropology Management Board (SMB) sets an overall strategy for SAME, including
the approval of major new research initiatives, and coordinates five-yearly reviews with the Social
Sciences Division to ensure targeted resource planning. In 2016, the School established a Research
Committee with a broad representation from across the School and career stages, which liaises with
the divisional Research Strategy Group, connecting with University-wide research strategy and
initiatives, and contributes to strategic decisions relating to research in the School and beyond into
the University. This Committee also monitors and oversees research activity, including demand
management as required by funders. The Head of School approves all grant applications submitted
by the department, taking into account resource requirements, space, and institutional fit. The
Research Units detailed above take an active role in setting research strategies within their particular
areas.

1.3.1 Future research objectives and impact plans
In support of our two core values identified in Section 1.1: 1) growing Anthropology as a
discipline; and 2) contributing anthropological perspectives to interdisciplinary efforts to
solve contemporary problems, over the next five years we will:

    A) support diversity in research practices and methods, in order to sustain our vibrant
       research culture within the School;
    B) maintain, diversify, and increase income streams to support our research and impact
       activities;
    C) continue to promote excellent interdisciplinary and collaborative research;
    D) build our impact and engagement activity more comprehensively into the research
       process to ensure we enable our researchers to contribute to solving contemporary
       problems and promote intercultural understanding and tolerance.

Crucial to all these objectives in the next five years is the aforementioned acquisition of a new home
to house the whole School of Anthropology under one roof (Section 1.1). The process of configuring
the new space presents an exciting opportunity to shape the ways that the different units of the
School can both maintain their distinctive work practices while also ensuring their maximal openness
to serendipitous interaction and interdisciplinary collaborations across the whole School (Objectives
A & C).

Members of the UoA are extremely excited at the opportunities afforded by this move. The intended
close proximity to the PRM builds on our close and historic links with the museum and opens up
stimulating pathways to impact and public engagement with research (Objective D). We also plan to
invest further in visual, material and museum anthropology by appointing to an associate
professorship in visual anthropology. In the medium term, we intend to re-appoint to the SAME/PRM
lecturer-curator post vacated in 2018 (Objective A).

Against the backdrop of uncertainty in relation to funding sources arising from the economic effects
of Covid-19 and Brexit, it will be vitally important to continue to diversify our funding sources (See
Figure 5, Section 3.1). Supporting this is an integral aspect of our Research Development Officer’s
(RDO) remit. Their support will be bolstered by divisional support from the Senior Research
Facilitator and the University’s newly formed Strategic Research Development Team. Together all
three provide targeted support for the development of cross-disciplinary networks and hubs and
major inter- and multi-disciplinary grants (Objectives B & C).



                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The School intends to enhance the research capacity and profile of the Institute of Human Sciences
(IHS) (Section 1.2; currently primarily a teaching unit) by incorporating the research of the members
of the Institute of Cognitive and Evolutionary Anthropology (Carvalho2, Cohen, Fortunato) into the
IHS, adding a strong research dimension to its uniquely interdisciplinary undergraduate degree. This
will bring teaching and research in the fields of evolutionary human sciences under a single umbrella
and drive forward interdisciplinary research agendas focusing on human evolution and origins
(Objective C).

Building on our extant strength in the field of medical anthropology, there is exciting potential to
expand research capacity in the broad areas of Science and Technology Studies (STS) as they
relate to global and environmental health and wellbeing. An anticipated staff retirement in medical
anthropology in 2022 offers an opportunity to identify emerging areas of research priority that will
feed into our staffing strategy. Against the backdrop of the global environmental crisis and pandemic,
this presents itself as a particularly important and exciting opportunity to embed further the
anthropology of planetary and human health as a distinctive subfield of research and specialisation
in the School (Objectives A & C).

Migration studies is an area of continuing growth, evidenced by the creation of a new DPhil in
Migration Studies (See Section 1.3.2). We will take the opportunity of anticipated staff turnover to
build this further and expand intellectual leadership and research excellence in this field. In particular,
the School plans to create an additional post to build research expertise focusing on the political
economy of migration as part of its commitment to interdisciplinary approaches to the study of
migration (Objective C).

Inspired by productive collaboration with the divisional Research Impact Facilitator in the run-up to
the REF submission, we plan to continue providing impact facilitation support to researchers. This
will further embed a research culture of developing pathways to engagement and impact. As part of
strengthening our pathway from research through to impact we will also enhance communications
resource across the Unit (Objective D).

1.3.2. Research and Impact since REF2014
Since REF2014, Oxford Anthropology has made significant progress towards the seven Strategic
Aims that were our focus at that time (1-7), and we have since added two further aims (8-9). Our
Objectives (A-D) for the next five years, as set out above, build on the aims that have guided us over
the REF period:

    1. building up cross-disciplinary research centres and networks;
    2. recruiting the best international researchers;
    3. encouraging staff research activity through sabbaticals and external funding;
    4. providing a stimulating and supportive environment for research students;
    5. promoting Oxford Anthropology’s traditional strength in social anthropology while
       also underpinning an expanded range of interdisciplinary research focused on
       contemporary challenges;
    6. supporting and encouraging horizontal research links between different parts of the
       Unit to retain a coherent identity as a network of networks;
    7. encouraging and supporting the impact and dissemination of our work;
    8. attracting and supporting Early Career Fellows;

    2 Names in bold indicate individuals submitted for REF2021; names not in bold refer to individuals not

    submitted.

                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   9. fostering international exchanges.

We value short-term, problem-driven research as well as long-term, in-depth and wide-ranging
engagement over many years with the same field sites, and we recognise that empirical research
takes many forms, from individual inquiry through to large, multidisciplinary, collaborative teams.

We have developed our traditional strength in social anthropology by creating two new permanent
Associate Professorships (AP) - one in Africanist Anthropology (the Clarendon-Lienhardt Associate
Professorship (Cousins)); and another in Visual, Material and Museum Anthropology (Hallam). We
also hosted one of the largest ever conferences for the Association of Social Anthropologists of the
UK and Commonwealth (2018) (Section 4.3). (Aim 5).

Interdisciplinary links and programmes that were already underway in 2014 have been strengthened,
testifying to the potential and vibrancy of Oxford Anthropology. Three of our key interdisciplinary
Research Centres (InSIS, COMPAS and CSSC) have all established firmer footings in the last six
years with a series of collaborative projects. For example, Keith’s Urban Transformations (2015-20)
and PEAK Urban programmes (2017-2022), bring interdisciplinary expertise (drawing from
geography, data analytics, anthropology and epidemiology) to bear on the pressing challenges of
urban futures. We have also established a new cross-departmental interdisciplinary DPhil in
Migration Studies, which complements our strength in migration and mobility, centred around
COMPAS. (Aims 1 and 5).

A School Annual Research Away Day fosters dialogue across the Unit, encouraging horizontal
research links that facilitate collaboration within and beyond the Unit. For example, a new
collaboration between Alvergne and Olszewska, investigating the links between the Covid-19
pandemic and female reproductive health, was borne out of the last Away Day in January 2020. A
Postdoctoral Network (‘Postdoc and Pastries’) enables Fixed Term Researchers (FTRs) to develop
their peer-support network both within the School and beyond, and researchers at all career stages
participate in multiple vibrant interdisciplinary research seminars (Aims 1, 5 and 6).

In 2018, we introduced a new part-time Research Impact Facilitator (RIF) role, dedicated to the
School to provide vital impact and engagement advice and support to our researchers. Our Public
Engagement with Research Leader (Allen3), based in COMPAS has also recently organised a series
of workshops to train researchers to produce engaging videos of their research (Section 3.2). Our
four REF2021 impact case studies exemplify our commitment to policy impact, knowledge exchange,
and social justice. Three focus on migration, including irregular and destitute migrants, the integration
of migrants in UK cities, and understanding how migration policies affect the UK (Spencer,
Sumption, Vargas Silva). Our Migration research is highly regarded and has been nationally
recognised with an ESRC Impact Prize (2017) (Section 3.2). The final case study (Harris) focuses
on visual representations of Tibetans, influencing curatorial practice and enabling unprecedented
opportunities for Tibetans to reflect on their identity, exemplifying our approach to engagement with
the communities we study (Aim 7).

As noted above (Section 1.3.1), further support to our researchers is provided by a dedicated RDO
(appointed in 2017). This, along with light-touch internal peer review of grant applications, is available
to all researchers whatever their career stage, but particularly those in the early stages of their
careers (Section 3.2). This dual support has translated into an increased application success rate
from 22% (2014/15) to 31% in (2019/20), and growth in research income (£22.2million over the

    3 Returned to UoA 9 Politics.


                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
current REF period, compared with £13.9million between 2008 and 2014 (more detail provided in
Section 3.1). We are fortunate to provide a generous research leave allowance (one term in seven
for all permanent academic staff) and a sympathetic approach to FTR requests (see Section 2.2 and
2.4 for more detail) (Aim 3).

The Unit has met further grant success with ECR fellowships, regularly hosting and investing in
ECRs via funded fellowships, such as Leverhulme Early Career Fellows, British Academy
Postdoctoral Fellows, and Marie Skłodowska Curie Fellows, as well as other funded ECR
fellowships. Departmental funds are also used to appoint fixed-term early career scholars (e.g.
Hendriks; Zharkevich). Finally, major research grants fund significant numbers of FTRs. For
example Whitehouse’s €2.5million ERC Advanced Grant has provided funding to 9 FTRs based in
the CSSC. Some of the above remain in post at the census date, others, especially many of the
FTRs working within our Centres, have gone on to prestigious academic posts elsewhere (eg. Max
Planck Institute, Edinburgh University, Concordia University). (See Section 2.4 for further details).
(Aims 3 and 8).

Improvements to our stimulating and supportive environment for research students are evidenced
by a doubling of funding for research student bursaries (£75,000 p.a. in 2014 to more than £200,000
p.a. in 2020) and skills and hardship (£11,000 to £28,000 per year). We also encourage timely thesis
submission by offering bursaries of up to £1,500 (in cases of established need) to students within the
last six months of their doctorate. Providing high-quality workspace for research students remains a
challenge and is a priority for the new building. (See Section 2.5 for more details). (Aim 4).

We have recruited the best international researchers over the REF period. 60% of our newly
recruited academic staff have an international background. Particular international appointments of
note in the period include Carvalho, to further strengthen our research on human origins and
evolution; and new appointments in the fields of social anthropology (Cousins) and migration and
mobility (Dzenovska). (See Section 2.12 for details on approach to recruitment). To complement
international appointments, international exchanges are fostered through a stream of visitors. Recent
highlights include Michael Jackson (Astor lecturer 2017 from Harvard); Marcio Goldman (TORCH-
Mellon Global Visiting Professor from National Museum in Rio de Janeiro); Anna Tsing (Marett
Lecturer from UC Santa Cruz); Tanya Luhrmann (Winchester Visiting Lecturer from Stanford); and
Olga Jubany (COMPAS Visiting Scholar, University of Barcelona). International exchanges for us
are not just about bringing outstanding scholars to Oxford but also about supporting the exchange
of knowledge in the Global South. To this end, Carvalho has directed the Paleo-Primate Project
Gorongosa in Mozambique since 2015, leading an international interdisciplinary team of twenty
senior researchers to understand hominin origins and adaptations, with Oxford Anthropology ECRs
contributing to a field school there. Keith oversaw the ESRC-funded Urban Transformations
programme 2015-20 (£120million), and worked closely with the following international funders: the
Natural Science Foundation in China, the Indian Council of Social Science Research, the National
Research Foundation in South Africa and the federal Brazilian FAPE network (Fundação de Amparo
à Pesquisa do Estado). (Aims 2 and 9).

1.4 Research Integrity, the Open Research Agenda, Ethics
Research quality and integrity is assured by the School’s light-touch peer-review process of all major
grant applications, and the University’s support for responsible data management and information
compliance.
Research integrity is a core value of the School, as evidenced by Fortunato’s commitment to open
research since 2016. Initially supported by a John Fell Fund cross-divisional grant, she leads


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Reproducible Research Oxford (RROx), a University-wide initiative focused on advancing the
open research agenda at Oxford. The overarching goal is to promote a coordinated approach to
open scholarship and research reproducibility that extends to all disciplines (see also the
Institutional-level statement, p.5 for further detail on RROx).
Recognising that research data management is an increasingly complex area, the School proactively
ensures that researchers are aware of relevant legislation, University policy and relevant ethical
guidelines. For example, we recently held a staff training session with representatives from the
University Information Security and Compliance team. The UoA is committed to the University’s
Open Scholarship policy and Plan S principles, for example through our peer-reviewed Journal of
the Anthropological Society (JASO), which is completely open access, free to publish and free to
read. All outputs submitted in REF2021 are available through the Oxford Research Archive and Act
on Acceptance reports are monitored. We encourage staff to archive data at Research Data Oxford.

Oxford’s aspiration to high standards of research integrity is met through our ethical frameworks and
processes. All field research involving human participants is reviewed by the School’s Research
Ethics Committee, chaired by the Head of School, and by the Safety in Fieldwork process
(administered jointly with the Division). Where research involves participants identified as vulnerable,
or a particularly sensitive research focus, the project undergoes further scrutiny and review by the
Interdivisional Research Ethics Committee for the Social Sciences and Humanities (IDREC - SSH)
on which the School is also represented.

 2. People


In line with the University’s strategy, UoA22a is committed to attracting, recruiting, and retaining
academics of the highest calibre from as diverse a pool as possible. All appointments are made via
selection committees with at least 40% female representation on each recruitment panel.

2.1. Staffing Profile and Strategy
The School Management Board is responsible for setting and implementing staffing strategy and
does so in consultation with the School Teaching Committee, School Research Committee and
research centres as appropriate.

2.1.1. Staffing Profile
In our REF2014 submission, the UoA took a very inclusive approach, returning very nearly 100% of
eligible staff. As noted in Section 1.2, the UoA has remained largely stable in terms of size during
the REF period, consolidating the growth experienced by the Unit up to REF2014 (REF2014, 55.8
FTE; REF2021, 48.21 FTE). However, the apparent slight drop in FTE in REF2021 also reflects that
several departments in Oxford now employ anthropologists who have been returned through other
UoAs, further evidencing the interdisciplinary value of anthropology.

The balance between our permanent and fixed-term research staff has improved and numbers are
now approximately 50:50 compared with only 40% of submitted staff in REF2014 being permanent.
This is due to some level of consolidation within the Centres, where FTRs eligible under the 2021
criteria have fallen in number, and in part, as above, due to some anthropologists being returned to
other UoAs as a consequence of greater value being placed on interdisciplinarity in REF2021. In
some cases, this is also due to FTRs being converted into permanent appointments (e.g Dzenovska
has secured a permanent AP position following her period as fixed-term departmental lecturer).



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
From a gender perspective the percentage of female staff has improved both among permanent and
fixed term researchers rising from approximately 42% to 53% in both cases. This evidences the
positive effect of some of our approaches to Equality and Diversity within our recruitment processes
(see Section 2.6 below).

                                   People       FTE        % Female
 Professor                         11           10.2       36%; 4 fem
 Associate Professor (AP)          17           17         63%; 10 fem
 Fixed Term Researchers            24           22.01      54% 13 fem
 TOTAL                             51           48.21      53%; 27 fem

Table 1. UoA22a staff profile for REF 2021

Our current staff profile of those submitted (Table 1) suggests a healthy gender balance among
FTRs, early career and mid-career researchers (with 50-65% female staffing ratios), but work
remains to be done at the professorial level. We are particularly encouraged by the percentage of
female APs as these represent permanent appointments, many of whom are likely to secure
professorial title in time. We are also pleased that of 24 FTRs, 11 are ECRs (64% female), further
testifying to our commitment to supporting the next generation of researchers.

2.1.2. Staffing Strategy 2014-21
Many of the posts returned under this UoA are joint posts held with other departments, for example,
the lecturer-curator post (Harris) in connection with the PRM, the Associate Professorship (AP) in
the Anthropology of Africa and the Evans-Pritchard Early Career Departmental Lectureship (Pratten
and Hendriks respectively) in connection with the School of Global and Area Studies, among others.
These joint posts are particularly beneficial in sustaining close links with other departments, fostering
interdisciplinary research (Aim 1, as noted in Section 1.3.2) and ensuring appropriately holistic
supervision for research students (Aim 4, Section 1.3.2).

In the period since the last REF, new appointments have:

    -   built and expanded regional and social anthropological expertise in the anthropology of
        South Asia, the Middle East and Africa (Cousins; Hendriks; Mathur4; Olszewska);
    -   consolidated expertise in the field of migration and mobility (Dzenovska);
    -   enhanced research excellence at the interface of social and material entanglements in
        relation to the body, creativity and material anthropology (Hallam);
    -   expanded expertise in the fields of evolutionary anthropology and primatology
        (Carvalho)
    -   invested in interdisciplinary research in Human Sciences (Kashyap5 – a joint post shared
        with the Department of Sociology).

These posts drive forward research excellence in specific fields, but they also cut across disciplinary
and thematic boundaries, thereby encouraging interdisciplinarity, one of our core commitments
(Section 1.1). For example, for the endowed AP in African Anthropology we appointed an Africanist,
who also fosters a commitment to interdisciplinary research in the fields of animal-human relations,
global health and wellbeing (Cousins), thus nurturing synergies between work at InSIS and in ISCA,
broadly in the fields of global health, medical anthropology, and more-than-human anthropology.

    4 Returned to UoA25 Area Studies.
    5 Returned to UoA21 Sociology.


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2.1.3. Future Staffing Strategy
Over the coming years, SAME plans to further consolidate and expand areas of research strength
detailed under Section 1.2. As noted in Section 1.3.1, several recent and future staff changes present
opportunities to build strategically on extant capacity. We aim to refill the lecturer-curator post
vacated by Peers’ retirement, jointly held with the PRM. The success of the Migration DPhil
Programme makes a further post in the interdisciplinary field of migration studies desirable. This
would both build research capacity and expertise as well as add to the vibrancy of COMPAS as the
University hub for the study of migration and mobility. Finally, anticipated staff turnover in medical
anthropology presents an exciting opportunity to explore potential synergies at the interface between
medical anthropology and science and technology studies, for example by expanding concepts of
health and wellbeing to include global or planetary health.

With regards to recruitment procedures, it is compulsory that all recruitment panel chairs are trained
according to University procedures and all panel members are required to undertake training on
recognising implicit bias. As noted above, all panels are gender-balanced (with at least 40% female
representation). Some progress has been made in recent years with diversification of staffing. Of
eight AP appointments made in the past five years, seven have gone to female candidates; two out
of six appointments have been staff of colour. Nevertheless, the School recognises that there is still
much progress to be made, particularly in relation to issues of race equality. In June 2020, the School
established a small student/staff working group on anti-racism and equality to foster inclusive and
anti-racist practices within the School and engage with wider initiatives around Diversity and Equality
in the University (e.g. Race Equality Chartermark process).

2.2. Research Leave
All permanent academic staff are entitled to one term of sabbatical leave in every seven, or one year
in seven. They also receive teaching buy-out when leading externally funded research projects that
include provision for teaching cover. Furthermore, all academic staff (including fixed-term
departmental lecturers) have an annual research allowance (£1,000) to support travel, conference
attendance, etc. This system has facilitated much productive in-depth research; for example, Ewart
who used her annual allowance to begin new research in southwest Ethiopia, subsequently secured
internal John Fell funding before securing further external funding for her current project on human-
plant relations among small-scale farmers.

2.3. Staff Support and Development
At induction, all new members of staff are assigned a mentor from within the School and are given
an induction pack which includes the Code of Practice for Research Staff. We implement the
University’s Code of Practice for the Employment and Career Management of Research Staff, which
includes skills training for researchers as well as careers advice, professional development
opportunities, and opportunities to meet and network with researchers in other departments. We
anticipate working in alignment with the University’s Concordat for Researchers’ plans to support
ECRs and FTRs in the coming years. The School provides support to FTRs towards the end of fixed-
term contracts in applying for new funding and/or assistance with job applications.

As part of the University’s responsibility to maintain conditions in which research of the highest
quality can take place, all academic and academic-related staff are offered a chance to reflect and
proactively plan ahead for their research during annual career development reviews with the Head
of School or their line manager. These reviews also encourage individuals to comment on realistic
measures that the School could take to improve their working lives and wellbeing. For those at an

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
earlier stage of their career, these reviews are opportune moments for us to provide support, advice
and encouragement, for example in applying for grants both internally and externally, support for
which is provided by the RDO and the RIF. We also encourage collaborations between academia
and business, industry or public or third sector bodies. Much of the work of the Global Exchange on
Migration and Diversity (Broadhead; Spencer) is based on exchanges with third sector and public
bodies, while Alvergne collaborates with Clue, a period tracker app, to enhance female reproductive
health.

2.4. Early Career and Fixed Term Researchers
In the REF period, Oxford Anthropology has built and supported a vibrant community of early career
anthropologists at Oxford whose informal network (‘Postdocs and Pastries’ (P&P)) meets monthly.
This provides an important opportunity to interact with their peers, who are otherwise spread across
six buildings. The P&P Group allows fixed term researchers to develop their peer-support network
both within the School and beyond in other Social Science Departments (these have been
particularly useful during the pandemic when isolation could easily have set in). Anthropology ECRs
have led on University-wide initiatives such as the ‘Pint of Ethics’ discussion group and the
‘Photography in Fieldwork’ group co-run with Geography. Anthropology ECRs have also been
particularly active in representing the fixed-term researcher community on University-wide
committees, such as the Research Staff Consultative Group and Oxford Research Staff Society.
College-based Junior Research Fellows (e.g. El Khachab; Achtnich) are welcomed and actively
included in departmental activities.

We ensure FTRs and ECRs have the same conditions of service as other academic-related staff and
their career development is supported. Fixed-term teaching and research staff are treated as full
members of the School and not assigned a substantially heavier teaching load than permanent
academic staff (workload is measured by a teaching points system). All contract researchers are
actively encouraged to participate in departmental life and, where contracts permit, they are also
involved in teaching. They are invited to attend and present papers at departmental seminars, and
many are co-supervisors of doctoral student projects or deliver option courses, helping them to gain
valuable teaching experience. Although not formally entitled to sabbatical leave, applications from
fixed-term staff for reduction in teaching obligations, e.g. to complete a book, are sympathetically
received and we view such support as integral to the career development of our early career
colleagues. For example, Hendriks was granted one year’s research leave while an early career
departmental lecturer to enable him to finish and submit his first monograph for publication, resulting
in his securing a permanent post at KU Leuven at the end of his fixed-term lectureship in SAME.

All our doctoral students and researchers have access to an unrivalled set of research seminars and
lectures across Oxford, with anthropologists participating and presenting work across a wide range
of seminars, demonstrating the premium placed on interdisciplinarity by the University. These vital
fora sustain the cross-disciplinary approaches of all our researchers, whatever their career stage.

To complement this, ECRs and FTRs are provided with targeted support by our RDO and RIF to
develop internal and external grant applications of which many are successful. These act as a
springboard for this new generation of researchers to develop their careers both at Oxford and
beyond. Examples include:
    - Kapitany’s British Academy Small Grant, which helped build his research profile and
       subsequent appointment as a lecturer in Psychology at Keele University;
    - Luncz’s John Fell Fund award, which contributed to her success in securing a research group
       leadership position at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology;


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   -    De Souza Santos’s employment, as Postdoctoral Fellow on the Urban Transformations
        programme (2015-18) and subsequent progression to the directorship of the Brazilian
        Studies Centre at Oxford.
   -    Other ECRs from Oxford Anthropology, who progressed to prestigious permanent
        appointments include Gutiérrez Garza at the University of St Andrews; Angel at the University
        of Leicester; Haines at the University of Edinburgh; Sopranzetti at the Central European
        University; Tarr at the London Interdisciplinary School; Archambault at Concordia University,
        Montreal; and Carrier at Bristol University.

2.5. Research students
UoA22a’s strategy is to attract the most talented research students and to provide them with the best
possible research environment in which to reach their potential. Doctoral students in anthropology
do fieldwork in the most diverse and challenging situations, from urban settings to more remote rural
locations and in contexts where access to research participants can be challenging. In some cases,
the length of fieldwork is extended to accommodate the time needed to acquire additional language
proficiency. We have no research-based professional doctoral programmes.

       SAME Research students                2014                          2020
       DPhil awards in SAME                  106 from 2014-2020
       SAME fees funding                     £75,333 per annum             £207,000 per annum
       Skills & hardship funding             £11,000                       £28,000
       Research students beyond fee          37%                           21%
       liability

Table 2. Research student data comparison, 2014 with 2020.

We currently invest over £200,000 p.a. of departmental funds in research student bursaries
(significantly increased from £75,000 p.a. in 2014). Where possible these funds are offered as full
studentships and we have successfully negotiated with three Oxford Colleges to share costs thereby
maximising the number of scholarships offered. Oxford Anthropology benefits from access to Oxford’s fully
funded Clarendon scholarships (three awarded to Anthropology in each of the last two years), ESRC
scholarships (an average of three per year), and AHRC awards (three over the period). Studentships
are also written into research funding applications when possible (for example, Fortunato’s Calleva
project and Dzenovska’s Emptiness project). Oxford Anthropology has more than doubled its skills
and hardship funding since 2014, from £11,000 to £28,000 per year. These increases in funding
available to research students have resulted in a noticeable reduction of research students that are
beyond fee liability (from 37% to 21%), suggesting the increased funding allows students to write up
in a timely, supported manner (Figure 3).

We recognise that in a highly challenging funding environment, competitive full scholarships are key
to offering doctoral places to the most able candidates, regardless of their socio-economic
background. In line with the University and Divisional strategy, we are committed to continuing to
increase the proportion of departmental income recycled into student support by actively seeking
fundraising and college match-funding opportunities.




                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                    57%

                               43%
                                          40%
         37%


                                                     20%        21%




   2014/15     2015/16    2016/17    2017/18    2018/19    2019/20


Figure 3. Percentage of registered SAME Doctoral research students out of fee liability by
year

Better provision of doctoral workspace is a priority in planning the move to our new building. This will
facilitate exchanges between doctoral and postdoctoral researchers, and enable regular informal
encounters among researchers at all career stages.

Our student support team, comprising the Director of Graduate Studies, the Doctoral Admissions and
Research Coordinator and our Academic Coordinator, oversee student progress. The weekly
Graduate Research Seminar, chaired by the Head of School, ensures that our doctoral students are
intellectually nurtured and build a supportive cohort with their peers. Seminars mainly revolve around
our students’ doctoral projects but also include occasional sessions focused on common challenges
faced by students such as career advice and getting published. Prior to fieldwork they take
specialised methods courses, which include sessions on ethical issues as well as safety in fieldwork.
Post-fieldwork students are expected to attend and present at the Graduate Research Seminar
convened by the Head of School. Research students can also access short courses through Oxford’s
ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership as well as training offered by the Social Sciences Division,
including grant writing, research ethics, conducting fieldwork, media training, public engagement,
impact and knowledge exchange.

We encourage timely thesis submission by offering a number of bursaries of up to £1,500 to students
within the last six months of their doctorate. We offer in-house training to graduate students wishing to gain
teaching experience by tutoring undergraduates.

Doctoral students take the lead in running the Oxford University Anthropology Society (OUAS), and
the Oxford University Migration Studies Society (OUMSS), with support from the School. OUAS
invites speakers, holds film screenings and photographic competitions, organises conferences and
training, and provides mentoring to new students, as well as organising social events such as the
Wednesday coffee morning which serves as an important hub for staff, retired colleagues, visitors
and students to mix. COMPAS funds an annual conference, organised by OUMSS, which draws in
research students in migration studies from across the country. Our research students are also actively
involved in other initiatives such as the Weather Matters hub and the Journal of the Anthropological
Society of Oxford (JASO), our in-house peer-reviewed, open-access journal. Doctoral students are also
regularly involved in organising conferences and workshops and the School supports these financially
where possible, e.g. the RAI Annual Student Conference 2019, organised by DPhil student Keiko Kanno
and hosted at SAME.




                                                                                                    Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Oxford Anthropology’s strong research culture and the intercollegiate University as a whole, as well
as joint supervision arrangements, mean that doctoral students are drawn into overlapping research
networks across units of the School or into groups with shared regional interest, sometimes hosted
in adjacent departments, such as African Studies or colleges. Similarly, students in Development
Studies or Geography are regularly invited to join our Anthropology networks. As an example, our
doctoral student Stephanie Postar, now at the University of California, organised, together with
students from Geography, a group working on mining and society, which led to a conference and
an edited volume.

2.6. Equality and diversity
The School achieved an Athena Swan Bronze award in 2017 and is preparing an application for
renewal in 2022. Beyond this formal recognition, we foster an inclusive environment which supports
the wellbeing of our staff. We do this for example via:
    - the establishment of the Working Life Committee (which is charged with implementing the
        action plan arising out of the Athena Swan award);
    - by encouraging eligible staff to apply for support from the University Returning Carers Fund;
    - through the School’s Family-Support Policy, which details facilities and support in relation to
        students/staff with parenting responsibilities;
    - by supporting flexible working where desirable; and
    - by explicitly inclusive research seminar series such as the Primate Conversations who have
        produced guidelines for managing inclusive discussions and a welcoming approach towards
        children, including provision of toys for quiet play.

All these initiatives are part of promoting an inclusive and welcoming ethos in the School. Whole-
staff training sessions have promoted awareness of disability issues in the workplace; active
bystander training; and implicit bias/race awareness.

While the School has made considerable progress towards the aim of achieving gender balance at
all levels within the department, and some progress towards diversification of staff and students, the
School also recognises that there is still much work to be done, especially in regard to race equality
and other forms of diversity. As briefly noted above, the School established a working group on Anti-
Racism and Equality in 2020 with a membership that includes students and staff. This group meets
regularly to highlight areas of student concern, discuss measures the School might take in achieving
greater inclusivity in relation to student and staff recruitment, and addressing the sometimes-troubled
history of the discipline itself. The School is also committed to engaging with recent University-wide
initiatives on race equality and inclusivity that promote the sharing of good practice.

As part of the ASA 2018 conference, the subject librarian for Anthropology & Archaeology, Helen
Worrell, organised a Diversifying Anthropology exhibit. This involved staff and students within the
School nominating the lives and works of anthropologists with diverse backgrounds and histories.
Posters from this project are displayed around the School, and our librarian has more recently
initiated ‘Changing the Narrative: championing inclusive collections’, a project aimed at diversifying
Bodleian library collections and engaging critically with the disciplinary story that particular library
collections tell.

2.6.1 How outputs were selected and reviewed
In 2019, the Research Committee convened a REF Working Group to coordinate activities in
accordance with the University's REF Code of Practice. The Head of School (Ewart) was REF Lead,
supported by Sarró as REF Co-ordinator and by an administrative team led by the Head of

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Administration. A team made up of those with the title of full professor, the Chair of SAME Research
Committee, the REF Lead and Co-ordinator were tasked with the review and selection of outputs.
There were 12 reviewers, 25% were women. Regular meetings of this REF Committee and updates
to colleagues across the department ensured that staff were informed of practices and progress.

A rigorous outputs selection process was applied to ensure parity of treatment across all
researchers. All Category A staff members were asked to nominate up to 5 outputs, which were then
reviewed by two readers according to the REF criteria for output excellence. From the pool of
assessed outputs, based on review scores, those finally returned were selected to meet the minimum
criteria of one per Category A staff and output excellence. This process was handled confidentially
by the REF Lead, REF Coordinator and REF Administrator. It is worth noting that of the 21
researchers submitting three or more outputs, 14 are female (67%) (Table 3).



     No. outputs in submission Cat. A staff                           Cat. B staff
     5                               3                                0
     4                               4                                0
     3                               14                               0
     2                               13                               2
     1                               17                               1

Table 3. Distribution of UoA22a REF outputs 2021

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


Oxford Anthropology encourages and facilitates research of the highest quality, recognising that
some research demands large interdisciplinary teams to tackle complex problems while other
research questions rely on long-term individual researchers’ engagement. In support of this principle,
we endeavour to be as flexible, constructive, and solution-focused as possible when allocating our
resources.

3.1 Research Income
Over the REF period the Unit has received £22.2million research income in total. As noted in Section
1.3.2, this research income has almost doubled from £13.9million between 2008 and 2014. While
the UoA staff headcount has remained broadly stable from REF 2014 to REF 2021, annual external
research income has increased by 22%, from £3,043,048 in 2013/14 to £3,713,286 in 2019/20 (see
Figure 4).

As noted under Aim 3 (Section 1.3.2), the introduction of dedicated resource to support research
development in the shape of a new departmental RDO in 2017 has helped to grow our income in an
increasingly challenging funding environment. A weekly Anthropology Bulletin, circulated by the
Head of Administration and Finance, ensures that staff are aware of upcoming grant opportunities
and events to assist researchers in making connections across the department and beyond.
Researchers making applications are then supported by both peer-review and professional research
support from the RDO. This has led to improved numbers of applications and success rates over the
last few years.




                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                                                             (£,000)
 £5,000

 £4,000

 £3,000

 £2,000

 £1,000

    £0
          2013/14      2014/15   2015/16       2016/17   2017/18   2018/19    2019/20



Figure 4. Annual UoA22a Research income (£,000)

In 2019/20, UoA22a held 64 externally-funded awards averaging approximately £180,000. Three-
quarters of these projects (47) were small (under £100,000), reflecting the breadth of our projects
and the lone scholar nature of much of our research. However, 20% (13) ranged from £100,000 to
£1million (usually involving staffing budget), and six had a budget of more than £1million,
demonstrating our success with difference scales of research grant. The latter particularly indicates
success with large-scale, interdisciplinary, collaborative grants, speaking to Aim 1 (Section 1.3.2).

The sources of our funding are currently split as follows:

                                 Industry,
                                   0.2%                                                     Industry,
                                                                                              0.3%
     EU Government,
         20.8%                                                       EU Government, 13.5%

                                      Research Councils,
                                           29.0%                   Other,
                                                                   10.8%
              Other,                                                                                    Research
                                                                UK Public
              18.6%                                                                                     Councils,
                                                               Sector, 1.5%
                                             Charity,                                                    51.7%
                                              20.7%
                                                                         Charity,
                                                                          22.1%
          UK Public Sector,
               10.8%
                                                  2019/20                                                   2013/14


Figure 5. Research income by funding source for UoA22a, 2019/20 and 2013/14

Across the UoA, reliance on Research Council funding has reduced from over half (51.7%) of the
total funding at the time of the last REF to 29% in 2019/20, while funding from the EU and UK Public
Sector sources has grown commensurately. These two snapshots at either end of the REF period
indicate a trend of growing diversification in funding sources across the same period with increasing
success in securing funding from independent charities and foundations while managing to maximise
eligibility for Charity Quality-Related income. Over the same period reliance on EU funding has
increased slightly through successful large scale EU bids, such as Dzenovska’s ERC-funded



                                                                                                                    Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
‘Emptiness’ project, or Lezaun’s involvement in the Horizon 2020 project OceanNETs, led by
GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research in Kiel, Germany.

3.2 Research and Impact Support
In addressing some of our Aims (1, 3, 6, 8 – see Section 1.3.2), by pump priming larger scale bids,
developing new research ideas, methodologies and approaches to complex problems, as well as
enabling ECRs to develop funding track records, our researchers have made full use of the
University’s internal research fund - the OUP John Fell Fund (JFF). Researchers in the Unit have
received a total of £1.26million over the REF period, funding 46 projects. One of the crucial ways in
which we have encouraged our researchers to use the JFF is to begin to develop confidence and a
track-record with grant writing (responding to Aim 8, Section 1.3.2). Many of these projects were
relatively small pilot projects with funding of £10-40,000, which have often led to more extensive
external awards. One such example is Clarke, who secured a JFF grant for a collaborative pump-
priming project on understanding the place of sharia law in the everyday life of UK Shi’i Muslims.
The JFF grant prepared the ground for subsequent funding from Leverhulme Trust for a comparative
project developing new anthropological approaches to the study of explicit ethical rules. Cohen
received £6,330 for a pump-priming project (‘Placebo and support in exercise-induced pain and
fatigue’), which led to securing £178,571 from the James S. McDonnell Foundation. A further
example is Dzenovska who received two JFF awards during the REF period - one in 2014, as an
ECR, developing her track-record, a second in 2017 which pump-primed her successful ERC
Consolidator project in 2019.

It is always difficult to draw a direct correlation between research development support and external
grant success rates. However, we have sustained our success rates at around 30% at a time when
funding is becoming increasingly competitive. We offer research development support to all staff,
and our RDO is particularly keen to ensure that less experienced researchers are encouraged to
submit applications. In the words of one ECR: “I wanted to thank you again so very much for the kind
support the Department has given me with my application for the John Fell Fund, and position as a
College-based JRF. […] - this will be a big help in terms of my fieldwork.” (email Achtnich 06/12/19).
This support to ECRs has proved particularly successful with the Leverhulme Early Career
Fellowship scheme, with seven awards since 2014.

In addition to supporting researchers in submitting competitive grant applications, the RDO has also
been proactive in seeking to diversify our funding sources. For example, The Paul Hamlyn
Foundation now provides support to COMPAS over a 10-year period to fund leadership of the Global
Exchange on Migration as well as the Migration Observatory. Other new funders in the
charity/philanthropy sector include The Christensen Fund, Climateworks Foundation, Joseph
Rowntree Foundation, New Philanthropy Foundation, Nuffield Foundation and Unbound
Philanthropies.

Diversification of research grant income sources spreads risk but this needs to be balanced against
the fact that not all sources of funding provide research overheads. As the effects of Brexit and
Covid-19 on the research funding landscape become clearer, we will remain responsive to emergent
opportunities for fellowships, collaborative/interdisciplinary research, and engagement, assisted by
our RDO and Research Committee as well as the divisional Research Strategy Group, and the
Research, Impact and Engagement team.

While we consider research income and sources of income as important metrics, we also
acknowledge and value significant research activity within the UoA that does not cost a lot of money


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
but that requires investment in time. Impactful, solutions-targeted project work is certainly vital to the
research profile of the School, but so too are long-term engagements and attention to historical and
political transformations at specific fieldsites, giving rise to outputs which mature long after the
original research occurred. Examples include Zeitlyn’s work on Mambila divination, based on
decades of research in Cameroon, or Rival’s Huaorani Transformations based on long-term in-depth
engagement with Huaroani people in Ecuador. In short, within UoA22a there is much high-quality
research that does not require significant external funds.

Our research support also extends to dedicated impact support from a Research Impact Facilitator
(RIF), shared with 3 other departments (appointed 2018). The RIF works with the RDO to help
researchers design and implement impact pathways as an integral part of grant proposals from the
start. The RIF operates as part of a divisional team and therefore helps identify scope for cooperation
across departments and build a culture of sustainable impact by educating researchers. Both the
RIF and RDO roles work in tandem with the divisional Research, Impact and Engagement team. The
Division is responsible for providing impact funding and support via the ESRC Impact Acceleration
Account (£150,000 has been awarded to 26 researchers in Anthropology since 2014), with dedicated
support for impact and engagement, and specific support for business engagement. The divisional
team also provides research facilitation, particularly for collaborative and fellowship applications. At
University level a new Strategic Research Development Team and specialist teams supporting
Policy and Public Engagement provide advice and guidance to our researchers.

Communications support for the School is partly provided by our Executive Assistant,
Communications and Ethics Administrator (1FTE). The School also employs two professional staff
dedicated to supporting communications in COMPAS and the Migration Observatory to enhance the
visibility of our outward-focused migration research. As noted in Section 1.3.1, we plan to strengthen
our research and impact communications support in the coming years.

3.3 Infrastructure and facilities
As noted above, plans are now well under way to move the School of Anthropology out of six
buildings into a single space adjacent to the PRM. The University plans to invest £16.3million in the
refurbishment and reconfiguration of our future home with the work due to be completed in 2023.
Bringing the School together into one building to create a single hub for Anthropology at Oxford will
provide opportunities for skills sharing as well as the exchange of best practice. For example, the
field of migration studies with COMPAS as the hub has developed considerable expertise in
impactful policy-focused research, which other areas stand to benefit and learn from. Similarly, there
are synergies between researchers in ISCA working on matters of health and wellbeing (e.g.
Cousins, Hsu, Shaw, Sheppard, Ulijaszek) and work by InSIS. Many colleagues are also involved
with initiatives that could draw more directly on opportunities afforded by the PRM, both for research
as well as public engagement. The new building will further provide space to organise public
engagement with research events, which are not possible in our current buildings.

As noted in the University-level Environment Statement, Oxford Anthropology benefits from world-
class libraries and research collections. These, along with the University museums (principally the
PRM, Ashmolean, and Museum of Natural History), are of vital importance to research in UoA22a.
Indeed, the long-standing and close relation that the School maintains with the PRM, including joint
posts, research seminars and numerous collaborations (e.g. Sarró’s Blow-up in Bissau exhibition)
is of particular value in facilitating research that addresses social and material entanglements.
Furthermore, the collections and archives of the PRM offer exciting opportunities for research
initiatives (e.g. Morton on fieldwork and photography of Evans-Pritchard).


                                                                                                 Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Colleges and Research Institutes across the University provide an institutional framework for cross-
disciplinary research networks within Oxford, and networks linking researchers and research users
outside the University. The key networking role of Kellogg College as part of the hub for migration
and mobility is particularly noteworthy, as is the role St Antony’s plays in relation to area studies
research, much of which involves anthropologists.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


As noted in Section 1.1, Oxford Anthropology is a highly inter- and multidisciplinary grouping, with
much inter-connectedness with other parts of the University and beyond, appropriately involving
policymakers and different publics to make a difference to society.

4.1 Collaboration
In addition to contributing our expertise to a broad range of contemporary problems, participation in
large interdisciplinary projects also affords exceptional opportunities to develop novel formats of
collaborative anthropological inquiry, recognising that, for anthropology, collaboration and
engagement with the communities that we study often go hand-in-hand.

Anthropologists at Oxford are key partners in several large-scale interdisciplinary research projects,
building on a tradition of collaboration with researchers from across the natural and social sciences
and the humanities. Keith’s Peak Urban GCRF-funded programme, supports over 40
multidisciplinary projects around the world, employing more than 85 ECRs internationally, working
between Oxford, EAFIT University in Colombia, the University of Cape Town in South Africa, the
Indian Institute of Human Settlements in Bangalore and Beijing Da Xue (Peking University) in China.
Researchers at InSIS are part of two projects that demonstrate the breadth of their interdisciplinary
research:
    - NERC-funded FATHUM project (Forecasts for Anticipatory Humanitarian Action), led by
        hydrometeorologists in collaboration with the Red Cross/Red Crescent Climate Center and
        partners at several African universities (Lezaun).
    - Newton-funded collaboration with King’s College London, Centre de Recherche Médecine,
        Sciences, Santé, Santé mentale, Société, Paris, and colleagues at the Oswaldo Cruz
        Foundation (Fiocruz) in Brazil in response to the 2015 Zika outbreak, exploring how scientific
        research agendas are established and shape public health responses in times of medical
        emergency (Lezaun).

In addition to Harris’ impact case study with Tibetan artist Nyema Droma and involving UK-based
Tibetan communities, other examples of working collaboratively with communities include Sarró’s
involvement in the revival of the National Ethnographic Museum in Guinea-Bissau. In September
2017 he co-organised an exhibition in Guinea Bissau based on digitalized old contact prints found
in archives, and subsequently brought the exhibition to the PRM. Committed to social justice, peace
and equity, Gellner and Adhikari’s research on Dalits in Nepal, seeks to understand Dalits’ social
position in their own terms. In particular, their work on the representation of Dalits in school textbooks
is having an impact on the Nepali educational curriculum, one of the anticipated outcomes being to
inform policies of decentralised local governments. InSIS’ Horizon 2020 project OceanNETs
investigates local perceptions of ocean use and marine preservation in the locations where the
project is planning to conduct physical experiments to use the oceans to remove CO 2 (Lezaun).
Other examples of collaboration with communities can be found below in Section 4.2.


                                                                                                 Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.2 Contributions to Economy and Society
Beyond academia our research involves engaging responsibly with individuals and institutions, often
abroad, with the intention not only to understand or explain the world, but also to drive positive
change.

The selected impact case studies submitted to REF2021 are particularly well-developed examples
of change that occurred in policy and in society as a direct outcome of our research (see Aim 7,
Section 1.3.2 where details are listed). These case studies highlight the interdisciplinary nature of
our methods as well as the high level of detailed ethnographic engagement with which we approach
our research.

Further examples come from Lezaun’s work focusing on the development of new public health tools
for community engagement and public participation in accepting modified mosquito releases, and
his GCRF-funded LabHackathon model developed by researchers to address laboratory equipment
shortages in low-income countries. COMPAS research is designed to have a transformational effect
on social policies relating to migration. Their data and research feed back into policies on migration
and economics (Sumption, Vargas), irregular and destitute migrants (Spencer), and the integration
of migrants (Broadhead), and also contribute to public debates on migration, mobility, and Brexit.
CSSC researchers are working with The Twinning Project, which brings together professional
football clubs and HM Prisons to explore the positive effects of football as a catalyst for change
among ex-prisoners (Whitehouse).

Public engagement with research (PER) is a key growing strength in the School, and examples are
very diverse. Building on Allen’s University PER Leader work (mentioned in Aim 7, Section 1.3.2),
researchers across Oxford Anthropology have developed some great examples of PER over the
REF period.

The Migration Observatory has been key in shaping public understanding of migration issues over
the last 3 years, frequently featuring on BBC Radio 4’s Today programme, among other traditional
and social media outlets. PER is also at the heart of van Broekhoven’s work as Director of the
PRM, where along with other colleagues based in the Museum (Harris, Morton), she is a leading
voice in debates on the role of ethnographic museums in the 21st century, the decolonisation of
museum collections and collaborative working with source communities. Pratten’s recent project
(2018) on masquerades, youth, politics and insecurity in Nigeria, involving the commissioning and
purchase of a mask from the Niger Delta, resulted in his participation in the British Academy Summer
Showcase (2018). Meanwhile Whitehouse served as chief consultant on the first ever television
documentary series focusing on the nature and diversity of human rituals, broadcast in a prime-time
evening slot on BBC2 in the autumn of 2018. He also appeared in the National Geographic series
‘The Story of God with Morgan Freeman’ discussing the origins of organised religion at a major
Neolithic excavation in Turkey. As part of Oxford Anthropology’s commitment to PER, we also
regularly make research seminars openly accessible in the form of podcasts (some 450 podcasts
are currently available) – see Table 5.

                               Number of Podcasts       Downloads           Streams
     School of                 446                      867,690             91,981
     Anthropology

Table 5. Podcasts arising from research activities and seminars in the School



                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Other good examples of impact on society and different publics include: Olszewska’s work with a
theatre company to make a theatre piece out of her monograph on Iranian poetry. Clarke’s research
on neo-natal care of babies has had a considerable effect on policies of milk donation in Muslim
communities. Alvergne has produced significant impact with her research, collaborating with Clue,
an app to empower women to take control of their reproductive health. Ulijaszek (et al) contributed
an evidence brief on childhood obesity to DEFRA’s National Food Strategy. The Ethno-ornithology
World Atlas (part of the research programme ‘creative multilingualism’) led by Gosler with AHRC
funding has become a public tool widely used across the country, altering perceptions of nature as
well as of multiculturalism.

4.3 Contribution to Research Base
There are multiple ways in which the Unit contributes to the discipline of Anthropology. It was the
strength and breadth of Anthropology in Oxford that made it a natural host for the ASA (Association
of Social Anthropology of the UK and Commonwealth) conference of 2018. The conference was
tasked by the ASA with attempting to bring together all areas of anthropology and archaeology. The
conference was jointly hosted by SAME (lead), the PRM, and the Department of Social Sciences at
Oxford Brookes University. The conference invited participants from – and aimed to encourage
debate as widely as possible across – socio-cultural, material, visual, biological, forensic, cognitive,
evolutionary, and linguistic fields. With over 800 academics attending, 82 panels, 15 labs, and 558
papers spanning all four fields of the discipline and beyond, it achieved this, while being the largest
ASA conference to date.

The Unit also organises the annual Marett lecture in collaboration with Exeter College, and since
2015 has been co-organising, with UCL, the Mary Douglas Lecture. Recent Marett lecturers have
included Anna Tsing, Thomas Hylland Eriksen, and Anne-Christine Taylor. In addition, the School is
associated with the annual Evans-Pritchard Lectures in All Souls College, which are usually given
by an early career scholar.

The School is home to the journal JASO (Journal of the Anthropology Society of Oxford), which since
2009 has been a fully open-access journal. In 2019 the editors revised their procedures to clarify the
informal review process so that it can be legitimately and unambiguously considered a peer-reviewed
journal. Over the last 5 years, the editor of the most important journal of anthropology in the UK
(JRAI) was based in Oxford (Hallam) as was her editorial assistant and book review editor (see
below for other editorial engagements of staff in the UoA).

Indicators of wider influence and contribution to vitality and sustainability of the research base include
many prestigious editorial responsibilities, keynote speeches in international conferences, special
fellowships or prizes. A few examples are:

Awards and Special Fellowships
 Broadhead Winston Churchill Memorial Trust Fellowship
 Hallam Wellcome Medal for Research in Anthropology as Applied to Medical Problems
 Harris Fellowship of the British Academy
 Olszewska Middle East Section Book Award for her monograph The Pearl of Dari
 Sopranzetti Margaret Mead Award for his monograph Owners of the Map
 Spencer Community Integration Award for on-line advice for destitute migrants

Keynotes and special lectures:
 Gellner Myers Lecture RAI (2020); Mahesh Chandra Regmi Lecture, Nepal (2016)

                                                                                                 Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Hsu, Traditional Chinese Medicine and medical anthropology, inaugural conference, Hunan
    University, China (2018)
   Sarró Keynote to the Society of Anthropology of Religion (New Orleans)
   Spencer, Plenary presentation to the Global Migration Conference (Boston)
   Ulijaszek, Keynote address to conference at the Research Centre for Anthropology and Health,
    Coimbra (Portugal)
   Whitehouse, gave special lectures at the International Convention of Psychological Science
    (Amsterdam, 2015), the World Economic Forum (Davos, 2017), the European Business Summit
    (Brussels, 2017), and the Kazanah Megatrends Forum (Kuala Lumpur, 2019)

Editorial board memberships:
 Alvergne Evolutionary Human Sciences
 Clarke, Honorary Member of the JRAI, Founding editorial member of Contemporary Levant
 Cohen Religion, Brain and Behaviour
 Dzenovska PoLAR
 Hallam, Hon. Editor, Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute
 Harris Asian Ethnology
 Hsu Anthropology & Medicine
 Pratten Africa
 Sarró, Founding member and editorial board member of Religion and Society: Advances in
    Research.
 Sumption, Investment Migration Working Papers
 Ulijaszek, Associate Editor of Homo: Journal of Comparative Human Biology
 Whitehouse, Journal of Cognition and Culture; Religion, Brian, and Behaviour; Emotions:
    History, Culture, Society
 Xiang China Quarterly
 Zeitlyn, Vestiges and JASO




                                                                                       Page 23
