Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Salford

 Unit of Assessment: 12

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure

 Engineering at Salford in this REF period has been characterised by substantial external and
 internal investment in both staff and infrastructure and the expansion of our postgraduate research
 community. Compared to REF2014, in REF2021 our staff submission has increased by 125%;
 our number of PhD degrees awarded has increased by 109%; and through recognition as a
 leader in research in robotics and autonomous systems, we have secured ERDF and HEFCE
 funding to develop the £17.6m North of England Robotics Innovation Centre (NERIC). This
 closely follows the development of our new £65m Science, Engineering and Environment
 building, to house additional engineering research facilities from 2022.

 In REF2014 the Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Metallurgy and Materials panel identified
 79.4% of our outputs to be of an internationally excellent or world-leading standard and we
 have continued to contribute notably to our discipline. We have authored 861 outputs and between
 2014 and 2019 our field-weighted citation index (FWCI) for ‘Engineering and Technology’ was 1.8
 compared to a UK average of 1.45 and our FWCI for ‘Physical Sciences’ was above UK average
 at 1.55 compared to 1.5, indicating the value of our work within these disciplines (metrics obtained
 from SciVal).

 With a focus on the challenges of our industry partners and society stakeholders and the
 development of effective collaborations with both, Salford Innovation Research Centre’s (SIRC)
 activities have supported excellent research and impact within 4 main themes. Members are listed
 against their primary affiliation, although the cross-cutting nature of our engineering-in-context
 research results in close collaborations across themes:

    i) Autonomous Systems and Robotics (ASAR) (4.6 FTE: Davis, Howard, Nefti-Meziani
       (lead), Theodoridis, Wei) includes cognitive robotics, robot/machine design, dexterous end
       effectors, biologically inspired robots, exoskeletons and human movement technologies
       (prosthetics and orthotics) and autonomous systems and their control (with Infrastructure
       Engineering).

    ii) Engineering for Sustainability (8.2 FTE: Abbas, Babaie, Burby, Enyi, Nasr (lead),
        Nourian, Uzomah, Scholz, Wang) includes decarbonisation of energy systems such as
        petroleum and natural gas, clean air through improved spray and aerosol systems and
        engineering solutions for sustainability of natural resources, such as water and fossil fuels.

    iii) Infrastructure Engineering (9.0 FTE: Asr, Beg, Byzyka, Currie, Mei (lead), Nelson,
         Shirley, Weekes, Whittleston), including development and implementation of advanced
         and sustainable engineering materials, audio engineering in the built environment and
         modern methods of construction. Members contribute, with ASAR, to engineering solutions
         for the integration of autonomous systems with infrastructure.

    iv) Materials, Physics and Chemistry (MPC) (13.0 FTE: Arrigo, Bull, Chadwick, Christian,
        Hughes, Leontiadou, Lehr, Martinez Maestro, McDonald, Morrison (lead), Proctor,
        Shen, Yates) including physical sciences research into the synthesis, characterisation and
        modelling of new, advanced materials that include thin films, graphene, supercritical fluids
        (especially around energy generation) and biomimetic catalysts for the energy and
        decarbonisation sectors.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research and impact achievements 2014 – 2020

 SIRC was formed in 2015 and launched with a research strategy to span 2015-2020. This focused
 on the prominence of engineering as a driver of economic productivity for the UK and globally.
 SIRC’s strategy ensures we continue to align our research and impact activities with external
 priorities, and those of the funding bodies, using our expertise and reputation to advise and
 influence these evolving agendas, while regularly reviewing progress against our goals. In 2015,
 our aim was to become an interdisciplinary and outward-facing team, growing our research in
 quality and quantity, and establishing a critical mass of researchers. Our strategic priorities were
 to:

    i) Grow our research base, investing in and developing our researchers, especially early
       career researchers;

    ii) Diversify our funding portfolio and invest in key facilities that support our strategic
        research programmes;

    iii) Grow our community of postgraduate researchers (PGRs) and provide them with an
         excellent research training experience.

 Over the last 7 years, we have grown our academic research community significantly, as shown
 by the 125% increase in FTE, from 15.5 in REF2014 to 34.8 in this submission. We will
 continue to invest in recruiting new staff with excellent track records and exceptional research
 promise in alignment to the research priorities for SIRC, the School of Engineering and
 Environment and the University. 11 early career researchers (new lecturers; 4 female, 7 male)
 have joined during this REF period, making up 32% of our submission, ensuring the
 sustainability of all groups within engineering. Our research students are at the heart of a strong
 research environment and we have supported 95 PhD degree awards; an increase of 109%
 from 46 reported in REF2014.

 We have received substantial external investment for new infrastructure, securing £13m of ERDF
 and Research England funding (match funded with £4.6m from the University) for the North of
 England Robotics Innovation Centre (NERIC). The University is also investing £65m in a new
 building for the School of Science, Engineering and Environment (SEE) (work began July 2020;
 to open in 2022/23) supporting new facilities that will benefit engineering alongside other
 disciplines. We have also successfully diversified our funding portfolio, including increasing our
 participation in large-scale EU schemes (FP7 and Horizon 2020). We have been involved in
 projects with a total award value of nearly €28m across all partners and EU funding has increased
 to 34% of our income for this REF period, up from 18% in the previous submission.

 We have facilitated impact from our research through our own spin-out companies and
 partnerships with the public and private sector. Through spin-out Salsa Sound Ltd., Shirley’s
 research (REF3) has been applied to virtual crowd production for sports events, proving
 exceptionally relevant for broadcasters showing live matches during 2020 under COVID-19
 restrictions. The technology has been used across 10 leagues within 5 sports in the UK and
 USA and has won 2 awards from the Royal Academy of Engineering (2017) and International
 Association of Broadcast Manufacturers (2018). Nasr’s case study (REF3) demonstrates the
 commercial and environmental relevance of an aerosol valve patented and produced by spin-out
 The Salford Valve Company (Salvalco Ltd.) that substantially reduces the release of volatile
 organic compounds, thereby reducing air pollution. Further positive environmental impacts have
 been achieved through research by Scholz (REF3) into improved management of wetland
 systems. In the UK, this has informed DEFRA and Environment Agency approaches, and through
 adoption by local authorities, government bodies and the water industry, has contributed to the
 improved management of urban and rural landscapes at hundreds of locations globally,
 including in Europe, Australia, China and the USA.



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Key achievements within each research theme

 Autonomous Systems and Robotics (ASAR)
 Members of ASAR undertake impactful, industry-collaborative research in traditional and soft
 robotics, such as building unique prototypes and real-world demonstrators of robotics
 applications, including developing patents for novel gripper technology for areas such as health
 innovation and extreme environments (e.g. FAIR-SPACE; EPSRC). ASAR has generated
 £1.9m in research income since 2014 and has been at the forefront of strategic developments
 (e.g. for BEIS, DEFRA, UKRI/EPSRC, EU), shaping industrial strategy through hosting the
 National Advanced Robotics Research Centre, including 2 EPSRC Networks and a Centre in Food
 Automation. ASAR has hosted the Industrial National Robotics Network (with Innovate UK), which
 was established in 2015 with the support from Sellafield (Nefti-Meziani) and Autonomous
 Intelligent Systems Partnerships involving leading nuclear sector organisations and
 representation from the oil and gas, offshore, aerospace and transport sectors (see Section
 3). This has led to one of the group’s intelligent robotic adaptive grippers being trialled in real life
 applications as part of Innovate UK’s SBRI Integrated Innovation for Nuclear Decommissioning
 scheme, in collaboration with Sellafield and the National Nuclear Laboratory (NNL).

 ASAR contributes to the Human Movement Technologies (HMT) group within the Health
 Sciences Research Centre (School of Health and Society), undertaking collaborative work in the
 area of biomedical engineering, particularly around prosthetics. Joint projects include ‘Energy
 Efficient Lower Limb Prostheses’ (Howard, EPSRC, £400k) and Howard also contributes to the
 EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Prosthetics and Orthotics (£5.5m) led by Salford and in
 partnership with the Universities of Strathclyde, Southampton and Imperial College London.

 Our Automotive and Autonomous Vehicle Technology (AAVT) research involves ASAR,
 Infrastructure Engineering and Informatics disciplines (linking data analysis and network
 infrastructure) to focus on smart and clean vehicle experimental and simulation research.
 Collaboration between academics with expertise including mechanical and automotive
 engineering, data science, robotics and cybersecurity work closely with AAVT in collaboration
 with academic and industry partners. Salford is developing autonomous control systems as part
 of the £3.7m Innovate UK-funded Synergy project (2017-21), led by Westfield Sports Cars Ltd.,
 which aims to further develop innovative technologies for connected and autonomous vehicles.

 Engineering for Sustainability
 Key research outputs in the sustainability engineering area include the design and implementation
 of new urban drainage and wastewater systems, including the implementation of green
 infrastructure (Scholz, Uzomah) and the development and introduction of sustainable
 construction materials (Wang, with Infrastructure Engineering). The strategic theme of
 sustainability in the built environment has involvement in a major EU network, WATER-AGRI, (EU
 €7m; Wang and Scholz) and is further evidenced in a REF3 submission; associated research has
 been incorporated into national and international guidelines on the design, construction and
 management of wetland systems.

 Petroleum, gas, and clean air engineering expertise contributes to decarbonisation of energy
 systems and developing clean sprays and aerosols for industrial applications. Research strengths
 of the group are in the area of gas and petroleum engineering with recent work focused on utilising
 hydrogen in gas networks and carbon dioxide sequestration, linked to decarbonisation and clean
 growth. Commercial exploitation has emerged through Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs)
 with Carlisle Fluid Technologies Ltd., and Autac Ltd. (Section 3) and through the work of Salvalco
 Ltd. The Salford Eco-valve: Cutting hydrocarbon emissions through novel aerosol valve designs
 (Nasr and Burby) (REF3) won the Times Higher Education Award for ‘Outstanding
 Contribution to Innovation and Technology’ in 2014.

 Infrastructure Engineering
 Working closely with the other themes, research outputs include the development of innovative
 motor control systems and suspension for the railway industry (Mei), as well as the investigation

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and development of new sustainable materials linked to the built environment, including steel,
 concrete, asphalt and composite materials (Byzyka, Nelson, Weekes) and simulation of their
 performance (Asr). An example of successful industrial collaboration in this area is a KTP with
 Technocover Ltd. concerning the development of materials that support high-quality security
 products for the construction industry (Currie). Other areas include applications of nanofluids in
 the engineering domain (Beg) and sound engineering in the built environment (Shirley). Shirley
 is part of the wider Acoustics research group (14 FTE total), which sits across SIRC and built
 environment research areas (UoA13), with applications in both. In REF2014 the assessment panel
 determined there to be ‘outstanding impact in acoustics for the built environment'. As a long-
 standing member of staff, his work builds on this previous success with the development of new
 technologies for virtual crowd production in sports stadiums, adopted widely since COVID-19,
 based on novel machine learning techniques to automate real-time sound mix production (REF3).

 Materials Physics and Chemistry (MPC)
 The group has secured over £2m in income in the REF period for research into new, advanced
 materials and surfaces of technological interest, including synthesis, characterisation and
 modelling. Impact from recent work in the area of Chemical Vapour Deposition (CVD) has been
 developed through the Salford Antibiotic Resistance Network, a cross-University collaboration with
 SEE bioscientists, the School of Health and Society, Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust and
 clinical partners at 2 Ugandan Regional Referral hospitals. This team are developing and testing
 biocidal surfaces for use in clinical settings and has an impact action plan in place to support
 activities (Yates). Yates is also testing and developing improved surfaces for solar energy capture
 through CVD methods. Complemented by access to national and international facilities including
 synchrotron radiation sources (Diamond and the ESRF) and neutron sources (ISIS and the ILL),
 significant outputs include fundamental studies of the properties of supercritical fluids (Proctor),
 studies of complex hydrides for hydrogen storage (Bull), hydrogen isotope diffusion in palladium
 (Steel), studies of nuclear graphite (Roach) and the development of biomimetic catalytic surfaces
 towards decarbonisation and future energy storage (Arrigo). A further focus is fluid mechanics
 with influential research publications in new mathematical approaches to solving the Navier-
 Stokes equations (Chadwick). MPC in-kind income from national facilities totals £715k over this
 REF period.

 Sustainability and future research and impact plans

 Vision: to have a global reputation as a leader in engineering research linked to robotics and
 autonomous systems through the use of new materials and methods, and the translation of this
 knowledge into innovative applications for industry, particularly SMEs.

 Aims:
 We aim to develop NERIC as a centre of research and innovation excellence for University-SME
 manufacturing collaboration. Through this we will become an influential voice in the shaping of
 public policy around engineering innovation and collaboration with industry. Through Nefti-
 Meziani’s appointment in 2019 to the UK Government Robotics Growth Partnership, Salford
 will contribute to the action plan to drive the UK’s capabilities in robotics, unlocking its potential for
 the economy and society. This will position us to use our expertise to influence government
 policy in this area, ensuring our research generates measurable impact in engineering industries
 and also through development of regulatory frameworks around new technologies. NERIC will
 enable us to undertake sector-leading research within three specific areas:

     1. Developing innovative engineering solutions to the challenges faced by the healthcare
        service and patients needing bio-engineering assistive technologies.
     2. Developing novel solutions to engineering and societal challenges presented by
        autonomous automotive vehicles.
     3. Developing new materials to use in engineering solutions in construction and other
        industries.



                                                                                                    Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To fulfil these aims we will:

     •   Increase the number of interactions and scale of collaboration with industry through
         the work of NERIC. This will expand the impact of SIRC research across many sectors.
     •   Increase the diversity and number of staff, by making appropriate strategic
         appointments, increasing our proportion of women engineers and developing new and
         early career researchers (ECRs) through the three-year research plan process.
     •   Increase the number of postgraduate researcher (PGR) enrolments and completions
         in Robotics and related disciplines through domestic and international recruitment. This
         will allow us to boost our knowledge base, enrich our scholarly community, build our global
         partnerships and collaborations and grow the next generation of scholars.
     •   In light of Brexit and changes to Government we will increase the value and duration
         of external research funding to allow for greater stability and depth in our activity. This
         will be achieved through increasing collaborative research grant applications, enhancing
         our reach and reputation internationally and strengthening our international networks.

 The University’s impact development framework (designed by Research and Knowledge
 Exchange, RKE) supports researchers with formalised annual impact action plans. In addition to
 ongoing work by Nasr, Shirley and Scholz, we are seeking to develop impact from our research:

     •   Through NERIC’s involvement with SMEs across the region addressing industry’s robotics
         and automation needs (Davis, Nefti-Meziani, Theodoridis)
     •   Collaboration with Human Movement Technologies to develop new patient assistive
         technologies (Howard)
     •   Influencing public policy and regulations around the use of autonomous systems in the
         public realm (Davis, Nefti-Meziani, Theodoridis)
     •   Through addressing design issues in the geotechnical and geo-environmentally informed
         sustainable construction industry (Asr)
     •   In steel reinforcement corrosion, porous material property characterisation, green concrete
         technologies and environmental engineering (Scholz, Wang), exploiting the prolific
         number of outputs we have produced in this area
     •   In atmospheric pressure (thermal) chemical vapour deposition (APCVD), applying the
         findings to environmental, construction, healthcare and biotechnology sectors, resulting in
         commercially viable processes and products, such as antimicrobial surfaces (Yates).

 Research integrity and open research practices

 Integrity is supported by the School Research and Enterprise Committee (SREC), a research
 oversight committee of academics, technicians and PGR representatives chaired by the Associate
 Dean for Research and Innovation (ADRI) and the School Ethics Approval Committee (SEAC), a
 school ethics oversight committee of Ethics Panel Chairs, with academic and student
 representation. These committees refer to the institution’s Research Code of Practice and
 Academic Ethics Policy, which incorporate and develop the principles of the UK Research Integrity
 Office’s Code of Practice for Research and Universities UK’s Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity (REF5a). All projects involving primary data collection or research participants require
 approval from the School ethics review panel (Arrigo is Chair of Research Ethics).

 To ensure data are sustainably accessible and discoverable and to enhance the integrity and
 efficiency of data sharing, validation and re-use, our researchers are committed to the University
 open access strategy, managed through the University Library. Researchers are encouraged to
 deposit outputs as open-access pre-prints or final versions in the University of Salford Institutional
 Repository (USIR) or on external repositories such as arXiv. Open Access (OA) funding is
 available for UKRI-supported Article Processing Charges (OA Gold). Institutional Open Access
 Funds were additionally available based on internal peer review of the paper by the Research
 Centre Director and ADRI. Agreements with several academic journal publishers also reduce or



                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 remove the cost of publishing open access in their journals and 55 outputs benefitted from Gold
 OA via Salford, UKRI or through publisher deals.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 The staff submission comprises 8 Professors (7 male, 1 female), 4 Readers (3 male, 1 female), 5
 Senior Lecturers (5 male) and 19 Lecturers (15 male, 4 female). We have appointed 13 new staff
 during this REF period, bringing expertise that contributes to all four themes in line with our
 strategy and areas of existing high performance. In ASAR, Wei was appointed to bring expertise
 in bio-robotics, manipulation and grasping. In infrastructure and sustainability engineering we
 recruited the following expertise: Asr (geotechnical engineering), Babaie (low emission and smart
 vehicles), Beg (heat transfer, fluid dynamics and coatings for medical, aerospace and solar
 collection applications), Byzyka (sustainability of building materials – concrete/asphalt), Uzomah
 (sustainable drainage and wastewater systems) and Whittleston (structural engineering with
 carbon nanomaterials). In MPC, Arrigo and Lehr, as chemists, work on nanotechnology, design
 of functional materials and molecular interfaces, Hughes focuses on quantum computation,
 Leontiadou has expertise in novel photovoltaics, Martinez Maestro researches biophysics and
 materials and Proctor has a background in graphene/carbon nanotubes, supercritical fluids and
 high pressure/high temperature physics.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion is a central aspect of our staffing strategy. CSE was awarded an
 Athena SWAN bronze award and Yates supports the School’s activities through her membership
 of the University Athena SWAN self-assessment team and committee. In addition, MPC was
 awarded the Institute of Physics Juno Practitioner status in 2019 and is working towards the Juno
 Champion status led by Leontiadou. As part of our Athena SWAN action plan, we have ensured
 that wording on job adverts states our commitment to inclusivity and highlights activity relating to
 Athena SWAN and Juno. This has opened opportunities for conversations from prospective
 female candidates with Leontiadou and Yates, which led to candidates applying for lectureship
 posts in physics. Of our new appointments 4 (31%) are female, demonstrating commitment to
 moving towards a more balanced academic workforce. Nine submitted staff (26%) identify with a
 BAME background with 4 having been appointed since REF2014.

 The selection of staff for REF submission and outputs followed our Code of Practice closely. Our
 School review panel for three-year research plans, determining which staff were to be given
 ‘significant responsibility for research’ included both female and BAME representation and all staff
 underwent training including barriers to academic career progression for staff with protected
 characteristics. In alignment with our REF2021 Code of Practice, the attribution of REF2 outputs
 to staff has been subject to an equality impact assessment. Our REF2 submission represents the
 work of female engineers well, with 25% of outputs attributed to a female author (+8% compared
 to the proportion of female submitted staff). 30% of outputs are attributed to staff from a BAME
 background (-3% compared to the proportion of BAME submitted staff).

 Staff development

 Formal career development processes
 All staff have annual Career Conversations (Performance and Development Review; PDR) with
 their line managers, which allows for feedback and advice on the individual’s research trajectory,
 setting of research objectives and measurement of achievement. Three-year research plans feed
 into PDR discussions so that objectives are set for specific activities and each member of staff
 can receive the necessary support from their line manager, group lead and ADRI. Research
 workloads are set in line with the outcome from their three-year plan assessment, with a minimum
 of 20 workload units for staff with ‘significant responsibility for research’ as described in our
 REF2021 Code of Practice.



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Academic staff can apply for promotion to Senior Lecturer, when appropriate opportunities arise,
 or promotion to Reader and Professor through the University’s Professional Promotions
 Committee, usually on an annual basis. Workshops are held to encourage a range of applications
 from diverse applicants for these posts. Five Engineering staff were promoted during the REF
 period: Beg and Davis and were promoted to professor, the latter mentored by Nefti-Meziani.
 Theodoridis and Yates (the former also mentored by Nefti-Meziani) were promoted to Reader
 and Currie was promoted to Senior Lecturer. Salford PhD graduates Shirley (2013) and Uzomah
 (2016) are submitted to this REF, having been mentored by Scholz and UoA13 acoustics
 colleagues respectively.

 Supporting high quality bidding, outputs and impact activities
 Staff have access to internal financial support to pump prime research or help with dissemination
 (e.g. conference attendance, open access journal fees) through the School and University. £55k
 of funding has supported 12 members of staff to attend international conferences and provided
 pump priming grants for 14 projects. Additionally, 3 researchers (Davis, Nelson, Wei) received a
 Vice Chancellor’s Scholarship with enhanced research workload for 1 year.

 Complementing Salford’s Early to Experience Career Research & Enterprise Training (SECRET)
 programme, through SEE and SIRC, staff receive more tailored guidance for bidding, publication
 quality and impact activities. The SEE ADRI discusses available external grant opportunities and
 facilitates cross-disciplinary bid development through regular School meetings. The School has
 established an internal peer review process, which provides mentorship and interdisciplinary,
 constructive feedback to grant applicants to help develop rigorous proposals for successful
 external funding. Major applications with alignment to the School and University strategy benefit
 from dedicated support from a SEE Research Development Manager. To support staff to produce
 high-quality research outputs, SIRC organises an internal peer review process that provides
 feedback to authors on their publications using the criteria of originality, significance and rigour.

 Development of research impact is a strategic priority and supported in multiple ways. Internal
 funding from the University’s Research Impact Fund is available through 2 funding calls per year.
 Annual impact action plans were introduced in 2018 to support researchers to develop their impact
 in a strategic manner to maximise the benefits of the research for wider society. The School Impact
 Coordinator meets regularly with plan holders to discuss future activity and currently we are
 supporting four areas of future impact, for Asr, Davis and Nefti-Meziani, Wang and Yates.
 Additional research workload has been provided to support the development of impact case
 studies included in REF3.

 To ensure a supportive and collaborative research community and enhance School-wide
 development two staff networks have been established: the ECR and Professorial
 Networks. Communication of grant opportunities is managed via regular group and theme
 meetings, monthly Professoriate meetings and ECR informal network meetings. SEE holds a
 weekly research meeting led by the ADRI to communicate funding opportunities and provide a
 forum for regular focus on research matters in the School. The four research themes each have a
 professorial lead who is responsible for strategic alignment and direction, mentorship of junior staff
 (directly or indirectly) and, with support from the ADRI, monitoring and management of research
 integrity.

 Support for ECRs
 New staff and early career researchers (ECRs) are provided with mentorship through the theme
 leads. Newly appointed staff are placed on a 1-year probation period and are allocated a senior
 mentor to support their integration into SEE. Additional workload is provided as an investment for
 the first 2 years (total of 40% research time) with a reduced teaching workload. Further support
 for newly appointed or early-career staff includes guarantees of PhD studentships or fee-waivers
 in support of New Investigator grant applications. All staff new to supervising undertake mandatory
 postgraduate supervision training on appointment that is regularly reaffirmed. Supervisory teams
 are usually comprised of a main supervisor and a co-supervisor; ECRs are paired with more senior
 researchers to develop supervisory experience for new staff.

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ensuring an excellent postgraduate researcher (PGR) experience

 We invested £589k in 2017 (from HEFCE with University match funding) in refurbishment of our
 PGR office infrastructure to create an enhanced PGR student experience. This modernised the
 facilities, creating a new open office space to facilitate interdisciplinary discussion, a suite of
 meeting rooms and social space, a new PC suite and a PGR boardroom for formal meetings.
 Additional funding included £118k match funding as part of the FAIRSPACE programme (see
 section 4) for two PhD students.

 Alongside increasing the number of PhD degrees awarded, from 46 to 95 in this period, we have
 made process improvements to support the student journey within the areas of student progress
 monitoring (supported by a workloaded SIRC PGR director) and mandatory regular supervisor
 training for all supervisors. This ensures that the supervision teams are formally trained and
 educated in supervisory skills and this participation is monitored alongside PGR progression
 through SREC. Any issues with student progression are identified and resolved at an early stage
 through the supervisory team and the ADRI. All supervisors actively engage with learning
 agreement development and annual progression points, ensuring a common understanding of
 expectations across supervisory teams and an independent audit of PhD progression. Students
 have monthly formal meetings with their supervisory team, ensuring an excellent supervisor-
 supervisee relationship develops. In addition, targeted support for fee waivers helps recruit
 students from a range of backgrounds. Staff have access to discretionary funds (managed by the
 ADRI) to support PGR students with conference attendance and pump-priming activities.

 The Doctoral School provides workshops as part of the Salford Postgraduate Research Training
 (SPoRT) programme that cover progression monitoring, preparation for annual progress reviews
 and the final viva voce, as well as academic writing including conference presentations and journal
 papers. This is complemented with subject-specific programmes that include research and
 software development methodologies and data analysis. Bespoke research training for a student
 can involve participation in Master’s-level modules (e.g. Advanced Materials PGRs can attend
 MSc Physics materials characterisation and modelling modules).

 SEE organises an annual research showcase event where staff and students can present their
 research through both presentations and posters. The former School of Computing, Science and
 Engineering (CSE) organised an annual postgraduate research conference, where students
 received feedback from referees and the audience during their presentations, which helps
 students develop their paper writing and presentation skills. The proceedings are published with
 an ISBN and are made available through the British Library. SEE events are complemented by
 the Salford Postgraduate Annual Research Conference (SPARC) where students and ECRs
 interact with the University’s wider PGR community. Research centres organise thematic
 symposia to facilitate interaction between SEE PGRs and to help students prepare for participation
 in international conferences.

 Post-qualification destinations of our PhD graduates since 2014 have included:

 • Academia: Over 20 graduates have obtained academic-related positions both in the UK and
   internationally, e.g: Almuktar, Associate Professor at Basra University, Iraq and Postdoctoral
   Research Fellow at Lund University, Sweden; Pawley, Lecturer at the University of Maastricht;
   Smith has undertaken postdoctoral positions at the University of Nevada and Argonne National
   Laboratory, USA. Others include lectureships in Jos and Ugbomoro, Nigeria, Mosul and
   Baghdad, Iraq and Egypt.
 • Industry: Our industry collaborations have led to many graduates taking up employment in
   industry, including: Assaf, a researcher on Deep Learning and predictive analytics for IBM at
   the Zurich Research Laboratory, Switzerland; Marshall, who was initially employed by the UoS
   Energy House as a researcher and is now employed as an energy modeller at Vital Energy
   Utilities Ltd.; Penketh, a Project Engineer at Fugro; Russo, now a Postdoctoral Researcher for
   the Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology; and Steel, who is employed at


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    the Culham Centre for Fusion Energy based on the expertise attained during his studentship
    co-supervised with AWE Ltd.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income

 Our income relates to 77 projects with a total income value to Salford of £5.2m. Within this, £2m
 was from EU Programmes (FP7 and Horizon 2020); £1.8m from Research Councils (EPSRC and
 MRC); £0.5m from Innovate UK’s KTP programme; £0.25m from industry, with the remainder
 originating from a range of sources including charities and local government. In addition, £715k
 income-in-kind was generated through time awarded at national and international facilities, such
 as the Diamond and ERSF synchrotron radiation sources and the ISIS and ILL neutron sources.

 Autonomous Systems and Robotics awards include:

 • SMART-E (Sustainable Manufacturing through Advanced Robotics Training; EU FP7; €3.9m,
   £797k to Salford, 2013-2017) was a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Innovative Training Network
   (ITN), led by Salford, which developed a world-class doctoral training and research programme
   for the next generation of graduate engineers to progress advanced robotics for Industry 4.0
   manufacturing. The network focused on 3 key areas: dexterous, soft and compliant
   manufacturing; reconfigurable and logistics robotics; and safe human-robot interaction and
   cooperation. The industrial partners on the project included Airbus, BAE Systems and
   BMW. The UK nuclear industry recognised the potential of the SMART-E gripper developed by
   one of the PhD candidates and this led to a Phase 2 project led by Wood Group plc (Innovate
   UK, ISF, NDA, Sellafield, £1.5m; £11k to Salford) to develop and demonstrate a new heavy-
   load soft gripper with embodied intelligence for nuclear decommissioning, which has now
   progressed to Stage 3 and is undergoing testing at Sellafield (Davis, Nefti-Meziani).

 • FAIR-SPACE (Future Artificial Intelligence and Robotics hub for SPACE; EPSRC; £7.9m with
   £532k to Salford, 2018-22) combines new Robotics and Artificial Intelligence for space
   applications. The project brings together over 20 aerospace industry partners who bring a further
   £7.5m matched funding to the project alongside a £15m business development fund. Research
   led by Salford include soft exoskeletons and soft slip sensors systems to augment astronaut
   strength and control and intelligent dexterous gripper technology for use in the retrieval of space
   debris and interplanetary exploration (Davis, Nefti-Meziani).

 • Synthesis of metamorphic mechanisms for multi-task applications (National Science
   Foundation China (NSFC): £337k 2016-20). This project designed and developed novel
   mechanisms for improving manufacturing or operating processes around Advanced
   Manufacturing. Both fundamental theory and key technology have been developed and
   successfully applied in the electricity transmission system in north China (Wei).

 • SYNERGY (Innovate UK; £4.8m with £304k to Salford) is concerned with developing
   innovative technologies for connective autonomous vehicles, in part operating in a platoon
   formation from Stockport to Manchester Airport (Davis, Nefti-Meziani). The initiative includes
   Manchester Airport, Transport for Greater Manchester (TfGM) and Westfield Sports Cars Ltd.
   as industry partners.

 • Theory and key technology for a soft-rigid hybrid biped walking robot (NSFC: £300k to
   Salford; 2019-23) investigates the biomechanics and key technology of a novel soft-rigid hybrid
   walking robot system. A highly anthropomorphic walking robot will be developed and tested
   based on the biomechanics of human anatomy and musculoskeletal system (Wei).

 Howard works with Human Movement and Rehabilitation (in our School of Health and Society)
 on bio-engineering research in prosthetics and orthotics, for example:


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     •   Fit-for-purpose, affordable body-powered prostheses (EPSRC: £1.4m).
     •   Energy efficient lower limb prostheses (EPSRC: £671k).
     •   A smart electrode housing to improve the control of upper limb myoelectric prostheses
         (NIHR i4i: £770k).
     •   An electrode housing to improve myoelectric signal acquisition in sockets that
         accommodate growing residual limbs NIHR (Starworks 2: £36k).
     •   An adjustable electrode housing device designed to improve myoelectric signal acquisition
         and prosthesis control in sockets that accommodate growing residual limbs NIHR
         (Starworks 1: £43k).

 Engineering for Sustainability funding includes:

 • WATER-AGRI (EU: €7m with £206k to Salford; May 2020-24). This international collaboration
   aims to re-introduce and enhance sustainable solutions for water retention and nutrient recycling
   to enable agricultural production that can sustain growing populations and cope with present
   and future climate change challenges. It brings together partners including Lund University,
   TUDelft and industry partners Agricolus and VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland Ltd.
   This builds on our previous environmental engineering research, which has generated
   substantial impact (Scholz, Wang; REF3).

 • Commercial research project with Salvalco Ltd. (£14.5k, 2014-2016). To produce the novel
   domestic aerosol, Eco-Valve, new methods have been employed for moulding tooling of the
   components and the valves’ autonomous assembly machines, which have been pivotal in the
   development and commercialisation path of Salvalco’s breakthrough products. Researchers
   provided knowledge exchange to Salvalco on developing patents and supported the company
   in securing two TSB ‘Smart’ research grants (£994k, 2014) for the generation and development
   of volatile chemical free aerosol valves and actuators. These projects have led to over £10m
   external investment in the company in the UK with new manufacturing partners in China and
   Taiwan and taking the initial laboratory prototype to full industrial commercialisation (REF3).

 • KTP with Carlisle Fluid Technologies Ltd. (CFT) (Innovate UK: £140k, 2017-19). CFT are a
   company that manufactures equipment for the supply and application of paints, coatings and
   sprayed materials for the automotive industry. The KTP benefitted from Salford expertise and
   facilities for spray and aerosol research, applied to the development and commercialisation of
   innovative, high-efficiency, environmentally friendly (low-Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs))
   painting products (Nasr, Nourian).

 • KTP with Vax Ltd. (Innovate UK; £121k; 2013-15) to utilise in-house clean air expertise to map
   and analyse cleaning mechanisms relative to performance and efficiency, to design a highly
   innovative, premium range of vacuum cleaners (Burby, Nasr).

 Infrastructure Engineering funding includes:

 • KTP with TechnoCover Ltd. (Innovate UK: £132k, 2017-19). This project concerned digital
   twin model development to aid TechnoCover Ltd. develop security solutions for complex
   engineering applications that sit outside of current security design standards. The KTP led to
   reducing the development time and cost of new security products through novel methods and
   inhouse testing (Currie, Nelson).

 • Development of 3D Printing Buildings for Constructing Sustainable Houses (The Royal
   Academy of Engineering: £50k; 2018-2021), applies reconfigurable parallel robots in the
   development of 3D printing technology for constructing sustainable houses in developing
   countries. Proof of concept design and prototype have been accomplished, which indicates that
   the proposed approach is feasible for practical applications (Wei, with ASAR).

 • Construction theory and control strategy for programmable meta-material (NSFC: £320k;
   2021-25) focuses on the theory, design and control strategy investigation of a new type of

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  programmable meta-materials inspired by origami patterns and design. The aim is to present a
  systematic theory for origami-inspired devices and apply such theory to developing novel type
  soft-rigid hybrid programmable meta-material (Wei, with ASAR).

 • KTP with Autac Ltd. (Innovate UK; £140k; January 2020-22) to design a new smart, foldable
   electrical connector with Cable Reel variants for the Electric Vehicle market, alongside a new
   product innovation process and development of a new Research and Development department.
   (Babaie, Nasr, Nourian)

 Materials, Physics and Chemistry funding includes:

 • CHEOPS (Production technology to achieve low Cost and Highly Efficient phOtovoltaic
   Perovskite Solar cells; EU H2020: €3.2m with £276k to Salford; 2016-19). Salford was a key
   academic partner alongside Oxford University, Centre Suisse d’Electronique et de
   Microtechnique, École polytechnique fédérale de Lausanne and Tyndall National Institute
   (Ireland). The project concerned the efficiency of new solid state, thin film perovskite solar cells
   including tandem configurations with conventional silicon solar cells. Salford expertise led to the
   development of new electrodes and charge transfer layers that allowed for efficient perovskite
   single junction upscaling (Yates).

 • MultiscaleSolar (Multiscale in Modelling and Validation for Solar Photovoltaics; H2020: €580k
   with £89k to Salford; 2015-19). The project established a network of over 80 institutes and
   industrial organisations across Europe, including: Imperial College London, Northumbria
   University and Silvaco semiconductor designers. The network’s objectives were to bridge scales
   in experimental and theoretical research in optoelectronics, with a focus on photovoltaics and
   breakthroughs in solar cells technology for enhanced energy conversion efficiency. The activities
   succeeded in bridging fields between solar cell manufacturing SMEs and industrial partners and
   academics relying on the interdisciplinary nature of this exchange, facilitating future
   breakthroughs in the field (Tomic, leaver).

 • PLIANT (Process Line Implementation for Applied Surface Nanotechnologies; EU FP7: €13.5m
   with £140k to Salford; 2013-17). This project included 20 academic and industrial partners
   managed by Fraunhofer IWS. The project focused on the fabrication of aligned carbon
   nanotubes on electrode surfaces in a roll-to-roll procedure. Salford’s focus was on upscaling the
   processes. These surfaces are now the basis of future high-capacity lithium-sulphur batteries
   and efficient capacitors; industrial partners included VARTA and Airbus (Yates).

 • Electrical and picosecond optical control of transistor-type plasmonic antenna switches
   (EPSRC: £159k; 2012-15) was concerned with miniaturising optical components for on-chip
   integration of electronic and photonic functionalities. A key development was the development
   of a nanoscale version of a radiowave antenna: the plasmonic nanoantenna. Such antennas are
   designed to overcome the diffraction limit of light and to focus light into a nanometer-sized
   antenna 'feed' gap. During the project, CVD process were developed to give a significant degree
   of control of film morphology (crystal phase) via introducing a nucleation layer. The work
   significantly enhanced the opto-electronic properties which is being taken further by the
   collaborator institute (Southampton University) through characterising and assessment for
   device integration (Sheel, leaver).

 • Erbium implanted silicon for solid state quantum electronics (EPSRC: £94k; 2018-20) with
   partners including the National Physical Laboratory, Ionoptika Ltd., Queen Mary University of
   London and Saarland University, Germany. The project was concerned with exploring the
   feasibility of erbium atoms doped in silicon acting as quantum bits (qubits). Such a system would
   combine the telecommunication capability of erbium with the integrated circuit capability of
   silicon to make it valuable for both quantum computing and quantum communication
   applications. The project successfully demonstrated the control of the spin state of erbium using
   laser light. Refinement and robustness of control is further being studied by a School-funded
   PhD studentship (Hughes).

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • iCASE with AWE Ltd. (Innovate UK: £94k; 2013-16): This industry funded PhD studentship
   investigated the diffusion of hydrogen and its isotopes in palladium in bulk and thin film form,
   with a view to isotope separation and containment applications. The project successfully
   undertook detailed characterisation of diffusion as a function of temperature; applications are
   now being developed by AWE using this information. The student (Steel) is now employed at
   the Culham Centre for Fusion Energy based on the expertise attained during the studentship
   (Bull, Ross).

 Infrastructure and facilities

 Engineering research occupies a number of dedicated laboratories located in the Newton,
 Cockcroft and Maxwell Buildings on Salford’s Peel Park Campus. In 2017, the University
 embarked on developing a Campus Masterplan to ensure its presence as a civic and cultural
 gateway for the city. Within the Masterplan, the new £65m SEE building, due for completion in
 2022/23, will provide 15,366m2 of state-of-the-art collaborative workspace including
 workshops and studios at the heart of the Peel campus, consolidating SEE from five buildings into
 one. The existing engineering laboratories will be co-housed in this new building. The co-location
 of research laboratories will enhance interdisciplinary research and lead to new innovative
 projects. Funding for NERIC has been secured from the European Regional Development Fund,
 Research England, and match-funding support from the University of Salford totalling £17.6m.
 Due for completion in in 2022/23, NERIC will be a 2,000m2 research facility providing
 laboratory and R&D space for industrial collaboration in healthcare robotics and
 rehabilitation (e.g. exoskeleton development, 3D-sensing and mapping and force plates to
 measure movement and load), manufacturing robotics and industry 4.0 and terrestrial and
 aeronautical autonomous system development. The overall aim is to facilitate engineering
 research, primarily to enhance productivity and prosperity across multiple industrial sectors.

 Projects in the robotics area have been enabled by robotics and autonomous systems laboratories
 hosting multiple industrial Kuka robots, conveyors and programmable logic controllers with
 associated sensors, actuators and I/O modules and manufacturing facilities for bespoke robotics
 equipment, in particular for soft robotics projects. In this REF period, the University has invested
 £1m in a new Autonomous and Automotive Vehicle Technology (AAVT) laboratory, that
 includes a purpose-built 12-seater Level 4 driverless shuttle (Navya) allowing us to explore
 research on connected and autonomous vehicles (CAVs). The shuttle is complemented by three
 further hybrid vehicles (Mercedes, Toyota) linked to a chassis dynamometer rolling road and
 emissions analysis equipment (Pegasor Mi3), suitable for Worldwide Harmonised Light Vehicles
 Test Procedures (WLTP) and Real Driving Emissions (RDE) measurements on multiple vehicles.
 The lab also features a medium-sized robotic development platform to bridge to robotics research.
 Our simulation facilities include the Siemens PreScan simulator to develop technology solutions
 for Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) in CAVs. The AAVT facility is closely linked to
 vibro-acoustics facilities (including an anechoic chamber) for development of new components
 and measurement of acoustic properties of materials and components.

 Autonomous Systems and Robotics research is also a major user of OCTAVE, a world class
 immersive virtual environment facility with dedicated expert technician support. OCTAVE has been
 used as a tool for remote robotics applications related to the nuclear industry. 3D tracking facilities
 have also been used extensively for prosthetics research, enabling an advanced understanding
 of human movement.

 Materials and physics research is supported by bespoke materials analysis laboratories including
 RAMAN spectroscopy and unique polarisation microscopy equipment (through a University spin-
 out company, Optimum Imaging). A laser laboratory houses a range of spectroscopy facilities
 including bespoke systems for the in-situ studies of materials under high pressure. Salford
 Analytical Services, a linked commercial research unit, contains scanning and transmission
 electron microscopes, x-ray diffraction, Nuclear Magnetic Resonance and thermal deposition.
 These facilities are managed by expert technical managers and used both internally for research
 and for external commercial work. CVD laboratories house a range of test rigs allowing

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 environmental control (thermal, plasma, gas flow) to explore deposition operating conditions
 before upscaling towards industrial processing. The laboratories also offer a range of other thin
 film deposition, including magnetron sputtering and physical vapour deposition system to
 complement the CVD deposition facilities.

 The research leading to the development of the Salford Eco-valve was undertaken within our
 specialist spray and gas laboratories housing advanced spray characterisation equipment,
 including: Phase Doppler Anemometry, pulse photonics, Particle Image Velocimetry, and high-
 speed cameras coupled with spray coating and flow control systems. The petroleum technology
 laboratories house facilities for understanding gas and fluid flow in porous media and carrying out
 measurements for x-ray tomography, unsteady state gas permeameter and porosimeter, rock
 compressibility and in-situ acoustic velocity.

 The Engineering laboratories facilitate research across the engineering group and include 3
 supersonic wind tunnels. These experimental facilities have been utilised for benchmarking of
 CFD research. Civil engineering uses the strengthened floored laboratory for design, testing and
 demolishing of large structures (e.g. masonry bridges) with dedicated technical support.

 Facilities for rapid prototyping are provided through the Morson Maker Space, an additive
 manufacturing and digital fabrication facility managed by expert technical staff who support both
 digital design and operation. The facility was funded by £500k of industrial investment from the
 Morson group and a further £250k from the University. Manufacturing and analysis facilities
 include: 3D Printing Technologies – Fused Filament Fabrication (FFF) and Stereolithography
 (SLA) printing, large format printing and metal additive manufacturing; Waterjet cutting – Omax
 Maxiem 1515 5 Axis waterjet to machine a wide range and thickness of materials from metals and
 composites to glass and plastics; Laser cutting - Gravograph LS 900 and Epilog Fusion Pro and
 Epilog Zing; 5 Axis machining – Haas UMC-500; CMM – Nikon Altera 10.10.8; Digital and Optical
 microscopy – Zeiss Smartzoom 5 and a Zeiss Axio Zoom V16; and a laser scanner (Nikon MCAx).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Engineering research at Salford is diverse and interdisciplinary in nature and engages with a wide
 range of industry stakeholders at national and international levels. The vast majority of our
 research and training activity is undertaken in collaboration with academic and industry partners
 and we have worked with over 300 companies. Many researchers hold leadership positions in
 European and UK expert academic and industry networks and our staff offer expertise in a range
 of areas linked to engineering academic discourse.

 Evidence of effective academic collaborations and networks

 ASAR has long-term and extensive collaborations with globally leading robotics institutes, with
 which it has collaborated for more than 20 years on projects funded by EU Framework
 Programmes for RTD 5, 6 and 7. These include the Technical University of Munich, Scuola
 Superiore Sant’Anna, the University of Zurich, the Italian Institute for Technology and the
 Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre at Sheffield University (for example the SMART-E FP7
 ITN Doctoral training network which hosted and developed training and research programme for
 17 doctoral students and researchers), together with 8 industrial partners including Airbus and
 BAE Systems. ASAR has a partnership with the École Supérieure des Technologies Industrielles
 Avancées (ESTIA) to develop a collaborative approach to research and training around robotics,
 automation and manufacturing.

 The EPSRC FAIRSPACE Hub is a collaboration of 6 UK universities: Surrey, Salford, Edinburgh,
 Warwick, Liverpool and Imperial College London, with each partner bringing complementary, but
 unique skills to enable space robots to perform more complex tasks on long-duration missions
 with minimal dependence on ground crew. In recognition of its research, Salford has been invited
 to co-organise the Shangh’AI Lectures (http://shanghailectures.org), whose creators include
 prestigious universities recognised globally in the area of Artificial Intelligence and Robotics, such

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as Osaka, Shanghai Jiao Tong and University College Dublin. These lectures take the form of
 real‐time interactions between researchers across continents to make education and knowledge
 on cutting-edge scientific topics accessible to everyone.

 Howard is co-lead of the Human Movement Technologies group (jointly with Prof Lawrence
 Kenney, School of Health and Society). The group collaborates extensively with other
 universities, medical practitioners and manufacturers in the prosthetics and orthotics sector and
 leads an EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Prosthetics and Orthotics (2019-24). As an
 example, through the Fit for Purpose Prosthetics project, the Salford team collaborates with
 groups at UCL, the Universities of Southampton and Portsmouth, the University of Jordan and
 Makerere University, and is funded by the EPSRC and the National Institute for Health Research
 Global Challenges fund. In the international context, the group’s research investigates cultural
 constraints, and clinical and manufacturing resources in Uganda and Jordan to improve prosthesis
 in the two countries.

 In MPC, Yates works on thin film photovoltaics with an extensive list of UK and EU partners
 through CHEOPS and PLIANT (section 3). The EPSRC-funded quantum technology project
 (Hughes) was based on significant collaboration with academic collaborators at Surrey,
 Southampton and Surrey Universities, as well as the National Physical Laboratory. Proctor
 collaborates with Edinburgh, Manchester and Queen Mary University of London in the area of
 high-pressure physics.

 In Engineering for Sustainability, Scholz leads a European network in the area of sustainability in
 the built environment and is a key contributor to the WATER-AGRI EU H2020 project consortium
 which consists of a group of 23 partners from 12 European countries, including Lund University
 (Sweden), prominent European water and soil research institutions and centres such as VTT
 Technical research Centre of Finland, Universities of Debrecen, Bologna, TU Delft and Universite
 de Neuchatel, as well as international experts on stakeholder engagement and communication.

 Collaboration and innovation with industry
 Our research contributes to the overarching University industrial collaboration strategy priority
 areas that include Robotics and Smart and Sustainable Living. Research which positively impacts
 UK and global prosperity is at the core of all our activity and Engineering has a breadth of external
 research links with industry and third-sector partners to deliver this.

 Engagement with SMEs and industry representative organisations
 With two members of staff involved in leading Salford spin-out companies (Nasr as non-Executive
 Director of the Salford Valve Company Ltd. and Shirley as co-Founder and Director at Salsa
 Sound Ltd.), our expertise extends beyond academic research to direct understanding of the
 needs of SMEs within these sectors. As 99% of businesses are classed as SMEs, all areas of
 Engineering prioritise building strong partnerships with these organisations to translate research
 into business solutions supporting economic growth within the North West region and UK. Through
 8 projects (both KTP and iCASE) each of the four Engineering themes have partnered with
 individual companies to ensure commercial value arises from our work within a variety of sectors
 (Section 3).

 Our influence and involvement extends beyond working with individual companies through our
 participation in industry networks. This ensures our research and expertise contributes to regional
 and national agendas and we understand and respond effectively to changing sector needs. ASAR
 is actively engaged with the National Robotics Network (NRN) and the Food Manufacturing
 Engineering Group (FMEG) and provided expert robotics advice to the Aerospace Supply Chain
 Excellence Programme (‘ASCE2’, led by the NWAA, which engaged 250 SMEs). Davis and Nefti-
 Meziani contributed to the GAMMA programme, a three-year Regional Growth Fund project with
 eight partners to develop software for unmanned vehicles and drones, with ~250 SMEs.

 Into the future, NERIC will expand on our support for the food manufacturing and healthcare
 technology sectors by contributing to the creation of an ecosystem for collaborative R&D in the

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Greater Manchester city-region and beyond. The facility has been designed to complement and
 strengthen the Made Smarter National Adoption Programme piloted in the North West and to
 provide an increased volume of industry engaging with the High Value Manufacturing Catapult
 national network, generating true impact for our private sector partners. NERIC will host expert
 staff and cutting-edge robotics and automation facilities to support 60 SMEs with piloting, testing
 and experimenting with robotics and AI innovation to assist them with embedding industry 4.0
 technologies into their business processes.

 Our expertise is recognised through leadership roles in industry and government affording us
 influence to help shape the future of sectors of importance to the UK and global economies,
 especially in a post-COVID world. Nefti-Meziani is Co-founder and Executive Board Member of
 the UK’s National Robotics Network and a member of the UK Government’s (BEIS) Robotics
 Growth Partnership. She is a member of UK-RAS and contributed to the network’s White Paper
 Agricultural Robotics: The Future of Robotic Agriculture (2018). She is also an advisory board
 member for the Chamber of Commerce for Bayonne Region (France) and the Asian Council. We
 contribute to industry developments in infrastructure engineering through Currie’s role on the
 British Standards Institute CB/2 Committee for developing new standards to reflect innovation and
 sustainability in construction. In MPC, Morrison is a member of the IEA Hydrogen Task 40: a
 collaboration of international academic and industry experts (e.g. Toyota, Daimler) to develop
 reversible or regenerative hydrogen storage materials. Nasr engages with politicians and industry
 around the reduction of VOCs in aerosol technology to steer policy change, for example through
 DEFRA and aerosol associations (in the UK and USA). He has served as an expert witness in the
 USA for a number of cases in relation to aerosol inhalation.

 Partnerships with large enterprises, multinationals and the public sector
 We develop and maintain relationships with key major businesses to deliver impact across various
 sectors. ASAR partners with a range of companies within robotics and automation development,
 for example, Siemens, (the largest industrial manufacturing company in Europe). Other prominent
 industry partners work with us to address engineering issues impacting on the environment, for
 example, around nuclear decommissioning where we have developed a new flexible gripper
 demonstrator (with Sellafield, National Nuclear Laboratory and Wood Group Plc) and we also work
 with United Utilities to create ecologically protective engineering solutions. The group’s
 involvement in healthcare applications requires development of collaborations linking public and
 private sector and we work with various NHS Trusts, for example, Grampian in Scotland, Salisbury
 and Manchester University NHS Trust, together with Chas A Blatchford & Sons Ltd., to deliver
 rehabilitation solutions and new lower limb prosthetics for children.

 In the area of spray research, we have collaborated with over 120 multi-national companies
 relating to indoor and outdoor air quality for new product development and construction of the
 supply chain to deliver this. Examples of these are: Carlisle Fluid Technology (UK), VAX (UK),
 Hughes Safety Showers (UK), AWI Ltd. (Europe and China), Colep (Poland and Asia), XDC
 (Taiwan) and Derjjn Group (China). The end goal is a reduction in Volatile Organic Compounds
 for cleaner environments within homes, schools, homecare and hospitals has resulted in timely
 contributions to environmental policies, particularly to the DEFRA Clean Air Strategy 2019.

 Patents awarded
 Cultivating an environment of creativity and innovation in research has resulted in the award of
 10 patents (plus another pending for Scholz):

    •   Davis - ‘Robot Gripper Comprising a Slippage Sensor and Operating Method of a Robot
        Gripper’, patent WO2019243781 (A1), 2019.
    •   Howard - ‘A system for performing functional electrical therapy’, GB2545712, 2017.
    •   Nasr, Burby - Liquid dispensing apparatus’, patents US8820588B2 and US8820589B2,
        both 2014.
    •   Nasr, Burby - ‘Aerosol spray device’, patent US8752737B2, 2014.
    •   Shen - ‘Measuring polarisation via a gating frequency’, patent US10228287B2, 2019.


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Shirley - ‘Assistive mixing system and method of assembling a synchronised spatial
        sound stage’, patent US9979499B2, 2018.
    •   Wei - ‘A reconfigurable Quadrotor Based on Sarrus-linkage’, patent CN109592026A,
        2019.
    •   Yates - ‘Quantum Dots Made Using Phosphine’, patents US20140370690 A1, 2014 and
        US9343301, 2016.

 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline

 Engineering has supported the organisation and delivery of the work of international professional
 societies and learned journals, and our expertise and involvement has been frequently sought by
 peers and external organisations.

 Selected keynotes, plenaries and invited talks
    • Arrigo (Invited) - The Science and Technology of Materials, Interfaces, and Processing
        (AVS) 63rd International Symposium, 2016, Nashville, USA.
    • Arrigo (Invited) - Ambient-pressure x-ray photoemission spectroscopy (APXPS)
        Workshop, 2015, Berkeley.
    • Chadwick (Keynote) - 16th Annual International Conference on Boundary Element and
        Meshless Techniques (BETeq 2017), Romania, 2017.
    • Currie (Invited) presentation at the Henderson Colloquium organised by International
        Association for Bridge and Structural Engineering (Cambridge 2017).
    • Howard (Keynote) - BioMedEng19, Imperial College, London.
    • Hughes (Invited) lecture at the University of Strathclyde’s John Anderson Research
        Colloquia, 2019.
    • Nasr (Plenary) - Advances in Plastic Technology: 2019, Chorzów, Poland, audience of
        250.
    • Nasr (Plenary) - ADF (Association Dentaire Francaise) Congress, Paris 2016; an annual
        international congress with over 400 participants.
    • Nefti-Meziani – (Invited) ShanghAI Lectures, University of Zürich (Dec 2014) and
        Robotics; AI for health and social care, Turing Institute, University of Manchester (2019).
    • Wei (Invited) - 27th IFToMM PC-A, Working Meeting on Standardization of Terminology
        & Advanced Symposium on Mechanism and Machine Science, 2018, Fuzhou University,
        China.
    • Yates (Keynote) - 16th International Conference on Plasma Surface Engineering,
        Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany, 2018.

 Organisation of major conferences
 Over 500 attended the 14th International Symposium on Metal-Hydrogen Systems hosted by
 Salford in 2014 and Chaired by Ross (leaver), with organisation by Bull, Morrison and Proctor.
 Scholz was on the organising committee for the International Conference on Water Microbiology
 & Novel Technologies (2016), Chicago, USA. Hughes was on the organising committee for the
 IoP Photon conference, 2018 and chaired the Waveguide and fibre optic devices and sensors
 session. Nefti-Meziani chaired a session at the 2018 POLIS conference on Innovation in
 Transport for Sustainable Cities and Regions. Yates is chair of the 16th conference on Photovoltaic
 Science, Applications and Technology to be hosted in Salford in 2021 (delayed from 2020) and
 organised by the (UK) Solar Energy Society affiliated to the International Solar Energy Society
 (ISES).

 Roles within funding bodies
 Davis and Howard are full members of the EPSRC peer review college whilst Hughes and Nefti-
 Meziani are associate college members. Nefti-Meziani has reviewed for the Netherlands
 research funding body, and for the EC on FET and COST programmes. She also served on the
 Advisory Board for the EPSRC Centre for Innovative Manufacturing in Intelligent Automation
 (2011-2017) at Loughborough and Cranfield Universities. Scholz is a reviewer for the Israeli
 Ministry of Science and Technology.

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Selected leadership roles in learned societies
    • Arrigo serves on the user group committee for the Diamond Light Source.
    • Chadwick was Chair of the North-West Branch of the Institute of Mathematics and its
        Applications and Chair of Maths In Action outreach at University of Salford and University
        of Warwick.
    • Currie was chairman of IStructE Branch for the northwest region.
    • Nasr is a member of CPD committee of the Institution of Gas Engineers and Managers
        and Fellow member of IGEM and IMechE.
    • Nefti-Meziani is former Vice-Chair of IEEE Robotics and Automation Society UK.
    • Proctor was Secretary for the IoP Shock Wave & Extreme Conditions group.
    • Wei is Vice-Chair, Youth Commission of International Society of Bionic Engineering.

 Selected journal Editorships
    • Davis is a Guest Editor for Frontiers Robotics and AI.
    • Howard serves on the Editorial Boards of the International Journal of Bionics Engineering
        and the International Journal of MultiPhysics.
    • Mei serves as an Associate Editor for IET Electronics Letters.
    • Nefti-Meziani serves as Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems and the
        robotics conferences IEEE IROS.
    • Scholz is on the editorial board of Petroleum and Chemical Industry International.
    • Uzomah serves on the editorial board of journals including MDPI – Sustainability; IJERPH;
        Agronomy; Water journal and Applied Science Journal.
    • Wei serves as Associate Editor, Journal of Mechanical Engineering Science (Proc.
        IMechE Part C).

 Overseas visiting positions
    • Arrigo is an honorary visiting scientist at the Diamond Light Source and at the
       Polytechnical University of Milan.
    • Mei is a Visiting Professor at Tongji University
    • Wei is an Adjunct Professor at Jilin University, China

 Media engagement
 Both Davis and Theodoridis have appeared on the BBC; Davis in a robotics feature on BBC
 Northwest Tonight and Theodoridis’ home service robot ‘Carebot’ featured on the BBC
 documentary ‘Six Robots & Us’, attracting 32.5 million views (2018). Whittleston appeared on
 Sky News giving expert opinion on the Grenfell tower fire. In online media, Arrigo featured in
 ‘Take a Tour of the Diamond Light Source’ in Chemistry World and authored ‘Thinking Big to See
 Small Things’ in Chemistry (Nature Portfolio 2018) and Proctor authored ‘Liquid Mysteries’ in
 Physics World (2018).




                                                                                          Page 17
