Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institution: King’s College London
Unit of Assessment: 12 Engineering
1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy

Context: This submission represents Unit of Assessment (UoA) 12, King’s Engineering,
comprising the School of Biomedical Engineering & Imaging Sciences (BMEIS) and the new
Department of Engineering (DoEng); see Figure 1 for organisational overview. King’s Engineering
focuses on interdisciplinary research, innovation, entrepreneurship and impact which is recognised
by the award of a Queen's Anniversary Prize (2019) for excellence, innovation and public benefit
from research outcomes. While BMEIS and DoEng are distinct organisational units, we work
closely together in delivering a shared and mutually supportive University strategy, King’s Vision
2029, to make the world a better place through the delivery of engineering innovation (REF5a).




The Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine (FoLSM) underwent reconfiguration in 2017 to better
support the delivery of King’s Vision 2029. This created seven new Schools, (including BMEIS)
and a Centre for Education. BMEIS is directly embedded within Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS
Foundation Trust (GSTT) at St Thomas’ campus, drawing expertise from associate hospitals which
are part of our Academic Health Sciences Centre, King’s Health Partners (KHP). This includes
King's College Hospital and South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trusts (SLaM). The
environment greatly facilitates BMEIS’s mission to bring engineering research and innovation into
medical practice. BMEIS also benefits from major infrastructure awards to support translational
research from the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) for two Biomedical Research
Centres (BRC) at GSTT & SLaM. BMEIS is organised into six formal Departments and six strategic
Centres (Figure 1, blue boxes) to support a critical mass of staff working within similar disciplines.
Many Centres integrate research and clinical activity, e.g. the Positron Emission Tomography
(PET) Centre performs over 11,000 patient scans annually. For the REF2014 assessment, BMEIS
consisted of 350 staff (including academics, researchers, professional services) and Post
Graduate Research (PGR) students and solely represented the General Engineering submission



                                                                                                     1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

for King’s. It has continued to grow with the recruitment of Ourselin from UCL as Head of School
(HoS) in 2018, and now comprises 558 staff and PGR students.
As part of King’s Vision 2029, significant institutional investment is being made in science and
technology. At the heart of this, we are actively growing King’s Engineering (supported by
institutional investment of c£50m) to build on existing strengths and expand into new areas that
complement these strengths. Alongside BMEIS and a core base of engineering research and
education within the Department of Informatics, DoEng was officially launched in 2019, with
Shollock recruited from Warwick as Head of Department (HoD). The telecommunications and
robotics groups (which in REF2014 were hosted within the Department of Informatics) and 10
newly appointed academics form the foundation of DoEng which comprises 138 staff and PGR
students. Over the next three years DoEng intends to appoint further staff (approximately 25)
including academics, technical and professional services. Within DoEng, three broad strategic
research areas exist and two specialist research Centres which draw expertise from the
Department of Informatics (Figure 1, green boxes). The departments of Engineering and
Informatics will continue their close collaboration facilitated by their aligned research strategies,
shared common research structures, co-location on the Strand Campus and belonging to the
Faculty of Natural, Mathematical and Engineering Sciences (NMES). Specific DoEng academic
staff (Aghvami, Dai, Dohler and Mahmoodi) who were previously hosted in the Department of
Informatics, whose research interests cross both UoA12 and UoA11, are being returned in UoA11.
DoEng is a strategically growing entity and its physical location close to Informatics, Business and
Social Sciences (among others), ideally places it to work across a breath of disciplines, echoing
BMEIS’s ability to bring engineering research and innovation into society by co-locating expertise
at a hospital campus.
King’s Engineering is building a consolidated presence across both campuses to support our
research vision which is aligned to national and international research priorities as outlined by key
funding organisations (e.g. UKRI, Wellcome, RAEng and Royal Society) and the government’s
industrial strategy. Our vision is to foster collaborations and facilitate problem-solving
research through collective insight to create solutions and an ecosystem to address some
of the most pressing engineering research questions, building a better, more sustainable
world to the benefit of society. Our research incorporates wide-ranging disciplines including
physics, chemistry, imaging, computational modelling, data science, artificial intelligence (AI),
biomedical engineering, robotics, electrical engineering, clinical research (and more). Most
solutions involve contributions and components from many or all the constituent disciplines.
Research & Impact Strategy: Supporting our research vision, King’s Engineering continues to
build an agile multi-disciplinary field drawing on the expertise from arts and humanities, law,
healthcare, as well as policy makers, cultural partners, and industry. Importantly, we work
alongside other sectors to share knowledge and ensure our vital engineering research has an
impact supporting global challenges and national prosperity. Our research and impact strategy is
built around five key enabling pillars:
   Recruit/retain world-class research staff (through promotion, career development and other
    support mechanisms) to grow disciplinary areas and create a critical mass of expertise
    supported through institutional investment and/or large-scale strategic funding awards;
   Collaborate with affiliates/partners in support of current and new research projects. Where
    appropriate, attract new collaborators/partners to strengthen and promote King’s Engineering
    research and impact;
   Grow research income in particular, through applying for large strategic programme/centre
    grants to enable an integrated approach to answer fundamental research questions and utilise
    key partnerships (e.g. industry, the NHS) to strengthen applications. Concurrently, ensure early
    career academics focus on fellowships (where appropriate) and build their grant portfolio
    through responsive mode funding opportunities;
   Share knowledge across sectors and increase research impact through publications, open
    research tools/software, IP & licensing, entrepreneurship and translation of technology into
    products and services;
                                                                                                        2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     Enhance infrastructure and expertise required to accelerate research.
The implementation of our research and impact strategy is managed by each tier two leadership
team specifically, HoS, Ourselin (BMEIS) and HoD, Shollock (DoEng). See Figure 2 for leadership
and supporting roles.
Research Structure: The thematic areas and objectives set for the next five years described
below are strongly aligned, both to the research interests of our academics and to our non-
academic (e.g. industry) partners.
King’s Engineering research is structured into three overarching thematic areas T1: Health, T2:
Connectivity, and T3: Manufacturing & Sustainability. Each thematic area has associated sub-
themes (Figure 2) incorporating the research priorities of all strategic Centres with areas of
research synergy across BMEIS and DoEng.




    Figure 2: Core thematic areas and associated sub-themes. The dotted blue line presents areas of current
                           and growing research synergy within King’s Engineering.



T1: The largest area of growth over the assessment period. T1 aims to improve the delivery of
healthcare through advanced engineering to treat and diagnose patients across many disease
areas including cancer, neurological, and cardiovascular conditions. Research is patient-centric,
highlighted through 22 clinical academics embedded within King’s Engineering, many of whom
                                                                                                              3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

hold joint appointments with the NHS. T1 is segmented into five sub-themes, covering fundamental
research areas in:
   T1.1, Imaging Sciences: Built around three fundamental and inter-related areas: Imaging
    physics, computational & clinical imaging to improve image acquisition, reconstruction,
    processing and analysis;
   T1.2, Computational Modelling: Focuses on mechanistic understanding of pathologies,
    precision diagnostics, and personalised therapy delivery via patient specific model-based
    outcome predictions;
   T1.3, Chemistry & Biology Applied to Imaging: Designs, develops and assesses new
    platform chemical technologies i.e. molecular imaging probes/tracers to help improve the
    detection and understanding of disease including enhance access to treatments in low-middle-
    income countries (LMICs);
   T1.4, AI in Healthcare: Creates AI-driven tools for higher quality images, computer-aided
    diagnosis/guidance software and decision-making support tools for all points of patient contact
    across many clinical pathways;
   T1.5, Surgery & Intervention: Combines diagnostic-quality imaging and sensing with
    ergonomic smart instruments (e.g. flexible robotic systems) to deliver pathological, anatomical
    and physiological optimal surgeries.
T2: This thematic area brings together the telecommunications and aspects of the robotics
research alongside activities in information and computer engineering into three sub-themes
covering fundamental research in:
   T2.1, Networks & Telecommunications: Builds on existing expertise in wireless
    communications and networks research with innovation in 5G and increasingly 6G, and
    development of resource-efficient networks as well as economic and policy implications of
    these technologies;
   T2.2, Sensors, Signals, & Control: Brings together the synergies between sensing, signal
    processing and intelligent control to develop Internet of Things (IoT) systems across numerous
    applications in communications, robotics and healthcare;
   T2.3, Information & Computer Engineering: Captures emerging areas in energy-efficient
    computing and bio-inspired systems in neuromorphic computing and molecular
    communications.
T3: A new strategic growth area, this thematic area has four sub-themes to address sustainability
across a range of topics:
   T3.1, Energy & Thermal Engineering: A new area, focused on engineering to improve the
    environment ranging from energy storage and recovery to research on wildfires and their
    emissions;
   T3.2, Advanced Materials: Brings together the development, manufacturing and performance
    of engineering alloys, energy materials and nanoparticles;
   T3.3, Sustainable & Autonomous Systems: Enhances existing robotics research in high-
    dexterous manipulation and mechanisms with new activities in sustainable manufacturing
    systems including machine learning and intelligent control. New research includes continuous
    flow processes for vaccine manufacture and use of sustainable sources for food and fuel
    manufacture;
   T3.4, Medical Devices: Creates new devices for healthcare, with emphasis on advanced
    microwave and non-invasive diagnostics and haptics for prosthetics.


The three thematic areas (T1, T2 and T3) provide a comprehensive framework, allowing all
academics and research focused staff the freedom to work across other disciplines, develop
additional expertise and increase collaborative activity. Figure 3 provides further details of each
sub-theme and illustrates our critical mass of staff and where most of their research contribution
resides.

                                                                                                      4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                                     T1.1: Imaging Sciences
                                    Improve acquisition, reconstruction, processing and analysis.
                     Arichi, Botnar, Carmichael, Charakida, Chicklore, Chiribiri, Clough, Cook, Counsell, Deprez, Dregely,
                     De Vita, Edwards, Egloff-Collado, Fischer, Gangi, Hajnal, Hammers, Ipek, Lewington, Lloyd, Malik,
                         Marsden, Nazir, Phinikaridou, Prieto-Vasquez, Pushparajah, Reader, Reyes-Torres, Roujol,
                                           Rutherford, Subesinghe, Sinkus, Tournier, Victor, Villa


                                                T1.2: Computational Modelling
                                    Improve interventions via model-based outcome predictions.
                      Alastruey-Arimon, Aslandi, Bishop, De Vecchi, King, Lamata de la Orden, Lee, Niederer, Nordsletten


                                       T1.3: Chemistry & Biology Applied to Imaging
  T1: Health




                                     Improve disease detection using molecular probes/tracers.
                     Barrington, Blower, Cook, Eykyn, Fruhwirth, Gee, Hammers, Ma, Southworth, Stasiuk, Terry, T. M. de
                                                  Rosales, Warbey, Williams, Witney, Yan


                                                    T1.4: AI in Healthcare
                               Develop novel advanced imaging, AI tools and linked computer-aided
                                                  diagnosis/guidance software.
                         Cardoso, Chiribiri, Deprez, Goh, King, Modat, Ourselin, Razavi, Reader, Robinson, Schnabel,
                                                             Vercauteren, Young


                                               T1.5: Surgery & Intervention
                      Improve interventions using surgical data science, physiological navigation, precision
                                                       instrumentation.
                       Adam, Booth, Bergeles, Ipek, Jha, Kamavuako, Kosmas, Liu, Melbourne, Ourselin, Rhode, Sparks,
                                                             Vercauteren, Xia


                             T2.1: Networks &                                                                  T3.1: Energy & Thermal
                            Telecommunication                                                              Engineering Improve efficiency and
                         Improve information exchange                                                         safety of new energy systems.
                             systems at all levels.                                                             Huang, Restuccia, Makatsoris
                                                                      T3: Manufacturing & Sustainability




                        [Aghvami], Deng, [Dohler], Friderikos,
                               [Mahmoodi], Nakhai                                                            T3.2: Advanced Materials
                                                                                                           Develop new materials for emerging
                                                                                                                     applications.
  T2: Connectivity




                       T2.2: Information & Computer
                                                                                                                Huang, Kosmas, Ma, Shollock
                                Engineering
                         Develop efficient information                                                     T3.3: Sustainable & Autonomous
                       processing via new algorithms and                                                               Systems
                                    devices.                                                               Develop mechanisms and systems for
                        Al-Hashimi, Deng, Rajendran, Simeone
                                                                                                              manufacturing and healthcare.
                                                                                                              Celiktutan, [Dai], Guo, Makatsoris
                     T2.3: Sensors, Signals, & Control
                      Develop and optimise sensors and                                                          T3.4: Medical Devices
                                  systems.                                                                     Develop new diagnostics and
                        Cvetkovic, Celiktutan, French, Howard,                                                     healthcare devices.
                       Kamavuako, Kosmas, Lam, Shikh-Bahaei
                                                                                                             Cvetkovic, [Dai], Kamavuako, Kosmas



Figure 3: Research sub-themes and where the majority contribution of each academic resides. For T2 and
   T3, names contained in brackets form part of DoEng however, are being submitted as part of UoA11.


                                                                                                                                                   5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Meeting REF2014 Objectives: Staff returned to General Engineering in REF2014 were solely
from BMEIS which is reflected in the objectives set and key outcomes described below.
During the assessment period a total of 3784 research articles/papers across the four objectives
were published. In addition, when incorporating other outputs (including reviews, book chapters,
conference proceedings) a total of 4353 outputs were published. Supporting these outputs, 51
patents were filed, some in collaboration with industry partners (Siemens Healthineers, Philips
Healthcare, GE Healthcare and Theragnostics) in areas including; improved magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI) performance and methods for synthesising radiotracer compounds (examples
include PCT/GB2020/050876, WO2012063028A1, WO2017076879A1). A summary of key
scientific outcomes is provided below with original objectives in italics.
1) move to an adaptive framework for image acquisition and reconstruction, to transform how
   imaging modalities are used, consider new ways of combining their capabilities, and integrate
   acquisition, reconstruction, analysis and modelling.
Key outcomes: Demonstration of edge-preserving noise-reduction PET reconstruction capabilities;
synergistic multi-contrast MR and synergistic PET-MR reconstruction strategies allowing shorter
scan times; new imaging tools for the non-invasive and radiation-free assessment; novel multi-
contrast imaging sequences allowing simultaneous visualisation of heart anatomy (implemented as
pre-product software with Siemens Healthineers).
2) develop computational and statistical techniques that allow automatic analysis of images,
   accurate fusion of images to guide interventions, and building atlases from large image
   datasets.
Key outcomes: Fetal and neonatal imaging solutions using 2D/3D ultrasound and structural MRI
analysed with deep learning-based online biometric measurements; motion correction for structural
and functional fetal and neonatal brain MRI; interventional, minimally invasive hybrid X-ray/MRI
with commercial translation (Siemens Healthineers); unique database of over 1,000 high-quality
fetal and neonatal structural, diffusion and resting-state functional MRI datasets together with
genetic and developmental data; project Medical Open Network for AI (MONAI), an open-source
community-supported, deep learning framework for healthcare imaging.
3) achieve insight into mechanisms of disease by creating a mathematical and computational
   framework of electro-mechanical and computational fluid dynamic models.
Key outcomes: Novel pipeline for the quantification at pixel level of myocardial blood supply from
cardiovascular magnetic resonance perfusion; creation of several tools for the validation of
quantitative perfusion measurements, including a device called perfusion phantom; new image
processing and numerical workflows for rapid and robust computational models at scale from large
clinical databases for guiding therapies in prospective clinical studies.
4) address major chemical challenges of imaging: synthesising innovative molecular probes and
   new platform chemical technologies.
Key outcomes: New platform chemical technologies including (i) tris(hydroxypyridonine), THP
chelators for gallium-68 which have underpinned easy, accessible synthesis of a range of
radiotracers including PET 68Ga-THP-PSMA (which is now commercialised as a simple kit, and in
phase III trials for prostate cancer); (ii) “inorganic” (non-carbon-bound) fluorine chemistry for
incorporating 18F into new tracers (18F-tetrafluoroborate has been clinically validated in a phase I
PET study in thyroid cancer patients); (iii) platforms for radiolabelling of a range of nanoparticulate
materials for multimodality imaging; (iv) methods for simple, efficient cell radiolabelling to support
PET cell tracking in cell based therapy; (vi) novel methods to incorporate 11C and 13N into
biomolecules and drugs for PET imaging.
Objectives for the next five years: We will continue to develop King's Engineering as a central
pillar of King’s Vision 2029, consolidate world-class strengths in science and technology alongside


                                                                                                          6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

health, social sciences and humanities, grow our research base targeting specific thematic areas
and embed a culture of innovation and impact. Key objectives include:
   Build on the success of T1, exploit cross thematic interactions to harness the potential of total
    body PET (developing multiplexed imaging of multiple molecular targets) and low-field magnet
    technology to democratise MRI;
   Lead and build strength in AI research (T1.4) across all areas of engineering, harnessing the
    capabilities available e.g. Project MONAI and the UKs most powerful supercomputer
    (Cambridge-1, operational in 2021 through Nvidia), to solve pressing medical challenges
    including those presented by COVID-19;
   Explore further collaborative potential between BMEIS and DoEng. There is currently synergy
    between six sub-themes (Figure 2), including 5G capabilities (T2.1) and surgery (T1.5).
   Build on the success of T2 by harnessing nature inspired methods for computing and
    communications and develop T3 as we grow DoEng, though critical mass in research on
    energy storage (T3.1) and advanced materials and their performance (T3.2). T3.3 will broaden
    its reach to other manufacturing sectors, with focus on net zero emission for a sustainable
    future. T3.4 will continue to develop medical devices in parallel to exploiting advanced
    radiofrequency for other applications;
   Accelerate clinical translation of medical devices, (currently takes over 10 years) through
    leveraging the MedTech Hub (see sustainability section) and support at least 15 new
    technologies to reach first-in-patient trials;
   Generate (at least five) new King’s spin-out companies supporting commercialisation of
    engineering technology;
   Provide long-term financial sustainability – i) secure industrial funding including in-kind support
    ii) generate income via pre-series A companies linked to the MedTech Hub iii) increase overall
    research income by (at least) 20%.
Enabling Impact: King’s Engineering research has led to health, economic and social impact. Our
approach to enable impact with examples are highlighted below.
Support formation of strategic partnerships: Research projects with over 40 companies (e.g.
Nvidia, Nissan and Ericsson) exist and provide opportunities to take part/full-time secondments.
The Smart Medical Imaging (EP/S022104/1, a renewal of EP/L015226/1) and Surgical &
Interventional Engineering, SIE (King’s funded) Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) programmes
have provided 10 industry internships at companies such as Google, NASA and Samsung. DoEng
collaborates with the Centre for Urban Science and Progress London (CUSP London), a joint
initiative which aims to bring together researchers, businesses, government agencies (e.g.
Transport for London) to apply urban science to improve health and wellbeing. CUSP London
follows the highly successful establishment of CUSP New York, both initiatives work in partnership.
Co-locate staff with partners onsite: Key stakeholders are hosted onsite allowing close
collaboration, leading to further interactions, e.g. onsite collaborations with Nvidia led to further
company investment of c£40m towards the Cambridge-1 supercomputer where we are the sole
academic partner. This partnership will allow King’s Engineering to take a national leadership role
in health data-related AI research.
Provide support for IP, licensing & commercialisation: Access to expertise for ownership,
protection and commercial exploitation of IP and creation of spin-out companies is available to all
staff and students. Through utilising these expertise, 51 patents were filed supporting
collaborative work with industry and a new King’s spin-out, Hypervision Surgical was launched
with academic involvement from Ourselin and Vercauteren. Financial contribution through the
King’s Commercialisation Institute supported commercialisation of research outcomes (e.g.
£150k was provided for the Soft and Self Propelling Endoscope project, PI Liu). Investment for
new staff to steer these activities, manage industry partnerships and support the Enterprise and
Engagement and Research & Innovation Leads (Figure 2) has been committed.



                                                                                                        7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Invest in infrastructure: Institutional investment, both at the Strand and St Thomas’ Hospital
Campus has led to expansion of research space and new/upgraded research facilities. Examples
include the expansion of St Thomas' PET Centre (c£17m King’s investment) and the new
engineering and computer laboratories for DoEng (c£8.1m King’s investment). Specialist staff are
employed to support scholarly activities, see section 3.
Relationship to Impact Case Studies: Our eight impact case studies (ICSs), summarised in
Table 1, illustrate the breadth of impact achieved utilising the features described above.


        1       Cydar, an AI driven image guidance system for minimally invasive surgery.
        2       3D coronary MR angiography (CMRA), a non-invasive radiation-free
                assessment method.
        3       Galliprost, democratisation of PET imaging technology through smart
                radiochemistry.
        4       IXICO, a King’s spin-out leveraging medical image data curation and analysis.
        5       Adoption of stereotactic ablative radiotherapy technology in the NHS.
        6       Automated quantitative myocardial perfusion, improving access,
                effectiveness, and quality of cardiovascular magnetic resonance.
        7       Improved diagnosis and treatment of patients with lymphoma using PET.
        8       COVID Symptom Study App, monitoring the spread of COVID-19 across the
                UK.
            Table 1: Description of Impact Case Studies Submitted for UoA12, King’s Engineering

By enabling strategic partnerships and locating over 10 Siemens Healthineer scientists on-site,
EPSRC and BHF funded research led to key technologies that have been adopted by Siemens
including the 3D CMRA (ICS 2) and myocardial perfusion (ICS 6) technologies. Both have been
disseminated as pre-product software to centres worldwide for clinical validation in advance of
commercialisation. EPSRC, CRUK, Wellcome and BRC funded research led to a PET tracer
named Galliprost (ICS 3) which has benefited over 1200 patients internationally since 2017 and
provided cost savings of £600-£1500 per patient. In partnership with Theragnostics Ltd, the
Galliprost kit is now successfully commercialised.
ICSs 1 & 4 build on ongoing research reported in the previous REF period and showcase
continued impact of King’s spin-out companies IXICO and Cydar Medical leading to further patient
benefit, company growth and revenue.
ICS 8 describes rapid response engineering solutions utilising citizen science and AI which led to
the COVID Symptom Study App in partnership with Zoe Global. The App has supported significant
policy decisions during the current pandemic. ICSs 5 & 7 have influenced/changed practice for the
treatment of patients with extra-cranial oligometastatic cancer and lymphoma respectively.
Sustainability: We will continue to recruit and host staff from relevant sectors to grow our critical
mass, specifically for T2 and T3. We will provide further infrastructure (institutional investment of
c£75m allocated) to support our research and impact strategy. By March 2021 we will open our
core experimental facility for SIE research, supporting T1. In 2021 we will complete the
Manufacture of Active Implant and Surgical Instruments facility and implement a fully certified
quality management system to support the translation of medical devices sustaining T1 and T3.
DoEng will open new engineering laboratories by summer 2022 supporting T3. To sustain impact,
we are also developing St Thomas’ MedTech Hub, a purpose-built ecosystem to support the
development, translation and commercialisation of innovative healthcare technologies at a single
geographical location. The Hub will exploit core collaborative partnerships (academia, NHS
Trusts and industry), enabling infrastructure and large-scale research projects to drive
innovation. The development is supported by successful funding bids, including a £16m capital bid
from Research England (led by BMEIS) alongside institutional investment of £15m, to build the
London Institute for Healthcare Engineering (section 3).

                                                                                                    8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Interdisciplinarity: Research conducted across King’s Engineering is interdisciplinary by nature
encompassing researchers with training in engineering, chemistry, physics, computer science,
mathematics, biology and medicine working alongside one another. The physical location of
BMEIS within St Thomas' Hospital, and the partnerships across KHP, ensures close collaboration
with both clinical researchers and practitioners. Similarly, for DoEng, interdisciplinarity is reflected
with collaborations across the Stand Campus and social and biomedical sciences. In particular, the
strong synergies with the Department of Informatics, ensures continuing vibrancy at the important
interface between computer science and engineering. Other examples include, DoEng working
with King’s Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience (IoPPN ) in computer vision to
understand human interaction and BMEIS working with the King’s Department of Twin Research &
Genetic Epidemiology helping shape national policy in relation to the current COVID-19 pandemic
(section 4).
Research Integrity and Open Research: As part of the University community, we commit to
ensuring research conducted by staff and students is consistently of the highest quality and
conforms to rigorous standards. We support honesty and transparency in all aspects of research,
adherence to any relevant disciplinary standards, always ensuring that the wellbeing, dignity, and
safety of research participants and our researchers are protected, alongside the reputation of the
University. We encourage all staff to attend the “fundamentals of research excellence” at King's, a
short workshop designed to raise and strengthen awareness of research integrity and provide
information on relevant policies, both locally and nationally. King’s has enhanced and formalised
its approach to Research Integrity during the current REF cycle. Therefore, new Research Integrity
Advisors, Aghvami (DoEng) and Schnabel and Fischer (BMEIS) have now been appointed to play
a high-level advocacy role to visibly promote the values of research integrity and serve as a point
of contact for staff queries regarding research conduct.
We adhere to institutional rules with regards to open research as King’s is a formal member of the
UK Reproducibility Network who provide activities led by the King’s Open Research Group
Initiative (KORGI) (REF5a). As part of our research and impact strategy, staff are expected to
share knowledge widely through complying with King’s Open Access policy. Publications are
required to be uploaded in full text in King’s CRIS and repository system ‘Pure’ and utilise King’s
Open Access block grants (from organisations such as the Wellcome and UKRI) to allow fully open
access outputs. Research tools such as software/code where appropriate, are shared through
GitHub and GitLab webpages, where individual research staff regularly update their software/code.
Where appropriate, we share imaging data (e.g. through the Global Society for Cardiovascular
Magnetic Resonance registry). We are supported by King’s Libraries and Collection team, who
provide regular training and seminars for all staff across King’s Engineering, particularly with
changes in open access requirements from funding bodies. Seminars are organised by BMEIS
and DoEng research administrative teams to regularly communicate information regarding open
access requirements and disseminate information through internal newsletters and emails. All staff
understand the importance of open access and are encouraged to be transparent to ensure the
highest standards of research are upheld.
2. People
King’s Engineering adopts a targeted but flexible recruitment strategy, a comprehensive support
mechanism that promotes equality and diversity and addresses the needs of early career
academics and research staff.
Recruitment: All academic appointments are steered by our research and impact strategy. Over
the assessment period BMEIS increased critical mass and capabilities in AI (Cardoso, Modat,
Ourselin, Schnabel, Vercauteren and Young) and SIE (Bergeles, Melbourne, Jha, Ourselin,
Sparks, Vercauteren and Xia) research. Investment in physical infrastructure was also correlated
to our staffing strategy as the new SIE research facility was directly linked to the strategic
recruitment of Ourselin along with six additional academics and transfer of their research groups
from UCL in 2018. For DoEng, focus was placed on strengthening existing areas e.g.


                                                                                                      9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

telecommunications (Al-Hashimi, Deng, Rajendran and Simeone) and broadening the research
base in new areas across disciplines (Mark, Makatsoris, Guo, Huang, Shollock and Restuccia).
Processes to ensure recruitment of all new academic staff remains fair and promotes diversity are
adhered to. This includes having appointment panels that are gender balanced and includes an
external panel member. Further, all panel members are required to complete the “Diversity
Matters” training workshop. We also encourage under-represented groups to apply through our
advertisements and use appropriate networks to disseminate all vacancies. During the
assessment period, 45 new academic appointments were made across King’s Engineering, 35 in
BMEIS, 10 in DoEng (14 Lecturers, 13 Clinical Academics, six Senior Lecturers, three Readers
and nine Professorial positions). The overall academic staff profile of King’s Engineering includes
73 non-clinical and 24 clinical academics. Examples of Professorial appointments include:
Al-Hashimi CBE FREng (DoEng), expertise in energy-efficient computing and systems
engineering (T2). Recruited in 2020 as Executive Dean of the Faculty of NMES, formally an ARM
Professor of Computer Engineering from Southampton.
Makatsoris (DoEng), expertise in Sustainable Systems Manufacturing (T3) with focus on
automated continuous flow processing of novel materials and vaccines and is involved in
establishing a spin-out in continuous flow manufacturing, Centillion Manufacturing Technology.
Appointed in 2019 from Cranfield.
Ourselin (BMEIS), expertise in medical imaging, computational modelling, AI and medical
devices. Recruited in 2018 from UCL as HoS (BMEIS) to build T1 and promote innovation and
impact drawing from his expertise with many large medtech companies as he is associated with a
number of spin-out companies (BrainMiner, Innersight Labs, Thames Mammography).
Schnabel (BMEIS), expertise in computational and medical imaging, machine/deep learning,
supporting T1. Recruited in 2015 from Oxford as Director of the CDT in Medical Imaging.
Shollock (DoEng), expertise in advanced materials and characterisation (T3). Recruited in 2019
from Warwick Manufacturing Group as HoD for Engineering, supporting the development of
engineering activity aligned to in education, research and innovation.
Vercauteren (BMEIS), expertise in machine learning for computer-assisted surgery. Recruited in
2018 from UCL, supporting T1 and innovation and translation of medical devices drawing from his
10 years of experience within industry.
Young (BMEIS, international recruitment), expertise in Analytics and AI. Recruited in 2018 from
Auckland, supporting T1, specifically cardiovascular data analytics and AI.
Other new appointments that complement and diversify existing strengths and broaden capabilities
beyond healthcare research:
Cardoso (BMEIS), expertise in AI capabilities in healthcare and development of medical data
analytics platforms. Recruited in 2018 from UCL as Senior Lecturer in support of T1.
Stasiuk (BMEIS), expertise in design and synthesis of novel multimodal imaging agents for MRI
and PET. Recruited in 2019 from Hull as Senior Lecturer supporting T1.
Guo (DoEng), expertise in biomanufacturing and bio-renewable processes. Appointed in 2019,
from Imperial College London (ICL) as Lecturer (former EPSRC Postdoctoral Fellow), supporting
T3.
Huang (DoEng), expertise in advanced materials and manufacturing for energy storage.
Appointed in 2019 from Oxford as Lecturer (EPSRC Innovation Fellow), supporting T3.
Overall, 32% of academics within King’s Engineering are female while, approximately 72% of
academic staff are under 49, demonstrating our commitment to the development of early career



                                                                                                  10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

academics, providing a strong pool of talent to develop future leaders to ensure the continued
vitality.
Academic Development: Both BMEIS and DoEng implement an Academic Performance
Framework for all academic staff (unique to each Faculty) which offers a transparent structure
articulating key areas for growth, expectations and recognises wide-ranging contributions. For
early career academics, it also offers a method to strengthen career trajectories of individuals
enabling greater opportunities. Broadly, the Framework includes mechanisms for formal
mentorship, advice on maximising impact, raising international visibility, funding application
support and post-award management.
All new academic staff are appointed with an initial probationary period (typically three years).
Clear objectives/expectations/targets for this period are agreed, and staff are assigned a mentor to
provide guidance and support towards building skills and strengthening research profiles, helping a
smooth transition into a permanent position following probation. Successful completion of
probation requires staff to demonstrate their ability to develop a sustainable high-quality
programme of research.
New academic staff are provided with start-up funding to ensure they have the resources required
to develop a successful programme of research and enable them to secure competitive research
funding to deliver their research vision. The level of individual start-up support is dependent on
specific requirements such as equipment procurement (if not available through existing
infrastructure) and, for more senior appointments, funding to support the transition to King's and
establishment of new strategic activities. Institutional investment in equipment/facilities for newly
recruited academics during the assessment period exceeded £13.5m. For new academics, start-
up packages include a £3k - £10k discretionary fund for research expenses and a four-year PhD
studentship. For Senior Lecturers and above, support for a postdoctoral researcher may also be
provided. All Professorial packages offered are more substantial and negotiated before formal
appointment.
All academic staff participate in an annual performance development review (PDR) and (following
successful probation) are annually offered the opportunity to apply for promotion through Faculty-
led processes involving external assessment. One-to-one guidance discussions with the HoS
(BMEIS) or HoD (DoEng) is available to all staff who wish to apply for promotion. For the current
assessment period, a total of 40 academic promotions were awarded, including six female staff
and six Black and Minority Ethnic (BME) staff. In line with our strategy to retain academic talent,
seven academic staff were successful in more than one round of promotion (Chiribiri, Martin, King,
Malik, Niederer, Nordsletten and Prieto-Vasquez) and in two cases progressed from early career
Lecturer to Professor (Niederer and Prieto-Vasquez) during the assessment period.
Opportunities for sabbatical leave at other academic institutions or industry companies are offered
to staff to drive impact, new funding applications, raise international staff profiles, explore new
research fields and build new collaborations (e.g. three-month sabbatical to Stanford University led
to a successful $2m NIH R01 award (Niederer)). To enrich the experience of staff and provide
opportunities to build their international and industrial research platforms, we have hosted
international leaders and visiting Professors including: Peters (Robarts Research Institute); Wells
(Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women’s Hospital); Dawant (Vanderbilt School of
Engineering); Shah (Arcadis RAEng visiting Professor); Bonfield MBE (Royal Society Entrepreneur
in Residence); Kradjian (Chief Engineer (Research) JLR) and Mallikarjum (CEO Ericsson Silicon
Valley).
Research Staff Development: Professional development supporting our community of 170
research staff (postdoctoral scientists, research assistants) is influenced by the three guiding
Concordat principles with strong institutional commitment (REF5a) to delivery.
Environment and Culture: We communicate King’s provisions for mentoring and training to all staff
offered by the King’s Centre for Research Staff Development (CRSD) who provide professional
development support for research staff, before, during and after their time at King’s. Our respective
Faculty Research Staff Committees bring together research staff with academic representatives, to
                                                                                                   11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

formulate and monitor development and ensure that the views of all research staff are sought and
represented. Activities include quarterly new starter lunches hosted by the Dean/Vice-Deans and
regular symposia for research staff. Representatives for all research staff also sit on key
Faculty/School/Department decision-making committees.
Employment: In line with our research and impact strategy, we are committed to support the
transfer of all talented research staff on fixed-term contracts to long-term opportunities. This is
achieved through mentorship and support for fellowship applications. Staff who are approaching
the end of their contract are provided direct support from HR to discuss forthcoming opportunities
and directed to the Internal Talent Database which advertises short-term bridging employment
opportunities. Research staff are allocated 10 days pro rata per annum to focus on professional
development and can attend workshops where an increased emphasis on career mapping
within/or beyond academia alongside development of research identity and leadership skill are
provided. Bespoke annual PDRs with specific sections on mentoring, career progression and
future planning, with line-managers are compulsory ensuring these subjects are discussed in
advance of contract renewal.
Professional & Career Development: Research staff can access specific courses offered through
the King’s CRSD on grant writing, leadership, navigating change and uncertainty, career planning
(among others) offered centrally. King’s Engineering has hosted many (including virtual)
workshops (12 in the last 24 months) to steer fellowship applications in collaboration with major
funders (e.g. EPSRC, MRC, NIHR) and King’s Research Management & Innovation Directorate
(RMID) staff. Research staff may apply for transition funding through schemes such as King’s prize
fellowships, which is a competitive process (REF5a). All applicants are closely mentored through
this process. Four King’s prize fellowships have been awarded (Arthurs; Lloyd; O’Muircheartaigh;
Williams) within Engineering. The Wellcome/EPSRC Centre for Medical Engineering has also
supported researchers by providing fellowship awards to talented individuals to start pursuing their
own research programmes and have an opportunity to apply for further independent funding. 16
internal applications were awarded (worth c£1.3m). Approximately 55% percent of our successful
applicants were female, which supports part of our strategy to promote/retain talented women in
science. To bring together current and recent holders of independent research fellowships, NMES
and BMEIS have established a Network of Fellows. The Network provides a community to inspire
and support colleagues to develop activities to further the advancement of network members, and
act as a source of advice and share good practice, creating a stronger, more vibrant research
community.
Mentoring Schemes for All Staff: Mentorship is key to support skills development at all career
levels. There are two institutionally supported mentoring schemes (More Than Mentoring and B-
MEntor) open to all staff. B-Mentor is a specific cross-institutional mentoring scheme for BME
academics and researchers. Both schemes are promoted regularly to staff. Within BMEIS, an
additional mentoring programme, complementing the institutional schemes was first launched in
2013 where senior academics offer mentorship to junior academics and postdoctoral scientists to
develop their research profile, teaching and leadership skills. Development of the scheme was
initially guided by an external consultant. BMEIS has delivered four dedicated workshops for
mentees and mentors since the scheme started. There is a strong emphasis on feedback to
ensure the scheme is useful for mentees. In total, over 50 early career researchers have been
supported by this scheme during this assessment period.
Career Development Support for All Staff: In addition to courses offered through the King’s
CRSD, other programmes available to all staff includes the King’s Emerging Leaders Programme.
In the last round, this attracted five staff (including Howard and Liu) and provides training in the
essential skills and tools required for future leaders. The King’s Entrepreneurship Institute offers an
entrepreneurial training programme providing an opportunity to develop skills as innovators, critical
thinkers, and enhance future career prospects. A number of colleagues have benefited from the
Leading Researchers Programme (including Niederer and Vercauteren) aimed at senior
academics just at or on the cusp of Professorial appointments, who are trained as part of a cohort


                                                                                                    12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

to think further about effective mechanisms for leadership, project management, generating and
developing big grant ideas, taking risks and collaborating across disciplines.
All staff participate in an annual PDR. The streamlined process provides an opportunity to reflect
on successes and difficulties with an emphasis on research and planning career development
steps in the medium to long-term, all with the help of senior colleagues. This also allows line
managers to systematically recognise successes and difficulties and make appropriate
adjustments to workload to ensure adequate time is available for research and related activities
(including grant applications, impact development and dissemination of research outcomes).
Objectives for the forthcoming coming year are set and opportunities to sit on advisory committees
or deputise on decision-making committees are discussed.
Research Development Support for All Staff: We ensure provisions are in place to support
research grant funding, in particular for early career researchers. Staff benefit from three
dedicated, PhD qualified Research Development Managers (two through RMID and one
embedded directly within BMEIS) to support the development of strategic funding applications,
provide academic staff training and act as a key point of expertise on applications. In addition, all
applications are expected to pass through internal peer review monitored by Research
Development Managers. To support the development and success of grant proposals, applications
by early career academics are offered one-to-one mentorship from senior academics (e.g. all
candidates selected to apply for Future Leaders Fellowships were assigned a senior mentor to
provide critique and guidance throughout). Internal peer-review of pre-submission versions of grant
proposals for all competitive funding schemes are based on hour-long sessions involving the
proposer, 3-5 other academics and Research Development Managers. After submission,
proposers are offered help with preparing answers to reviewer comments, and where the
application process involves a panel interview, mock interviews are organised for the candidate.
King’s Engineering has also developed structured, high-quality cohort-based support programmes
e.g. NMES20, to assist early career academics in developing successful grant and fellowship
applications. During the assessment period, 19 external fellowships were awarded in total: 10
UKRI; four Wellcome; two Royal Academy of Engineering; one European Research Council;
one CRUK and one NIHR, details in section 3.
Supporting Impact: Impact is predominantly achieved through working closely with stakeholders
across sectors (e.g. industry and NHS). Across T1, due to complex regulatory processes that need
to be followed to allow first-in-patient studies, clinical trial approvals, translation and subsequent
commercialisation, six members of staff (which includes a health economist, process engineer and
a quality systems manager) provide expert advice to support our academic community to ensure
successful navigation through the R&D process. Additional support from the King’s
Commercialisation Institute, and IP and Licensing Office is also available to enable commercial
uptake of technology. Increased investment from Siemens Healthineers and Medtronic (c£20m,
including in-kind support) has also led to new Master Research Agreements supporting a plethora
of collaborative research opportunities. For DoEng, a new role of Vice Dean (Enterprise and
Engagement) was established in NMES to support departments in achieving a higher degree of
non-academic impact and creating potential new income streams, with similar roles at
departmental level. This NMES role is complemented by a Faculty Industrial Partnerships
Manager.
King’s has held an EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) since 2015 managed by NMES in
support of the development of impact from EPSRC funded research. The IAA has both supported
workshops to encourage a focus on impact by academic and research staff, and funded impact
projects through competitive calls. Applicants to the scheme are provided with one-to-one support
to develop their proposals to ensure the development of a pathway to impact for the underpinning
research. To date, 18 projects have been funded in King's Engineering which in turn has leveraged
over c£2m of additional research and innovation funding. We have also successfully secured 12
awards from the King’s Together (REF5a) funding stream supporting new interdisciplinary


                                                                                                    13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

collaborations this includes projects entitled “Tracking brain states in epilepsy”, PI Cvetkovic and
“REBoot, Research Epidermolysis Bullosa orthotics” PI Howard.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I): King’s is one of only 10 UK institutions to hold a Race
Equality Award, receiving Bronze in 2015, we are also a Stonewall Diversity Champion member
since 2016 (REF5a). King’s Engineering therefore has a strong commitment to embedding the
principles of ED&I respecting all protected characteristics including issues of race and racial
inequality and ensuring LGBTQ+ inclusivity. To help support and communicate these principles,
we have Development, Diversity & Inclusion representatives (Marsden (BMEIS) and Shollock
(DoEng)). We also hold Athena SWAN Silver and Bronze Awards for BMEIS and DoEng
respectively. All staff are required to attend the “Diversity Matters” training workshop to understand
and promote an inclusive and diverse research environment where policies and practices are
followed, including those related to recruitment. In 2019, over 90% of our academic staff attended
the “Diversity Matters” workshop, where for many, this was a refresher course. All recruitment
panels have at least one (usually two) senior female panel members. To further support our staff,
we encourage the use of the University supported Parents and Carers Fund which provides return
to work funds (c£10,000) for all staff following a period of maternity/adoption/additional
paternity/caring responsibility leave (four people within King’s Engineering have been awarded
funding). We operate a compassionate system of flexible (and where appropriate part-time)
working arrangement for staff with caring commitments, both informally and formally facilitated. We
strongly encourage all colleagues to keep meetings and other communications within ‘core’
working hours (10am-4pm) to promote staff wellbeing. Our seminar series are run during
lunchtimes and early afternoon slots to ensure those with caring duties are also able to attend. All
employees have access to mental health and wellbeing support. This includes one-to-one and
group counselling sessions (including out of hours support) and Disability Advisers (expert mental
health advisers).
Overall, the percentage of female early career Lecturers has increased from 33% in 2014/15 to
over 60% at end 2018/19. We anticipate that the percentage of female staff in higher academic
grades (currently Senior Lecturers 25%, Professors 20%) will now increase reflecting the large
number of junior female academic staff now potentially available for promotion. For the same
period, the overall percentage of BME staff remains close to 25% (all staff) and is currently 23% for
all academic staff and 20% at Professorial level. With regards to nationality 45% of King’s
Engineering academic staff are from the UK, 30% from the EU and 25% from non-EU countries.
To further support diversity & inclusion, we actively work to help women in STEMM (as highlighted
through the increase in percentage of female lecturers appointed) to address the current
imbalance of women working and studying in these areas. In 2013 the NMES Women in Science
Initiative was established to assess, address and challenge the inequities women face in their
academic careers; initiatives include the establishment of the Gender Equality Student Fund, open
to all students in the Faculty to support innovative projects, activities or events that promote
gender equality in STEMM.
REF Submission: To support the UoA12 submission, a management group led by Schnabel,
including Jha, Ourselin and Shollock as senior members was formed (with support from five
administrative staff). Two oversight groups to enable output and ICS selection were formed with
representation from both BMEIS and DoEng. The UoA12 management group regularly reported to
Panel B lead at institutional level. Training workshops were provided for all staff being returned to
support the preparation of their the 100-word statement accompanying each output. Further, ICSs
were prepared with the lead academic with support from Jha and the central REF submission team.
Post Graduate Research Students: We currently have 279 PGR students (201(BMEIS) and 78
(DoEng)) supervised by academics within King’s Engineering. This has more than doubled since
REF2014 (113 students). Our PGR programmes are supported through two CDTs (described in
section 1), Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs), King’s-China Scholarship Council programme
and industry-funded studentships. Additionally, our academics supervise PGR students admitted
through University-wide or cross-Institutional interdisciplinary PGR programmes, such as the MRC
DTP in Biomedical Sciences, the BBSRC funded CDT London Interdisciplinary Doctoral
                                                                                                       14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Programme with eight London universities, and the CRUK RadNET City of London (UCL, King’s
and Queen Mary University of London (QMUL)).
Our training courses are mostly 3.5 or four years, with recruited students from a diverse set of
academic backgrounds (e.g. applied mathematics, chemistry, physics). Our four-year programmes
feature a comprehensive and structured training approach with (in BMEIS) an MRes in Medical
Imaging Sciences (from 2019 onwards this has been transformed into a new MRes in Healthcare
Technology) in their foundation year at King’s, and enhanced skills training over the subsequent
PGR years. Taught courses cover the core subjects related directly to the students’ programme of
study and are complemented by courses that provide broader skills training. Training through the
“King’s Entrepreneurial Mindset”, “Responsible Research and Innovation” courses and public
engagement activities are firmly embedded within the CDTs and provided to other PGR students.
The CDT also offers external mentorship and placements in industry and international academic
laboratories for enhanced employability prospects. PGR students at King’s have at least two
supervisors, benefit from an academic PGR Lead/Coordinator/Tutor (pastoral care and conflict
support), an assessment at 9-months, a follow-up upgrade assessment and a dedicated Thesis
Progression Committee, with further support from the Centre for Doctoral Studies (CDS). All
students will also have a formal MPhil/PhD upgrade examination to monitor their progress. Due to
the nature of some of our research programmes, where appropriate, students also have a clinical
supervisor (facilitating interactions with patient groups) maximising benefit from being embedded
within a major research and teaching hospital.
All students have access to mental health ‘first aid’, which was created based on evidence from
research in PGR student experiences and is supported by the CDS. King’s leads the UKRI Student
Mental Health Network and has a strong focus on student wellbeing, providing named support staff
for students across the University, ongoing monitoring, and a “taskforce” led by IoPPN. Advice for
career development is available through dedicated career advisors. Workshops for interview
preparation and grant writing to aid those who wish to apply for postdoctoral positions is delivered
in collaboration with the CRSD. The student alumni network is a further mechanism to support
graduates in their future career. Students are also provided opportunities to gain public
engagement experience, organise symposia, and contribute/present at internal seminar series.
Our current PGR population have an excellent gender balance (50% male, 42% female, 8%
undisclosed), while overall percentage of BME students has remained fairly constant over the
return period at 25% overall, with 35% being non-UK domicile. Our recruitment process features
independent interview stations to mitigate bias. We uphold all ED&I principles and have a
commitment to advancing the careers of women in STEMM for employment in higher education
and research and the Race Equality charter, which aims to improve the representation,
progression and success of minority ethnic staff and students within higher education.
3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities
Research Funding: Our approach for generating new income to drive our research vision is
directly linked to our research and impact strategy and the objectives set in REF2014. In addition
to supporting responsive mode applications, we have focused on increasing our portfolio of
programme and centre grants in areas of established research excellence (e.g. imaging sciences,
including chemical tracers), and targeted areas of research (in line with funding organisations) to
build a critical mass of expertise, an example for this being AI in healthcare research.




                                                                                                  15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Application Support: Proposals are written collaboratively, coordinated by the lead academic with
support of research administrative staff and all applications undergo a stringent review process
before submission. Funding opportunities are highlighted to all academics through a fortnightly
newsletter. For strategic bids, where application numbers are limited, RMID organise a thorough
and fair internal peer reviewed selection process with diverse panel members. Central Pre-Award
Teams support the submission of applications, formal acceptance/negotiation of awards and
provide general advice and training sessions. The contracts team offer specialist expertise for
industry funding, consultancy projects and negotiate agreements (e.g. material transfer and/or
non-disclosure agreements). Since 2019, King’s has deployed a new grants management system
                                                                 with a dedicated ‘Help Desk’,
                                                                 which has improved research
                                                                 support and offered a more
                                                                 streamlined approach for grant
                                                                 management.
                                                                King’s Engineering has been
                                                                hugely successful in forming many
                                                                strategic partnerships and
                                                                consortia leading to 502 awarded
                                                                research funding applications or
                                                                industry contracts worth over
                                                                c.£202m (compared to c.£76.8m
                                                                value reported in the REF2014
                                                                return period). Figure 4 highlights
the increase in total funding awarded to King’s during the REF2021 assessment period from
different sources compared to REF2014. The greatest increase in funding secured was from UK
government and charities (which includes contribution from the Wellcome Innovations,
Collaboration in Science and Multi-user Equipment funding streams). The increase research
funding awards is reflected in our research income for the current return period, c£111.2m in total,
or c£15.8m of average research income annually, increasing from the c£6.2m annual average
during REF2014. Examples of major funding awards highlighting our partnerships, national and
international research influence and broad research topics are highlighted below.
   We host one of two UK Wellcome/EPSRC Centres of Excellence in Engineering. Our £12.1m
    Centre for Medical Engineering (PI Razavi, NS/A000049/1), awarded in 2017 is the only one
    of the previous four Medical Engineering Centres of Excellence to be renewed. The Centre
    brings together King’s Engineering and IoPPN to focus on medical imaging to improve the
    understanding, diagnosis and treatment of people with cardiovascular, neurological, cancer
    and psychiatric conditions. The Centre drives collaborative research and provides funding for
    personnel (e.g. regulatory and quality management specialists) to support first-in-patient
    studies and the translation of technology.
   King’s Engineering hosts one of four UK AI Centres of Excellence which use AI to deliver
    precision medicine to patients. The London Medical Imaging and AI Centre for Value Based
    Healthcare (AI4VBH, PI Razavi) is supported by c.£10m of Innovate UK funding and has led
    to the formation of a consortium with ICL, QMUL, KHP, Bart’s Health, multinational industry
    (Siemens, NVIDIA, IBM, GSK), 11 UK-based SMEs and the Health Innovation Network. The
    Centre enables the formation of new partners within a framework where knowledge and know-
    how can be exchanged.
   EPSRC Programme Awards i) The MITHRaS Programme (King’s, ICL and the University of
    Southampton), awarded in 2019 (EP/S032789/1, c.£6.4m, PI Blower). The programme aims to
    make molecular imaging affordable and accessible to patients globally by developing new, fast
    and easy-to-use chemistry for synthesis of radiopharmaceuticals in hospitals and centralised
    radiopharmacies. ii) redOx⇌KCL, an interdisciplinary programme led by Oxford University,
    awarded in 2019 (EP/S019901/1, c£5.3m, King’s PI Blower) bringing together leading organic
    and inorganic chemists, molecular biologists and imaging specialists alongside GSK,
    Syngenta, Pfizer, Theragnostics and GE Healthcare. The project investigates the dynamics of
    the redox environment in complex biological systems.
                                                                                                  16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   EPSRC CDT Programme in Smart Medical Imaging CDT programme (jointly ICL), awarded in
    2018 (EP/S022104/1, c£6.0m, PI Schnabel). A core PhD training programme which leverages
    40 partnerships from different sectors. The objective is to train the next generation of medical
    imaging researchers utilising the full potential of medical imaging for healthcare through
    integration of AI, targeted, responsive and safer imaging probes.
   EPSRC International Centre-to-Centre grant enabled the Centre for Spatial Computational
    Learning (EP/S030069/1, c£1.2m, King’s PI Al-Hashimi). This reflects a key international
    partnership which has the potential to put the UK's expertise at the centre of the technology
    revolutionising the way high performance and low energy computation is specified and
    delivered, opening opportunities from ultra-low energy machine learning in IoT devices through
    to powering scientific discovery in high-end server farms.
   EPSRC Prosperity Partnership grant (EP/R004927/1, c£2.6m (c£3.2m of matched industry
    funding) PI Shollock), with Jaguar Land Rover Limited to explore the underlying engineering
    science to deliver vehicle electrification.
   EPSRC GCRF Awards i) DeMoStroke (EP/R013918/1, c£834k, PI Kosmas), awarded in 2018
    develops affordable and practical system based on microwave technology, to provide accurate
    information on the evolution of stroke ii) Clear Road Ahead Developing a Combined
    Technological and Socio-Economic Approach to Freeing Affected Communities from Anti-
    Vehicle Landmines (EP/P02906X/1, c£1.0m, PI Kosmas) awarded in 2017 with a focus on
    creating a new tools for detecting landmines iii) LoCoMoTE (EP/R013977/1, c£1.0m, PI Liu)
    awarded in 2018 to solve the unmet needs of China’s endoscopic gastrointestinal screening
    due to its large, aging population.
   European Commission Programme, The Developing Human Connectome Project (ID:
    319456, c.€14.9m, PI Edwards) awarded in 2013. With ICL and Oxford University the project
    investigates how conditions such as autism and cerebral palsy arise.
   UK Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) awarded £16m in 2017 (King’s
    PI: Dohler) to develop the world’s first end-to-end cutting-edge 5G test network. The
    consortium includes King’s and Universities of Bristol and Surrey.
We also secured capital awards to develop/build physical infrastructure. The four grants
highlighted below will be crucial to support our research and impact strategy and support/sustain
many research groups.
   A Wellcome c.£4m award to support the Multi-User Ultra-High Field Clinical Imaging
    Research Centre for London (7T Imaging system), in 2017 (PI Hajnal), partnership between
    UCL, ICL and the Institute of Cancer research (ICR). Additional institutional support of £6.4m,
    enabled the creation of a hospital embedded clinical 7T MRI system.
   Wolfson Foundation £1m in 2018 (institutional award, led by Ourselin) for procuring equipment
    for the mock interventional suite embedded within the SIE laboratory space.
   A Wellcome c£5.2m award to establish the Manufacture of Active Implant and Surgical
    Instruments facility in 2019 (PI Ourselin), in partnership with King’s, UCL and Newcastle
    University. All partners were awarded the three Innovative Engineering for Health awards from
    the Wellcome in 2013 and this facility will enable the prototyping of Class II/III medical devices
    for use in first-in-patient studies. The facility will also support the MedTech Hub, specifically
    supporting the translation of healthcare engineering research.
   UKRI University Research Partnership Investment Fund from Research England awarded
    £16m in 2019 (institutional award, led by Ourselin) for building the London Institute for
    Healthcare Engineering to house a medtech accelerator and multi-national industry partners
    (up to 350 people). This award was facilitated by c£15m of University investment and
    leveraged c£32m of industry investment (direct cash and in-kind) which has driven the
    implementation of other infrastructure such as the High Performance Computing (HPC)
    required for the AI4VBH Centre.
Fellowships Awards: In support of our strategy to retain staff talent, knowledge and know-how,
during the assessment period King’s Engineering has attracted c£15m through 19 successful
fellowships. This include: 10 UKRI (including Future Leader, Career and Skills Development

                                                                                                    17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Fellowships); four Wellcome (including Henry Dale and Senior Research Fellowships); two Royal
Academy of Engineering (Enterprise and Senior Research Fellowships); one European
Research Council (Consolidator Grants); one CRUK (Career Establishment Award) and one
NIHR (Research Professorship).
Industry Awards: During the assessment period, we have secured c£7.2m in funding from
industry to support research projects of mutual interest, which has increased from £4.6m reported
in the REF 2014 assessment period. Direct funding and in-kind support was provided by: Abbott
Medical, AstraZeneca, Boston Scientific, BT Group, Celleron Therapeutics, Cisco, Cosmonio,
Ericsson Ltd, GE Healthcare, GlaxoSmithKline, Gilead Sciences, Holoxica, Huawei Technologies
Co, IBM, Medici Technologies, Medtronic, Monde Nissan, NanoMab, Perspectum, Pfizer, Philips
Medical Systems, PMB Alcen, Siemens Healthineers, Theragnostics, Ultromics, and William Cook.
In addition to direct funding, in-kind support from industry has been beneficial to many research
areas, and therefore our ability to achieve impact. Key examples include the donation of an O-Arm
Surgical Imaging System (£600K) and StealthStation Surgical Navigation System (£293K) from
Medtronic. This equipment will support SIE research. IBM has also provided a distributed Learning
System (worth c£50K) which has supported the AI4VBH Centre. Further in-kind investment is the
know-how and expertise from over 10 industry funded scientists that are embedded onsite who are
directly working and influencing the outcome of R&D projects of mutual interest leading to tangible
impact (examples highlighted in ICS 2, 3, and 6). Both British Telecom and Monde Nissan have
provided equipment to support bioprocessing of food proteins.
Organisational Infrastructure: King’s Engineering can utilise organisational infrastructure to
support our research and impact. Many world-class research facilities have been outlined in
REF5a. Those significant to King’s Engineering research includes:
   Biological Services – support all the pre-clinical investigations, especially for novel tracers
    developed within T1.3;
   King’s Clinical Trial Unit – a UKCRC Registered Clinical Trials Unit which offers methodological
    and operational support for clinical trials for all healthcare engineering research;
   e-Research – a new University-wide e-Research function to provide a highly flexible research
    computing infrastructure designed to fit all shapes and sizes of computational workload;
   Rosalind – a collection of research computing infrastructure hosted by King’s established from
    the pooled contributions of hardware, staff and running costs. This platform includes a HPC
    cluster, a private cloud platform and a highly resilient storage area for longer term curation of
    research data.
Operational Infrastructure: King’s Engineering is split across two sites, St Thomas’ Hospital
campus and the Strand campus. In line with our research strategy, we provide state-of-the-art
facilities which support novel engineering research. These include:
   1903m2 of state-of-the-art chemistry and biology (including confocal microscopy, flow
    cytometry, and HPLC) laboratories, new engineering workshops, pre-clinical PET-CT, SPECT-
    CT, PET-MR scanners, ultrasound and a 9.4T NMR for spectroscopy and imaging with an
    additional hyperpolariser.
   1035m2 of space dedicated to the Imaging Clinical Research Facility (ICRF) with seven clinical
    grade MRI scanners including a hospital-embedded 7T MRI Ultra High Field Scanner. The
    scanners also provide on average, 12,000 patient scans per year, allowing staff within BMEIS
    direct engagement with patients for research studies. We also have a radiofrequency
    laboratory supporting MRI hardware prototyping activities for clinical MRI scanners including
    cardiac imaging coils and 3T parallel-transmit head coils.
   644m2 of space dedicated to the PET Centre supporting research and providing a clinical
    service. Following major investment from the University (£17m, total project costs c£28m) in
    partnership with GSTT, we have created a world-class facility with the Centre being among the
    largest in Europe. Further, in 2019 BMEIS and GSTT launched the Positron Emitting
    Radiopharmaceutical Laboratory (PERL). The PERL laboratory houses eight research hotcells,
    two GMP cleanroom laboratories housing 12 manufacturing hotcells and two isolators.
                                                                                                  18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   HPC & Storage: All HPC capabilities supports all research. BMEIS purchased (2019) a new
    enterprise HPC cluster, that consists of 2816 compute cores dedicated to data processing.
    Each compute node includes 256GB DDR4-2666 RAM, with 64 cores per node this equates to
    4GB per core. BMEIS also purchased 6 DGXs, high performance graphical card clusters
    dedicated to AI research. The DGXs, have been setup as a GPU research cluster totalling over
    60 cards able to concurrently efficiently train many large AI based models. Finally, a large
    enterprise storage solution, totalling 320 TB of resilient and back-up disk was purchased in
    2018. DoEng also provides a HPC cluster to support large parallel workloads with high core
    count nodes, Infiniband networking and Lustre filesystem. In 2019 this cluster was expanded
    with additional CPU and GPU capacity for large parallel workloads with OmniPath networking.
   5G Network Testbed: To demonstrate 5G technology capabilities we have created an
    integrated system-level 'hub' testbed platform (supported by institutional investment of £250k).
    Development of the King's UK5G testbed was performed in close collaboration with Ericsson,
    including integration of prototype equipment. This is part of the 5G Tactile Internet laboratory
    established between the Centre of Telecommunications (King’s) and Ericsson in 2016 and the
    UK Programmable Fixed and Mobile Internet Infrastructure (INITIATE, EPSRC EP/P003974/1).
    Dedicated server room space in the King's Strand Campus was upgraded with installation of
    5G and 4G Core networks servers, with a new cabling network in the Strand Campus Buildings
    for an indoor test-bed comprising Ericsson Radio Dots, and installation of outdoor antennas
    mounted using a new mast on the roof. Connectivity for external users is facilitated by a
    dedicated 10 Gbps JANET connection.
   Health Technology Assessment (HTA) Centre: King’s Technology Evaluation Centre (KiTEC)
    is a well-established HTA Centre, providing expert support evaluation and policy assessment
    across a wide range of healthcare technologies and interventions. KiTEC functions as an
    external assessment centre for NICE and NHS England programmes.
Scholarly Infrastructure: Our academic and research staff are supported by a core team of 121
professional service staff. This includes strategic research programme and Centre managers,
administrators (to cover estates and other general issues), research and development support staff
(team of 3 supporting grant submissions), specialist technical laboratory managers (team of five)
and medical device regulatory experts who also support ethics applications working across all
departments. We also have quality system experts, clinical trial coordinators, health economists
and process engineers (supported through Wellcome awards). To promote research outcomes
and help increase research impact, BMEIS has a core Public and Patient Engagement team
(Wellcome and EPSRC funded) and a Communications and Marketing team (centrally funded).
We have a team of four full-time IT support staff who manage all HPC infrastructure described
above and general IT issues. A team of 40 staff, including radiographers, nurses, technicians and
chemists, support clinical research facilities including the ICRF and PET Centre.
Access to Infrastructure: All King’s Engineering experimental research facilities and scholarly
infrastructure are shared and can be utilised by many research groups for research purposes. All
specialist infrastructure (e.g. PET scanners) are run through a booking system, all users are
charged to support general maintenance and technical staff costs. Within BMEIS, significant
facilities are managed within the School and therefore planning usage and upgrading of systems is
managed by the Head of School, School Manager and appropriate technical personnel.

Cross-HEI Shared and Collaborative Use of Research Infrastructure: Due to the nature of our
research, many of our funding applications are collaborative and some are joint submissions with
other HEIs. A key example being a Wellcome Award (c£4.1m) alongside direct capital investment
from King’s (c.£6.8m) which led to the London Collaborative Ultra-high Field MR System (LoCUS)
and a fully integrated 7T clinical imaging research facility. LoCUS catalyses a vision of
collaborative research across London, to ensure that large scale, capital infrastructure is
intensively and efficiently used to maximise output and impact. To this end, a joint management
group exists across all partner Universities (King’s, UCL, ICL) and ICR. Together these institutions
have contributed £327,264 (in 2020) towards running the facility.


                                                                                                  19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Two new Wellcome Multi-user Equipment Awards (worth c£1.9m) also support cross HEI
collaborations. Facilities include equipment for the SIE laboratories (PI Ourselin) and the London
Metallomics Facility (PI Blower) for molecular imaging and radionuclide therapy. External HEI
collaborators for these activities includes: ICL, Kent, Leeds, UCL, Vanderbilt and Warwick.
The Physics & Engineering Research Facility at the Strand Campus, and the Centre Ultrastructural
Imaging at Guy’s Campus, both part of a network of facilities across the London Centre for
Nanotechnology, LCN (REF5a) service the increasing need within DoEng for the characterisation
of materials across length scales from nanometre to micron. Likewise, King’s partnership in the
LCN provides researchers in King’s Engineering with access to LCN facilities, such as cleanroom
nanofabrication, at ICL and UCL.
4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society
National and international partnerships across King’s Engineering spans many sectors including:
academic institutions, learned societies, healthcare providers, funding bodies, advisory groups,
industry and government organisations. We form collaborative partnerships where it promotes and
supports the delivery of our research and drives impact.
Effective Collaborations: We currently host 116 visiting appointments (including 26 non-UK
residents) and 39 honorary appointments enabling academics from other organisations to become
fully embedded in research projects of mutual interest. Honorary appointments support clinical
partnerships which continue to grow across KHP and other NHS Trusts (e.g. Imperial Healthcare)
with many honorary clinical collaborators having adjunct positions (Ashkan, Arora, Connor,
Lumsden, Mah, O’Neill and Rinaldi) equivalent in stature to University employed clinical
academics. A key enabler for collaborative research is physical co-location with end-users allowing
the exchange of knowledge. For T1, many healthcare technologies are developed jointly with
clinicians and industry scientists onsite at St Thomas’ Hospital. DoEng is located at the Strand
Campus which enables frequent interactions with expert academics from other disciplines. A key
mechanism to form/support collaborative projects with academic and non-academic partners
usually occurs within the remit of a grant or industry funded project. Proof-of-concept
collaborations also exist to gain data supporting larger funding applications. Many large
programme grants usually have a duration of five-years and have developed and/or reinforced
collaborations supported by formal arrangements/contracts. To encourage networking seminars,
research meetings, conferences and workshops (to report project updates or provide a forum to
discuss new innovative ideas) are organised between partners regularly and are hosted at King’s,
or at national and international conferences, and more recently, via virtual platforms.
Industry Collaborations: Through our unique positioning, extensive expertise and infrastructure
available, we have built strong relationships with over 40 industry companies. This includes the
large multi-national companies, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), start-up
and spin-out companies. For example, the AI4VBH consortium includes four multinational industry
partners (Siemens, Nvidia, IBM, GSK) and 11 UK-based SMEs (Ainostics, Biotronics 3D,
Brainminer, CyDAR, Innersight, Ixico, Kheiron Medical, Mirada, Owkin, Perspectum and Thames
Mammography). Our CDT programmes benefit from industry studentships and where appropriate
students are co-supervised by industry scientists and/or undertake internships. Example
collaborations with SMEs includes the work led by DoEng (Kosmas) in partnership (since 2013)
with MediWise. Research focuses on disruptive medical diagnostic solutions based on microwave
sensing and imaging to tackle diagnostic challenges in cancer and stroke. This collaboration has
impacted both MediWise and King’s Engineering leading to six collaborative grants from Innovate
UK (raising c£2.8m), a platform to promote our research (articles in The Scientist and interviews on
labiotech.eu), company revenue, growth and acquisition by Metamaterials Technologies Inc. The
Ericsson collaboration provides £100k per annum to support 5G research spanning many fields
including medicine, education, gaming and culture. Projects within the Ericsson 5G Tactile Internet
Laboratory include the potential for remote superior precision medical interventions and the world's
first 5G connected theatre performance in June 2018. Musicians from the Guildhall School of
Music and Drama performed in tandem with pianist and Professor of Wireless Technology (Dohler)
who was physically located in Berlin. Work conducted has led to significant press and media
                                                                                                  20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

coverage which Ericsson have evaluated as the equivalent marketing spend in the order of
c£122m.
Interdisciplinary Partnerships: To reflect the scope of our healthcare engineering research we
draw expertise from many NHS Trusts. A recent collaborative award (to the AI4VBH centre and
GSTT) funded by DHSC for £16m has facilitated significant expansion of the AI4VBH Centre
consortium from four to 11 NHS Trusts enabling the Centre’s AI research to reach a further seven
NHS Trusts and provide more innovative and accessible healthcare solutions to the public. Vital
infrastructure leveraged by research groups includes support from 13 BRC funded posts (including
database managers, radiographers etc.) within BMEIS to support research. BMEIS hosts two of
the three awarded Innovative Engineering for Health Awards provided by the Wellcome and
EPSRC including the Intelligent Fetal Imaging and Diagnosis (iFIND) project (PI Razavi, c£9.9m)
started in 2014 and is in collaboration with ICL, Philips and GSTT. Key innovations include
improved 3D visualisation of major vascular abnormalities using fetal cardiovascular MRI providing
clarification on fetal heart defects before birth so doctors can plan the best care for these families,
this project had national exposure on ITV and BBC news channels. In response to global priorities
to control the spread of the COVID-19 virus, interdisciplinary research groups within BMEIS
(Ourselin, Cardoso, Modat), the Department of Twin Research & Genetic Epidemiology and Zoe
Global, created the COVID Symptom Study App (ICS 8). Using the unique data collected, we
significantly contributed to the understanding of and response to the pandemic, publishing 17
research outputs. Highlights include information gathered on geographical “COVID-19 hotspots”,
symptom prediction models, identification of a much wider range of symptoms associated with
COVID-19 including anosmia. In early 2020, in response to the UK government’s call for the
development of low-cost mechanical ventilators for potential use in ICUs across the country,
multidisciplinary teams within BMEIS (Ourselin, Bergeles, Jha), King’s Human Physiology, Sport
and Exercise Science Department, Oxford University and Smith+Nephew designed and prototyped
the OxVent ventilator. In late 2020 the OxVent invention led to an IET Award as one of best
innovations of the year. A unique partnership with the National Gallery and DoEng has jointly
launched (2019) National Gallery X, a collaborative R&D programme exploring how technological
developments can be applied to cultural institutions in the future. This ambitious project will put
DoEng at the forefront of digital innovation.
International Partnerships: Over the assessment period, a total of 25 EU funded grant proposals
were successfully secured highlighting a strong international presence supporting all thematic
areas. Linked to T2, we are capturing emerging areas in information engineering, including the
FOGHORN project which aims to develop the theoretical and algorithmic foundations of fog-aided
wireless networks (EC, Simeone, c.£1.7m). Beyond Europe, the demand for improving care in
LMIC is rapidly increasing. BMEIS (Wellcome, Razavi, c£3.5m) in collaboration with Oxford, and
funding support from the Wellcome, has built a project team of Vietnamese and international
clinicians, biomedical engineers, and computational scientists to fulfil the mission of using new
technology to provide low-cost solutions for monitoring critically ill patients, assist rehabilitation,
and generate clinical decision support systems to improve diagnosis and treatment.
Engagement with Diverse Communities: King’s Engineering academic staff contribute to the
global research base through organising, hosting and chairing major conferences and scientific
meetings. Staff have been invited to speak at c230 keynote/plenary lectures and have held many
leadership roles for conference organisation providing further evidence of research influence.
Some highlights include: European Association of Nuclear Medicine, Barcelona Spain, 2016 -
Plenary Lecturer (Barrington); Royal Society meeting on Chemistry in Imaging, 2017 - Keynote
Speaker (Blower); IEEE International Symposium on Biomedical Engineering, 2018 - Keynote
Speaker, (Counsell); Australia and New Zealand Nuclear Medicine Society Annual Meeting, 2019
- Keynote Speaker (Goh); 21st IEEE International Workshop on Signal Processing Advances in
Wireless Communications, 2020 - Keynote Speaker (Makatsoris); Advanced Satellite Multimedia
Systems Conference and Signal Processing for Space Communications conference, 2018 -
Keynote Speaker (Simeone); Gordon Conference on High Temperature Corrosion, 2015, Keynote
Speaker (Shollock); World Molecular Imaging Congress 2019 - Keynote Speaker (Witney).

                                                                                                     21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Further, staff have participated in over 270 public engagements events to communicate, promote
and teach engineering sciences and research outcomes. Regular public engagement activities are
planned across all research themes and supported by a dedicated team of three public
engagement officers through Wellcome and EPSRC funded programmes. Our research has been
showcased at events such as the Royal Society Summer Exhibitions, Bloomsbury Festival,
NewScientist Live, RAEng Festivals and Science Gallery exhibitions. Significant research
outcomes have also been promoted through the national media including BBCs Horizon '10 things
you need to know about the future' 2017 (Edwards) illustrating work from the Developing Human
Connectome Project and Trust Me I’m a Doctor (Ourselin) highlighting research outcomes from
the multidisciplinary EpiNav™ (epilepsy navigation) project between University College Hospital
and King’s (Ourselin, Sparks). The technology has been used in over 150 epilepsy surgeries and
commercialised by Medtronic.

Consultancy: Our academic staff provide expertise to other organisations including: Apple UK and
US, Phillips, HTC and Asus (Shikh-Bahaei); Centillion Technology Limited (Makatsoris); PCC
Aerostructures (Makatsoris); Pfizer (Niederer); Theragnostics (Blower); Ultromics (Lamata).
Contribution to Research Base: All academic Staff continue to develop their international
research reputation evident through the research collaborations. Many have been recognised for
their contribution through the Engineering discipline by being included as fellows of major
professional organisations and learned societies or awarded distinguished prizes.
Distinguished Fellows: Fellow of Institute of Materials, Mining and Minerals (Shollock); Fellow of
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (Aghvami, Dai, Dohler, Lam, Schnabel,
Simeone); Fellow of Institution of Engineering and Technology (Aghvami, Dohler, Shikh-Bahaei,
Simeone); Fellow of International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine (Botnar, Hajnal,
junior Fellow Hutter); Fellow of Society for Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance (Botnar,
Chiribiri, Ismail, Roujol); Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences, (Edwards); Fellow of the
Royal Academy of Engineering, (Al-Hashimi, Aghvami, Dohler, Hajnal); Fellow of the Royal
Society of Chemistry, (Blower); President Society of Radiopharmaceutical Sciences (Gee); Senior
Member of US National Academy of Inventors (Rajendran); Fellow of Medical Image Computing
and Computer-Assisted Interventions (Ourselin, Schnabel); Fellow of the Institution of Mechanical
Engineers (Dai).
The quality of our research outcomes and leadership can be demonstrated through recent
successes especially in response to the global pandemic. Other achievements and prizes which
showcase the calibre of our academics and their contribution to engineering and society during the
assessment period includes:
Al-Hashimi was awarded Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire, CBE in
2018 for his services to engineering and industry. Further he has also been awarded the Faraday
Medal from the Institution of Engineering and Technology in 2020 for his notable
scientific/industrial achievement, for services rendered to the advancement of engineering.
Barrington was awarded a British Nuclear Medicine Society Roll of Honour in 2019, an award for
highly distinguished members who have contributed to the history of nuclear medicine.
Blower was awarded a British Nuclear Medicine Society Norman Veall Medal in 2020 for
outstanding contribution to UK science/practice of nuclear medicine.
Makatsoris was awarded a Royal Academy of Engineering President’s Award for Pandemic
Service in 2020 for advancing the manufacture and deployment of cost-effective vaccines with his
‘factory-in-a-box’, a novel process intensification technology for vaccine production. This project
was in collaboration with ICL.
Razavi was awarded a prestigious Joint Royal College's Medal and Honorary Fellowship of Royal
Photographic Society in 2019 for outstanding contribution to medical imaging and its application in
the service of medicine and surgery.


                                                                                                  22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

King’s Engineering academics actively contribute to the globally scientific community. Table 2
summarises key activities staff have or are contributing to. Staff are involved in peer reviewing
grant proposals submitted to various funding organisations and contribute to their research
disciplines through holding editorial roles for many scientific journals. Table 3 highlights a subset of
grant panel schemes, editorial and advisory roles held by academic staff. Staff also contribute to
14 international grant funding panels, further highlighting the expertise and research reputation of
our staff on an international platform. Further, staff were invited as guest editors for over 33
journals.


                                    King’s Engineering Contribution to Research Base


                     Peer Reviewing                   Advisory Roles                     Engagement


                                                     Academic staff have   Academic staff have   Academic staff have
           Academic staff                                                    participated in,      participated in
                               Academic staff hold      served on 70
        serve on 95 national                                                organised and/or      and/or organised
                                  127 scientific          national &
          and international                                                   chaired 230            270 public
                                 journal editorial       international
            grant funding                                                       scientific          engagement
                                      roles.            committees &
               panels.                                                        conferences.            events.
                                                      advisory Boards.

                         Table 2: King’s Engineering, Contribution to Research Base Overview

                                         DTP Statement of Intent and DTP Doctoral Mobility Pilot Chair: Al-Hashimi;
                                         Grant Panel Members: Blower, Cvetkovic, Lam, Simeone, Huang, King, Liu,
                                         Malik, Niederer, Razavi, Schnabel, Xia, Makatsoris; Platform Grant Panel
                                         Chair: Shollock; Programme Grant Panel Chair: Ourselin; EPSRC Fellowships
                                         Panel Chair: Ourselin, Shollock; Manufacturing Fellowships Panel Member:
                                         Makatsoris


                                         DPFS Grant Scheme Members: Hajnal, Ourselin; Funding Panel Member:
  rant Panels




                                         Razavi


                                         City of London Grant Review Panel Member: Cook; Clinical Expert Review
                                         Panel Member: Barrington; Multidisciplinary Award Panel Member
                                         (CRUK/EPSRC): Goh, Schnabel; Transatlantic Fellowship Grant Panel
                                         Member: Witney


                                         Clinical Interview Committee: Edwards; Sir Henry Dale Fellowships Panel
                                         Member: Botnar; Programme Advisory Group: Razavi (Chair); Ourselin
                                         (Member); Wellcome Innovations Flagship Programme Chair: Ourselin




                                                                                                                       23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                         Electron Devices Society            British Society of                 European School of
                       Nanotechnology Committee               Cardiovascular                    Radiology (Steering
                   (Member: Rajendran); Engineering         Magnetic Resonance                   Committee: Goh)
                     in Medicine and Biology Society        (President: Razavi)
                    Administrative Committee (Elected
                        Technical Representative:
                     Schnabel); Nuclear and Plasma
                     Sciences Society Administrative
                     Committee (Member: Marsden);
 Advisory Roles




                   Nuclear Medical and Instrumentation
                        Sciences Council (Member:
                                Marsden)                                                     Gold Medal Committee of
                                                              Wellcome Open                  Society for Cardiovascular
                                                            Science Early Career               Magnetic Resonance
                                                            Advisory Committee                    (Chair: Botnar)
                                                             (Member: Hutter)

                        Technical Network on
                      Robotics and Mechatronics:
                         (Steering Committee
                          Member: Bergeles)
                                                         Funding Programme Review
                                                                     Panel
                                                              (Invited Member:                    Young Investigator
                                                          Fruhwirth); Quinquennial               Award Committee of
                                                            Assessment Review                     ISMRM: (Member:
                     Engineering Strategic Advisory         (Member: Ourselin)
                                                                                                      Botnar)
                     Team (Members: Al-Hashimi,
                         Shollock, Schnabel)


                    Editors: IEE Transactions on Wireless Communications (Nakhai) Deputy Editors; Magnetic ResonanceE
                    in Medicine (Prieto); Radiology (Goh); Editorial Board Members: Cancer Imaging and Diagnosis, Frontiers
                    in Oncology (Eykyn); European Heart Journal Cardiovascular Imaging (Botnar); Eur J Nucl Med Mol
                    Imaging (Cook); Journal of Intelligent Learning Systems and Applications (Lam);Journal of Clinical
 Editorial Roles




                    Oncology (Barrington); Medical Image Analysis (Ourselin, Schnabel, Vercauteren) Associate Editors:
                    IEEE Transactions on Communications (Yansha); IEEE Transactions on Molecular, Biological and Multi-
                    scale Communications (Yansha); European Heart Journal (Charakida); European Radiology (Goh); IEEE
                    Journal of Antennas and Propagation (Kosmas); (Yansha); IEEE Trans Information Theory (Bergeles);
                    IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering (Schnabel); IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems II:
                    Express Briefs (Lam); IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems (Lam); IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging
                    (Ourselin, Schnabel); IEEE Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering (Kamavuako);
                    IET Control Theory & Applications (Lam); Radiology Imaging Cancer (Goh); Scientific Reports (Ourselin,
                    Young)



                                  Table 3: King’s Engineering, Staff Contribution to Research Base




                                                                                                                              24
