Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Aberystwyth University

 Unit of Assessment: 19: Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 The Department of International Politics at Aberystwyth University (AU) has continued to
 reimagine and redirect its research agendas during the REF assessment period, both in
 response to the changing nature of global challenges and to ensure a leading role in dynamic
 Politics and International Relations scholarship.

 During this REF period the Department has celebrated its centenary and embarked on a series
 of new ambitious research ventures. We have established innovative Research Centres and
 Research Groups, and through pro-active encouragement of novel research synergies locally
 and globally have been awarded £4,826,000 in new research grants. We have produced in
 excess of 140 research items eligible for REF assessment and the Department has supervised
 61 PhD students to completion. Staff and postgraduate research (PGR) students have been
 awarded a series of major prizes from national and international bodies for the excellence of
 their research.

 These achievements have taken place in the context of a carefully planned consolidation of our
 staff base to 22.7 REF eligible FTE as part of a wider University strategy to ensure sustainability
 of research base. Proud of our past but actively working to take on the challenges of the future,
 the Department seeks to lead in generating pioneering research in Politics and International
 Relations (IR), innovative interdisciplinary agendas across fields, and impactful and collaborative
 partnerships with research users around the world.

 Research strategy and achievements
 This REF period has seen a pro-active realigning of our research strategy. The research
 objectives embedded in our current research strategy build on past experiences and ambitions –
 at the heart of our approach is still a focus on fostering pluralism and research excellence,
 principles integral to our research strategy set out in our REF 2014 environment statement – but
 the Department has also developed new aspects to its strategic outlook, including bespoke
 objectives with regard to grant capture, impact, interdisciplinary working, and equality and
 diversity. As part of a wider process of preparing a new Departmental strategy – ‘Confronting
 Global Challenges and Developing Ideas for Change’ – during 2015-2016 staff and postgraduate
 students collectively developed ideas for a forward-looking research strategy. We adopted the
 strategy in 2017 and adjusted it again in 2018 and 2019 as part of a restructure of the
 Department and the confirmation of the University’s new Research and Innovation Strategy
 respectively (see REF5a).

 Our research strategy is consolidated under six objectives:

    1.   To foster pluralism: of perspectives, voices and disciplinary orientations
    2.   To advance research excellence and innovation
    3.   To generate smart funding for creative research
    4.   To research across fields and disciplines
    5.   To make a change
    6.   To encourage equality and diversity

 Significant achievements with regard to each objective have been realised within this REF cycle,
 as evidenced below.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1. Fostering pluralism
 The Department has long been recognised as a leader in pluralist approaches to the study of
 Politics and IR and has historically fostered a wide range of sub-disciplines and theoretical
 orientations within its fold, from IR theory – classical and critical – to international history, peace
 and conflict studies and the study of sub-state politics. We continue to actively cultivate pluralism
 of interests, disciplinary orientations and perspectives in a lively, active, organically evolving
 research environment, as follows.

    A. Research Groups. The Department is host to a lively ‘ecosystem’ of diverse Research
       Groups run by staff and/or postgraduate students. It is fostered through the funding of
       ‘bottom-up’ research ventures. To this end, in August each year we announce a funding
       call to which any group of staff and PGR students apply for Departmental start-up
       funding for Research Groups exploring novel ideas and research synergies.

        Reflecting the encouraged bottom-up approach, the composition and number of these
        Groups has shifted substantially since REF 2014. One Research Group (Security
        Research Group) remains from 2014, while many new ones have emerged (e.g.,
        Religion and Politics Reading Group) and others have shifted their focus (e.g. the long-
        running Critical Cultural Politics Group now also tackles questions of racialisation). Some
        years have seen as many as 10 Groups hosted. In July 2020 we facilitated five Research
        Groups.

    B. Research Centres. Significant change and innovation have been apparent in the
       evolution of Research Centres. This REF cycle has seen the establishment of two new
       successful Research Centres: The Centre for the International Politics of Knowledge (the
       KNOWLEDGE Centre), and the Planetary Challenges and Politics Centre. These new
       Centres sit alongside the long-standing David Davies Memorial Institute (DDMI), which is
       active in organising talks, seminars and outreach related to international politics and the
       facilitation of peace, and the Centre for Intelligence and International Security Studies
       (CIISS), a leading hub for intelligence studies. A reshaped, now explicitly
       interdisciplinary, Centre for Welsh Politics and Society (CWPS, previously Institute of
       Welsh Politics) is also active in facilitating research in the Department and in
       collaboration with others. It forms the AU arm of the Wales Institute of Social and
       Economic Research, Data and Methods (WISERD), facilitating inter-institutional and
       inter-disciplinary collaborations.

        The Department funds these Centres annually, but also expects them to obtain external
        grant income. Through the rich research activities, conferences and funding initiatives led
        by the Centres, the Department continues to provide a thriving collective environment for
        research staff and student agendas as well as facilitating delivery of core aspects of our
        research strategy, from grants to outputs and impact.

    C. Visiting Scholars. To enhance the dynamism of our research culture we seek to host
       diverse Visiting Scholars in the Department. During this REF cycle, their expertise has
       ranged from the study of political communication to state-building, non-violence and non-
       Western cosmologies. We have attracted three types of scholars:

               Externally funded researchers, such as Marie Skłodowska-Curie Action (MSCA)
                Fellows (5), Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) Postdoctoral Fellows
                (2) and Newton International Fellows (1);
               Other Visiting Scholars (14), including scholars funded by various national
                research councils from around the world to spend time at AU;
               Visiting Professor Patrick Thaddeus Jackson, from American University,
                Washington DC, who visits annually to engage staff and PhD researchers on
                latest developments in the field, for example, around posthumanism and quantum
                theories (2015, 2016) and methodological and philosophical advances in the field
                (2016, 2017, 2019).

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    D. Events. The Department thrives on active collective discussions and the close integration
       of PhD students with staff. To facilitate this, we continue to organise a weekly seminar
       series attended by the whole community, the ‘International Politics Research Seminar’
       (IPRS), where staff, research students and external speakers present and discuss
       research.

        We also organise the prestigious E.H. Carr and Kenneth Waltz lectures and the annual
        lectures of the CWPS and DDMI. The Department’s centenary year (2019) saw an
        additional set of high impact public lectures by leading figures in the field. During this
        REF cycle we have facilitated over 30 major lectures featuring a diverse group of key
        scholars in the field (e.g. Cynthia Enloe, John Ikenberry, Margaret MacMillan, William
        Wohlforth, Mary King, Dvora Yanow, Raymond Geuss, Christopher Coker, Louise
        Richardson) and by public figures of interest (e.g. Anne Applebaum, Lady Elystan
        Morgan, Carwyn Jones, Mark Drakeford, Gideon Rachman).

        We work closely to ensure the Departmental events foster the principle of pluralism and
        diversity. Thus, our public lectures and the speakers at the IPRS feature a diverse range
        of scholars, from leading realists such as Stephen Walt to leading decolonial thinkers
        such as Arlene Tickner, Robbie Shilliam and Giorgio Shani.

        We also continue to organise leading conferences and workshops informed by diverse
        interests. During this cycle we have hosted five major conferences and ten major
        workshops (see section 4). The events we have organised also include a series of high-
        profile practitioner-academic collaborations, such as the bespoke workshop organised for
        the UK Government’s Cabinet Office to participate in the UK’s Strategic Defence and
        Security Review in July 2015, and the 2018 technical consultation on civil-military
        collaboration in health emergencies co-organised by McInnes with the World Health
        Organisation (WHO) and involving over 50 policy makers from multiple countries.

 2. Research excellence and innovation
 A long-standing Departmental objective, also reflected in our REF 2014 environment statement,
 is for our staff and students to lead in generating excellent scholarship and in enabling
 innovation and cutting-edge, responsive research activity. To this end, we have introduced a
 series of measures which seek to A) further research excellence and B) encourage innovation.
 This work also extends to our focused efforts to C) nurture a world-leading graduate and early
 career research community.

    A. Research excellence. Research excellence is a historical strength of our research
       activity. We provide intensive support to all staff, regardless of career-level, role or area
       of specialism. This has borne fruit. More than 140 REF-eligible items have been
       prepared during this cycle, including 14 monographs. The volume and quality of our
       outputs reflects the detailed person-specific research mentoring, the carefully maintained
       ‘1 in 6’ research leave programme and the funding of research travel, Groups and
       Centres (see section 2).

        Research excellence has been fostered hand in hand with encouragement of the highest
        standards of research integrity and open access. Working within University guidance on
        research integrity, ethics approval is required for all research projects and close
        engagement with the University Ethics Panel is encouraged for all projects where risks
        are identified. We also actively discuss subject-specific ethics questions and risks in
        weekly Departmental seminars.

        Staff training on open access publication and data management and the University’s
        infrastructure support for open access, has ensured that we are fully compliant with the
        expectations of funders and REF on open access. In addition, we have taken steps


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       towards exploring open access book publication, with one major monograph published
       fully open access (Phillips).

    B. Research innovation. This REF cycle has seen a systematic effort to renew our research
       agenda, foci and plans for the future. To do so we have embedded systematic review,
       scrutiny and re-imagination of our research activity. This process started in 2015 when
       we embarked on the collective mapping of the changes and shifts in Departmental
       research expertise and interests. A map of Departmental research synergies was
       produced which was used to inform the development of the research strategy and to
       allow new research foci and synergies in the Department to form. A proposal for a new
       streaming of activity was made with four areas of focus:

          International Politics and 21st century global challenges,
          Military, security and new technologies,
          Political communities and border politics,
          International politics of knowledge production and communication.

       The research mapping and related brainstorming also led directly to the development of
       new research co-operation and new Centres of activity. Thus, the KNOWLEDGE Centre
       was engendered by this process, followed by the Planetary Challenges and Politics
       Centre. These Centres in turn have spear-headed new grant applications, new staff
       visits, new collaborations and public engagement activities. The KNOWLEDGE Centre,
       for example, has facilitated 22 new grant applications since 2016, of which 14 have been
       successful, generating in excess of £2.5 million in new research grant capture.

       We remain committed to the four key areas of activity identified and the research strategy
       objectives but continue to develop new synergies and ways of connecting them. Having
       embedded and embraced a spirit of continuous reflection, we expect to conduct another
       round of research review and mapping in 2021.

    C. Facilitating cutting-edge PhD programme and early career research. Key to the success
       and innovation of our staff’s research continues to be a thriving postgraduate community
       fully integrated into the research team at AU.

       In this REF cycle we have continued to develop a successful PhD programme which
       encourages students to take on ambitious, cutting-edge research. This is evidenced in
       the volume and quality of our PhD students. Evidence of volume is provided by the 61
       successfully completed PhDs in this assessment period. Evidence of the quality of our
       PhD programme is provided by the fact that five of our PhD researchers have been
       awarded major prizes for their PhD theses in national or international competitions
       alongside other prizes recognising research excellence (see section 2).

       Since the 2018 restructure we have moved towards slightly smaller cohorts of high-
       quality PhD researchers while looking to new ways to support a thriving graduate and
       early career research community. This has involved integrating MPhil and Professional
       Doctorate (D.Prof) researchers into the Department alongside active hosting of post-
       doctoral scholars. We believe we have succeeded in achieving the first steps in the
       strategic shift from a classical ‘PhD-only’ programme to a hybrid ‘early career researcher
       hub’ model without compromising innovation and quality. This is evidenced by five D.Prof
       researchers starting projects with us alongside 56 PhD researchers since August 2013,
       while over 20 research fellows and visiting researchers have chosen the Department as
       their research base. Evidence of the quality of our facilitation of post-PhD success is
       provided, for example, by early career staff member Davenport being awarded the prize
       for best post-PhD paper by ISA’s Theory Section in 2014.

       The success of our PGR students and early career staff is not only a great source of
       dynamism in AU but also a great source of pride. The extent and importance of the

                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        global Aber Interpol network was felt clearly during the Department’s centenary
        celebrations in 2019 as many alumni, past fellows and staff visited AU’s centenary
        celebrations or supported the centenary from a distance.

 3. Generating smart funding for creative research
 We have developed a dedicated, variegated research grant strategy within this REF cycle. Led
 by the Director of Research and actively supported by Centres and Research Groups and
 University central services, we actively encourage and support staff to apply for funding and
 especially to approach new funding sources. We seek to ensure grant activity and ambition
 across subfields and career levels and pursue funding opportunities big and small from across
 Wales, the UK and internationally.

 As a result of our dedicated work on grants we have been able to attract over £4.8 million of new
 awarded grants from UK Research and Innovation (UKRI), EU, charity sector and corporate
 sector, with a marked increase in research income from 2016 onwards.

 The increase in our research funding during an operationally challenging time and in the context
 of a reduced staff FTE has been achieved through: 1) active mentoring, sharing and learning
 together through Departmental brainstorming and via University grant training; 2) development
 of varied funder-specific grant strategies and related grant-specific support tools; 3) dedicated
 early career strategy, including a bespoke MSCA strategy (see section 3); 4) close co-operation
 with University integrity, data management and grant support teams; and 5) encouragement of
 seed funding for projects (see Section 3).

 The effect of the grant successes on the vitality of the research culture has been significant.
 While the major projects have created capacity in new areas of interest, the early career
 fellowships have helped shape dynamic new research agendas in the Department. For example,
 Kazcmarska (MSCA Fellow, 2016-2019) held a leading role in directing the Knowledge Centre in
 2018-2019, and Kurowska (MSCA Fellow, 2017-2019) ran a series of important PGR training
 events on interpretive research and field work, which in turn fed into collaborations such as the
 ‘Fieldwork as Failure’ project co-led by Kušić (ESRC Fellow, 2019-2020).

 4. Working across fields and disciplines
 The Department has been guided by an interdisciplinary mind-set from its inception in 1919.
 Based in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences (FASS) we work across humanities and social
 science fields and disciplines. Not only is there a long-running set of synergies with colleagues in
 History and Welsh History, and Human Geography; new conversations have also been
 developed within the Faculty with Art, Law and Modern Languages. Thus, for example, we are
 actively engaged in the new FASS interdisciplinary initiative, the Centre for the Movement of
 People (CMOP).

 We also work together with natural scientists, nurses, and robotics researchers, for example, to
 develop cutting-edge interdisciplinary engagements. The Planetary Challenges and Politics
 Centre, in particular, is dedicated to cross-disciplinary exchange.

 We encourage interdisciplinary ventures through varied University funding streams for
 interdisciplinary research agendas (see section 3), and foster platforms within the Department to
 present and share interdisciplinary work, encouraging and mentoring researchers to work on
 ambitious new interdisciplinary ventures. In this regard Bliesemann de Guevara, for example,
 has led in facilitating innovative interdisciplinary exchanges within a team of PhD and
 postdoctoral researchers to organise arts and textile exhibitions in the UK, Sweden and
 Colombia in conjunction with a research project on conflict textiles. Bliesemann de Guevara’s
 work has been recognised twice within this REF cycle: in 2015 she was awarded a prize for best
 collaborative interdisciplinary project in Wales, and in 2019 she was awarded the prize for best
 interdisciplinary piece of research by the Interdisciplinary Studies Section at the International
 Studies Association.


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 5. Making a Change
 The Department is driven by a belief in making positive change possible in a world characterised
 by conflict and inequality. We seek to encourage research which mitigates conflict and gives
 voice to populations across the world and in our local communities. To this end we support our
 researchers to engage non-academic publics and to make social and political impacts. Building
 on the initial steps in development of impact in the Department in the previous REF period, we
 have fulfilled our strategic objectives for this period:

    A. We have continued financial support to staff for impact-generation via our impact fund
       and since 2019 have benefitted from the University impact funds and impact leave
       policies. Bliesemann de Guevara for example was granted University impact leave in
       2019.

    B. We have included impact in research monitoring. We discuss it as part of research
       career planning, including with early career researchers.

    C. We have continued Departmental impact meetings and discussions in which we work on
       impact cases and have also included presentations of impact at research seminars.
       Lewis and Royles, for example, shared their experiences in 2017.

    D. We have encouraged Research Groups and Centres to be active in development of
       impact and in the collection of evidence of impact. For example, Taylor has worked
       actively with CWPS to advance the impact of her research on the Welsh in Patagonia,
       and CWPS has also facilitated Royles and Lewis’ impact activities through subscription
       to the European Network on Language Diversity.

    E. We have trained staff in open access publication and also in writing for public audiences,
       for example via a training event in 2018 with The Conversation.

    F. In addition, we have developed an innovative practice of Continuing Professional
       Development (CPD) related to impact agendas, pioneered by Lewis. Bringing civil
       servants working on language policy to Aberystwyth for continuing professional
       development classes, Lewis’ approach has built a successful model for further CPD
       activity.

 The above mechanisms have enhanced best practice in dissemination, engagement and
 stakeholder involvement. We have also continued contributing to national initiatives and debates
 on impact. For example, Mathers contributed to a conference on the impact agenda at the
 University of Warwick in 2015 and McInnes has been leading the development of impact within
 the University in various capacities, most recently as PVC Research, Knowledge Exchange and
 Innovation.

 Through these initiatives we have increased the number of outreach and impact projects and
 have had up to eight impact case studies in preparation (that is, approximately 1 per 3 FTE).

 The three impact case studies submitted reflect the broad range of impacts generated and the
 varied modalities of engagement. Each case submitted has benefitted from impact funding and
 has been carefully planned as an integral part of research projects. All impact cases have
 benefitted from, and have contributed to, shared learning in the Department and are tied to wider
 research Centres and projects. The cases have also pioneered new avenues for impact
 generation, such as CPD engagement (Lewis, Royles and Edwards) and innovative use of
 artwork (Bliesemann de Guevara).

 The innovations in impact generation have been recognised by the University and external
 bodies within the REF period. Lewis, Royles and Edwards were awarded the AU Outstanding
 Impact Prize in 2018 as was McInnes in 2019; and Lewis, Royles and Edwards were nominated
 for their impact in the Wales Social Research Awards in 2018.

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 6. Encouraging Equality and Diversity
 Concerns about equality and diversity stand at the heart of our planning, discussions and
 actions. We regularly monitor the equality and diversity aspects of our events, leadership
 structures, career progression and research activities and seek to lead in developing best
 practice in the University and the sector more widely (see section 2).

 In the Department our research excellence measures are designed to be attentive to career and
 social circumstances. For example, our leave policy is carefully monitored for gender equality
 and research mentoring actively takes account of career progression as well as any personal
 needs of researchers. The success of this approach is evidenced in the quantity of high-quality
 research outputs across career level, gender and subdisciplines.

 The success of our work to address equality and diversity issues is also reflected in the high
 share of grant bids and awards women have had in the Department. For example, six out of the
 eight successful MSCA, ESRC and Newton Fellows are early career women. Of the current
 directors of the Research Centres associated with the Department, three out of six are female.

 Careful consideration of equality and diversity as part of our postgraduate research has also
 been central to our approach. We have initiated important conversations with PhD researchers
 on questions of race, sexuality and other forms of discrimination in the field. For example, our
 centenary forums and conference panels on the contested legacy of Woodrow Wilson in 2019
 were conducted in dialogue between PhD students, early career researchers and staff, and
 demonstrated our interest in considering exclusionary dynamics in IR scholarship and our
 responsibilities as an academic unit in addressing these questions. A great deal of activity pivots
 around gender, race and questions of inclusion and exclusion, for example, via the Critical
 Cultural Politics and Racialisation Research Group, and the KNOWLEDGE Centre.

 Future strategic priorities
 The Department is acutely aware of the need to review and renew strategies to maintain a
 sustainable and dynamic research environment. We remain committed to our distinct and vibrant
 research culture but seek to enhance our research environment in the following ways:

    1. We will undertake another major review of our research direction and support structures
       in 2021 in conjunction with planned new senior appointments. To obtain the right balance
       between bottom-up innovation and Departmental steering, a major new review may
       reveal a need to adjust existing streams of activity and support mechanisms.

    2. To assist in solidifying the new ambitious hybrid early-career community structure, we
       seek to continue our success in securing postdoctoral scholarships but to complement
       this with new funding streams for PhDs. In particular, a dedicated major PhD scholarship
       funding stream through Leverhulme or UKRI Centres schemes would allow us to embed
       distinct training agendas within the successful new Research Centres.

    3. We will continue to explore new strands of impact work within Wales and internationally.
       In particular, developing CPD and arts-based public engagement will be a priority within
       the coming years.

    4. We will contribute to major new infrastructure projects around social sciences in AU and
       beyond (see section 3). New social and digital technologies will provide considerable
       added value to the ambitious new projects we are planning.

 2. People

 Staff base
 We have sought to ensure the continued vitality and sustainability of the research base of the
 Department during this REF cycle. A key aspect of this process was a carefully planned and

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 implemented Departmental restructure in 2018. Research strategy and planning played a key
 role in the restructure process as the central aim was to ensure the sustainability of our capacity
 to generate research excellence and innovation.

 Having returned 27.2 FTE to REF 2014, we now stand at 22.7 FTE of REF eligible staff, of which
 22.2 are REF-eligible Teaching and Research staff complimented by 0.5 FTE of REF eligible
 Research Fellows. The mix of staff in terms of career level reflects a shift towards a less senior
 researcher-heavy Department. At census date the composition of the Department was: 3.2
 Professors; 4.0 Readers; 4.0 Senior Lecturers, 11.0 Lecturers, 0.5 Research Fellow. We also
 host a number of REF ineligible staff: 3.0 FTE other research-related staff, 2.0 FTE Teaching
 and Scholarship staff and 0.1FTE Distinguished Research Professor.

 Despite the reduction of staff base, during this REF period we have nevertheless produced a
 high volume of high quality research outputs and have exceeded the levels of research grant
 capture and FTE-relative income compared to the last period. Indeed, the staff base remains
 highly research active, committed to research excellence and ambitious in aims. Our priority
 continues to be mentoring and training staff, especially early and mid-career staff, to place them
 in a strong position to lead key national and global research agendas.

 Staff development and strategy
 Mentoring
 A core aspect of our research culture has for many years been intensive and close research
 mentoring. In line with the University’s Research and Innovation Strategy, we seek to support
 our staff to develop their research capacities to the full.

 The Director of Research takes a lead role in mentoring staff, meeting with all research staff
 twice a year. All staff on research-active contracts are requested to fill in a Personal Research
 Plan (PeRP) and to discuss progress towards the aims articulated in them at the scheduled
 research mentoring meetings or at any point during the year when guidance is required.

 All newly appointed junior staff enter a probation process, as part of which they are mentored
 and monitored on outputs. In addition, all staff also meet with the Head of Department for
 Effective Contribution Scheme (ECS) meetings where the balance of their research and teaching
 duties is discussed.

 Training
 We provide multi-faceted training opportunities for our staff. As part of our adherence to the
 Concordat to Support Researchers, we are committed to providing ten training days annually to
 staff. Training can include attending methods workshops, leadership training, conferences, and
 varied forms of impact and research grant-related training (see section 3).

 In collaboration with the University we also provide training for all staff on research integrity,
 open access and data management (see section 1).

 Supporting our equality and diversity agenda we have also trained all staff in these areas and
 have provided specific training for those who lead in equality and diversity related roles (see
 below).

 Funding
 We actively fund bottom-up Research Group and Centre activities (see section 1). In addition, in
 collaboration with the University, we finance the research activity of individual staff through an
 annual allowance for research travel or fieldwork purposes. The base rate Departmental
 allocation of £500 is complemented by funding from the new University Conference Fund and
 University Research Fund.

 We also provide funding for conferences, workshops and events on an ad hoc basis when they
 closely align with our research strategy.

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Time
 Good quality research requires investment in time. This is why we allocate 550 hours within the
 Workload Allocation and Management Model (WAMM) to research for all research active staff.

 In addition, within the parameters of University leave policy, we operate an adjusted system of
 flexible leave. In the early part of this REF cycle (2014-2016) we continued to provide a ‘1 in 4
 semesters’ leave but in 2016-2018 we moved to an adjusted ‘1 in 6’ model, where we
 complement University research leaves with periodic Departmental leaves, by deploying staff in
 less teaching intensive duties in certain semesters (while expecting them to carry out basic
 administrative and supervision duties).

 We have ensured that despite challenging operational constraints, we can continue to organise
 ourselves and our teaching in an efficient fashion to make concentrated time for research
 possible. Efficiencies can also be created during teaching semesters; we work with the
 timetabling team to try and obtain at least one day a week of research-intensive time.

 Support mechanisms for training and supervision of PGR
 We continue to run an active and successful PhD programme (see section 1). We have fostered
 61 new PhD graduates in this cycle, including a number of prize-winning researchers.

 Given the centrality of PGR research to our research culture, we operate a very active PGR
 training and supervision regime.

 Every PhD student is assigned two supervisors and they meet with PhD supervisors once every
 three weeks. Supervisors benefit from University training on varied aspects of the supervisory
 role. Drawing on supervisor feedback and student reflections, we carefully monitor PGR student
 progress twice a year and report to Faculty on all students in May.

 Our PhD students benefit from the University’s research training suite of courses and
 procedures, including ones in ethics, open access and impact. This central training is also
 complemented by Department-specific events and training. Thus, we run a research training
 class, Research in International Politics, which also services the programme of our ESRC Wales
 Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) partners in Cardiff.

 We have also organised bespoke doctoral training workshops for PhD students in the
 Department. These have covered issues such as publication processes, impact generation,
 open access, General Data Protection Regulation and early career planning. As part of our
 training, we have sought to create new synergies between academic research and policy and
 professional experiences. Such synergies have also been encouraged by our PhD students’
 partaking in practitioner internships. For example, in 2019, funded by the ESRC’s Policy
 Internships scheme, one student (Marshall) took the opportunity to work at the UK Home Office
 during their PhD.

 In line with the wider sector, we have moved to funding of many of our PhDs via doctoral training
 partnerships. We are part of the ESRC Wales DTP and the Arts and Humanities Research
 Council (AHRC) South, West and Wales (SWW) DTP2 consortia providing sustained scholarship
 opportunities for our PhD researchers. Funding through these streams has resulted in the award
 of 21 studentships during this cycle. This includes five ESRC collaborative grants prepared in
 conjunction with non-academic partners. We also fund PhD research from Departmental and
 University sources, and such funding has been awarded to a further 14 PhD students.

 Our role in the re-accredited ESRC Wales DTP and AHRC SWW DTP2 enhance the
 sustainability of provision of opportunities for PhD students, in terms of funding, research training
 and networking. The expansion of the D.Prof programme also provides an avenue for
 professionals to complete a research doctorate with us: five D.Prof projects have started, with
 the first due to complete in 2021.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 PGR students have also taken the opportunity to lead or co-lead Departmental Research
 Groups. Some have also stepped into national and international leadership roles offered within
 working groups of the British International Studies Association (BISA). PGR students also
 benefit from travel and conference funding each year, up to £250 annually.

 We also encourage them to lead in organising conferences and workshops. Examples in this
 cycle include the Centenary Postgraduate conference in 2019 which brought to Aberystwyth
 PGRs from across the UK to discuss cutting-edge challenges in ontology, field methods and also
 pedagogy; and the BISA Postgraduate Network Annual Conference in April 2020 (cancelled due
 to COVID). Departmental support is evidenced in administrative and financial assistance to such
 events and active contributions to discussions in them by participating staff.

 Perhaps most central to our approach to PhD support is close collaboration on a continuous
 basis. PhD students attend all our research seminars, present their work to the whole
 Department every year and third year PhD students present their work at the weekly IPRS
 seminars. The extensive support we provide for our graduate community is evidenced
 quantitatively by the 61 completions in this cycle. It is also, however, reflected in qualitative
 terms by the prestigious national and international prizes awarded to our PhD students for their
 research, as follows:

       Gebel, Lord Bryce Dissertation Prize by the UK Political Studies Association, 2014
       Hashimoto, British Society for Middle Eastern Studies (BRISMES) Leigh Douglas
        Memorial Prize, 2014
       Jones, Shirin M Rai Prize for International Relations, 2018
       Jude, European International Studies Association (EISA) Best Dissertation Award, 2019
       Poonkham, Educational Award for Excellence in Humanities and Social Science, Anglo-
        Thai Society Awards, 2018.

 In addition, two of our PhD researchers, Conway and Cloet, were awarded prestigious ‘best
 paper’ prizes from the EISA and the Arenberg Foundation respectively.

 Evidence of UoA support for equality and diversity
 As our research strategy objectives show, we are committed to developing a more equal and
 diverse body of research and researcher base. Representation of voices across gender,
 sexuality, nationality, race, class, religion, ability and career progression is a key commitment for
 the Department and an area where this REF period has seen intense collaboration between staff
 and the University to develop new initiatives. Our proactive approach is reflected in the following:

    1. Our planning processes for leave policy are transparent and do not discriminate against
       staff from any background. With the help of the University’s Department of Research,
       Business and Innovation (RB&I), we also systematically assess the equality and diversity
       aspects of our leave policy and actively adjust for special circumstances in how we
       calculate leave entitlement (e.g. maternity leave counts towards leave accrual).

    2. We ensure that our research activities (including research seminars) take place within
       hours that suit all, including those with flexible work time arrangements Thus, for
       example, we have adjusted our IPRS seminar timing during this cycle to ensure that all
       staff are equally able to attend.

    3. Equality and diversity have been at the centre of our REF preparation and reading
       process. Our research planning and how it has been implemented has carefully and
       systematically considered career circumstances and dynamics. Our REF reading group
       was designed to fully represent diverse constituencies and subfields. In 2019 we were
       found to be representative in regard to key groups but were encouraged to seek further
       Welsh-medium readers. The new readers were introduced to the group, with an updated


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Terms of Reference in May 2019. REF readers were unconscious bias and equality and
        diversity trained.

    4. We actively encourage Welsh-medium research and impact activity. In this regard our
       researchers working on language policy have led the way (Lewis, Royles and Edwards)
       but engagements around Patagonia and Welsh identity (Taylor) have further enhanced
       new Welsh-medium research and impact activity.

    5. Our Departmental leadership has reflected our equality and diversity commitments. Not
       only did we have a female Head of Department from 2013-2017 but since then both our
       Director of Research and Deputy Head have been women, and the Management Team
       has included a representative distribution of staff.

    6. Departmental staff have also led in the University’s development of diversity initiatives.
       For example. Taylor played a major role in the preparation of a report on ’Women in the
       Arts, Humanities and Social Science and Research’ and on a report on race in higher
       education, both of which directly fed into development of the University’s Strategic
       Equality Plan 2020-2024. Pasha was lead author of a report on ‘Diversity in the
       Curriculum’ which contributed to the University’s strategy formulation around diversifying
       the curriculum. Phillips has led in developing disability-sensitive practices and initiatives.

    7. Having hosted a series of academic and public events such as the ‘Is Our University Too
       White?’ workshop in 2019 and a Black History Month event with Kehinde Andrews in
       2018, the Department has assumed an active role in leading diversity and equality
       discussions in the University, local community and in the academic field.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income: General
 Our income base is largely based on three main sources: student fees, research income and
 REF QR funding. Given reduction in income from student fees, the Department took active steps
 to rebalance its staff base.

 Our research income over the assessment period totalled £2.78 million, and through major grant
 successes we have succeeded in attracting over £4.8 million in new awards. Whilst we
 restructured, we simultaneously worked hard to increase our external grant capture through the
 period. Indeed, 2019-2020 research income shows a 70% increase on the annual income in
 2013-2014. Our average annual income generated from grants during this REF period is
 £397,100 per year.

 The upward trajectory of our research grant capture and income in the latter part of the REF
 period reflects the success of our bespoke grant strategies and is noteworthy given that it has
 come in the context of a reduction in research active staff FTE from 27.2 in 2014 to 22.7 in 2020.

 In this REF period our research activity has benefitted from multiple grants from key research
 funders: ESRC, AHRC, British Academy, Horizon 2020 (H2020), European Research Council
 (ERC), Welsh Government/HEFCW and many others. We have also hosted projects in
 collaboration with major industry partners.

 Some highlights of grant funding awarded are as follows:

       2020 Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) Network Plus Grant ‘Creating Safer
        Space’ (Bliesemann de Guevara), £1,346,000

       2016 ERC Consolidator Grant, ‘The Global as Artefact’ (Hamati-Ataya), £1 million



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       AHRC-Newton Fund ‘(Un-)Stitching the Subjects of Colombia's Reconciliation Process’
        (Bliesemann de Guevara), £231,000

       WISERD Civil Society, ESRC Centres funding, ‘Changing perspectives on Civic
        Stratification and Civil Repair’ (Elias/Royles), £234,000

       Horizon 2020, IMAJINE ‘Integrative Mechanisms for Addressing Spatial Justice’ (Elias),
        £299,000

       AHRC network funding ‘Language Revitalization and socio-cultural transformation’
        (Lewis), £40,000

       Newton International Fellowship (Querejazu/Kurki), £96,000

       Five Marie Skłodowska Curie fellowships, £737,000

 Success in research grant capture has been achieved through:

       Mentoring, sharing and learning together. We have actively sought to encourage all staff,
        across career level and gender, to explore grant opportunities, initially with smaller grants
        but also encouraging ambition (e.g. applications to UKRI Research Leaders scheme and
        ERC schemes). We have initiated Departmental brainstorming sessions on grants. We
        have also actively encouraged staff to participate in University RB&I training initiatives
        (e.g. sandpits, training workshops). We have contributed to the Welsh Crucible, a
        competitive scheme to identify and develop future research leaders in Wales.

       Varied grant strategies. We have sought to widen our funding sources and seek to
        leverage diverse public and private sources and in so doing explicitly focus on ‘smart’
        matching of projects with specific kinds of funders. We have dedicated grant strategies
        on different strands of funding and actively seek to mobilise specific resources at
        University level to assist staff. Thus, for example, we offer mock interviews to all ERC or
        major GCRF grant applicants.

       Dedicated early career fellowship strategy. In line with our effort to create a new hybrid
        ‘early career researcher hub’ model within the Department, we have also sought to
        complement the successful PhD programme with targeted postdoctoral competitions and
        awards. In 2015 we initiated a new MSCA Fellowship strategy facilitating focused
        competition to attract the best applications from across Europe and beyond. This strategy
        has succeeded in bringing five MSCA fellows to the Department between 2015-2020. We
        have also utilised the new ESRC postdoctoral fellow funding and Newton International
        awards to bring world-leading postdoctoral scholars to AU and actively encourage
        Visiting Scholars to travel to AU.

       Close collaboration with University specialists. The University, responding to feedback
        from the International Politics Department alongside other Departments, has put into
        place a highly efficient system of assistance for grant development and management,
        including facilitation of individual meetings between research staff and RB&I staff, and
        assistance with budgeting and contracts. We make extensive use of these services in
        preparing our grants (see below) and have developed a close working relationship with
        RB&I benefitting from their targeted expertise.

       Given our commitments not only to grant capture but also to equality of opportunity for
        early career researchers and women applicants, it is reassuring to note that eight major
        early career grants have been awarded during the REF period and that over 60% of all
        our successful funding bids were led by female staff.


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University support for grant capture
 In development of grant capture strategy, we have benefitted from close co-operation in
 particular with the Europe, GCRF and social science teams within RB&I at the University.
 Bespoke and well-honed co-operation processes allow us to benefit from RB&I’s expertise in
 legal and contractual, budgetary and funder-specific matters. Their expertise is a considerable
 factor in the success of our grant capture during this cycle. We also work closely with the
 University ethics, data management and open access teams ensuring highest regard is paid to
 research integrity in all aspects of our research.

 University central structures also support our research work in other ways such as:

       Provision of considerable impact funding, both for leave periods to engage impact and for
        targeted impact funding. A total of £17,000 has been invested by the University impact
        funding streams in our impact activity since their inception in 2018.

       University Research Funding (URF) has been received by six members of staff (Edkins,
        Edwards, Elias, Hughes, Radchenko, Shepherd) facilitating the initiation of important
        pieces of work leading to research grants and REF outputs.

       Numerous Departmental staff have benefitted extensively from University Conference
        Fund support for conference travel activity during this REF cycle.

       The University also provides support to the Department in terms of advertising and
        training in grant capture, ethics, and funding processes. Staff have benefitted from visits
        and centrally organised brain-storming and information sessions delivered by funder
        organisations (British Academy, H2020) and bespoke training for staff (sandpits, ‘how to
        write research grant’-sessions, impact training, research leadership training).

       In developing our grant activity, we also benefit from important funding schemes at the
        University. For example, we are part of the new Centre for International Development
        Research at AU (CIDRA) initiative: six projects based in the Department have received
        seed funding from this funding stream since it started in 2018. Further two projects have
        received seed funding from the ESRC Transformative Social Science stream. Bridoux,
        Beardsworth and Efstathopoulos, for example, were supported through this activity. The
        funding to work on Resilient Regions, for example, led directly to securing the major
        H2020 IMAJINE grant, to which two staff in Interpol have made significant contributions
        (Elias and Royles). Two projects (Ruzicka, Taylor) also benefitted from HEFCW funding
        facilitating research in and on Wales.

 Infrastructure
 The Department has benefitted from the University’s infrastructural support, first, through the
 maintenance of the iconic History and Welsh History and International Politics Building in which
 the Department and its PGR students are based. In this building, constructed in 2006 to house
 the Department, each staff member has an office for their research work and access to a series
 of seminar and lecture rooms where varied types of research events can be held. The building
 has also been used to facilitate research-related exhibitions, for example on non-violence in
 2020. Staff have also utilised the Aberystwyth Arts Centre exhibition spaces and the BBC
 studios to share their research.

 The University provides important digital infrastructural support through open access and data
 management facilities as well as extensive technical support, printing and networking facilities
 for research staff, including visiting researchers.

 The University maintains a library with an excellent set of resources for staff and PGRs. The
 Library resources include the impressive historic collections of the Hugh Owen library and
 access to key journals. An allocation of £1,500 is available for staff to order research-related
 materials to the library. In total, the University library spends approximately £55,000 a year on

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funding materials related to the work of the Department. Further, staff benefit enormously from
 the National Library of Wales, a copyright library located adjacent to the University.

 The Department also seeks to contribute to the development of new infrastructure at AU. For
 example, we are actively engaged in the development of a Dialogue Centre to be housed at the
 Old College, a site of major infrastructural investment by external bodies and the University. We
 plan to use the space to develop new collaborative research projects engaging the public and
 policy-makers.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 A long-standing principle guiding the Department’s work has been to ‘tell the world about the
 world’. This means, for us, not only disseminating knowledge from academia but also that we
 must be able to facilitate new voices to express themselves and to initiate new conversations in
 global body politic. We then have an active role in collaborating with a wide range of academic
 and non-academic partners and beneficiaries in order to ‘make a change’ in the world at large,
 from academic collaborations to engagements with policy communities and local communities
 around the world.

 A. Academic Collaborations and Networks
 In conjunction with our visiting researchers programme and our varied grant programmes which
 require close partner engagement (CIDRA, GCRF, UKRI, WISERD), we continue to engage in a
 wide range of collaborations across the world and across disciplines. Examples include:

       Bliesemann de Guevara works with a global network of academic and non-academic
        communities with key partners in the UK, the US, Colombia, Kenya, South Sudan,
        Thailand, Myanmar, and the Philippines. Three major projects grants have funded these
        collaborations and with the receipt of GCRF network funding in 2020 these collaborations
        are set to expand exponentially under Bliesemann de Guevara’s leadership.

       McInnes, working together with colleagues in Norway and funded by the Norwegian
        Research Council, has led a major project working on social media in emergencies.

       Elias, leading a work package for the H2020 project IMAJINE, and as the WISERD Co-
        Director 2019-2024, has led a major collaboration across Europe on territorial autonomy
        movements and spatial justice.

       Lewis has led in a major collaborative effort to rethink language politics and policy.
        Working with a group of scholars from across the UK and the world his work in leading
        this major project has resulted in not only major publications but also societal impact of
        note.

       Kurki works in collaboration with the Department of Computer Science at the University
        of Kerbala in Iraq. Funded by a GCRF seed-funding project managed by CIDRA, this
        cross-science team seeks to develop new ways to think about sustainable development
        via robotics clubs teaching.

       Bridoux, leading a new research initiative World Order Watch, gathered together a team
        of international scholars working on world order.

 Our collaborations aim not only to enhance links between individuals but also between
 organisations. In this regard the pioneering work done by Bliesemann de Guevara in setting up
 multi-institution collaborative arrangements across developed and developing countries
 (including co-ordination of finances, ethics and integrity and methodology training) is particularly
 significant and likely to inspire further national and international development of collaborative
 practice in the years to come. Indeed, the GCRF Network Plus ‘Creating Safer Space’-project

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 involves preparing ethics, legal and contractual frameworks within which universities and
 partners will work in the context of Official Development Assistance funding.

 B. Engagement with research users, beneficiaries and audiences
 Many and varied beneficiaries and audiences have engaged with the research work conducted
 at AU. These include policy networks but also civil society and public audiences nationally and
 internationally.

 A wide range of policy networks have been impacted by work conducted at the Department, at
 national and international scales. For example, research on constitutional and substate
 diplomacy led by Lewis and Royles has been actively communicated to policy-makers and
 legislators in the Welsh Government and the National Assembly of Wales. McInnes’ links at
 WHO, Welsh Government and Interaction Council have brought his research on global health
 security to the active attention of approximately 100 policy and government experts.

 Civil society and the public have also been impacted. Bliesemann de Guevara’s work for
 example has reached civil society and public audiences around the world. Over 11,700 persons
 attended the three ‘Stitched Voices’ exhibitions in the UK and Sweden. A further 600 have
 attended four exhibitions of conflict textiles '(Un-)Stitching Gazes' in Colombia. In developing her
 work on drawing and textiles she also works closely with local and international NGOs who
 engage civil society such as Nonviolent Peaceforce.

 Dockter’s contributions to a Channel 4 documentary on Churchill in 2018 were widely
 commented on in the media. Vaughan’s research on anti-semitism and the Labour Party has
 made important contributions to public debate. Civil society groups, including refugee groups,
 have been engaged by staff working on immigration and sanctuary (Edwards, McFadyen).
 Similarly, a wide range of civil society audiences have been engaged around nuclear non-
 proliferation policy, including key organisations such as the International Campaign to Abolish
 Nuclear Weapons (Booth, Ruzicka).

 The local community in Aberystwyth frequently engages enthusiastically with public talks given
 in the Department. We have facilitated such talks and roundtables on Brexit (2016, 2017, 2019),
 the changing nature of world order (2019) and global health challenges (2020).

 Further, Departmental staff have actively contributed to the University’s civic mission in Wales,
 contributing to public talks at the National Eisteddfod, ESRC Festivals on Social Science, the
 GWLAD festival celebrating 20 years of devolution, and the ‘UNESCO Our Voice in the World’
 festival.

 We have also collaborated with industry and public bodies in developing our research. Thus,
 ESRC-funded collaborative PhD scholarships have built new networks between researchers and
 civil society, public bodies and governmental actors. Further, our staff have engaged in
 contributions to major cross-industry bids, such as the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
 Networks-Cyber Security Lifecycles programme developed in collaboration with Welsh
 Government and Airbus (Stoddart).

 C. Services to research base, economy and society
 We continue to make important contributions in facilitating research capacity nationally and
 internationally.

 We have maintained our long-standing commitment to organising major conferences in the field,
 with at least five examples from this REF cycle including the high-profile intelligence studies
 conference ‘Intelligence, Past and Present in War and Peace’ in 2018 and the ‘Centenary
 Conference’ in 2019.

 Examples of the many important research workshops we have hosted include the British
 Academy funded ‘Alliances and Trustbuilding’ workshop in 2015 (Ruzicka), an ESRC

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Transformative Social Science funded workshop on ‘State Responsibility and Non-Territorial
 Security Challenges’ in 2018 (Efstathopoulos, Beardsworth), multiple workshops on language
 revitalisation in 2018-2020 (Lewis, Royles) and a centenary workshop ‘Human Interconnections
 and the Future of International Relations’ in 2019 (Kurki, Shepherd, Efstathopoulos).

 Key book series in the field are edited by Pasha, Bridoux, and Bliesemann de Guevara. Five
 members of staff act or have acted as editors of major journals and a further five as associate
 editors. We host three journals in the Department: International Relations (Kurki, Efstathopoulos,
 Shepherd), Intelligence and National Security (Hughes) and Rethinking History (Finney). Staff
 have contributed to nine peer review colleges and panels nationally and have peer-reviewed for
 research councils of European states or in the European Union. Bliesemann de Guevara
 received recognition in 2018 for exceptional service to the AHRC peer-review college.

 Other key contributions to scholarly community include the role of Beardsworth in BISA
 Executive 2017-2019; Hamati-Ataya in BISA Executive 2013-2015 and EISA Governing Council
 2014-5; Finney as Chair of British International History Group 2017-present; McInnes as REF
 panellist 2014 and 2021; and Vaughan as Chair of BISA’s Postgraduate Section. Many staff
 have also actively contributed to and led professional association sections and working groups
 (e.g. Stullerova, Kurowska, Hamati-Ataya).

 Our contributions to scholarly community are also reflected in various prizes and esteemed roles
 staff hold. In 2019 McInnes became the Chair of UNESCO UK and also represented the UK at
 UNESCO’s Social and Human Sciences Commission in 2017 and 2019. McInnes was also
 awarded the inaugural 'Special Achievement Award' in 2018 by the Wales Social Research
 Awards. Booth, a previous Head of Department and currently Distinguished Research Professor,
 was awarded the BISA Distinguished Scholar award in 2018.

 Our staff have written a number of important reports used by public bodies. Kurki acted as a
 consultant on a major review of European democracy promotion policies in 2016. McInnes
 contributed to Wales’ International Health Strategy. Lewis and Royles have contributed to Welsh
 National Language Strategy.

 Staff have also given evidence in Parliament and for other public bodies. Shepherd provided
 written published evidence for the House of Lords enquiry into 'Europe in the World: The
 Strategic Review of the EU’s Foreign and Security Policy' in February 2016. Royles gave
 evidence before National Assembly for Wales committees and panels on constitutional reform in
 2017, on language policy in 2018 and on Wales’ international strategy and relationship with the
 EU in 2018 and 2019. She also gave evidence to the UK Parliament on Devolution and Exiting
 the EU in 2018. Mathers fed into Whitehall deliberations on UK foreign policy in 2015.




                                                                                            Page 16
