Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Salford

 Unit of Assessment: 20

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit overview

 Research in social work and social policy (SWSP) at Salford has longstanding strengths relating
 to the overarching theme of social problems and challenges to welfare, wellbeing and social
 justice, and the programmes and policies designed to address them effectively. It is
 characterised by the multidisciplinary backgrounds of staff; rigorous research aiming at social
 change, often co-produced with users; and high engagement with academic networks,
 professionals and practitioners at local, national and international levels.

 Effective planning and support have significantly increased the quantity and quality of research
 during this REF cycle. Driven by 12 new appointments we have increased the number of submitted
 researchers from 9.5 FTE (2014) to 18.53 FTE (2021). SWSP has also increased income by
 54% from £1.85m (2014) to £2.84m (2021); increased the number of publications per researcher;
 consolidated its presence in academic and practitioner networks and expanded its international
 reach. It has also strengthened links with communities, charities, non-governmental organisations
 (NGOs), government bodies and research users and worked with them to identify and undertake
 new projects, demonstrating the ability to respond rapidly and effectively to emerging issues, such
 as Brexit and COVID-19.

 SWSP belongs to the Centre for Social and Health Research (CSHR) within the School of Health
 and Society. As a highly multidisciplinary group working effectively on contemporary social, health
 and cultural issues, CSHR returns researchers to UoA20, as well as to UoA3 and UoA34. Within
 CSHR, four research clusters were created as thematic and administrative units based on existing
 peaks of excellence and those determined as areas for future growth. Of those, three include
 SWSP researchers. Submitted staff belong to (names in italics denote leavers who were at Salford
 for most of the REF cycle):

    •   Connected Lives, Diverse Realities (CLDR) (the former Centre for Social Research):
        Birkbeck, Clark, Connelly, Ellis, Hazel, Kamerāde, Lockwood, Moore, Parkinson,
        Patel, Quraishi, Whitaker.

    •   Sustainable Housing and Urban Studies Unit (SHUSU): Ahmed, Brown, Gibbons, Jones,
        Martin, Rogers, Scullion, Wilding.

    •   Knowledge, Health and Place (KHP): Ahmed, Ackers, Cooper-Ryan. KHP is a group of
        14 staff in total with 12 submitted to UoA3.

 Additionally, Clark and Innes are leads in the Salford Institute for Dementia and Ageing, a
 multidisciplinary initiative co-located with the CSHR.

 Interdisciplinarity as a core value within our research strategy, themes and approaches

 SWSP is part of CSHR, a large multi-disciplinary research centre that encourages and facilitates
 extensive collaboration across subject areas and problem-centred research topics. In addition,
 international networking is employed deliberately to introduce a significant comparative dimension
 to many projects (see Section 4) and we aim to extend this further in future. Most of the Unit’s
 research has a strong applied orientation, focusing on ongoing or emerging issues of particular
 social and policy concern. This issue-based approach means that interdisciplinary work is a
 significant dimension of many projects. Interdisciplinarity can be evidenced in a variety of forms in
 our activities:


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   A recruitment strategy focused on disciplinary diversity: due to the complexity of the
        social problems we investigate we seek to appoint colleagues with the capability to apply
        differing methodological approaches and disciplinary knowledge. As our expertise covers
        criminology, economics, geography, law, politics, psychology, social policy, social work
        and sociology, the majority of SWSP members have an academic background in at least
        two of these disciplines.

    •   Publication in multidisciplinary journals: e.g. Ageing and Society (Innes), Arts and
        Health (Clark), BMC Geriatrics (Ahmed), City (Gibbons), Dementia (Innes), Games and
        Culture (Innes), Journal of Child Sexual Abuse (Parkinson) and NVSQ (Kamerāde).

    •   Presentations at multidisciplinary conferences: including those organised by the British
        Society of Gerontology (Clark, Innes), the Housing Studies Association (Gibbons,
        Scullion), the Society for the Advancement of Socio-Economics (Kamerāde) and the EU
        Conference on Novel Psychoactive Substances (Moore).

    •   Interdisciplinary projects – SWSP working with health and social care researchers:
        Clark (Geography/Sociology) worked on the ESRC/NIHR funded project led by the
        University of Manchester and involving another 26 organisations specialising in social
        work, health and social care, as well as nursing. This focused on the ‘lived neighbourhood’
        for people with dementia. The research developed an environmental perspective on the
        experience of dementia and significantly broadened the traditional focus on specialised
        care, leading to new initiatives in dementia services.

    •   Interdisciplinary projects – SWSP working with psychologists: Kamerāde (Sociology/
        Psychology) worked with Dr Paul Richardson (Psychology, Sheffield Hallam) to
        persuasively demonstrate that occupational gender segregation is a significant but
        previously ignored factor explaining patterns of underemployment and subjective well-
        being.

    •   Interdisciplinary projects – SWSP working with medical and health technology
        researchers: Ackers (Economics/Geography/Law) worked with Dr Ioannou, a medical
        researcher (UCL) to develop a multi-method holistic study of the factors contributing to
        maternal and neonatal mortality in Uganda and proposed that doctors’ absenteeism –
        something previously ignored – underlay the medically-oriented ‘3-delays’ model. A
        significant outcome was a new ministerial policy to reduce absenteeism in hospitals.
        Ackers is currently working with Kenney (Professor of Rehabilitation Technologies, Salford
        – UoA3) on an EPSRC project to develop new body-powered prostheses for amputees in
        Low- and Middle-Income Countries (LMICs). The goal is to combine medical and
        technological skills with social research to design new models attuned to cultural and
        economic conditions in LMICs.

 Support for research integrity and open access

 The University’s Research Code of Practice incorporates and develops the principles set out in
 the UK Research Integrity Office’s Code of Practice for Research and Universities UK’s Concordat
 to Support Research Integrity (see REF5a). All primary activity involving data collection requires
 approval from the School’s Research Ethics Panel (Chaired by Clark). The Unit has considerable
 expertise in designing ethical projects to research sensitive topics in difficult environments (e.g.
 involving marginal groups, or in criminal justice settings) which is shared through formal and
 informal peer feedback on applications. Clark is a leading writer on visual ethics, which underpins
 one strand of Salford’s research on dementia, while CLDR meetings have discussed topics
 including the ethics of ‘big data’ collection and usage. SWSP researchers have also successfully
 addressed the ethical challenges often confronted by those whom they study, such as parents in
 prison (Lockwood) and students on international placements (Ackers).



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To maintain standards in research, staff members are committed to seeking stakeholders’
 comments and to provide constructive feedback to colleagues on papers or reports prior to
 publication. Additionally, all publications are deposited in the University of Salford Institutional
 Repository (USIR) and are accessible through the ‘Green’ or ‘Gold’ routes. The University’s Open
 Access Policy was updated in 2019 and 98% of outputs are now deposited in USIR within three
 months of acceptance for publication. During the assessment period, staff deposited 628 outputs
 in USIR, which were downloaded 137,363 times. All submitted researchers in SWSP have an
 ORCID identifier.

 Research strategy and achievements 2014 – 2020

 SWSP at Salford concluded the current assessment period with significant growth in the quantity
 and quality of its research and in its contributions to the research base and society. We have
 consolidated and developed our areas of expertise and corresponding networks. Clear planning
 and robust support for research activity provide the foundations for continued improvements and
 contributions, particularly in relation to marginalised, minority and other disadvantaged groups;
 crime and criminal justice; and work, un/employment, health and wellbeing. The Centre’s research
 strategy has been successful in supporting the goals set for 2014-2020:

 1. Maintain and build on the research strengths in social inclusion; knowledge, reflexivity
    and wellbeing; and crime, criminal justice and security

    Research on social inclusion/exclusion has continued through a long-term project on
    community relations and community development for Gypsy, Roma and Traveller populations
    (Martin, Scullion). It was significantly augmented by participation in an ESRC-funded project
    on the impact of welfare conditionality on marginalised populations (Scullion), two projects on
    welfare conditionality among military service leavers (REF3) (Scullion) and a new project on
    the impact of COVID-19 on welfare claimants (Scullion). Social inclusion/exclusion is a theme
    in ongoing work on dementia (Clark, Innes) and ageing (Ahmed, Clark).

    Research on knowledge, reflexivity and wellbeing has been strengthened by the appointment
    of Ackers as Chair in Global Social Justice, the establishment of the Salford Institute for
    Dementia and Ageing in 2013 and the appointment of Innes as Coles-Medlock Professor of
    Dementia, as well as the appointment of Kamerāde as Reader in Work and Wellbeing.

    Key projects included the Ethical Electives Project (Ackers) funded by Health Education
    England which piloted and evaluated elective placements in a low-resource international
    setting (Uganda) for undergraduate students in nursing, midwifery and allied professions.
    Clark’s ESCR/NIHR-funded work on neighbourhoods and dementia is another example, while
    Innes has led, or co-led, numerous projects on dementia. In addition, Kamerāde was co-lead
    on a major project to study work and wellbeing with the What Works Centre for Wellbeing
    together with University of East Anglia, University of Birmingham and Sheffield University.

    Research on crime, criminal justice and security has advanced with the appointment of new
    staff with a variety of areas of expertise (Connelly - sex workers, Ellis - violence, Lockwood
    - women in prison, Moore - recreational drug use), the continuation of long-term projects and
    the development of new ones. Hazel was co-lead for the Beyond Youth Custody project (2012-
    18), funded by the Big Lottery Fund, which built a robust evidence base about what works in
    terms of effective resettlement for young people (REF3). Quraishi, was one of three project
    leaders funded by the Dawes Trust (2017-20) to study conversion to Islam in prison. Birkbeck
    maintains a long-term involvement with the International Self-Report Delinquency Study, which
    is currently initiating its fourth sweep.

 2. Strengthen the two-way linkages between academic work and the significance and
    reach of impacts for research users, improving the quality of both



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    During the current REF cycle, submitted staff completed 91 research projects developed with
    professional or practitioner organisations, gave 142 presentations at meetings convened by
    them and served in advisory roles at international, national and local levels (see Section 4).
    Significantly, end users are increasingly incorporated as co-researchers or advisers on
    projects, facilitating co-production of scientific and practical objectives.

    Research by members of the Unit has led to significant impact in the UK and internationally, a
    sample of which is represented in REF3 submissions for UoA20 (Hazel and Scullion) and for
    UoA3 (Ackers). Through the Knowledge for Change charity, Ackers worked with public health
    staff in Uganda to study midwifery and maternal outcomes (see Health Policy and Planning,
    2016; International Journal of Health Governance, 2018), resulting in a new model of respectful
    care for women and increased attendance at prenatal and cervical cancer clinics. Ackers has
    also collaborated with Salford’s Biomedical Research Centre (UoA3) and Ugandan healthcare
    workers to bring about behavioural change to tackle antimicrobial resistance (AMR). This work
    resulted in a new policy brief from the Pharmaceutical Society of Uganda and led to improved
    infection prevention and control, a reduction in inappropriate antibiotic prescription and lower
    costs for hospitals. Additional areas of impact for SWSP have arisen through the Salford
    Dementia Associate Panel: Clark and Innes have involved people suffering with dementia and
    their carers as active participants in project design and data collection, ensuring maximal
    relevance to the needs of end users (see Dementia, 2020).

 3. Increase the impact and quantity of publications in peer-reviewed journals

    During the current REF period, the number of articles per researcher published in peer-
    reviewed journals almost tripled, from 2.9 to 7.7, reflecting a significant increase in productivity.
    Staff published in more than 100 journals focusing on social work, social policy, health,
    criminology, methods and social science.

    We have had success in publishing in journals with high levels of competition for submission
    and acceptance, such as (selected): BMC Geriatrics (Ahmed, Innes), BMJ (Ackers), British
    Journal of Criminology (Birkbeck, Ellis), British Journal of Social Work (Parkinson), Health
    Policy and Planning (Ackers), Human Relations (Kamerāde), International Psychogeriatrics
    (Clark), Public Performance and Management Review (Wilding), Qualitative Research
    (Whitaker), Social Science and Medicine (Kamerāde), The Sociological Review (Connelly,
    Patel), and Work, Employment and Society (Kamerāde). Our publications have also been
    recognised for their quality or impact. Clark’s 2017 article on visual methodologies in social
    work was the most cited paper in Qualitative Social Work between 2014 and 2019; Ellis’
    monograph on Men, Masculinities and Violence (Routledge, 2015) was awarded the British
    Society of Criminology Critical Criminology Network Book Prize in 2016; and Connelly was
    co-author of a 2016 article on sex workers in Sociological Research Online which was runner-
    up in the 2017 Sage Prize for Innovation and Excellence.

 4. Increase the number of doctoral students whilst maintaining high quality supervision

    Our PhD awards have doubled compared to those reported in REF2014, from 14 to 28. The
    increase in student numbers and completions was due to expanding recruitment of
    international students with funding from their home organisations (universities; ministries);
    development of a new, split-site doctoral programme in healthcare with the Aga Khan
    University (Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda) with an intake of 13 students since 2017, four of them
    in SWSP; and development of an enhanced admissions system at School level, matching
    applicants’ interests with staff members’ expertise.


 Strategic research and impact goals for the next 5 years

 With a substantive focus on societal problems, CSHR’s ongoing research objectives are to:


                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Produce high-quality research engaging with, and developing, the leading edge of its
        respective field
    •   Encourage and support multi- and inter-disciplinary work
    •   Build impacts on policy and practice into research aims, design, analysis and
        dissemination
    •   Multiply and consolidate national and international networks with researchers and
        stakeholders.

 While the current REF period successfully focused on increasing the quantity and quality of
 research, the strategic aim for the next cycle is to build on this momentum to provide a flexible
 platform for researching emerging issues in SWSP, with a particular focus on the international
 context. Our overall goal is to contribute to what we see as the glocal challenges of
 increasing equitable access to sustainable development and supporting human rights,
 governance and social justice.

 Specific strategies for achieving this are:

 1. Continue to develop our internationally recognised expertise in social
    inclusion/exclusion; health, welfare and wellbeing; and crime and justice, which are
    central to addressing these glocal challenges

    Researchers in SWSP maintain an active agenda of developing new projects in their areas of
    expertise and responding to new needs and opportunities as they arise. We expect COVID-
    19 to have a significant short- to mid-term impact on policy, practice and funding priorities in
    our key areas of expertise and will seek to respond to these where possible. By 31 July 2020
    we were already involved in national and international projects related to COVID-19:

        •   Scullion led a £525k project (with Kent, Leeds and LSE) funded by the ESRC’s COVID-
            19 Rapid Response Call to study the experiences of Universal Credit claimants during
            the pandemic

        •   Ackers contributed to a Salford-led £580k project (funded by the UKRI/GCRF)
            supporting the development of supply chains to test for COVID-19 in post-conflict
            northern Uganda.

 2. Increase and extend international collaborations to undertake impactful research with
    even greater reach and significance

    The envisaged growth involves increased levels of activity through longstanding, recent and
    new international collaborations to address significant issues of common concern. For
    example, Quraishi will continue to work with colleagues at Birkbeck, London and the
    University of Fribourg to develop a new research-based theological education package for
    prisoners and will lead on the extension of this project to the USA. New partnerships we intend
    to focus on include:

        •   Social inclusion/exclusion: Scullion will work with colleagues at the Australian National
            University and Deakin University (Australia) to compare welfare regimes in Australia
            and the UK

        •   Health, welfare and wellbeing: Ackers will work with colleagues from Gulu and
            Makerere universities (Uganda) to study the role of supply chains for responses to
            COVID-19

        •   Crime and justice: Birkbeck and Hazel will undertake a Britain-wide survey of youth
            crime and victimisation as part of the International Self-Report Delinquency project with
            participation from 40+ countries.


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Additionally, funding will be available to support early career researchers’ virtual or in-person
    (post COVID-19) attendance at international conferences where initial contacts can be
    established, such as the European Society of Criminology, European Sociological Association
    and the Society for the Advancement of Socio-Economics, and we will seek to increase the
    number of international visiting appointments and seminars (both inbound and outbound).

 3. Increase advocacy and support for national and international evidence-based policy
    and practice

    This involves three strands of activity:

        •    The expansion of partnerships with community, third sector and public entities,
             involving significant co-production of knowledge with immediate relevance for policy or
             practice. Current key partnerships include: Health Education England, Tropical Health
             and Education Trust, UKAid and the Ministry of Health, Uganda (Ackers), the Forces
             in Mind Trust (Scullion), the Greater Manchester Ageing Hub (Clark, Innes) and the
             Salford Anti-Poverty Taskforce (Gibbons, Scullion).

        •    Serving in a research advisory capacity for community, third sector and public
             entities. Ongoing advisory roles include: Youth Justice Board (Hazel), National Police
             Chief’s Council – Modern Slavery Police Transformation Programme (Connelly) and
             Ministry of Defence Veteran’s Strategy Academic Advisory Group (Scullion). We will
             accept additional invitations to advisory roles, either short-term or permanent, in
             connection with our research expertise.

        •    Disseminating research findings at events organised by policymakers and
             practitioners (e.g. Alzheimer’s Disease International, National Council for Voluntary
             Organisations, Social Policy Association) and through the media and organising events
             in SWSP to bring academics and stakeholders together.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 We have sought to recruit active researchers with promising track records to grow the size of
 SWSP supporting both areas of existing excellence and establishing new directions. Connelly,
 Kamerāde and Lockwood were appointed in areas of long-standing strength, while Cooper-
 Ryan, Ellis, Moore, Whitaker and Wilding were appointed to expand our research expertise.
 Innes was appointed in 2016 to lead the Salford Institute for Dementia and Ageing with a large
 portfolio of projects, including those led by Ahmed and Clark.

 SWSP is comprised of 6 Professors (3F, 3M) 2 Readers (1F, 1M) 2 Senior Lecturers (1F, 1M), 7
 Lecturers (6F, 1M) and 2 Research Fellows (1F, 1M). Almost a third of the group is at Professorial
 level, ensuring there is strong leadership to set group strategy and effective mentoring for junior
 staff. With 20% of the group at mid-career level and 45% early career researchers (ECRs) there
 exists a pipeline to develop future research leaders to ensure the sustainability of the research
 area. Annual promotion opportunities have allowed staff to progress in their careers during the
 current REF cycle: Patel was promoted to Senior Lecturer, Kamerāde and Wilding were
 promoted to Reader, and Ahmed, Clark and Scullion were promoted to Professor.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)

 Consistent with doing research with those from marginalised communities, we value diversity in
 personal and professional identities, promote an ethos of complementarity and offer equality of
 opportunity. We embed EDI into our research culture in line with the University’s policy of an
 action-based strategy.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School’s commitment to equality and diversity is evidenced by the Athena SWAN Bronze
 Award in 2016 and an application for Silver that is currently in preparation. EDI considerations are
 an integral element of our processes in relation to recruitment of postgraduate researchers
 (PGRs), staff appointments, promotions, plans relating to personal development and workload.
 Nearly two thirds (63%) of submitted staff are female and 11% identify as BAME. Of the 28 PGRs
 completing during the assessment period, 64% were female and 54% identified as BAME. In
 alignment to our REF2021 Code of Practice, the attribution of outputs to staff has been subject to
 an equality impact assessment. Our REF2 submission reflects the gender ratio of our submission,
 with 59% of outputs attributed to a female author (-4% compared to the proportion of female
 submitted staff). 4% of outputs are attributed to staff from a BAME background (-7% compared to
 the proportion of BAME submitted staff). We recognise that this attribution reflects our lower
 proportion of female and BAME staff at higher grades and are committed to addressing this in the
 next cycle.

 Staff are supported on an individual basis by their line manager to whom they can report difficulties
 due to health, caring and/or equality of opportunity as related to protected characteristics. All
 internal funding opportunities are made available openly, whether at School or Centre level and
 decisions are made by suitably diverse panels. Staff on appointment panels have completed
 unconscious bias and active bystander training and panel composition is overseen by HR
 professionals to comply with EDI policy. Specific consideration will be given to the needs of
 individuals post-COVID to ensure appropriate support is available for staff to continue to research
 productively.

 Support and development for research staff

 To facilitate a vibrant research culture, there are various opportunities for staff at all career stages
 to come together for peer support and discussion of research matters. CSHR and its research
 clusters hold regular meetings to provide updates on developments in the research environment,
 around planned projects and members’ research activities. Each research cluster periodically
 organises an Away Day to review progress in terms of achieving objectives against research
 strategy. The CSHR and research clusters also organise a seminar series at which colleagues
 present ongoing research and receive feedback from the group.

 Research workload allocation
 Between 2014 and 2019 research workload was assessed locally through the research group
 leads and heads of directorates (resource centres). From 2019, research-active academics were
 required to formulate a three-year research plan after consulting with research group colleagues
 and this informs decisions about research workload, training and development needs and eligibility
 for submission to REF. Research workloads are set in line with the outcome from the assessment
 of the three-year plan, with a minimum of 20 workload units for staff with ‘significant responsibility
 for research’ as described in our REF2021 Code of Practice. Three-year plans now feed into the
 annual Career Conversations (Performance and Development Review; PDR) staff have with line
 managers, which allows for feedback and advice on the individual’s research trajectory, setting of
 research objectives and measurement of achievements.

 Supporting high quality grant applications, outputs and impact activities
 In addition to direct funding for projects, additional support for research is provided both at
 University and School level through the distribution of QR funding and reinvestment of the
 overhead income from grant-funded projects. During the assessment period SWSP was supported
 with £80k of central internal funding plus matching funds from the School for a range of activities,
 including:

     •   Projects by Cooper-Ryan, on public transport and health (Health Psychology Review,
         2020); Connelly and Patel’s work on racism in Brexit Britain (The Sociological Review,
         2019); Martin et al., Roma precarious employment; Moore, drug use at ‘afterparties’,
         (International Journal of Drug Policy, 2020).


                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Bid development, e.g. Ackers, to contribute to a successful £580k bid to UKRI relating to
        COVID-19.
    •   A study leave scheme, introduced in 2018, allowing a semester or year to work on
        research. This supported Whitaker in 2019-20 to complete a monograph for Routledge on
        Ethnographic Explorations.

 The School organises Grant Labs at which colleagues present ideas for bids in development and
 receive feedback. Peer review is compulsory for all Research Council grant applications and
 strongly recommended for other proposals of £100k+ where Salford is the lead applicant. In
 SWSP, senior researchers team with Research Associates, ECRs or mid-career researchers to
 develop and submit bids for funding, supporting a process of learning by doing; e.g. Scullion and
 Martin (welfare conditionality), Hazel and Ellis (young male violence). To support the production
 of high-quality publications, colleagues routinely organise writing retreats, either within research
 clusters or across CSHR. All published research is reviewed by an internal peer review panel and
 authors are provided with feedback against the criteria of originality, significance and rigour. Pre-
 publication review of drafts is available, both informally and through a CSHR review panel.

 SWSP’s mission to conduct excellent research that leads to social change is supported by the
 University and the School. In addition to the comprehensive training on impact through the
 University’s Senior, Experienced & Early Career Researcher Enterprise Training (SECRET)
 programme, the School appointed an Impact Coordinator (Hazel) who is allotted workload to
 organise workshops to incorporate and develop impact in all projects, advise researchers on
 impact activity and meet regularly with impact plan holders to discuss progress. Four annual
 impact action plans were developed for individual projects, two of which are featured in REF3.
 Over £14k has supported 6 staff to develop impact from their research, for example, Connelly for
 dissemination of findings on experiences of migrant sex workers, leading to subsequent training
 for a partner organisation.

 Specific support for ECRs
 Our definition of ECRs includes Research Associates, staff working towards a PhD and staff within
 five years of PhD completion. Staff who wish to transition into a research career are supported
 through workload allowance and a fee reduction to earn a PhD by Published Works. To support
 Research Associates’ engagement in professional development, they are provided with a
 minimum of 10 days per year for these activities. To provide peer support for the ECR community,
 there is a School-wide ECR group, led by ECRs themselves, with quarterly meetings and
 representation on the School Research and Enterprise Committee (SREC). A School-wide ECR
 mentorship scheme pairs ECRs with senior research staff and all Readers and Professors in
 SWSP act as formal mentors.

 A School-wide ECR competitive funding stream has been available to support project
 development, bidding, training or writing, and from central sources five ECRs from SWSP obtained
 VC’s Scholarships to assist them in developing research activities through provision of a small
 grant and additional research workload. School funding to support conference attendance is
 available annually for ECRs and mid-Career Researchers (eight years beyond PhD, but not yet
 Readers or Professors). Senior research staff cover these costs from their discretionary accounts.

 SWSP also aims to ensure continuity in funding across projects for research assistants and
 associates by providing short-term bridging funds while a new project begins. In this way, several
 research assistants were supported to earn a PhD and move on to postdoctoral appointments
 (e.g. Ackers-Johnson, Tate, Tyler).

 Ensuring an excellent postgraduate research experience

 We have increased the size of our PGR community through improvements to recruitment and new
 delivery models (objective 4, Section 1) and through increasing the size of our staff base and
 diversity of expertise. In addition, improved support for the student journey from both the Doctoral
 School and School has contributed to an increase in the proportion of students completing their

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 studies on time. Since 2014, due to an excellent level of support, 80% of full-time PGRs have
 completed their PhD within four years. All awards reported in REF4a were from a traditional PhD
 programme and there were no completions of research-based professional doctorates. As of
 2019/20 there are 28 active students in the cohort, indicating that we will maintain at least the
 same number of awards going forward.

 Supervisors must complete mandatory supervisor training with compliance monitored by SREC.
 Students are assigned a Supervisor and Co-Supervisor with whom they must meet at least
 monthly. They jointly design an initial Learning Agreement and each completes annual evaluations
 of progress, helping to identify any emerging difficulties. To encourage timely completion, students
 undergo a compulsory Interim Assessment at the end of their first year and an Internal Evaluation
 at the end of the second year. PGRs in SWSP have a workspace co-located with the research
 clusters and benefit from informal mentoring and guidance through regular conversations with
 academic staff.

 In addition to a three-month general induction programme organised by the Doctoral School,
 students attend an intensive one-week School induction. Students also participate in the Salford
 Postgraduate Research Training programme (SPoRT) (REF5a). The School also organises
 annual 3-day training sessions for PGRs in quantitative and qualitative research methods and
 SWSP researchers deliver at these sessions. Students are supported to attend specialist training
 offered by other institutions, for example, Langford (conversation analysis, Loughborough), Dinu
 (PGR conference and training, York).

 Internally opportunities exist for students to gain experience in presenting and discussing
 research. The School organises regular sessions on ‘Celebrating Research’ focusing on PGR
 projects and attended by students and staff. A similar objective is fulfilled by the Salford
 Postgraduate Annual Researcher Conference (SPARC) (REF5a). To broaden their exposure to
 research in the social sciences, PGRs are encouraged to attend all seminars/conferences
 organised by the CSHR or its research clusters.

 PGRs are encouraged to attend and present at national and international events and £320 per
 year is provided by the School to assist with costs such as conference attendance. Students have
 presented at the European Society of Criminology (Alruwaili, 2018), the International Conference
 on Social Responsibility, Ethics and Sustainable Business (Ebnmhana, 2017), the British
 Sociological Association (Hepworth, 2018) and have been invited to give presentations at the
 Universities of Cambridge (Alruwaili, 2018) and Manchester (Hussain, May 2020).

 There is an expectation that PGRs will contribute to the discipline and publish elements of their
 work before or soon after completion. During the assessment period, twelve PGRs (43% of the
 total) produced 45 publications (articles, chapters, monographs) up to two years after completion,
 some jointly authored with supervisors. Examples include: Ackers-Johnson (Health Policy and
 Planning), Day (Safer Communities), De Camargo (International Journal of Police Science and
 Management) and Tyler (BMJ Open).

 In order to support the post-PhD transition into a research career, PGRs are invited to work as
 research assistants on selected projects led by senior staff, gaining valuable additional experience
 in data collection, analysis and writing. Ackers-Johnson, Tate, Tyler and Welsh were assistants
 on projects led by Ahmed and Ackers; De Camargo worked with Birkbeck and Quraishi on the
 Manchester Intergenerational Networking Study and Dinu worked with Scullion on the Welfare
 Conditionality Project.

 Undertaking a PhD in SWSP is a route to multiple careers. Examples of students who successfully
 moved into academic posts include: Alruwaili (Princess Nourah Bint Abdulrahman University,
 Saudi Arabia), Arewa (CU Coventry), Day (Keele), Khan (Arden), Lucas (Stirling), Osman (Bolton),
 Owens (University of Southern California), Shajrawi (Applied Science University, Jordan).
 Examples of students moving into other professional roles include: Al-Shehhi (UEA police),


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ebnmhama (Ministry of Labour and Social Development, Saudi Arabia) and Welsh (Hannover
 Medical School, Germany).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income

 SWSP began the assessment period with five Salford-led projects already running with a total
 award amount (to Salford) of £439k. In this REF period we received 96 grants with a total income
 of £2.84m. This is a 54% increase on the £1.85m income reported in REF2014 and we have
 averaged £406k per year in this cycle compared to £370k per year previously. Our funding is
 predominantly from UK government sources (£1.33m; 47% of the total), UK charities (£795k; 28%
 of the total) and Research Councils (£384k; 14% of the total) and we have also successfully
 acquired £268k from EU schemes. Twelve projects continue into the next period, addressing
 immediate and emerging social issues: e.g. a project to address COVID-19 among refugee
 communities in northern Uganda (UKRI, £580k, Ackers Co-I) and a Britain-wide survey of youth
 victimisation and offending (Nuffield, £330k, Birkbeck, Hazel).

 Major Research Council funded projects include: Scullion (as Co-I) investigating welfare
 conditionality on a project led by York (also including Glasgow, Heriot-Watt and Sheffield Hallam),
 with a budget of £2.7m (£145k to Salford); Clark was the Salford partner on a £4m ESRC/NIHR
 (£145k to Salford) project to study neighbourhoods and dementia led by the University of
 Manchester and including five other universities, three care organisations and 14 project partners.

 We have undertaken major projects funded by charities that address issues in health, welfare and
 the criminal justice system:

     •   Following participation in the welfare conditionality project (2013-18), Scullion led an
         additional project (2017-19) and co-led another (2019-21) for the Forces in Mind Trust on
         welfare support for service leavers and is the lead for a UKRI-funded project on welfare
         during COVID-19 (2020-21). First findings from these projects were published in Social
         Policy and Administration and impact is detailed in REF3.

     •   Innes led a £300k project (Dowager Countess Eleanor Peel Trust) to support the Salford
         Institute for Dementia and Ageing (2014-18), subsequently receiving a further £200k from
         the same source (2018-20). With five UK and three international partners, she is now
         looking to secure funding to establish a Centre of Excellence at Salford to enable the study
         of dementia in everyday life.

     •   Hazel was co-investigator on a Big Lottery Fund project (2012-17) to assess and re-design
         the transition out of youth custody. This led to a project to design a diversion toolkit funded
         by Barrow Cadbury (2019) now being used by several youth offending teams. Conceptual
         advances have been published in the International Journal of Educational Development
         and the Youth Justice Journal, while impact is detailed in REF3.

     •   Quraishi was co-investigator on a project (2017-20) to study conversion to Islam in prison,
         funded by the Dawes Trust (£600k, £32k to Salford), whose main results will appear in a
         monograph contracted with Bristol University Press (2021). The next phase of the project
         (2021-26) will focus on designing religious education for Muslim prisoners, with a further
         £2.1m funded by Dawes (£167k to Salford).

 SWSP is committed to working with NGOs and local government on projects specifically designed
 by or for them and which fall within the group’s areas of expertise. Such projects increase the
 impact of our research, but there are additional benefits such as cementing linkages with specific,
 often local, organisations and using results to contribute to the knowledge base. For example:



                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Through the Salford Anti-Poverty Taskforce, Gibbons, Martin and Scullion conducted
        two projects (2018, 2019) for Salford City Council on private housing rentals and on young
        people not in education, employment or training.

    •   Rogers and Wilding produced an evaluation of the ‘Change Up’ Programme run by Social
        Sense (a social marketing agency in Salford) which focuses on early intervention with
        children involved in, or at risk of, domestic violence (2018). In addition to confirming prior
        research findings on the importance of a normative approach to prevention, the research
        led to specific recommendations and changes e.g. in the design of awareness activities
        with children.

    •   Building on his work on the resettlement of youth, Hazel led a study commissioned by the
        Salford Foundation to evaluate its ADAPT project (2014), aimed at getting young people
        into education and training.

    •   Kamerāde was co-lead on a study (from February 2020) of volunteering and wellbeing
        commissioned by the What Works Centre for Wellbeing, which conducted a rapid evidence
        review of the effects of volunteering on wellbeing, leading to numerous recommendations
        for practitioners and policymakers and the proposal of a new theory of change.

 Infrastructure and facilities

 The majority of SWSP researchers are located on one floor of the University’s Allerton Building,
 with dedicated individual offices or workspaces and three meeting spaces. PGRs are co-located
 on the same floor in a dedicated office with PCs and these physical arrangements greatly facilitate
 informal interactions, information exchange and the emergence of ideas for new projects or
 research activities. The Salford Institute for Dementia and Ageing and the associated Dementia
 Hub are located on the ground floor of the Allerton Building in spaces purposely designed, with
 funding from the Dowager Countess Eleanor Peel Trust, the Wolfson Foundation and the Garfield
 Weston Foundation, for people living with dementia and their carers. (Creation of the Salford
 Dementia Associate Panel and its contribution to research is described in Dementia 19[1], 2020).
 Finally, the School has a custom-designed vehicle which can be used for data collection (e.g.
 Connelly and Patel, supra) or showcasing projects and a simulation suite for projects using
 immersive technologies.

 The University Library has over 900,000 books (increasingly in electronic form) and subscribes to
 over 500 individual journal titles (around 80 in the social sciences) plus 13 e-journal collections
 containing a total of 9000+ journal titles. The Library also offers access to numerous databases,
 and those of particular importance to SWSP are: Social Care Online, Social Policy Digest, Child
 Development and Adolescent Studies, the Proquest Criminology Collection, Hansard Online,
 Eurostat, Web of Science, Westlaw UK, and the Research Methods Knowledge Base. Additionally,
 through SCONUL, Salford’s researchers are able to access other libraries in Manchester and the
 Northwest.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 SWSP’s significant contributions to both academic development and social change have resulted
 from a deliberate consideration of the most effective mechanisms to facilitate excellent research.
 We best describe our approach as a pathway from strategic networking with academics and
 involvement with end users, leading to collaborative knowledge production and resulting in
 significant social impact. Through this process we also contribute to the sustainability of the
 academic disciplines themselves. Examples of this pathway operating in practice are:

    •   Connelly’s study of the sex industry, which began with her doctoral thesis (Leeds, 2016).
        She has consolidated her academic network as a board member of the Sex Work
        Research Hub, has given five papers at academic meetings and has published with
        colleagues from Leeds and Salford (Kamerāde). Her co-authored publication in

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Sociological Research Online (2016) was runner-up for the Sage Prize for Innovation and
        Excellence. She has worked with National Ugly Mugs to study violence against sex
        workers (J. Interpersonal Violence), is collaborating with the English Collective of
        Prostitutes and has trained practitioners for the Basis Sex Work Project. She is currently
        seeking funding to research migrant sex work post-Brexit.

    •   Kamerāde, who connected with colleagues from Birmingham and 30 researchers in nine
        European countries to study volunteering and wellbeing (e.g., NVSQ, 2016; WES, 2018).
        Subsequently, she added collaborations with colleagues at the Universities of Cambridge,
        East Anglia, Leeds, Manchester and Sheffield, studying volunteering, the employment
        dosage and wellbeing (e.g., Social Science and Medicine, 2019; WES, 2020). Through this
        networking, she was invited to join the GM4women2028 coalition. She has contributed to
        recommendations and seminars for the National Council of Voluntary Organisations and
        her recent collaborative work on furloughs, reduced hours and mental health has been
        cited in Public Health England’s review of mental health during COVID-19.

    •   Quraishi, whose long-acknowledged expertise on Muslims, criminalisation and criminal
        justice was further consolidated through publications with colleagues in Malaysia and an
        invitation to join the international project on conversion to Islam in prison (Birkbeck, London
        and Fribourg). This is now completing its first stage with a second stage in place for 2021-
        2026 (see Section 3). He has been an invited speaker at, among others, the National
        University of Malaysia, the Radicalisation Awareness Network and the Centre for
        European Policy Studies (Brussels). He has also briefed the Muslim Council of Britain, the
        Labour Party and the Society of Evidence-Based Policing North on religious extremism in
        prison.

 Evidence of building effective networks

 Both reflecting and contributing to knowledge production and impact, networking has been a key
 dimension of SWSP’s research activity.

 Staff presented nearly 200 papers at academic society meetings and research seminars. Seventy
 were invited contributions, including: Birkbeck: International Seminar on Homicide, UCAB,
 Venezuela (2019); Clark: Seminar on Ageing, Disability and Inclusive Spaces, Université
 Bordeaux de Montaigne (2019); Ellis: Seminar Series ‘Gender, Violence and Antisocial
 Personalities’, University of Manchester (2016); Gibbons: Malmö University Institute for Urban
 Research (2019); Innes: 7th International Symposium Safety and Health in Agricultural and Rural
 Populations, University of Saskatchewan (2014); and Quraishi, Centre for Muslim-Christian
 Studies in Oxford (2017).

 Staff organised six academic panels or seminars on specialist topics: Ahmed: homelessness -
 Social Policy Association, 2018; Ellis: Public Criminology and the 2015 Election, British Society
 of Criminology Northwest, 2015; Death and Violence, British Sociological Association Violence
 and Society Study Group, 2019; Moore: Deviant Pleasure Markets and Digital Technologies:
 Drugs, Sex, Money, University of Salford, 2019; and Scullion: welfare conditionality - Ethics and
 Social Welfare Annual Conference, 2016; Social Policy Association, 2017.

 Researchers gave 142 presentations at events organised by professional and practitioner
 organisations. International organisations included: Alzheimer Europe and Alzheimer’s Disease
 International (Clark, Innes); European Forum for Restorative Justice (Parkinson); International
 Federation of Social Workers (Parkinson); and The North Sea Dementia Group (Innes). National
 organisations included: Age UK (Clark); Alzheimer’s Research UK (Ahmed, Clark, Innes,
 Wilding); Alzheimer’s Society (Clark, Innes); Department for Communities and Local
 Government (Clark); Healthcare Management Trust (Innes), Health Education England (Ackers),
 National Council for Voluntary Organisations (Kamerāde); Restorative Justice Council
 (Birkbeck); Royal United Services Institute (Moore); Social Policy Association (Scullion); and
 Trade Union Congress (Kamerāde).

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to membership in the main academic societies/associations (BSA, ESA, BSC, ESC,
 SPA, etc.), 15 staff were actively involved in 33 smaller specialist academic networks, such as:
 the European Academic Network on Romani Studies (Scullion); European Family Group
 Conferencing Network (Parkinson); Global Prisons Research Network (Quraishi); Interdem
 (dementia research) (Innes); Offender Health Research Network (Hazel, Lockwood); Rural
 Dementia Action Research (Innes); and the Theorising Underemployment Research Network
 (Kamerāde).

 Eleven staff were involved in 16 professional/practitioner groups, such as the Drug Markets
 Monitoring Network (Moore); Greater Manchester Ageing Hub (Ahmed, Clark); Knowledge for
 Change (Ackers, Ahmed); and the Youth Justice Academic Liaison Network (Hazel).

 Our reputation has attracted visiting international academics and practitioners. Ten scholars from
 Belgium, Canada, Finland, Malaysia, South Korea, Spain and the US made short- to medium-term
 visits to Salford, as did nearly 20 practitioners from Uganda (funded by Commonwealth
 Professional Fellowships or the Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene).

 Contributions to the sustainability and advancement of academic disciplines

 Four staff members held executive roles in professional associations: Social Policy Association
 (Ahmed, board member); Housing Studies Association (Brown, board member); British
 Sociological Association, Violence and Society Study Group (Ellis, convenor); British Sociological
 Association, Youth Study Group (Moore, co-convenor).

 Leadership and recognition are evident from our journal editorships. Staff have served on the
 editorial boards of 17 journals, including Social Policy and Society (Scullion) and The Sociological
 Review (Connelly, Whitaker). Connelly is assistant editor of Law and Sexuality; Gibbons is the
 editor of the Radical Housing Journal and co-editor of City; and Kamerāde is editor of Voluntary
 Sector Review. Birkbeck served as guest editor for Police Practice and Research, 17(4) 2016,
 and Patel for Social Sciences, 7(12) 2018.

 Staff have reviewed grant applications for the following funding agencies: Arts and Humanities
 Research Council (Ackers, Clark); Canadian Institutes for Health Research (Innes); Dunhill
 Medical Trust (Clark); ESRC (Ahmed, Clark, Innes, Kamerāde), including the Future Leaders
 Scheme (Ackers, Chair); European Cooperation in Science and Technology (COST) (Birkbeck);
 and the Forces in Mind Trust (Scullion).

 Eleven staff served in 73 advisory roles across a range of organisations. At international level
 Ackers is an expert for the WHO SORT IT programme in East Africa and Hazel advised the Abu
 Dhabi Police on a new juvenile detention facility. At national level Connelly advises the National
 Police Chief’s Council on policing modern slavery; Hazel is a member of the Youth Justice Board;
 Innes presented evidence to two Prime Minister’s Task and Finish Groups on dementia; Quraishi
 advised the Muslim Council of Britain on Islamic radicalisation in British prisons; and Scullion
 presented evidence to the Work and Pensions Select Committee on welfare reform. At local level:
 Ahmed, Brown and Innes advised several housing associations in Lancashire; and Gibbons,
 Martin and Scullion co-led the Salford Anti-Poverty Task Force.

 Collaborative knowledge production

 Academic partnerships were established with 21 UK and six international universities; designed
 to combine specialist knowledge and methodological skills in producing high quality research and,
 in some cases, extend the range of data collection. Clark (geography, visual methods) worked
 with colleagues from Manchester (mental health), Linköping (nursing) and Stirling (social science)
 on neighbourhoods and dementia; Ackers (social policy) worked with colleagues from Manchester
 (health psychology, medical education) and Maastricht to study international volunteering in health
 care professionals’ development; and Lockwood (criminology) worked with a colleague from
 Huddersfield (social work) to study the impact of parents’ imprisonment on their children.

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Partnerships to secure funding were also established with 22 non-academic organisations on 27
 projects to combine researcher and practitioner expertise in designing and producing high quality
 contributions to knowledge. For example, Hazel was co-senior researcher on the ‘Beyond Youth
 Custody’ project led by NACRO; Brown and Martin joined a study led by Leeds City Council on
 refugee integration in Yorkshire and The Humber funded by the EU Asylum Migration and
 Integration Fund; and Gibbons worked on an evaluation of social prescribing led by Salford
 Community and Voluntary Services with funding from the Greater Manchester Health and Social
 Care Partnership.

 In addition to collaborations on funding, there has been a significant amount of collaboration
 leading to high quality written outputs (see REF2). At international level these included: youth
 crime (Universidad de Los Andes, Venezuela; UNED, Spain) (Birkbeck); ‘stag tourism’
 (Universidad Europea, Spain) (Ellis); dementia (University of Saskatchewan, Canada) (Innes);
 family group conferencing (KU Leuven) (Parkinson); crime and criminal justice in Malaysia
 (National University of Malaysia) (Quraishi); policy development in South Korea (International
 University of Japan; and in South Korea: Chung-Ang University, Dongguk University, Hangkuk
 University, The Catholic University of Korea, and The Seoul Institute) (Wilding). At national level
 these included: sex workers (Leeds) (Connelly, Kamerāde); community hospitals (Birmingham)
 (Kamerāde); an eight-hour working week (Cambridge) (Kamerāde); feminist narrative research
 and mothering in prison (Huddersfield) (Lockwood); and qualitative research (Cardiff) (Whitaker).

 Wider impact from research

 Twenty-seven projects had non-academic partner organisations and an additional 57 projects
 involved topics identified and funded by stakeholders (national/local government and NGOs).
 Results from 85% of all projects were directly channelled to one or more end users, and many of
 the remaining projects informed presentations and advice to professional/practitioner
 organisations. Examples of key impacts from research during the assessment period include:

    •   Adoption, by Health Education England, the Scottish Government and the Ugandan
        Ministry of Health, of principles for sustainable and ethical international volunteering by
        doctors and healthcare workers (Ackers). Through Knowledge for Change and Health
        Education Northwest more than 80 professionals and 350 students have been deployed
        with partners in Uganda, contributing to marked reductions in inappropriate referrals and
        absenteeism (significant causes of infection, illness and mortality).

    •   Adoption, by the Ministry of Justice and the Youth Justice Board, of the ‘constructive
        resettlement’ (CR) model for young offenders, leading to changes in the work of Youth
        Offending Teams around the country and use of the CR toolkit (Hazel). These
        developments have improved aftercare arrangements for more than 60,000 young
        offenders (REF3).

    •   Recommendations on social security policy directly influenced the Australian, UK and
        Welsh governments and the OECD (Scullion). In the UK, they led to a reduction in the
        waiting period for Universal Credit (UC) first payment (from 6+ weeks to 5 weeks) and
        improvements to the sanctions regime for millions of claimants. Recommendations
        regarding military veterans led to a £5m investment for the Department of Work and
        Pensions to fund 100 new Armed Forces Champions and supported the UK’s first ever
        Veterans’ Strategy (REF3).

    •   The Salford Institute for Dementia and Ageing opened a Dementia Hub, serving hundreds
        of people living with dementia and their carers through social activities (Innes). Within this,
        the Dementia Associate Panel enables an ongoing sense of citizenship through
        contribution to research (c.10 further studies) and education initiatives (c. 20 contributions).
        The Sensory Palaces project (Innes), with the Royal Historical Society, made
        recommendations on the promotion of community-level inclusion for people living with
        dementia, which have been adopted at other heritage sites.

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Research for NHS Glasgow on families affected by the criminal justice system led to the
        commissioning, development and delivery of more in-depth training for health
        professionals to support children and young people with a parent in the justice system,
        including the design of a new tool to support this (Lockwood).

    •   Development of an evidence-based approach to returning empty homes to use led to 541
        homes being recovered across Greater Manchester (equivalent to £3.7m in new builds)
        (Scullion).

 Unit members maintain an active and growing profile in the media. Their work has been
 showcased on the BBC World Service (Kamerāde), BBC Radio 4 (Ellis), 5 Live (Innes), local
 radio stations (Clark, Kamerāde, Moore), Channel 4 (Ellis), ITV/ITN (Clark, Moore, Scullion),
 national newspapers including The Guardian (Ellis) and The Independent (Connelly), local
 newspapers (Clark, Patel) and websites such as The Conversation (Ahmed, Gibbons,
 Kamerāde, Moore, Scullion). A notable example was Kamerāde et al.’s 2019 article on shorter
 working weeks and mental health (Social Science and Medicine), which was covered by more
 than 350 media outlets in the UK, USA, China, France, Germany and elsewhere.




                                                                                       Page 15
