Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: The Open University

 Unit of Assessment: D33 Music

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Departmental context
 Since REF2014 the Music Department has expanded its intellectual breadth by recruiting staff in
 new areas and further developing research collaborations. Staffing FTE has increased by c.35%
 and postgraduate research student (PGRS) completions by 50%. Staff and PGRS research is
 carried out within a highly supportive and collaborative environment.

 Open University (OU) Music is submitting 14.4 FTE (16 staff) to REF2021 compared with 10.6
 FTE (12 staff) in 2014. In 2014 our research specialisms included historical musicology, music
 analysis, editing, performance practice, film music, ethnomusicology, popular music, acoustical
 research, and organology. University investment has funded expansion into sound studies,
 feminist musicology, music technology and composition, laying the groundwork for future
 innovative collaboration and PGRS recruitment across disciplines and sub-disciplines. All
 submitted staff belong to the Music Department, which is situated within the School of Arts and
 Humanities in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, except for Sharp, an instrument
 acoustics specialist based in the Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM)
 Faculty. Emeritus professors Burrows and Herbert remain highly active in collaborative
 research projects and PGRS supervision. Music staff are dispersed around England, Scotland
 and Wales, and engage in local research in all four nations of the UK as well as in international
 projects.

 Music’s distinctive research culture is characterised by collaboration, evidenced in the design of
 several research projects as well as in the processes by which we support staff. This
 collaborative approach is a natural correlate to OU teaching methods, to which the collective
 authorship of teaching materials is central. A collegial approach to staff management and
 development underpins the allocation of time, financial resources and support for career
 advancement:
     • financial assistance has been targeted at junior researchers and those with less available
        research time
     • constructive peer review supports the production of outputs and grant applications for
        both experienced and inexperienced researchers
     • the proactive development of staff has led to nearly half of the Music Department being
        promoted since REF2014.

 1.2 Progress on 2014 research plans
 We have successfully achieved the strategic aims set out in the Music REF2014 submission,
 which were to:
     • Maximise the potential of ideas and the sharing of resources by focussing on
        collaborative research projects with members of the University and external
        individuals, agencies and institutions
     • Facilitate expansion, focus and momentum by pursuing large-scale external research
        funding
     • Enhance our research training culture by integrating staff research with PGRS
        recruitment
     • Where possible and appropriate, strengthen the part Digital Humanities plays in
        research projects
     • Embed impact further within our research culture.

 Details of progress in these areas follows.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.1 Internal research collaborations
 Collaborations between staff within the Department and across the University have flourished.
 Burrows’s and Coffey’s monumental Handel Documents project with independent scholars
 Anthony Hicks and John Greenacombe, founded in 2007 and funded by the AHRC, the Handel
 Institute and the Winton Dean Fund, is nearing completion. The Acoustics Research Group,
 founded c.40 years ago and now directed by Sharp, and the Literature and Music Research
 Group, founded by Samuels in 2008, continue. In 2014 Coffey founded the Early Modern
 Research Group, which now involves Barker and c.30 colleagues from three other OU arts
 disciplines. A collaboration with the University’s Knowledge Media Institute (KMi) has been
 central to the AHRC-funded Listening Experience Database (LED) and Horizon 2020 Polifonia
 projects (see 1.2.2.) and is enabling Williams to develop further an open-access online
 database of Stockhausen concerts, 1950–1972. Barlow, Clarke and Herbert are collaborating
 on a history of Welsh music for Cambridge University Press. PGRS have been co-supervised
 with colleagues in Art History, Education, Philosophy, Religious Studies, Sociology and
 Statistics.

 1.2.2 Collaboration with external agencies and institutions
 OU Music researchers have led or substantially contributed to successful external
 collaborations. The LED project (PI Rowland, Co-Is Clarke, Moohan, Herbert, Research
 Associate Barlow) included UK collaborators at the Royal College of Music and Glasgow
 University and international collaborators at the National University of Ireland, Galway.
 Collaborative outputs include two sets of freely available online conference proceedings and a
 Nineteenth-Century Music Review special journal issue. Moohan (OU in Scotland) runs a Royal
 Society of Edinburgh-funded Cultural History of Glasgow Research Network which involves
 external colleagues in art history, church history, creative writing, social history, literature and
 local history from the universities of Glasgow and Strathclyde, Glasgow’s museums, church
 archives and the city’s Parks Department. Thompson leads an AHRC project, Tinnitus, Auditory
 Knowledge and the Arts, with staff from Oxford Brookes University, members of the British
 Tinnitus Association and the Oxfordshire Visual Arts Development Agency. Sharp’s research in
 acoustics has produced collaborations with woodwind manufacturers, professional musicians
 and institutions including the Royal College of Music, Oxford Brookes University and IRCAM
 (Paris). A multi-institution European grant, ‘Polifonia’ (Co-Is Barker, Barlow and Herbert), is
 funding 11 universities, institutes and other institutions in France, Ireland, Italy and the
 Netherlands to develop open access tools and methods for the discovery, integration and
 exploitation of European musical heritage resources on the web. Further external collaborations
 are discussed in Section 4.1.

 1.2.3 External funding
 During the assessment period all but two members of Music staff received external funding
 totalling £1,147,776 in research income to the university. Research momentum in the Music
 Department has benefitted from a supportive and inclusive culture of grant acquisition enabled
 by rigorous peer review (see 2.3) in which less experienced researchers gain experience of
 modest bidding before targeting larger grants (see 3.1).

 1.2.4 Integration of research themes with PGRS recruitment
 PGRS activity has intensified in this assessment period, and there is now closer alignment of
 staff and student interests. The growth in PGRS numbers can be attributed in part to our taught
 Masters qualification (fully online, with c.80-100 students annually) which is shaped by OU staff
 research interests and approaches.

 1.2.5 Strengthen our role in Digital humanities (DH)
 Herbert’s Minter Database of seventeenth- and eighteenth-century trumpet repertoire continues
 to be a foundational resource for international research and during this REF period KMi (see
 1.2.1, 1.2.2) has worked with Music colleagues to develop further databases using increasingly
 sophisticated technology. KMi used linked data to create the database of listening experiences
 for the LED project and then developed innovative search methods to locate accounts of
 listening in digitized books. These accounts had previously been sought out using time-

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 consuming and often unproductive online word searches, but KMi’s new methods have been
 much more successful at locating documentary evidence of listening. The methods can also be
 deployed with productive results in other humanities contexts and several peer-reviewed
 publications on digital methods have resulted from the work. KMi’s research has proved
 foundational for the Polifonia project, which aims to develop a digital ecosystem for European
 Musical Heritage in which music objects will be set within their cultural and historical context
 using linked date technology. KMi is also working with Williams to transform his Stockhausen
 concerts database with linked-data technology. DH methods have also been fundamental to the
 development of non-book elements in a PhD submission (see 2.5).

 1.2.6 Impact
 The Music Department’s impact strategy has built on the themes articulated in REF2014, with
 the main beneficiaries of our research identified as:
           a) performers
           b) musical instrument manufacturers
           c) curators, librarians and archivists
           d) television and radio producers
           e) educators, especially university, school and instrumental teachers
           f) health and wellbeing practitioners.
 The examples below show how staff research has impacted on these groups.

 a) Performers: Staff at the OU have a longstanding commitment to producing scholarly music
 editions. Editions by Burrows have been important for performances in venues worldwide as
 reflected in impact case studies in REF2014 and the current exercise (Case Study 1). Moohan’s
 first comprehensive edition of the music of Robert Johnson (c.1500-c.1560), much of which has
 been unavailable hitherto, is being used in the UK and North America for first modern
 performances, some of which the OU has supported financially with a view to increasing public
 understanding of a composer significant in Scottish and English culture. Rowland has
 completed an edition (not yet published) of Chopin’s rondos for Edition Peters, publishers of the
 latest authoritative edition of the composer’s works.

 OU research on performance history continues to inform performers worldwide, as illustrated in
 Herbert’s work on brass instruments, which has impacted on performers in the UK and the US
 (Case Study 2). Williams has promoted greater public understanding of early electronic
 instruments and their development through his work with museums. His reconstructions of
 works, particularly by Stockhausen, on restored electronic instruments have informed their
 performance in the UK, Europe and North America. Rowland’s current research on the
 interpretation of piano notation will be of significance to both professional and amateur pianists.

 b) Musical instrument manufacturers: Herbert’s research has informed the reconstruction of
 historical brass instruments in Switzerland (Case Study 2). Williams’s reconstructions of works
 on restored electronic instruments has informed the manufacture of reproductions in Paris for
 the instrument maker Westfinga, which makes instruments that recreate King Tubby’s sound
 (over 100 units have been made) and the production of a plug-in for the web-based firm
 Acustica. Sharp’s research on woodwind instrument design informs the manufacturers Howarth
 in London.

 c) Curators, librarians and archivists: Both impact case studies for REF2021 demonstrate our
 close relationship with colleagues in the heritage sector. The University has recently invested
 significantly to enable the findings of Burrows’s and Coffey’s Handel Documents project (Case
 Study 1) to inform public awareness of the composer’s life and music by producing short films
 about Handel’s activities in London and historically informed performances at the Foundling
 Museum. The project has also informed the work of curators in the UK and Germany. Similarly,
 Herbert’s research on brass instruments has shaped the work of curators in Belgium and
 Switzerland (Case Study 2). Williams works closely on electronic instruments with curators at
 the Science Museum, London, the National Media Museum, Bradford and St Cecilia’s Hall and
 Music Museum, Edinburgh (see 4.1).

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 d) Television and radio producers: The OU’s partnership with the BBC is the only such
 partnership the BBC maintains (Institutional Environment Statement (IES) 2.2). OU staff serve
 as nominated academics (a role that is distinct from invited media consultancies) to provide
 sustained input into the design and production process. Barlow was the nominated academic for
 the BBC World Service series The Music of Time (2017 – 6 million listeners), exploring how
 music gains meaning in and from cultural, political and economic contexts. Williams, Samuels
 and Kolassa were nominated academics for the BBC radio series A History of Music and
 Technology (2019 – 13.59m listeners). Sharp was the nominated academic for the BBC series
 Sound Waves (2017 – 1.34m viewers). To supplement these programmes, staff members
 produced learning materials for the OU’s OpenLearn website, an open-access repository of
 educational materials consulted annually by over 12m users (see IES 2.1).

 e) Educators: The two REF 2021 impact case studies describe the use of OU Music’s research
 by university, college, school and instrumental teachers in the UK and abroad. Members of the
 Department are also developing educational materials for A-Level music teachers (available on
 the Department website) which derive from our research publications and relate directly to the
 current Pearson, AQA and OCR A-level syllabi. Hamer’s research prompted her engagement as
 a consultant by Pearson Edexcel when they redesigned their A-level syllabus in 2015 to
 incorporate works by women composers.

 f) Health and wellbeing practitioners: Thompson’s AHRC Tinnitus project (1.2.2) is developing
 tools and resources for the British Tinnitus Association’s support groups. Through the
 development of an art exhibition in partnership with the Oxfordshire Visual Arts Development
 Agency that centres questions about aural diversity and hearing disabilities, it will contribute to
 the Agency’s policies and best practices. Golding, who works on British mental institutions in
 the nineteenth century, is currently working with a singer to develop approaches to impact based
 on her research.

 1.3 Open resource environment
 The Music Department has produced several contributions to the University’s OpenLearn site
 (IES Section 2.1), such as the freely available Introduction to Music Research and material to
 accompany BBC series (above, 1.2.6 (d)). Other specialist open resources include the three
 databases described in Section 1.2.5: Herbert’s database of trumpet repertoire, the LED
 database and Williams’s Stockhausen concerts database. The LED project has also published
 in open access format two volumes of peer-reviewed conference proceedings, supported by
 RCUK Research and Innovation funds, following involvement in the AHRC-funded Academic
 Book of the Future project (hosted at UCL). Coffey has contributed online essays to the
 University of Vienna’s public resource Musikleben des Spätmittelalters in der Region Österreich
 (a project funded by the Austrian Science Foundation). Moohan’s Cultural History of Glasgow
 Research Network project website contains a set of short toolkits for family and local historians
 to help less-experienced researchers understand the nature of different archival materials and
 their utility for research.

 1.4 Research and Impact for the next 5 years
 Building on the work of the current assessment period we will:
     • Further develop the Music Department’s supportive and collaborative research culture
        (see Section 2)
     • Strengthen internal and external collaborative research across disciplinary and sub-
        disciplinary boundaries
     • Grow research leadership both in collaborations and on national and international
        research bodies and associations
     • Increase grant capture to enable and expand research
     • Pursue impact in all areas of research, particularly in the six areas outlined in 1.2.6
     • Extend the support offered to PGRS in respect of the personal challenges they face and
        their distinctive skills development needs (see 2.5).


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.5 Research Integrity
 The Music Department is committed to the University’s policies on research integrity, including
 the principles outlined in the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the ethics and PGRS
 supervision policies described in the IES (2.4). Staff and PGRS who conduct ethnographic
 research also follow the ethics guidelines of relevant subject associations. As a member of the
 Committee of the British Forum for Ethnomusicology (BFE), Dueck helped review that body’s
 ethics statement and led the adoption of a statement of inclusion and a conference code of
 conduct.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing composition and strategy
 The OU Music Department comprises 15 staff (11 at REF2014): 7 female and 8 male. There is
 one professor, 8 senior lecturers and 6 lecturers (including two early career researchers
 (ECRs)), spread across the age spectrum. During this assessment period four members of staff
 have retired or moved to another institution. Professors Herbert and Burrows retired in 2013
 and 2015 respectively, but have subsequently been involved in major OU research projects as
 emeritus staff (Herbert the LED and Polifonia projects and Burrows the Handel Documents
 project), supervising research students and contributing to our research culture by their active
 presence at research seminars. Richards retired in 2019. Tackley moved to the University of
 Liverpool in 2016, having been promoted to a chair at the OU.

 The Music Department’s staffing strategy has been to:
     • expand research and curriculum breadth by appointing new staff
     • appoint staff at a junior level, whether replacing senior staff or expanding into new areas
     • increase individuals’ contract hours and make staff permanent wherever possible
     • maximise the research potential of all staff and develop them towards promotion.

 This strategy has been implemented successfully. Since 1 August 2013, 6 new staff have been
 appointed, all at lecturer level: Clarke (2014), Dooley (2020), Hamer (2018), Kolassa (2018),
 Thompson (2020) and Williams (2017). Their expertise spans composition, historical
 musicology, music technology, sound studies, and women’s studies. Staff who were employed
 initially on fractional, temporary, or teaching-only contracts have had their hours increased and
 made permanent, as follows:
      • Barker, on a succession of teaching-only contracts from 2012, was made full-time and
           permanent on a teaching/research contract in 2016
      • Clarke was appointed to a fixed-term 0.4 teaching/research contract in 2014 and was
           made full-time and permanent in 2016
      • Coffey, on a temporary lectureship from 2012, was made permanent in 2015
      • Williams was appointed to a 0.5 fixed-term teaching/research contract in 2017 and was
           made full time and permanent in September 2020
      • Hamer was appointed to a fixed-term, full-time, contract in 2018, made permanent at 0.6
           in 2019 (with 0.4 continuing fixed-term) and then full-time and permanent in 2020.

 Staff research potential has been realised through mentoring and financial support. The
 Department has allocated research time equitably (including for staff tutors, who have less
 contractual research time than others – see IES 1.2, and 2.3 below), supporting the production
 of outputs and the acquisition of grants irrespective of staff status and seniority. Success in
 developing individuals’ research is evidenced by 7 promotions to senior lecturer on the basis of
 their teaching and research record: Barker, Clarke, Coffey, Dueck, Winters and staff tutors
 Golding and Moohan. Criteria and processes set down by the University govern promotion and
 the four promotion tracks are described in the IES (3.1).

 Our strategy for staff appointments and development will remain in place for the next 5 years
 except that we aim to consolidate, rather than expand further, the Music Department’s number of
 sub-disciplines.


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.2 Recruitment, probation, appraisal, contractual research time and training
 University policies and procedures for staffing are set out in the IES (3.1). All staff are recruited
 according to the University’s fair selection policies and processes. The Head of Department
 oversees mandatory probation, annual appraisal and the University’s academic workload
 planning system to ensure that teaching and research development needs are addressed, and
 coordinated workload planning undertaken. A contractual minimum of 79 days per annum (less
 for staff tutors) is set aside for research, and since there are no University terms at the OU staff
 can take blocks of research leave at any time of the year. This meant, for example, that Dueck
 was able to take leave from his duties as head of discipline to conduct five periods of
 ethnographic fieldwork outside of the UK between 2017 and 2019. Extensive facilities are
 available to meet staff development needs, including media and IT training relevant to research
 dissemination and impact.

 2.3 Staff development culture
 In addition to the University’s support for researchers (including ECRs - IES 3.2 and 3.3) the
 Music Department’s strong collaborative research culture develops staff in a variety of ways. An
 annual research review for each member of staff takes place with the Department’s research
 leads (currently Rowland and Coffey) and feeds into appraisal. During the review, publication
 and conference plans, grant applications, public engagement and impact activities are
 discussed. Detailed conversations include, for example, project prioritisation, which journals and
 funders to target, how to balance time between outputs and impact activities, conferences and
 networking. These conversations are followed up informally throughout the year, supported by
 face-to-face and online research events at which Department members present and discuss
 their work.

 All departmental grant applications are scrutinised thoroughly for feasibility and rigour through a
 peer-review process undertaken by the two research leads with others in Music and in other
 disciplines as necessary. Similarly, it is common for outputs by both senior and junior staff to be
 reviewed prior to submission in order to ensure research excellence. In addition, new and
 inexperienced staff are assigned a research mentor, whose advice and guidance covering the
 full range of research activities can be called upon at any time.

 A priority for the University’s strategic research investment in the Department (£185,000 – see
 3.2) has been the development of staff tutors and less experienced researchers. For example,
 Moohan (staff tutor) was bought out of teaching and administrative duties to complete her
 edition of Johnson’s music, for which performances, music typesetting and publisher costs were
 also funded. Barker was bought out of teaching responsibilities and funded for research trips to
 Italian archives and Williams was funded for research trips to Germany. Conferences organised
 by Hamer (staff tutor) and Kolassa (ECR) were funded or under-written.

 2.4 Supporting impact
 Since 2017 a Music Impact Officer (0.4) has been employed with University investment funds
 who has supported staff on 7 impact projects (see 3.3) and has significantly broadened the
 Department’s impact activities by establishing relationships with non-academic organisations
 and beneficiaries. The Officer is managed by Coffey, the Department Impact Lead, who has
 completed internal and external impact training and who advises staff on impact associated with
 their research projects. Coffey is supported by Rowland, one of the Faculty’s two impact leads.
 Impact plans for every member of the Music Department are discussed in detail during annual
 research reviews and at Department workshops and away-days.

 2.5 Postgraduate Research Students
 Since 1 August 2013, 15 PGRS whose lead supervision took place within the Music Department
 have graduated (compared with 10 in REF2014), including two from overseas. Three more
 PGRS primarily supervised by Sharp in the STEM Faculty were awarded PhDs. A further four
 students co-supervised in Music who completed in the period had lead supervisors in


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Computing, Education, Religious Studies and Sociology. In the 2019 Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey, the OU was ranked fifth out of 103 HEIs for overall PGRS satisfaction.

 PGRS activity is supported by a Music Postgraduate Convener (formerly Coffey, currently
 Barlow) who oversees recruitment, supervision, training, support and examination. The
 Convener ensures that procedures laid out in the University’s Research Degrees Handbook are
 followed, including requirements for fair selection, dual supervision (minimum 10 supervisions
 per annum for full-time and five for part-time students), probation (literature review, project plan,
 presentation and viva), six-monthly progress reporting, and examination by an independent
 panel. Access to a range of resources for skills development is provided through the OU
 Graduate School’s web portal, ensuring parity of experience to all OU students irrespective of
 their physical location. Face-to-face and online careers services provide personalised advice
 and all PGRS can apply to shadow academics and ALs on module teams. Full-time students are
 allocated workspace, a computer and IT assistance as well as funding of up to £1000 per year
 for research expenses. Part-time students are given IT assistance and allocated £500 a year.
 (See IES Section 3.4 for further details of the University’s PGRS provision.) The Faculty
 provides student mentors and tutorial support, and a Director of Research Degrees chairs
 regular meetings of postgraduate conveners to ensure that good practice is shared across
 departments.

 From 2013 to 2019 the OU was part of the AHRC Consortium for Humanities and the Arts
 South-East England (CHASE) DTP1, through which 5 OU doctoral music students have been
 funded. Since 2019 the University has been a member of the AHRC DTP2 OOC consortium with
 Oxford and Cambridge universities. Both partnerships have significantly augmented the training
 opportunities provided to PGRS.

 Students’ research has been aligned increasingly with the expertise of OU academic staff (see
 1.2.4) and represents the breadth of the Department’s research. Cross-departmental research
 has been promoted and the Department has recently agreed to include practice-based elements
 in PhD study, following the appointment of new staff in relevant areas. PhDs with other non-book
 components are encouraged: in 2017 an AHRC-funded OU student based at the National
 Library of Wales produced as part of his thesis a database with hyperlinks and geographical
 mapping to examine the context of Welsh traditional music.

 The OU’s distinctive mission (IES 1.1) requires it to cater for the needs of all types of student,
 irrespective of background, age and disadvantage. (For example, the OU currently has c.30,000
 students who declare a disability.) Consequently, music PGRS vary in age from their 20s to their
 70s and most study part-time, because their life circumstances do not permit full-time study.
 They are widely dispersed, both around the UK and in places as far away as Poland, Italy and
 North America. Many OU Music PGRS study for their degrees following several decades’
 absence from formal education and many have first degrees in subjects other than music (for
 example, engineering and mathematics). These diverse backgrounds provide the PGRS
 community with an unusually rich and wide range of knowledge and experience, but also
 distinctive life and skills challenges.

 Meeting these challenges is a priority which we address through especially robust supervisory
 support and training, as follows:
    • Personally tailored supervision at the OU, in other venues such as the British Library, or
        via email and online
    • Skills training sessions in, for example, research methodologies, writing conference
        proposals, presenting conference papers, receiving peer review and viva preparation
    • Interactions with other part-time and full-time students as well as Department members
        and Masters students at biannual research days at which there are opportunities to give
        papers
    • Automatic access to the online research training materials that comprise the taught
        Music MA
    • Encouragement to use their OU funding to attend archives and conferences.

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department has also organised large-scale events, notably the British Forum for
 Ethnomusicology (BFE) - Royal Musical Association (RMA) research students’ conference in
 January 2020, which was held on the Milton Keynes campus with around 150 attendees and
 which enabled OU PGRS to engage with their peers, give conference papers and gain
 experience in conference organisation and administration.

 The department supports its students following completion by awarding visiting academic status
 to some, principally to support publishing projects through continuing Library access, IT facilities
 and email, involvement in the departmental research culture, and personal advice. Research by
 the current 3 visitors spans music and statistical methods, sixteenth-century English chamber
 organs, and cyborg music (music and philosophy). Around half of former Music PGRS have
 been successfully supported in producing academic publications.

 2.6 Equality and diversity
 The Music Department implements fully the University’s policies and practices intended to
 achieve equality for all staff and research students (IES 3.5). Since REF2014 both women and
 men from the Music Department have been appointed to leadership roles, including male and
 female Heads of Department and male and female roles within the School (Clarke as Director of
 Teaching and Coffey as Director of Research). There are both male and female research leads
 within the Department.

 The OU scrupulously applies fair selection processes for those of protected characteristics
 during the job application process, including (successfully in a recent recruitment round)
 interviewing candidates remotely. A confidential, University-wide process enables staff to
 declare a disability. Three members of current staff have done so and, following full investigation
 and discussion, adjustments to working practices have been offered. All have been able to carry
 out research in an equivalent way to others by producing scholarly outputs, presenting
 conference papers and invited talks, winning research grants, supervising PGRS and entering
 fully into the Department’s research culture.

 The dispersed nature of our staff and research student community underlines the importance of
 the range of University measures for facilitating remote working, which are environmentally
 friendly, promote well-being and have been of great benefit during the COVID-19 crisis. It is
 commonly accepted that Music meetings can be attended remotely using University-approved
 software; those with caring responsibilities regularly use these facilities, as do those with
 temporary workload pressures. Department meetings are scheduled where possible to
 accommodate part-time workers and to avoid travel during rush hours. Adequate meeting breaks
 are scheduled in campus-based meetings. During the pandemic, the flexible approach to remote
 working intensified, ensuring continuity of work, not least for those with home-schooling and
 additional caring responsibilities. Additional weekly virtual coffee mornings and informal ‘drop-
 ins’ with the HoD have also been organised to enable socialising and additional personal
 support.

 Changing working patterns arising from personal circumstances are accommodated as, for
 example, when a member of the Department moved to 0.4 FTE for childcare reasons following
 support and consultation after a period of leave. Working patterns within the Department are
 also routinely adjusted to accommodate research leave, attendance at conferences and other
 research events.

 The University recognises that part-time employees can be overlooked during promotion
 discussions and action has been taken to ensure that this has not occurred in Music.
 Consequently, one part-time member of Music staff has achieved promotion to senior lecturer
 and another (who subsequently moved institutions) was promoted to a chair during the
 assessment period. Fixed-term staff and staff tutors receive the same research privileges as
 other staff members and particular care has been taken to ensure that their research is given
 equal priority to others both in respect of funding and time management.


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 An exceptional level of support and care is provided for the diverse PGRS community. In this
 period a student with modest first-degree results had two periods of leave because of open-heart
 surgery, but completed her PhD having in the meantime published some of her work in refereed
 journals. Another PhD student who took a break for health reasons wrote ‘I am really thankful for
 your support over the last couple years … you've offered me exceptional academic and pastoral
 support, which appears to far outstrip any of the supervision experiences of my peers, for which
 I'm deeply grateful.’

 2.7 REF2021 Preparations
 The OU’s music submission was prepared by four members of the UoA (two male, two female)
 who were appointed according to processes set out in the University’s REF Code of Practice
 and who received the required Equality and Diversity training. One member of the panel has a
 declared disability.

 In accordance with the Code of Practice all individuals within the potential submission pool were
 assessed for submission according to the level of their responsibility for research and their
 research independence: all academic members of the Department have been submitted. The
 panel selected outputs on the basis of dual readings of each submitted item and in consultation
 with an external adviser (a former REF subpanel chair). All those submitted have been consulted
 on the text of this Environment Narrative. Following the University’s confidential invitation to
 submit individual circumstances to determine any reduction in the overall output submission
 pool, the cases of three staff were approved, but no reduction has been claimed.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 External research income
 In the current assessment period total grant income was £1,147,776 (comparable with the return
 for REF2014) and from 2015/16 to 2018/19 (years for which HESA data is available) the OU was
 consistently within the top 22 institutions for music grant funding, and mostly within the top 15.

 Major grants (award values) in this period include:
     • £1,539,001 (two AHRC grants) for the Listening Experience Database (LED) Project (PI
          Rowland, with Barlow, Clarke and Moohan)
     • £76,432 (various funders) for Burrows’s and Coffey’s Handel Documents project
     • £44,413 for Samuels’s Leverhulme Symphony and Novel project
     • £19,929 for Moohan’s Cultural History of Glasgow network (The Royal Society of
          Edinburgh).
 Thompson joined the Department in 2020 with an AHRC grant of £100,225 for her Tinnitus
 project and €3 million of Horizon 2020 funding was recently awarded for the Polifonia project
 (worth €484,936 to the OU; Co-Is Barker, Barlow and Herbert) (see 1.2.2). In March 2019
 Coffey was awarded £54,814 Leverhulme funding for her project Music and Empire but was
 unable to commence the work during the assessment period because of COVID-related travel
 restrictions.

 Most other members of the Department have received smaller grants for archive visits or
 conference organisation including Barker (2), Coffey (3) and Hamer (2). Grant awarding bodies
 in addition to those listed above are The British Academy, the Handel Institute, the Institute of
 Musical Research, Music & Letters, the Royal Musical Association, the Society for Renaissance
 Studies, the Wellcome Trust and the Winton Dean Fund.

 The Music Department’s strategy is to focus on grant capture as a means of enabling and
 expanding research. LED funding enabled the establishment of an entirely new collaborative
 research project; funding for the Handel Documents project provided employment for four
 specialist research assistants, archival visits and the means to obtain document copies;
 Leverhulme Fellowships provide time for researchers to complete monographs; Moohan’s
 funding enabled the founding of a new network with colleagues in the university and heritage
 sectors; and other smaller amounts have supported travel to conduct research and for the

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 organisation of conferences. All but two members of the Music Department succeeded in
 obtaining external funding in this period and we continue to facilitate all Department members to
 bid, encouraging less experienced researchers to apply for more modest funding prior to
 submitting larger bids.

 Departmental advice and peer review for grants is described in Section 2.3. Essential
 administrative support provided at Faculty and University level includes:
    • information and guidance on awarding bodies, success rates and bidding opportunities
    • coordination and capacity planning for bidding support
    • advice and guidance on costings, ethical and contractual elements of grant applications
    • management and guidance for current grants, ensuring proper financial planning and
        probity.

 3.2 Internal research funding
 Internal research funding of c.£265,000 has been allocated from a variety of sources, including:
      • £185,000 University strategic investment
      • £16,655 Faculty strategic investment
      • £7877 UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) Block Grant administered by the University
      • £6,450 Faculty support for the Medieval and Early Modern Research Group
      • smaller amounts of Faculty funding for personal research (conference attendance,
          archival visits, etc) totalling c.£50,000.

 University strategic funding has been used to extend the contract of a full-time, temporary ECR
 (Kolassa), to buy out a staff tutor (Moohan) and another junior researcher (Barker) from
 teaching and administrative duties for periods of research, and to fund the 0.4 Impact Officer. It
 has also funded conference and seminar organisation (especially by junior researchers, in order
 to widen their networks and influence), impact activities, research travel and other smaller-scale
 expenditure largely targeted towards junior researchers and staff tutors (2.3, 2.4). UKRI Block
 grant funding enabled the open-access, online publication of LED outputs. Faculty funding
 enabled some impact activities as well as research travel, archival work and document sourcing.
 Faculty administrative and secretarial staff have generously supported conference and seminar
 organisation (4.4).

 3.3 Research infrastructure and facilities
 Research at the OU (including the Graduate School) is overseen by the PVC (Research,
 Enterprise and Scholarship). Within the Faculty, the Associate Dean for Research supports the
 Executive Dean in research matters and chairs the Faculty Research Board, which takes a
 strategic overview of research (including PGRS). The Faculty Research Office works closely
 with the University’s central Research and Enterprise team and Graduate School to support bid
 development, the management of awards, research student administration, and the distribution
 of internal funds for research. The Faculty’s Director of Research Degrees oversees all formal
 PGRS matters (see 2.5). Day-to-day support for research events, correspondence and other
 research related matters is provided by the Department Secretary.

 The OU Library’s support for research is distinctive in focussing on staff and students who work
 remotely from the University’s headquarters at Milton Keynes. It contains large collections of
 online journals, e-books and databases such as British Newspapers 1600-1900, Eighteenth
 Century Collections Online, Naxos Music Library, Retrospective Index to Music Periodicals
 (1800-1950) and many others (IES 4.2) which have been particularly useful during the
 pandemic. Library Services also provide 24-hour helpdesk support, training in a variety of
 research areas and freely available, fast inter-library loan facilities. The Library’s open-access
 repository Open Research Online (IES 2.3) contains most of Music’s publications from the last
 c.20 years (excepting editions and some monographs).

 Music Department facilities include a collection of historical keyboard instrument copies used
 particularly by Rowland and equipment for making field recordings, used especially by Dueck


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Williams. Dedicated space was made available in the OU’s London office to support
 Burrows’s and Coffey’s Handel project. The Acoustic Research Group, directed by Sharp, runs
 facilities including two anechoic chambers, a laser laboratory, a high-speed camera, a scanning
 laser doppler vibrometer, professional quality microphones and a wide range of measuring
 apparatus and high-performance computing equipment.

 3.4 Impact Infrastructure
 The Faculty employs a Head of External Engagement and an Impact, Enterprise and Knowledge
 Exchange Manager who leads on relationships with non-academic bodies. The 0.4 Department
 Impact Officer (managed by the Department’s Impact Lead, Coffey, and supported by Faculty
 Impact Lead Rowland – see 2.4) has gathered evidence for impact in several areas, including:
     • the life and music of Handel (Impact Case Study 1 - Burrows and Coffey)
     • music for brass instruments (Impact Case Study 2 - Herbert)
     • the music of Robert Johnson (Moohan)
     • film music (Winters)
     • reconstructing electronic music performances (Williams)
     • well-being and music in nineteenth-century asylums (Golding)
     • musical instrument acoustics (Sharp)
 These measures have enabled the discipline to target promising current and future areas of
 impact and invest funding where required.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaboration
 Collaborations occur within the Music Department and with eight other university units: Art
 History, Education, English, KMi, Philosophy, Religious Studies, Sociology and Statistics. All
 these are described in 1.2.1. Details of external collaborations in which OU researchers play a
 leading or other substantial role (described in 1.2.2) include:
     • collaboration with the Royal College of Music (RCM), 2012-2019 on two AHRC project
         grants
     • inter-institutional funded partnerships between Glasgow’s universities and conservatoire,
         museums and civic bodies for Moohan’s Cultural History of Glasgow project
     • collaboration with Oxford Brookes University, the British Tinnitus Association and the
         Oxfordshire Visual Arts Development Agency for Thompson’s Tinnitus project
     • Collaboration with 11 European universities and other institutions for the Polifonia
         project.

 In addition, Dueck has worked collaboratively on funded projects with institutions in the UK and
 abroad:
     • What Is Black British Jazz? (AHRC, with OU colleagues in Music and Sociology)
     • Online Networks and the Production of Value in Electronic Music (AHRC, with an OU
         colleague in applied linguistics and another in the School of Computing at Kent
         University)
     • The Aesthetics of Reconciliation in Canada (Social Science and Research Council of
         Canada (SSHRC) with colleagues in music, art history and English from Queen’s
         University, the University of Alberta, the University of British Columbia, and Memorial
         University)
     • Music and Modernity among First Peoples of North America (SSHRC and Colorado
         College, with colleagues in music and anthropology from universities across the United
         States and Canada, including Colorado College, Queen’s University, Memorial
         University, New York University, and the University of California, Davis).

 Un-funded national and international collaborations have also broadened the scope of OU
 research. Williams’s work on recording history has involved practice-based research with the
 English Department at the University of Cologne and workshops at London’s Science Museum
 and Bradford’s National Media Museum. He is a founder member of the Laboratory for Live

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Electronic Audio Performance Practice, which has held recent workshops in Edinburgh and
 Phoenix, Arizona. In 2017 Winters brought together 52 scholars from Europe, North America,
 Africa and Australia for his co-edited Routledge Companion to Screen Music and Sound. He
 also co-edits Ashgate’s Screen Music book series and the journal Music, Sound and the Moving
 Image with international and interdisciplinary collaborators at Rhode Island College, Carleton
 University, Liverpool John Moores University and Carleton College, Northfield, Minnesota.
 Coffey is co-editing a volume, Handel in Context, which includes 29 authors from the UK,
 Europe, North America, Australia and Clarke is currently co-editing a volume of The Oxford
 Handbook of Music and Christian Theology with 23 authors from Europe and North America.
 Hamer is co-editing the Routledge Companion to Women and Musical Leadership: The
 Nineteenth Century and Beyond, bringing together over 60 scholars from Europe, the Americas,
 Asia, and Australia.

 The Faculty’s Research Office ensures that appropriate formal collaborative agreements with
 other institutions and with other units within the OU are made, liaising with other OU offices as
 necessary. Agreements cover finances, intellectual property, data protection, reporting and any
 other issues required to establish secure working arrangements.

 4.2 Engagement with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences

 Many of the OU’s Music Department have strong links with practitioners in the music industry
 and education (see 1.2.6) by virtue of their own involvement in those areas. Dooley has worked
 with performers in the UK, China and Europe as part of his composition and performing
 activities. For many years Herbert worked as a professional trombonist, establishing
 connections with fellow musicians who later benefitted from his brass instrument research in
 their performances and teaching (Impact Case Study 2). Moohan’s directorship of the Glasgow
 St Mungo Singers has provided dissemination and impact opportunities for her edition of Robert
 Johnson’s music. Rowland’s professional performances and recordings on early keyboard
 instruments have introduced him to networks of both performers and instrument makers,
 informing his research and yielding opportunities for impact. Williams regularly organises and
 participates in performances of Stockhausen’s music involving restored electronic instruments,
 impacting the work of fellow musicians and instrument restorers (see 1.2.6(b)). Barker’s
 experience of school teaching and working with local education authorities has shaped the
 Music Department’s strategy for developing materials to support the school music curriculum.

 Engagement with BBC audiences is fostered through the OU’s unique formal agreement with the
 BBC (1.2.6(d)). The Music Department’s partnership with the Orchestra of the Age of
 Enlightenment since 2016 has resulted in public lectures by Department members on London’s
 South Bank and contributions to several of the OAE’s videos (for example, Samuels’s ‘The Birth
 of the Symphony’ and Winters’s ‘A lost art: music in silent film’). Coffey’s relationship with the
 Foundling Museum and the London Handel Festival has led to historical recreations of early
 Handel performances and the development of a series of freely available short films on London
 locations connected to Handel. Samuels’s organisation and delivery of study days for the Oxford
 Lieder Festivals, Moohan’s public lectures in Glasgow relating to the works of Robert Johnson,
 Rowland’s study day on Mozart performance issues for Benslow Music and Williams’ lectures
 on performances of Stockhausen’s music in the UK, Bruges, Karlsruhe, Kürten, and
 Luxembourg have informed audiences of their research findings. Sharp has given around a
 dozen talks in schools about his experience as the nominated academic for the BBC series
 Coast. Winters gave a pre-performance talk and was involved in a Proms Plus discussion in
 2019 based on his film research which was broadcast on BBC Radio 3 during the concert’s
 interval.

 Members of the Music Department support the work of institutions in the heritage, music and
 education sectors. Burrows was a founding member (now chairman), and Coffey is a council
 member, of the UK’s Handel Institute, which supports the work of musicians and researchers
 (including music editors) worldwide. Clarke’s research on church music informs his membership
 of the Liturgical Subcommittee of the Methodist Church’s Faith and Order Committee, which

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 develops, evaluates and advises on liturgical resources for Methodist worship and has prompted
 his election to a four-year term on the executive committee of the Society for Christian
 Scholarship and Music. Moohan’s networking grant has informed exhibitions and given
 coherence to digitisation projects among Glasgow’s libraries and archives. Barker has created
 initiatives to support the teaching of music through contact with schools and exam boards, which
 has informed the collaborative work with the OAE described above. Dueck has served as a
 member of the scholarly committee for the Catholic University of Central Africa’s Quinzaine de la
 Musique Liturgique, a workshop for amateur and professional church musicians.

 4.3 Wider contributions to the economy and society and engagement with diverse
 communities and publics

 Aside from the open resources described in Section 1.2.5, members of the UOA have
 contributed articles to the online news site The Conversation, including Winters’s ‘How Star
 Wars music lets us feel the Force’ (16 December 2015) and Clarke’s ‘The choirmaster whose
 carols became the sound of Christmas’ (23 December 2015) and ‘Silent Night: the story of the
 carol that paused a war’ (20 December 2018). This last prompted an invitation to speak on
 Times Radio’s Christmas Eve breakfast show in 2020.

 Dueck in collaboration with Dr Kisito Essele (Catholic University of Central Africa) organised and
 presented a study day on the notation of traditional Cameroonian music, open to the general
 public, at the Catholic University of Central Africa in November 2017; the event was attended by
 composers and musicians from the city of Yaoundé. Hamer is the Lead of the Parenting and
 Caring Working Group of the recently formed Equality, Diversity and Inclusion in Music Studies
 Network and on the Advisory Council of DONNE: Women in Music. Rowland is Chair of the
 Trustees of the Commonwealth Youth Orchestra which aims to unite young musicians from
 around the Commonwealth by supporting performances, recordings and composition. In 2020
 Thompson was commissioned by Nottingham Contemporary to hold a public programme study
 session based around her monograph, Beyond Unwanted Sound (2017), and has presented
 work at international arts/music festivals such as CTM Festival, Berlin; Mutek Montreal; DICE
 Festival Berlin; and Noisexistance, Hamburg.

 4.4 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline

 Members of the Music Department have contributed leadership to the development of
 interdisciplinarity in the University and externally through the establishment and development of
 research groups (1.2.1, 4.1). In addition, a particular feature of this assessment period has been
 the involvement of two-thirds of the Music Department in the organisation of international
 conferences (as organisers, or on conference committees). Some conferences have been
 organised on behalf of associations and other bodies: Clarke and Coffey convened the BFE-
 RMA research students’ conference (Milton Keynes), Coffey organised two Handel Institute
 conferences (London), Dueck helped coordinate several conferences during his tenure as
 conference liaison for the BFE and Barker served on the conference committee for the
 International Conference on Baroque Music (Cremona). Others have organised conferences
 with a narrower focus: Coffey’s three Medieval and Early Modern Places conferences (Milton
 Keynes and London) in association with the research group she founded; Dooley’s International
 Conference on New Interfaces for Musical Expression (Birmingham); Golding’s ‘The Music
 Profession in Britain’ (London) and ‘Music, Mind and Body’ (Milton Keynes); Hamer’s three
 conferences on aspects of women in music (Senate House, London and the universities of
 Bangor and Liverpool) as well as two ‘Music since 1900’ conferences (Glasgow, Huddersfield)
 and a Gerard Manley Hopkins conference (Liverpool); Kolassa’s ‘Music and Disruptive Pasts:
 Between the Popular and the Arcane’ (Milton Keynes), Rowland’s and Barlow’s two LED
 conferences (London and Milton Keynes); and Winters’s film music conferences (Surrey
 University, RHUL, Huddersfield, New York).




                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.5 Wider influence

 Members of Music at the OU hold positions within non-HE institutions and on publication boards.
 As well as his chairmanship of the Handel Institute, Burrows is also co-General Editor of the
 Hallische Händel-Ausgabe. Dueck has been a member of the BFE committee and has been a
 member of the editorial board for Oxford Handbooks – Music. Sharp is a Fellow of the Institute of
 Acoustics, chair of the European Acoustics Association Technical Committee on Musical
 Acoustics, Secretary of the Institute of Acoustics Musical Acoustics Group, Secretary of UK
 Musical Acoustics Network, and a member of the Acoustical Society of America Technical
 Committee on Musical Acoustics. Six members of the Department are on journal editorial
 boards: Dueck, Hamer, Rowland, Sharp, Thompson (3) and Winters (2).

 During the assessment period articles have been reviewed for c.35 journals and manuscripts
 have been reviewed for most of the major academic publishers in the UK and North America.
 Members of the UOA have also played a full role in reviewing research proposals for grant
 awarding bodies and promotion cases for other institutions (several reviews and tenure cases in
 the UK, Europe and North America).

 The quality of Music research has been acknowledged in awards, fellowships and invited
 lectures and performances. Burrows’s and Coffey’s Handel Documents Volume 3 was named
 by BBC Music Magazine as one of its books of 2019. Dueck contributed a chapter to the volume
 Music and Modernity among First Peoples of North America (2018) which won the Ellen Koskoff
 prize from the Society for Ethnomusicology and the Ruth A. Solie Award from the American
 Musicological Society. Winters received the Liverpool University Press reviewing prize in both
 2016 and 2018 for his work with the journal Music, Sound and the Moving Image. In 2014
 Hamer was elected Centenary Young Fellow at the Royal Society for the Encouragement of
 Arts, Manufacturers and Commerce, in 2015 Clarke took up a research fellowship at Southern
 Methodist University (USA) and in 2019 Thompson held a Nominated Fellowship at the Institute
 for Advanced Studies in the Humanities, University of Edinburgh. In 2020 Coffey was invited to
 give the Stanley Sadie Lecture at the Handel & Hendrix Museum and Thompson was invited to
 deliver the Le Huray Lecture at the annual RMA conference. Members of Music (Clarke, Dueck,
 Hamer, Rowland and Thompson) have given keynote lectures at conferences in the UK, Italy
 and Spain. Dooley has given invited performances of his music in the UK, Austria, Germany and
 China.




                                                                                          Page 14
