Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Durham University

 Unit of assessment: 23 Education

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Durham University’s School of Education (SoE) comprises 35.15 FTE Category A staff,
 approximately 143 PGRs, and over the course of the REF period, has attracted more than
 GBP37,900,000 in research grants and income. Guiding the SoE’s research activity is our
 vision of a more equitable world in which education, informed by innovative high-quality
 research, plays a vital role in enabling individuals, communities and societies to flourish. To
 this end, our current research and impact strategy, which builds from our 2014 submission, has
 enabled us to undertake research over the course of the REF period that: 1) positively impacts
 on regional, national and global policy and practice; and 2) shapes and develops educational
 research, research methodology and research capacity in the UK and internationally. We have
 succeeded in meeting these objectives by: maintaining a vibrant, intellectually inclusive
 research environment, in which staff are passionate about their research and the difference it
 can make; securing prestigious research funding to enable us to pursue boundary-pushing
 research in a sustainable way; publishing innovative and distinctive high-quality open access
 outputs; further embedding world-leading impact; and developing research collaborations and
 partnerships within and beyond education. Evidence of how we have excelled in these areas is
 provided in Sections 2-4.

 Looking forward, our research strategy for the next 5 years will enable the SoE to continue
 working towards our research vision. This will be achieved through the following actions:
   Continuing to conduct internationally excellent research which both advances the state-
     of-the-art and has a positive impact on individuals and organisations;
   Creating a knowledge-base that provides evidence to facilitate effective decision-making
     in education, both in terms of policy and practice;
   Developing all staff (experienced academics and Early Career Researchers/ECRs)
     across the full range of research skills and competencies, while ensuring that they
     continue to work in a flourishing, nurturing research environment; and
   Continuing to build a sustainable research environment both in terms of funding (e.g. by
     investing in new research centres) and in how we link research to teaching, thus
     inspiring our students to become the future architects of an equitable world within the
     School, academia and beyond.

 Furthermore, the SoE’s newly developed internationalisation strategy will extend our external
 engagement and increase: 1) our numbers of international PGRs; 2) our international
 partnerships, enabling increased international mobility for both staff and students; 3) research
 and scholarship networks, which benefit teaching and research activity; and 4) our ability to
 recruit the highest calibre academic staff.

 Research in the Education Unit of Assessment involves staff in the SoE and (until July 2019)
 staff from the Centre for Evaluation and Monitoring (CEM). Education research at Durham is
 interdisciplinary and international, with research collaborations drawing in staff from the
 Wolfson Research Institute for Health and Wellbeing, disciplines such as Geography,
 Psychology, Sociology, Computer Science, Business, the N8 research partnership, the Russell
 Group, the European Coimbra Group and the global Matariki network. We are committed to
 maintaining breadth and excellence across our areas of expertise; and since 2014 have
 restructured the organisation of our research expertise so that academic staff and PGR
 students are aligned to one or more of six thematic Research Clusters. These clusters serve
 as umbrellas under which various, more specific research topics, are addressed. Each has a
 sufficient number of affiliated members of staff to allow fruitful collaboration within and between
 clusters. Although staff and students may be affiliated with more than one cluster, the cluster
structure influences our recruitment strategy, guides our selection of PGR students and
supports the design, organisation and delivery of teaching, ensuring our research and teaching
activity is strongly aligned. Cluster membership also extends beyond the SoE, both reaching
out across the University and across the extensive international networks of the SoE. As a
result, the cluster approach has strengthened the School’s ability to collaborate widely and in
an interdisciplinary way. Our commitment to inclusive and boundary pushing research means
our clusters support a variety of research types (from applied research to more
theoretical/‘blue-skies’ research). Clusters also cover a wide spectrum of educational research
areas and phases, reflecting the diversity of the nature of educational research in general, but
also the breadth of research expertise represented within the school.

Further detail on each cluster is provided below:

Assessment, Evaluation and Educational Effectiveness
The scope of this thematic cluster encompasses research across the stages of assessment
development and implementation, monitoring and educational effectiveness. Research
interests pursued in this cluster relate to many aspects of assessment development, including
understanding constructs and innovative approaches to collecting reliable and valid
measurements. The Centre for Monitoring and Effectiveness (CEM) has played a prominent
role in delivering pupil monitoring systems to schools in the UK and internationally, providing
information to inform teachers’ practice and improve educational outcomes. Although CEM
was sold to Cambridge Assessment in June 2019, the unique longitudinal datasets produced
through its monitoring systems, the National Pupil Database and other large-scale datasets,
have enabled members of the cluster to undertake a range of innovative studies of educational
effectiveness. For example, the international study of children starting school and progress
during their first school year (iPIPS; international Performance Indicators in Primary Schools
(Tymms and Merrell)) continues to be a successful research project. Some 32 members of
staff are primarily affiliated with the Cluster.

Durham University Centre for Evidence in Education (DECE), (Policy and Practice)
This cluster is also a well-established University Research Centre, with members from other
social science departments, and a national and international user group. Its work involves
generating, assessing, synthesising, critiquing, and promoting robust evidence to help inform
education policy and practice. DECE policy evaluations funded by the ESRC include
examinations of the impact of long-term disadvantage on segregation and the poverty
attainment gap, and the recruitment and retention of teachers. Evaluations of a wide range of
classroom interventions have been conducted, and DECE members have been influential in
embedding the use of Randomised Controlled Trial (RCT) methodology, systematic reviews,
and meta syntheses within education (e.g. the work of Coe, Cramman, Gascoine [ECR],
Gorard, See, Siddiqui, and Torgerson). An exemplar here is the Teaching and Learning Toolkit
(Higgins), an evidence-based resource for schools supporting improved outcomes for learners,
particularly those from disadvantaged backgrounds. The toolkit guides the work of the
Education Endowment Foundation and its funding strategy for the GBP200,000,000 being
spent to reduce inequalities in school outcomes in England. Another is the evaluation of the
Department for Education (DfE) and NESTA-funded EdTech Testbed (described further in
section 3 below). 22 members of School staff are primarily affiliated with this Centre.

Higher and Further Education
The Higher and Further Education cluster explores issues such as policy and
governance, assessment and learning, and widening participation within the Higher and
Further education sectors at local, national and global levels. This encompasses a broad
spectrum of issues and approaches, theories and ideas for addressing the political,
social and policy contexts in which Higher and Further Education works, and the
students, academics, senior leaders, policy makers, and employers who are involved.
Examples of SoE projects sitting under this thematic umbrella include the ERASMUS+
funded projects: Development, Assessment and Validation of Social Competences in
Higher Education (Rattray and Raaper); and Intercultural Reflections on (HE) Teaching
                                                                                                   2
(Reimann). Another recurring theme of this cluster’s work has been widening
participation in HE, and a series of studies funded by ESRC and the Scottish Funding
Council has provided a basis for stronger and wider use of contextualised admissions by
the Office for National Statistics (ONS) and the Scottish Government (Gorard and
Siddiqui, with Boliver from Sociology). 12 members of staff are affiliated with this cluster.

Educational Psychology
Research in this area uses a psychology focus to examine learning and development. It
encompasses a range of work, including complex problem solving, learning ability,
Dynamic Testing, cognitive flexibility (e.g. J. Beckmann), dyslexia (Elliott), dynamic
personality (N Beckmann), affective and motivational underpinnings of learning and
academic achievement (Lichtenfeld and Rattray) and the acquisition, transmission and
evolution of cultural behaviours (Flynn). Current projects undertaken by cluster members
include: UKCAT Research Capacity Building, which is exploring ways to implement
aspects of Dynamic Testing into the UK Clinical Aptitude Test (UKCAT), enabling the
assessment of cognitive flexibility and learning potential. Cluster members also lead the
Australian Research Council Discovery Project: Task Contingent Units of Personality and
Adaptive Performance, together with the University of Technology, Sydney and the
University of Washington. 8 members of staff are affiliated with this cluster.

International and Comparative Education
Research in this cluster draws together expertise from the extensive and varied
international dimensions of educational research from across the SoE. In particular, the
cluster engages with methodological, epistemological and theoretical projects, which
advance understanding of educational issues through international and comparative
lenses. Educational, socio-linguistic and geo-social inequalities are central to the
synergies of this group, including explorations around relational educational inequalities
between the ‘Global North and Global South’. Prominent funded projects undertaken by
cluster members include Here To Stay? Identity, Belonging And Citizenship Among
Eastern European Settled Migrant Children in the UK (Moskal); supported by a grant
from ESRC Centre for Social and Economic Research on Innovation in Genomics;
Researching Multilingually and Researching Multilingually at the Borders of Language:
the Body, Law and the State (Holmes), funded by AHRC, Developing the impact of
dialogic STEM education in Mexico and the UK: from local communities to international
policy (Montgomery) (Newton and British Council) and The Chequered History of British
University Engagements with Chinese (British Academy), which explores the factors
influencing changes to Chinese Language Studies in university curricula (Holmes and
Jin). 21 members of staff are affiliated with this cluster.

Pedagogy and Curriculum
Research at the heart of the Pedagogy and Curriculum cluster provides insights into how to
encourage best practice in a range of educational contexts. This includes teaching and
learning across curricula, teaching and learning within specific areas of cognitive and affective
activity, and teaching and learning across educational phases. One of the major projects
directed by cluster members is The Durham Commission on Creativity and Education (L
Newton, D Newton), a collaboration between Arts Council England and Durham University.
The aim of the commission is to identify ways in which creativity and creative thinking can play
a larger part in the lives of young people from birth to the age of 19 (both within and beyond
the education system). Another major cluster project is Transforming the Pedagogy of STEM
Subjects in Ethiopia (Kind) which has highlighted gaps between intended and attained
curriculum, prompting national, regional and organisational science education policy debates.
The cluster comprises 13 members of staff.

Strategic direction for SoE research is provided by the Director of Research (DoR), who is a
member of the SoE’s Management Committee. Building on the last REF, the DoR is now
supported by a Deputy Director of Research and a further team of five, whose roles
correspond to key areas of the research environment we wish to maintain and continue to
                                                                                                    3
strengthen, specifically:
    1) An Impact Co-ordinator: with a remit to maximise the benefit of the School’s research
       more widely;
    2) The Chair of Ethics: responsible for research integrity via the SoE Ethics Committee,
       overseeing the ethics application processing system and managing the ethics decision
       process;
    3) An Environment co-ordinator: who is responsible for key elements associated with the
       SoE’s research environment (e.g. visiting scholars; the research seminar programme,
       research cluster-related events, PGR and ECR involvement/inclusion in school
       activities, training and mentoring needs).
    4) The Director of Postgraduate Research: who, along with the PGR Committee, has
       responsibility for admissions, progression and processing students through to
       completion as well as the alignment of student interests with the key research foci of
       the School.
    5) A Grant Co-ordinator: who, working with the Research Administrator, oversees grant
       opportunities and activity in order to both match grants with academic staff and find
       suitable funding outlets for the innovative research ideas generated by our academics.
       The grant co-ordinator also supports Early Career Researchers with the grant writing
       process.

The DoR is also supported by our Research Committee (RC) whose membership comprises
the DoR, deputy DoR, the Chair of the Board of Studies, Director of post-graduate research
(DoPGR), and one nominated representative of each Thematic Cluster. The SoE is part of the
Faculty of Social Sciences and Health and the DoR and DoPGR are members of their
respective Faculty Committees. The Faculty Research and Education Committees also provide
opportunities for the SoE to link into the strategic coordination of research at faculty and
university level.

It is through the Research and Ethics Committees that the SoE supports a culture of research
integrity and ensures that research is conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and
professional frameworks, obligations and standards. At the SoE, we have implemented a
robust ethics approval process to deal with the (approx.) 370 ethics applications we receive
each academic year from UG, PGT, PGR students and staff. All applications, not identified as
low-risk, are reviewed by at least one member of the ethics committee and constructive
feedback is provided to facilitate learning, and to foster a supportive research culture. Selected
applications are discussed amongst all committee members at one of our termly ethics
committee meetings. The committee also includes those involved in teaching Research
Methods at undergraduate and/or postgraduate level, thus ensuring emerging issues directly
inform our research methods provision. Reports from the Ethics Committee are shared at the
Research Committee and reported at Board of Studies meetings to enable lessons to be
learned with the aim of continually improving standards. In 2018/19 we reviewed our ethical
procedures to ensure they aligned fully with GDPR requirements. We also successfully
transitioned to the University online ethics application system. The transition period was
supported by highly attended and well received training workshops for staff and supervisors.

As highlighted in Section 3, several academic staff in the SoE use secondary datasets in their
research, many of which include sensitive data. All staff are required to undertake data
protection training and follow the Institution’s research integrity policies, as well as their own
professional bodies’ research and ethical guidelines (mainly the British Educational Research
Association [BERA] and the British Psychological Society). We have many staff who are
Secure Research Service (SRS) trained, and one area of the School is designated a safe area
for ONS Secure Research Service (SRS) and Secure Lab work, enabling researchers to
access confidential and restricted data.

The SoE promotes an open research environment. All academics deposit research outputs
and datasets on the Durham Research Online Portal, and empirical research projects also
have data management plans to ensure good practice and compliance with GDPR. We have
                                                                                                     4
also been instrumental in developing the Education Endowment Foundation Archive and its
new location in the ONS Environment as a publicly accessible archive of its trial data, linked to
the National Pupil Database.

As noted earlier, our six thematic Research Clusters provide a vibrant collaborative
environment and an organisational structure for the alignment of research and impact,
scholarship and teaching. The activities within each cluster are coordinated and overseen by a
representative (a Cluster Lead) who can be peer nominated or recommended by the Head of
School. This organisational structure distributes responsibilities, while also providing the
freedom for research foci to evolve and the flexibility needed to support a range of
collaborations. The role of Cluster Lead is not exclusively reserved for the Professoriate, with
less senior staff often taking on the role, enabling them to gain experience within a supportive
environment and to build leadership capacity for future sustainability.

Cluster leads are responsible for the following activities (and hold a GBP500 annual budget to
facilitate them):
1) Organising and chairing termly meetings of their cluster;
2) Acting as a point of liaison between their cluster and the SoE Research Committee;
3) Encouraging the development of collaborative activity within their cluster, including bid
      applications, the writing of outputs and impact-related activity;
4) Collaborating with other cluster leads to share good practice and develop inter-disciplinary
      research activities; and
5) Contributing to the SoEs research seminar series by organising and supporting members
      of the cluster to present research and organising and hosting invited speakers from other
      universities.
During the Covid-19 pandemic, cluster leads did exceptionally well to maintain our
environmental activity, ensuring that activities such as research collaboration and seminars
continued on-line, while also establishing new innovative activities such as a virtual writing
retreat.
Section 2. People

Recruitment, promotion, equality and diversity.
We view our vibrant and sustainable research environment as a direct product of the focus we
place on our staffing policies:

i) Recruitment: Members of appointment panels receive recruitment and selection training,
including on equity and diversity. Successful candidates for academic posts must have
demonstrated research success, including research outputs that are considered at least 3*
quality in REF terms. In the time period from January 2014 to September 2019 the school was
able to appoint 15 academic colleagues (accumulating to 15 FTE). Of these, 12 were
appointed at G7/8, 1 at G9, and 2 at G10 (thus consolidating our professoriate, with the recent
appointment of Brown and Montgomery serving to support the DECE and ICE research
clusters). Of these appointments, 14 were female. Furthermore, 2 colleagues transitioned to an
academic contract from a teaching only contract, and 2 transitioned from a research only
contract. We see this as evidence of the SoE’s approach to merit-based mobility. As an
outcome of the school’s success in attracting competitive grants, a total of 34 colleagues were
recruited on research contracts (25 female). These recruitments include the closer integration
of 4 colleagues on research-only contracts from CEM, as a result of the recent restructuring of
the links between CEM and Durham University.

ii) Probation: Newly recruited academic staff are supported in becoming an active part of our
research culture through two main strategies: 1) new members of staff, especially ECRs, have
a protected reduction in their teaching workload (this is explained in section vi below), and 2)
new staff are also supported with research-related training and mentoring.

iii) Promotion: The University has now moved to an annual promotion round system which
involves the mandatory participation of all academic and teaching staff, based on transparent
                                                                                                    5
and well communicated promotion criteria. This approach mitigates the risk of inequity in
career progression, especially with regard to a potential under-representation of female mid-
career academic staff. In the current REF period, 20 staff on academic posts have been
promoted (11 from G7/8 to G9, 10 of which were female; 5 from G9 to G10, 3 of which were
female; and 4 were promoted within the professorial bands, with 2 of these being female). The
SoE also has a healthy cohort of early career academics/researchers (9% of academic staff
are within 5 years of PhD completion) and University policies ensure the SoE exceeds the
expectations of the national Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.

iv) Equality and Diversity: The SoE represents a diverse academic environment, with at least
15 different nationalities represented across academic and research staff. Of Category A staff
declaring ethnicity, 19% are BAME. Furthermore, 62% of Category A staff are female. The
school recognises the vital role that equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) play in sustaining our
research environment and in supporting the generation of innovative lines of inquiry. In order to
achieve such a culture, we follow the University’s EDI policies (the University is part of the
Stonewall Diversity Champion programme and holds the Two Ticks Positive About Disabled
People award). In common with other schools/departments within the University, the school is
also working towards a departmental Athena Swan Bronze award. The departmental EDI
committee, chaired by the deputy head of the School, includes within its remit a consideration
of research work and environment in the widest sense. All research-active staff, as well as
postgraduate research students, are represented on the EDI committee. The purview of the
committee ranges from the discussion of University-wide processes such as equality and
diversity staff training and sub-conscious bias training, to more pragmatic issues at school
level, such as ensuring equitable access to conference and travel funds for all eligible staff.
Also key is ensuring equitable access to opportunities for research training and mentoring, the
representation of early-career as well as professorial staff on relevant committees (Ethics,
Research, Research Cluster) and the timing of research seminars to ensure they are
accessible.

The School also provides research capacity for the University to build the evidence base for
EDI initiatives. For instance, Siddiqui led an Office for Students funded study on assessing the
patterns of Hate Crime and reporting attitudes. The findings of this large survey resulted in
both a framework and reporting mechanisms for hate crime and sexual violence in the
University. Siddiqui is also leading the evaluation of the EPSRC Inclusion Matters project: a
GBP5,000,000 initiative to promote inclusion of underrepresented groups in academia. These
two projects are leading exemplars of promoting EDI initiatives.

v) Support and Development: Research activity in the SoE, including grant management, is
supported by the School Research Office (SRO). The team, comprising 2 members of staff
(1.8 FTE), is led by a senior research administrator. The work of the SRO is integral to the
creation and sustainability of the School’s research environment. For instance, the SRO
engages seamlessly with the University’s Research and Innovation Services and the DoR’s
research grant coordinator to support research grant development and post-award grant
management. The SRO supports the environment coordinator to provide a lively research
seminar programme and in planning and providing support for our visiting scholars, fellows and
professors. The SRO also manages the processing of ethics applications and works with the
DoR to monitor research income, projects, outputs and impact activity.

A key element of our strategy has been to ensure that staff have the appropriate skills,
opportunities and environment to conduct their research. The essential elements of this are
explained below.

vi) Making space and time for research: our workload policy provides academics with the time
to conduct research and to enable them to produce high quality outputs and, where
appropriate, create societal impact. During the course of the current REF period we
transitioned from a 20:60:20 (Research: Teaching: Citizenship) ratio to a model that is
internationally more competitive for research intensive institutions: 40:40:20. Our workload
                                                                                                       6
policy also allows strategic flexibility to accommodate additional research time for externally
funded research and awarded fellowships. Probationary staff are given a reduced teaching
load and a higher proportion of research time allocation (50% instead of 40%), which enables
new academics (and ECRs in particular) to meet the ambitious probation criteria, but also
facilitates their integration into the School’s research culture. Effective mentoring, not just for
probationary staff, is instrumental to achieving this strategic objective.

vii) Research Leave: Under University policies, after each seven terms served, academic staff
are eligible for one term’s leave to focus exclusively on research. In the current REF period, 19
staff in Education have had a total of 28 terms of research leave. Opportunities for research
leave have been equitably utilised by staff across all levels of seniority (G7/G8: 7 members of
staff [46% at this grade]; G9: eight [89%]; and G10: four [27%]). From 2019/20 onwards, the
arrangements for planning research leave have changed from an opt-in to an opt-out principle.
All academic staff will be assigned a period of research leave on a ‘rolling timetable’ and are
expected to take this up (subject to submitting a plan for how leave will be used, which should
relate to support for developing more ambitious grant applications, the development of high-
quality outputs, or plans to enhance impact). This allows better advance planning and will also
enable teaching and administration activities to be effectively covered to maintain a high-
quality service to students and to the department, and to mitigate the potential burden of staff
returning to a ‘backlog’ of duties at the end of their term of leave. Changes to planned research
leave can be requested by academics who prefer, for strategic reasons, to consolidate their
accumulated research leave allowance into a longer period of two or three terms on a less
frequent basis. Proposed and achieved outcomes are monitored by the SoE’s Research
Committee.

viii) Visiting scholars and fellowships: Over the current REF period, the SoE has hosted 24
visiting scholars, both from the UK and abroad, and from institutions including: Beijing Normal
University, China; the Federal University of Viçosa, Brazil; Federal University of Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil; the Autonomous University of Madrid, Spain; Technical University of Kosice, Slovakia
and from Washington State University, USA. We have also been successful in attracting Marie
Curie Fellowships and Santander mobility grants to support our visiting scholar programme. A
number of visiting scholars have gone on to apply for funding with Durham staff; with one
(Demie) subsequently made Honorary Professor in the School. The SoE also encourages its
staff to seek scholarships and fellowships in the UK and abroad, with recent examples
including: Professor Stephen Gorard, awarded a Visiting Distinguished Professorship at
Zhengzhou University, China; Professor Carole Torgerson hosted as a visiting scholar by the
National Social Research Centre for Denmark; Dr. Oakleigh Welply, hosted by the
Observatoire Sociologique du Changement at Sciences Po, Paris; Professor Chris Brown, who
was awarded a Stiftung Mercator Foundation Senior Fellowship (personal award of
EUR55,500 (04-2018)) and hosted by the University of Duisburg-Essen; and Professor Ray
Land (Emeritus Professor) who was made Gambrinus Fellow (funded by Dortmunder
Sparkasse Credit Bank) and hosted by Technical University of Dortmund, Germany. Professor
Steve Higgins also holds the Education Endowment Foundation’s Inaugural Professorial
Fellowship, which has enabled the school to appoint Dr Xiaofei Qi for two years in a capacity-
building post; and Professor Catherine Montgomery holds a visiting Professorship and has
longstanding links at the Centre for Higher Education Internationalisation, Universita Cattolica
del Sacro Cuore, Milan.

ix) Enhancing performance and planning for the future: Staff development is a prominent part
of our strategy, and the SoE has an academic mentoring system in place, in which academic
staff of all grades are encouraged to participate, as both mentors and mentees. Individual
training needs and opportunities are discussed through the mentoring arrangement, research
plans and outputs are peer reviewed and formative feedback provided. Staff are invited to
select their own mentors with the aim of encouraging a comfortable and supportive
development environment. The school’s Early Career Researcher group is also designed to
support ECRs by identifying both their development needs as well as training and other
support to address these (with funding provided to enable access to training).
                                                                                                      7
Doctoral Training and Postgraduate Research Student Development.
The SoE has a vibrant and successful doctoral programme, with an international student body
representing 31 countries across 5 continents. Our PhD programme is research-based,
requiring the submission of an original thesis and examined by viva voce with external and
internal examiners.

Since the previous REF, we have awarded over 20% more doctorates. As indicated in the
table below, of the 143.40 (fte) doctoral awards made since 1st August 2013, 49% were PhDs
(N.B. Figures might differ slightly from HESA data due to transfer of staff between Departments
and classification changes). A total of 15 doctoral awards were made to students on our
overseas programmes (all EdD). Annually we secure an average of four ESRC-funded
Doctoral Scholarships.

Doctoral Degrees awarded (fte):
                   2013-     2014-        2015-     2016-      2017-    2018-     2019-
                                                                                         Total
                    2014      2015         2016      2017       2018     2019      2020
 Academic PhD       4.55     10.20        10.85     15.20       4.00    13.60     12.00 70.40
 Professional
                   12.00     14.00         7.00     10.00     13.00     13.00      4.00 73.00
 (EdD)
 Total             16.55     24.20        17.85     25.20     17.00     26.60     16.00 143.40

Research students benefit from the wide range of research undertaken in the School and the
variety of expertise represented across our Research Clusters. They attend and actively
participate in the SoE’s weekly research seminars as well as cluster meetings. PGR Students
present their developing work in both public and peer meetings, including the SoE International
Summer Postgraduate Institute. A PGR fund of up to GBP400 per student per year (with top up
available) supports active participation at conferences. Over the course of the current REF
period some GBP49,500 has been accessed, enabling more than 170 PGR students to
present at key national/international conferences including those run by AERA, BERA, The
British Psychological Society, EERA/ECER, as well as more specialised congress such as the
European Association for Research on Learning and Instruction.

Supervision and monitoring are conducted according to the national Researcher Development
Framework and the QAA Code of Practice. A PGR Committee constituted by all supervisors,
with elected student representatives, supports and monitors PGR students. It shares good
practice and reflects on and monitors the PGR student experience. Each supervisory team has
at least two staff members. Every student and supervisory team separately report on progress
at nine and 21 months of the first two years of full-time doctoral work. A formal progression
panel independently assesses first-year students’ readiness to progress to their second year,
using a combination of these reports, a student presentation and an interview. All PGR
students also complete an annual review for the Deputy Head of Faculty (Postgraduate), which
includes a review of their supervision and research environment. Each PGR student is a
member of one of the University’s Colleges, which provides them with pastoral support. We
also ensure that all students receive excellent research-related support and training, and
understand they are valued and integral members of our research community.

We encourage supervisors to work with students so that journal publications and monographs
result from their studies. Over the current REF period this has led to 66 research outputs
directly relating to doctoral work being published in a wide range of SSCI outlets. More can be
done here, and plans to support our PGRs further include: 1) better linking the research
training offered to PGRs to the University’s new Research Methods Training Centre; 2)
establishing a PGR curated website in which research related questions are asked and
resources shared (e.g. YouTube videos on statistical techniques) in order to create a
community that can self-help; 3) arranging more joint research presentations with PGRs and


                                                                                                  8
staff rather than the separate model that is more common currently; and 4) the lecture capture
of research seminars, hosting these and promoting them more widely via Twitter.


Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

To date, the SoE has attracted more than GBP37,900,000 of research funding this REF period;
equivalent to approximately GBP1,000,000 per FTE. Of this, the most significant contribution
came from the Assessment, Evaluation and Educational Effectiveness cluster’s distributed
research network, accounting for GBP25,000,000 of the income recorded during the current
REF period. Since 2014 we have adopted a strategy of both expanding and diversifying our
research income, with major funders now including national and international research councils
(e.g. ESRC, AHRC, SSHRC, ARC, British Academy), the UK government, UK charities
(including the Education Endowment Foundation and Nuffield Foundation), the EU (e.g.
Erasmus), as well as UK industry, commerce and public corporations (e.g. NESTA). We are
also establishing and funding new research centres of expertise (e.g. DECE), who are
expected to grow their income and outputs substantially. This diversity of funding sources is
indicative of the range of topics our researchers specialise in as well as the innovative and
rigorous way in which we engage in research activity.

During the current REF period, our income has increased by more than 17% in comparison to
the previous REF cycle (GBP31,000,000: itself a 20% increase from the REF2008 period).
This coincides with the SoE’s deliberate move towards an ongoing but sustainable approach to
research income growth which has enabled us to pursue two objectives: 1) developing a
research programme that positively impacts on national and global policy and practice; and 2)
shaping and developing the educational research agenda and research capacity both in the
UK and abroad. In terms of the first of these aims, SoE staff have been influential in formalising
the use of RCT methodology, systematic reviews, and meta syntheses to help policy-makers
teachers, school and school system leaders understand what practices are most likely to
improve outcomes for students, including the most disadvantaged. For instance, the SoE is
recognised as an evaluator within the framework of both Education Endowment Foundation
and the new Youth Endowment Fund. We have been particularly successful in achieving our
goals in this area, with income amounting to over GBP4,000,000, over the course of the
current REF. Other examples of how our research-income strategy has enabled us to realise
our objectives during the 2014-2019 period, include:

      iPIPS (international Performance Indicators in Primary Schools): a new project which
       takes as its basis, the well-established PIPS Baseline and Follow-up Assessment
       (originated by Tymms in 1994 and further developed by Merrell). Numerous funded
       cultural adaptations/translations means that iPIPS has now been used in South Africa,
       Russia, Brazil and Lesotho to assess what children know and can do at the start of
       school and the progress that they make during their first school year. iPIPS research
       and the impact arising from its use are detailed in an SoE impact case study. At the
       same time, it is instructive to note that in 2014, Tymms and Merrell were invited to the
       38th PISA Governing Board meeting to outline the iPIPS project, with work on the
       project subsequently leading to Andreas Schleicher, the Director of Director for
       Education and Skills, and Special Advisor on Education Policy to the Secretary-General
       at the OECD, commenting in a letter to Tymms that, ‘The developments you have led in
       the field of early learning assessment are significant. In particular, this work has
       contributed to a growing emphasis on the importance of children’s development in their
       early years, as well as the critical need for reliable and valid data to inform policy and
       practice’ (12/02/18). Merrell was also invited (January 2019) to present evidence for the
       Standardised Assessment Inquiry, Education and Skills Committee, Scottish Parliament
       on iPIPS.
      SoE staff working in the area of evidence for policy and practice in education set up a
       new seedcorn funded University research centre: the Durham University Centre for
       Evidence in Education (DECE): https://www.dur.ac.uk/dece/ (e.g. Gorard, See,
                                                                                                     9
       Siddiqui). By concentrating expertise in this area, DECE have managed to secure
       funding for two major systematic reviews on the use of evidence, and two major bids for
       external funding in order to advance the understanding of two key policy/practice areas:
       a GBP387,533 ESRC grant to look at teacher supply; and a GBP625,000 testbed grant
       from NESTA (The EdTech Innovation Testbed) (See, Higgins, Siddiqui, Gorard,
       Torgerson), which is designed to support the identification and scale-up of effective
       practices. Specifically, the testbed works by helping schools and colleges try out
       promising technology products for free, while an independent evaluation finds out what
       works best for students and teachers as well as whether the overall testbed approach
       works. The ‘product’ areas covered by the EdTech include approaches to support
       teachers with formative assessment and essay marking, parental engagement and
       timetabling.

With regards to our second aim of shaping and developing educational research and research
capacity, our funding strategy has also enabled us to pursue boundary pushing and
multidisciplinary research across all of our clusters. In particular, we have sought to secure
funding that enables us to utilise new methods and change perceptions about current issues.
Examples include:

      Innovative research in the area of Assessment, Evaluation and Educational
       Effectiveness, such as Merrell and Tymms’ exploratory pilot research, which used
       animated illustrations to assess personality in school children under the age of 10, an
       age-range which has previously been considered to be too young to assess with more
       traditional rating scales (funded by England’s Department for Education: GBP11,920).
      To advance the state-of-the-art in evaluation, Seedcorn funding has been secured in
       two grants, one led by Brown and one by Cramman, to explore the possibilities of using
       machine-learning approaches to analyse when teachers and students are engaging in
       reflective problem solving and assess whether the occurrence of reflective problem
       solving corresponds with changes in both teaching and learning outcomes.
      Analysis undertaken by SoE staff working in the area of evidence for policy includes the
       widely publicised work by Gorard and Siddiqui, which has shown that the relative
       ‘failure’ of schools in the NE is an illusion, which affects how schools in the area
       address low attainment, as well as the widening participation to HE agenda (e.g. this
       story was picked up in the Times Education Supplement and New Statesman).
       Furthermore, their paper on the effectiveness of grammar schools published in the
       British Journal of Sociology of Education 2018 is the most read and discussed paper
       ever in the journal. Two ‘landmark’ papers by DECE members were also selected in
       2015 to celebrate 30 years of Research Papers in Education.

Investment in staff to support funding bids and the management of research project income
feeds into our strategy for sustainable growth and the generation of future research grants.
Support from the School’s own research office and research grant coordinator provides
targeted information to staff about funding opportunities, and our adoption of Worktribe has
streamlined the application costing process. Sustaining existing partnerships and research
collaborations and developing new ones are central to our integrated approach to research and
impact.

Staff are also well supported in initiating and evidencing the societal impact of their research
through a number of mechanisms. These include: 1) funding to support impact activities: within
the current REF period impact funding is currently in the region of GBP208,000 (GBP92,000
RIF/seedcorn-impact; and GBP116,000 ESRC IAA); 2) PGR-student support. Here the SoE
impact co-ordinator manages two PGR-students who work closely with impact leads to offer
support in gathering existing and emerging evidence of research impact and in further
developing effective engagement strategies with relevant stakeholders. This includes activities
such as: performing regular searches of various sources, such as the internet, media and
social media, blogs, policy and other documents for evidence of research impact; monitoring

                                                                                                   10
research websites; regularly updating and storing information on engagement and impact
using existing databases; contacting external stakeholders for the purpose of gathering
evidence of impact; collecting testimonial evidence; and supporting academics in the
development of impact materials; 3) Close and effective working relationship with the DU policy
impact and engagement team as evidenced, for instance, in two successful and well received
collaborative impact stakeholder events, one hosted at Durham University (2018, 114
participants) and one in London (2019, 320 participants). We have also held two successful
ESRC Festival of Science events in the North East, and participated in Evidence Week in
Parliament in 2019.

To support existing work and to instigate new research we have implemented processes
for the strategic (re-)investment of incentivisation funding the SoE receives as a result of
success in attracting external research funding. Our current strategy involves three
approaches: 1) PIs of successful grants receiving a proportion of secured funds to support, for
instance, the development of research staff working on their projects; 2) a further proportion
targets the SoE as a unit by providing every research-active member of the school with
GBP1,000 annually to cover individual research-related costs, including but not limited to,
active participation at conferences or travel expenses to initiate research collaborations; and 3)
the school also holds a small budget dedicated to strategically supporting initiatives directed
towards developing new research and fostering a productive and outcome focussed research
climate at the SoE. Examples of such activities include workshops for grant writing, subsidising
individual staff members’ attendance at important international conferences, and supporting
collaboration meetings to enable preliminary discussions about ideas for new research
projects. This may include inviting collaborators to Durham or for SoE colleagues to visit
collaborators. SoE staff are also encouraged to apply for Seedcorn funding to kick start
research grant applications (GBP94,500 awarded).

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaborations: We see interdisciplinary collaborations are a central feature of our education
research and research strategy: such collaborations are key to supporting the production of
innovative and distinctive research of the highest quality, for finding creative ways to tackle
pernicious problems and for developing partnerships. Below we give examples of our
interdisciplinary collaborations, including active engagement with the Institute for Advanced
Studies (IAS), an organisational structure that brings together world-leading researchers from
all disciplines to work with Durham colleagues on collaborative projects of major intellectual,
scientific, political and practical significance. During the 2014-2020 period, the SoE has hosted
three IAS fellows: Prof Dennis Beach, a renowned sociologist from the University of
Gothenburg; Prof Robert Wood, a psychologist and eminent management scholar from the
University of New South Wales; and Dr Tomas Zelinsky, an expert on disadvantaged
European Roma communities, from the Technical University of Kosice.

Further examples of collaborations, nationally and internationally, are the 12 honorary
professors and honorary fellows associated with Durham’s SoE. These include leading
international academics (e.g. Professor Andreas Demetriou, esteemed psychologist and
former Minister for Education in Cyprus; Professor Eckhard Klieme, Director of DIPF, the
Leibnitz Institute for Research and Information in Education and influential in the development
and analysis of the OECD’s PISA survey; and Professor John Hattie whose meta-analyses and
research into educational monitoring and feedback have influenced education policy in many
countries). These, along with other honorary and emeritus professors, have contributed to the
research environment through collaborations on research projects, research outputs, strategic
advice and research seminars.

Indicative of the interdisciplinary perspective researchers at the SoE take is their association
with the Wolfson Research Institute for Health and Wellbeing (WRIHW). The WRIHW supports
a community of over 150 Fellows, of which 17 are from the School. SoE Wolfson fellows have
benefited from GBP14,095 of funding since 2014, as well as being members of 15 Research
                                                                                                     11
Centres and nine Special Interest Groups (SIGs). These centres and SIGs have the express
purpose of bringing together academics that can define a current problem and its scope for
individuals and society, and build upon the evidence base to devise a way forward to address
the issue. Such groups involve academics investigating topics that range from the biological
behaviour of individuals, to the development of evidenced ‘fit for purpose’ interventions and
policies required to effect societal change.

In the following we provide further examples for how the SoE’s academic staff are engaged in
research-cluster related collaborations, networks and partnerships, as well as how the work of
these clusters has contributed to the national and international research base and the positive
impact of our research on the economy and society.

Assessment, Evaluation, and Educational Effectiveness
The collaborative deployment of monitoring systems in schools in the UK and internationally by
members of the cluster led to a total number of 3,815,265 pupils being assessed at various
time-points in their education between the ages of 3-18. The assessments have been used in
several evaluations of educational interventions and the related longitudinal data analysed and
results reported in more than 20 research outputs, with authors comprising academics both in
the SoE (Tymms, Merrell, Cramman, Gray, Gott, Little and Copping) and beyond (including
from Brazil, Russia, South Africa, Australia, New Zealand, Germany and Cyprus). Other
activity under this umbrella include the UK’s Rasch User Group, established by Tymms over
ten years ago and which continues to be active (http://www.rasch.org.uk/). The group meets
once a year to share research and discuss advances in methodology and application; making
use of longitudinal data to study the long-term educational trajectories of students, and cross-
sectional data to study trends over time, including the effectiveness of local interventions
through to national policies. For example, using assessment data linked to the National Pupil
Database, Tymms, Merrell and Bailey (2018) published an analysis of children’s progress
between the start of primary school and GCSE results at age 16. Their finding that the
academic gain of attending an effective Reception class is still evident at the end of secondary
school has important implications for teacher training and the placement of effective teachers
in the early years of education. International collaborations with Luytens (University of Twente,
Netherlands) and Demetriou (honorary professor in the SoE and internationally esteemed
psychologist from Cyprus) using CEM assessment data have also led to innovative and highly
regarded research outputs in the areas of school effectiveness, literacy in the early years, and
the development of Regression Discontinuity Approaches.

Durham University Centre for Evidence in Education
SoE staff working in the area of evidence for policy and practice in education have, since 2014,
secured a total of GBP3,690,000 of external funding from the likes of the ESRC, EEF, DfE,
Scottish Funding Council, Nuffield Foundation, and a host of others including Peter Sowerby
and the National Literacy Trust. In the same time period they have published 12 research
monographs and more than 325 distinct peer-reviewed papers, chapters, official reports and
professional papers; as well as giving academic presentations around the UK and worldwide,
including in Cyprus, Germany, Norway, Denmark, Japan, Spain, Finland, Netherlands, Peru,
Italy and the USA. Furthermore, a submission on the work of DECE won second place in the
2018 BERA Impact and Engagement Award. As a result, they were invited to write a BERA
Blog on DECE activity and its impact, as well as to contribute a paper to Research Intelligence
journal. DECE were also funded as part of the ESRC Festival, to discuss the findings and
implications of their work with the general public (videos providing an overview of the event
and its ‘question time' session can be found at: https://youtu.be/BNNBSJlwcWs and
https://youtu.be/5dkV8uNenbU).

Educational Psychology
International collaborations within this cluster include joint publications and work on externally
funded research with colleagues from mainland Europe, the United States, Asia and Australia.
An example is N Beckmann’s work on Task Contingent Units of Personality and Adaptive
Performance, together with Prof Robert Wood (University of Technology, Sydney) and Prof
                                                                                                     12
Yuichi Shoda (University of Washington). As part of this project, Prof Wood had the chance to
spend three months as one of the fellows of the IAS at Durham University. Other examples
include J Beckmann’s invited Visiting Fellowship at University of Sydney’s School of
Psychology to work with Assoc. Prof D. Birney on Re-conceptualisations and measurement of
Cognitive Flexibility in Complex Problem Solving. SoE psychological research outputs have
also found wide national and international recognition, evidenced in numerous invitations to
give keynotes, to run workshops, and to present at research seminars. Examples include: J
Beckmann’s invited keynote on Dynamic Assessment at the Conference of the International
Association for Cognitive Education in Southern Africa (IACESA); N Beckmann’s invited
keynote at an European Association of Work and Organisational Psychology SIG meeting on
Personality at Work; J Beckmann’s workshop on cognitive flexibility for the Harvard Graduate
School of Education (in David Perkin’s Learning Laboratory, LILA); and Rattray’s workshop on
threshold concepts at Miami University, OH.

Higher and Further Education
Research collaborations in the area of higher and further education centre on a range of issues
related to theory, policy, equity and inclusion, academic and professional practices and issues
of globalisation and internationalisation. Within a global Higher and Further Education context,
SoE staff are involved in a wide range of research activities and networks with national and
international partners. These collaborative, global networks are vast - extending to countries
such as the: US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Germany, Poland, Latvia, Estonia, Italy,
Sweden, The Netherlands, Czech Republic and Ireland, where we have established productive
and positive research links, and in many instances, given research presentations and
seminars. Academic staff are involved in a range of research projects which have attracted
external funding from agencies including the ESRC, AHRC, Erasmus, and the SRHE. For
example, Tummons’ collaborations with Professor Anna MacLeod, Dalhousie University, CA,
have secured CAD380,000 (04-2013) and CAD270,000 (04-2017) in funding from the
Canadian Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council. Research outputs include highly
rated research articles in high impact journals: for example, Raaper’s paper in the British
Journal of Sociology of Education, which won its Early Career Paper Prize 2018. Other outputs
include articles in Studies in Higher Education and Higher Education, and monographs and
edited collections that bring together bodies of work, research reports and vocational papers.
Furthermore, the cluster gets regular approaches from national and international students for
doctoral supervision in this area, as well as numerous requests for hosting visiting scholars
from overseas universities.

International and Comparative Education
Staff researching under the umbrella of the ICE cluster engage in international collaborations
with partners and funders from Europe and beyond. Prominent examples include:
1) The Jean Monnet Network Project EUROMEC: European Identity, Culture, Exchanges and
Multilingualism. The project is developing a network of international institutions to cooperate in
research in the areas of European identity, culture, European citizenship, exchanges and
multilingualism. In addition to Durham (Holmes and Reynolds), partners involved include: Sofia
University, Bulgaria; Matej Bel University, Slovakia; Trinity College Dublin, Ireland; the Institute
of European Studies of the Jagiellonian University, Poland; University of Luxembourg,
Luxembourg; University of Leuven, Belgium; and Guangdong University of Foreign Studies
(GDUFS), China. A core task of the network is to build knowledge and become a reference
point for researchers in the themes of European identity, culture, European citizenship,
exchanges and multilingualism. The Network involves doctoral students and young
researchers from different scientific areas through open calls for participation and via inviting
doctorate students from other scientific fields. The Network has hosted 3 summer schools, 13
events (seminars, workshops, conferences and final conference). In addition, 10 major
deliverables have been scheduled (books, collection of papers, conference proceedings,
thematic issues of national journals, working papers); 2) Montgomery’s work with Tec de
Monterrey in Mexico, researching the role of dialogic STEM education in addressing social and
cultural disadvantage in Mexico and the UK; and 3) Welply’s work with WISE-Qatar on Global
Citizenship Education.
                                                                                                       13
Impact
SoE staff have also contributed to national and international debate on key topics such as the
use and future of assessment, dyslexia and pedagogy. For example:
1) The iPIPS project has had significant and extensive impact on pedagogical understanding,
    policy and practice in the UK, Brazil, South Africa, Russia and Lesotho. Policy changes
    have included the introduction of the baseline assessment at the start of school in
    England, the creation of new educational instructional material and approaches in Rio,
    and the changes of direction in educational policy and practice in Kazan, Russia. Changes
    to pedagogical practice have been recorded in Brazil, South Africa and Lesotho, whilst (as
    described in section 2 above) the influence of iPIPS has been noted at the highest level by
    the OECD.
2) Elliott’s work on learning and cognitive disabilities and effective approaches to intervention
    has impacted on reading difficulty related policy, practice and perceptions among
    practitioners and the global public. This has benefitted struggling readers in the UK and
    more widely. In particular: 1) several UK local authorities now accept that the practice of
    differentiating between so-called dyslexic and other poor readers has insufficient scientific
    support and often leads to inequalities of provision; 2) the research has impacted on
    professional assessment and intervention practices; and 3) extensive international
    coverage on television, radio, printed and social media, has sensitised clinicians,
    teachers, parents, and the wider public around the world to the complexities and problems
    surrounding a dyslexia diagnosis. As a result of this work Professor Elliott received the
    2020 British Psychological Society Award for Outstanding Contribution to Educational and
    Child Psychology.
3) Research into Threshold Concepts (Land, Rattray, Reimann) has had a significant and
    extensive impact on pedagogical theory, understanding, practice and policy across
    multiple disciplines, organisations, and countries. In particular, the research has directly
    impacted on: 1) policy in higher education, further education and secondary educational
    contexts both nationally and locally, with subsequent significant changes to admissions
    policies, and curriculum design and assessment; 2) pedagogical understanding and
    practice, with subsequent impact on student learning and learning experience - most
    schools now adopt programmes citing our evidence as support; 3) professional bodies
    and communities of practice, with subsequent changes to professional standards,
    guidance, policies and practices; and 4) work-based learning products, with subsequent
    impact on games design at private international organisations.
4) Our work on the Education Endowment Foundation’s Teaching and Learning Toolkit
    includes claims by Government that the Toolkit was a key part of its policy on the
    education of disadvantaged children (updated policy briefing November 2014) and
    referenced in the Education White Paper of March 2016. The Toolkit is also used by at
    least 64 per cent of schools in England according to the National Audit Office (30/06/15),
    and receives some 14,000 unique page views per month (Google Analytics). Furthermore,
    international use is growing with customised online versions for Scotland, Australia and
    Latin America. Our expertise in this area has also led to Gorard, Siddiqui and See being
    selected to join the What Works Trial Advice Panel, part of the Prime Minister’s
    Implementation Unit.

Because a key objective of the SoE is to maximise the reach of its research and analyses to a
range of audiences, during the current REF period, we have developed a comprehensive
stakeholder engagement strategy. This includes:
1) Academic staff contributing regularly to academic and professional blogs and maintaining
    an active social media presence: This ensures we promote research findings and work to
    a wide and varied international audience, including through outlets such as New Scientist,
    Public Finance, Public Sector Focus, Schools Week, and the Conversation;
2) Influencing the public discourse and debate, through academics engaging with the
    mainstream media: for instance, SoE staff have benefitted from extensive media coverage
    of their research and its implications, averaging a news story/appearance once a week
    since 2014, with broadcast interviews to BBC TV Breakfast, Sky TV News, ITV News, as
                                                                                                    14
     well as BBC radio (Radio 4, FiveLive, Radio 1 newsbeat and Radio 2). In addition, press
     interviews and pieces written for newspapers include major outlets such as the New
     Statesman, Guardian, Sunday Times, Independent, Observer, Daily Mirror and the Sun,
     as well as educational specific papers/magazines such as the Times Educational
     Supplement and Times Higher Education. An example of our success includes
     maximising exposure to our work on segregation, where we ensured our analyses (by
     Gorard and colleagues) made national headlines, resulting in a number of politicians
     sharing and discussing the research results online (including Lucy Powell MP, Peter Kyle
     MP). It was also raised by Lord Storey in a consultation on Schools that Work for
     Everyone (see: https://tinyurl.com/ya5qv8r8), and Lyn Brown MP in a discussion on social
     mobility (see: https://tinyurl.com/y72osaa2).
3)   Engaging directly with practitioners and policy-makers: for example, SoE academics have
     given evidence and advice to a range of policy-makers, both in the UK and abroad (e.g.
     the Ministry of Education in Cyprus (Chinas), Cabinet Office, DfE, House of Commons
     Education Committee, Scottish Parliament Education and Skills Committee) as well as
     oral and written evidence to the Social Mobility Commission for their 2018 State of the
     Nation Report. An example of positive impact from such engagement is the SoE’s work on
     reducing the disadvantage gap (which includes an analysis of the ‘trajectories’ of
     individual disadvantage indicators), which featured in the Scottish parliament’s Education
     and Skills committee submission pack (https://tinyurl.com/yab2z77s p.348).

Citizenship
Our contributions also include general citizenship. The school hosts and edits the BERA
journal Review of Education (editorial board comprising Gorard, Kokotsaki, See, Siddiqui,
Torgerson, Tummons). During the current REF period, Higgins has been editor of the
Curriculum Journal; Tymms, editor of the Online Educational Research Journal; and Simpson
editor of Research in Mathematics Education. Raaper is associate editor for Critical Studies in
Education, Tummons was associate editor for Higher Education Research and Development,
Smith associate editor of the Journal of Philosophy of Education, and Montgomery deputy
editor for the Journal of Education for Teaching. Elliott was also recently nominated Associate
Editor for the American Psychological Association journal, Psychological Review. Members of
SoE staff also currently serve on the editorial boards of other academic journals, including:
British Educational Research Journal; British Journal of Sociology of Education; Educational
Research and Evaluation; Journal of Dynamic Decision Making; European Educational
Research Journal; New Directions for Child and Adolescent Development; Psychoeducational
Assessment, Intervention and Rehabilitation; International Journal of Educational Research;
Frontiers in Psychology; Comparative Education; Educational and Child Psychology; and the
British Journal of Special Education.

In terms of wider scholarly activity as academic citizens, SoE hold a number of roles, including
board member of the International Congress for School Effectiveness and Improvement
(Brown); Chair of the Royal Society of Chemistry Chemical Education Research Group (Kind);
Honorary President of the Philosophy of Education Society of Great Britain (Smith); Chair of
the International Association of Language and Intercultural Communication (Holmes); expert
advisors to the DfE and NICE (e.g. Elliott; Gorard; Merrell). SoE staff regularly act as external
examiners, and are frequently asked to evaluate grant applications for major national as well
as international funding agencies. The former includes the Economic and Social Research
Council (See and Siddiqui are Introducers for ESRC Grant Assessment Panels B and D, and
Gorard an Introducer for Panel B during this REF period), The Leverhulme Trust; The Nuffield
Foundation; Royal Society; and British Academy). Example of the latter include: EU Horizon
2020; the Australian Research Council; and the US National Science Foundation, as well as
similar bodies in Belgium, Brazil, Croatia, Kazakhstan, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal
and Romania.

Furthermore, in recognition of their substantial contributions to and leadership of the social
sciences, five of our Professoriate have been awarded Fellowship of the Academy of Social
Sciences (Elliot, Gorard, Higgins, Torgerson, Tymms). Other fellowships include: Fellow, Royal
                                                                                                    15
Society of Arts (Gorard, Kind, Kokotsaki, Montgomery, See, Ward); Fellow of the Royal
Societies of Biology and Chemistry (Kind); and Fellow of the British Psychological Society
(Elliott).




                                                                                             16
