Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: UoA32, Art and Design: History, Theory and Practice

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 UoA32 is based in the Department of Art History, Curating and Visual Studies, a department of
 the School of Languages, Cultures, Art History and Music (LCAHM), which coordinates the
 context and framework of research activity. The School is one of five in the University’s College
 of Arts and Law (CAL).

 Research strategy

 In REF2014, the UoA’s research strategy was focused on supporting and fostering individual
 excellence, while increasing research capacity and impact. The strategy was to be achieved
 through

 1) enabling continued individual research excellence;
 2) new regional, national and international collaborations;
 3) sustained capture of grant income;
 4) increased research-student and post-doctoral recruitment; and
 5) joint initiatives with the University’s Barber Institute of Fine Arts.

 The Department met these ambitions (as described below). While remaining a small unit, we
 have enhanced our sustainability by growing from 6 to 10 members of staff and have seen 1)
 continued generation of high-quality research, resulting in the publication of 8 monographs over
 the 2014–20 period; 2) the instigation of a series of new collaborative ventures, from local
 projects to major international initiatives; 3) grant capture enabling a greater range of projects
 and activities; 4) continued increase in recruitment of PGR and post-doctoral researchers, with
 work expanding into new areas; and 5) initiatives with the Barber Institute resulting in three
 exhibitions curated by departmental members and plans consolidated for future collaboration.
 With new emphasis on sustainable common purpose alongside individual enterprise, and an
 invigorated commitment to equality and collegiality, much else, too, has been achieved.

 The Department used its increase in staffing not just to broaden the scope and coverage of
 research, but to instil new direction; this was formalised in a major revision of its research
 strategy in 2018. The new strategy recognises the need to move away from the lone-scholar
 model by identifying specific areas in which research is undertaken, both by individuals and
 collectively, while taking best advantage of new appointments and bringing greater coherence
 and clarity to current and future opportunities. This priority energises the Department’s
 continuing concerns with interrogating practices of art, both regional and global, within
 frameworks of culture, power and society through two sustainable areas of strength, or research
 streams, of pressing relevance to the vitality of Art History’s future.

 These streams, Artistic and Architectural Canons and Nationalism, Imperialism and
 Decolonisation, are approached and inflected through various considerations such as sexuality,
 gender and ethnography. They have already helped to refine – and connect – the research
 directions of new colleagues, including a Birmingham Fellow (Nichols) and a Professorial
 Research Fellow (Carroll), both of whom research art and its colonial contexts. They also foster
 the kind of collective potential that is already leading to large-scale projects and grant bids (see

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 §3). This potential has seen colleagues increasingly involved in congruent projects capable of
 effecting shifts within the discipline. It puts the Department in a position to address pressing
 national and international contemporary challenges, by countering art’s perceived exclusivity and
 by engaging with equality, broadly conceived.

 Artistic and Architectural Canons is concerned with the construction and reception of canons,
 exploring how they are formed, challenged or otherwise explained. The stream accommodates
 the main research interests of several staff and allows a degree of period overlap and
 equivalence in approach: French modernism and interior design, 1880–1940, with respect to
 domesticity and gender (Berry); art, art-writing and collecting in Britain, 1870–1930 (Hatchwell);
 Renaissance architecture and its conceptual premises (Hemsoll); late medieval/early modern
 visual culture and female patrons and consumers (L’Estrange); sculpture and its relationships
 with the decorative in 19th-century France and Britain (Jones); female artists, Weimar ‘others’,
 and cultural agendas in German art 1918–39 (Smith); and art and global migration with
 emphasis on geographies and networks (Vinzent). Through these subjects, the Department
 explores how and why canons have come to exist, while examining their conceptual parameters
 and limitations and what they include, exclude or marginalise.

 Nationalism, Imperialism and Decolonisation focuses on the roles of art in discourses of
 national identity, hegemony, empire and post-colonialism – and their relevance globally – and
 involves examining art from perspectives of individual and group identities. New staff have
 enabled the Department to extend and diversify previous interests in this area and significantly
 expand the range of expertise. Research areas include global art, museums and cultural
 repatriation and restitution (Carroll); 19th- and 20th-century British art, imperialism and animal
 studies (Nichols); and British art since 1945, popular culture and post-colonial and queer
 histories (Salter). A common aim is to explore how art has been presented, exhibited and
 consumed in the British colonial and post-colonial worlds. Research into Central European
 museums and national identity pre-WW1 (Rampley) was also informed by this stream, but its
 dealing with non-mainstream art also ties it in with Canons. Indeed, the overlap between the two
 streams is particularly evident in research on ethnographic art, the canonical histories of
 museums and collecting, and in the research projects of colleagues concerned with aspects of
 British imperialism (Hatchwell, Jones and Vinzent).

 Since the Department’s research streams by their nature examine interplays between art and
 the wider societies and agendas shaping it (and shaped by it), interdisciplinarity plays a pivotal
 role in research. It is central to the ways new research projects and grant bids are framed, such
 as Nichols’s project on manufacturing and material culture in Birmingham, which explores the
 making of art objects through perspectives of both Art History and History. Specific
 interdisciplinary collaborations have included the work undertaken by Vinzent, as a fellow at the
 University of Erfurt’s Max Weber Centre for Advanced Cultural and Social Studies (2013–15),
 overlapping with Sociology and Religious Studies. This led to Vinzent’s continuing associations
 with the Weber Centre, and a fellowship there for Smith (2018–19), funded by a Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie COFUND Fellowship, for research into female artists working under
 conditions of internal exile. Vinzent also held a three-month fellowship (2014) at the ‘Research
 Excellence Cluster Topoi Berlin’, an interdisciplinary centre of the Freie University and Humboldt
 University with a focus on conceptions of space. This led to a further fellowship at the Einstein
 Center Chronoi Berlin (2019–), a research centre focusing on investigations into time. Art and
 literature is another key interdisciplinary interest, underpinning recent monographs by Hatchwell
 and Hemsoll.


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School as a whole has a shared interdisciplinary focus on the fundamental media of human
 expression – art, literature and music – with a research identity known as WordMusicImage.
 WMI is overseen by the School’s Research Committee, and departmental staff (Hatchwell;
 L’Estrange) are actively involved in WMI’s cross-departmental advisory board, which places
 impact at the heart of its agenda. Departmental researchers are also embedded in School-wide
 impact clusters forming part of WMI’s offering: ‘Creative Societies’, ‘Languages in Practice’, and
 ‘Arts of Understanding’. These deliver impact through artistic partnerships, education and public
 engagement, and foster cross-disciplinary and cross-sector activity through workshops on
 themes such as migration (Vinzent) and forgotten objects (Salter), on germane skills such as
 creating and developing partnerships in the creative economy, and on using public engagement
 for impact. Collaboration with non-academic partners is further fostered through annual cross-
 sector topic-orientated events (Arts and Global Challenges, 2019; Migration, 2020), bringing
 academics together with professionals in the creative economy and in health, education and
 community support. WMI spearheads annual conferences planned by PGR students. The 2019
 WMI conference, on differing conceptions and representations of spaces and time, was co-
 organised by a PGR in the Department and included a keynote lecture from L’Estrange.

 Staff are active in interdisciplinary groupings in CAL, including the Centre for the Study of the
 Middle Ages, the Nineteenth-Century Centre, the Centre for Modernist Cultures, and the cross-
 departmental Sexuality and Gender Studies network. Links with the Animal Studies Network
 resulted in the colloquium ‘A Cultural History of Animal Predators and Human Fear’ (2019), and
 the University’s Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS) workshop ‘Thinking with Animals’ (2019; with
 speakers from Life and Social Sciences as well as Humanities) (REF5a 2.3.2).

 Impact strategy

 History of Art provides a way of unlocking the past through material culture and understanding
 the process of human creativity itself. This underpins the Department’s impact strategy, which
 places special emphasis on forging collaborations with cultural organisations (exemplified in
 Impact Case Studies) and other involvements with galleries and museums. In REF2014, the
 Department articulated the importance of enhancing the immediate region’s cultural and social
 life by supporting a range of non-HEI institutions, including Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery
 (BMAG). Feeding off successes in building sustainable relationships, the Department’s strategy
 now is to invest further in the wider cultural economy, working with local museums who rely on
 its critical expertise (particularly in the post-Covid environment, as community engagement
 becomes even more pressing), and expanding this work to form new partnerships with
 organisations regionally, nationally and internationally (see §4). The Department now
 collaborates with many more non-HEI institutions (especially nationally/internationally), advising
 on institutional policies, collecting and display strategies, and enhancements of museological
 frameworks. It mediates, in particular, on issues of canonicity and nationalism – impact thus
 derives from the Department’s research streams – while addressing issues such as patriarchal,
 racial and class-based marginalisation, and so engages with equality. Impact is thus culturally-
 attuned to non-academic and diverse publics, stressing perceptions and values of identity and
 heritage, and enabling communities to understand their histories.

 The Department’s local and regional collaborations accord with UoB’s identity as a civic
 university, and are central to its ongoing commitment to benefit the area and its institutions and
 publics. This approach has been deepened and extended since REF2014 through the
 Department’s research streams. A prominent regional initiative was the launch in 2017 of
 Midlands Art Papers (MAP; an ICS), which is aligned principally with the Canons research

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 stream but with considerable scope and implication for the Nationalism/Imperialism stream. It
 involves collaboration with 13 art institutions in Birmingham and nearby (see §4). Its open-
 access journal provides an outlet for new museum research, spotlighting material both within
 traditional canons or falling outside, such as decorative and ethnographic art, and work
 produced by black British artists. A recent MAP volume (2019) focused on inclusivity, access
 and disability relating to the production and display of art. MAP engagement led to Salter
 collaborating with BMAG in his AHRC application on queer British Art. Further collaboration with
 BMAG resulted in new ways of organising, displaying and interpreting its permanent collections
 (see §4). It also saw PGR research on female artists working in Birmingham c.1900 (Owen), and
 a PGR student (Matthews) leading an interdisciplinary project at BMAG to survey and assess
 the significance of 1500 prints and engravings in its Science and Industry Collections, and then
 catalogue 200 of them.

 Close association with the Barber Institute provides another important vehicle for public
 engagement. There, free access is enhanced by organised tours of the collections and
 temporary exhibitions. Beneficiaries of such activity include not only the general public, but also
 school children and community- and special-interest groups. Department staff have contributed
 to the regular programme of exhibitions and, since REF2014, have curated three (relating to
 Canons): ‘German Graphic Art 1910–23’ (Smith, 2017–18; organised with Birmingham’s IKON
 Gallery), ‘Looking at Animals: Perspectives on the Natural World’ (Nichols, 2018–19); and a
 substantial loan exhibition, ‘Maman: Vuillard and Madame Vuillard’ (Berry, 2018–19). This, like
 other exhibitions benefiting from staff input, was accompanied by public lectures from those
 involved and an educational workshop. An exhibition (2019) on the 17th-century collector
 Cassiano dal Pozzo, with exhibits from the Royal Collection Trust, followed on from an earlier
 research collaboration with the RCT involving the cataloguing of architectural drawings
 (Hemsoll).

 Engagement with museums in the national and international arenas (see §4) has likewise
 generated impact. Projects on early modernism in Germany (Smith) and on performance art
 (Vinzent) were both accompanied by exhibitions and published catalogues. Carroll’s grant-
 winning work (allied with the Nationalism/Imperialism stream and a second ICS) was
 instrumental in improving the quality, accessibility and cost-effectiveness of displays at the Royal
 Museums, Greenwich, through the installation there of four new galleries (2018); these have
 encouraged increased participation from diverse and previously under-engaged audiences. The
 project, compliant with standards of integrity that even exceed the University’s normally-
 observed ethical requirements, also resulted in the restitution of art objects from British
 collections to New Zealand.

 Open research

 Commitment to sustainable Open Access (OA) is central to the Department’s research and
 impact strategies. Procedures in place go well beyond standard involvements in exhibitions and
 displays. OA is encouraged and supported at different institutional levels, from the Department
 webpage and the College’s Open Research website, to the University’s Research Archive
 (UBIRA) and publicly-accessible research portal (PURE) (REF5a 2.2).

 Departmental OA efforts are foregrounded by MAP, with its dedicated research portal to its
 online journal, attracting around 450 hits per month, and will be in Hemsoll’s newly-instituted
 collaboration with London’s Soane Museum to catalogue a collection of architectural drawings
 for its official website. The Department hosts the online open-access Journal of Art

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Historiography, with thematic issues on topics such as inventories and catalogues (2014),
 architectural historiography (2016), baroque for a wider public (2016), connoisseurship (2017),
 museums and professionalisation (2018) and Ruskin (2020). It maintains the Gombrich archive
 and a website devoted to the psychoanalyst and art historian Ernst Kriss. New research
 initiatives are supported with University training on Open Access and the uses of social media in
 research and outreach (REF5a 4.1).

 Research integrity

 Departmental research is conducted in accordance with University-wide ethics standards; these
 are in line with the UK’s Concordat to Support Research Integrity (REF5a 2.2). Probationary staff
 receive induction on ethics standards and assessment procedures, while PGR students are
 trained as part of yearly reviews. Regular updates are provided to all staff online.

 Future strategy

 The Department’s future research strategy contains two parts. First, the Department will
 consolidate and extend existing practices and collaborations as regards both research and
 impact. In addition to moving forward with local partnerships and initiatives (for example, with the
 Barber Institute and IKON), MAP will be expanded further in scope (with additional partners) and
 will follow new directions, for example by linking with national networks. Other research will be
 focused on long-term ventures that have collaborative dynamics. Examples include Carroll’s new
 project to decolonise the Habsburg collections of the Weltmuseum in Vienna, and Hemsoll’s with
 the Soane Museum to research architectural drawings, which will include an exhibition
 scheduled for 2022/23.

 Departmental strategy, secondly, is for all staff to pilot research proposals with collaborative
 dimensions, whether local or national/international. These (specified in §3) will capitalise on what
 has already been achieved through collaboration, while being suited to grant applications, and
 linking to the two research streams to enhance PGR and post-doctoral recruitment. Proposals
 will be aligned, too, with research areas of strength and sustainability, such as British art
 (Hatchwell, Nichols, Salter), now an M-level pathway to the doctoral programme; early twentieth-
 century modernism (Berry, Smith, Vinzent); gender and sexuality (Berry, L’Estrange, Salter,
 Smith); and cultural exchange (Carroll, Jones, Vinzent). Several projects have synergies with
 research in the School and beyond. Future plans include the enrichment of both research
 streams by recruiting staff with expertise in photography (exploiting the rich resources on
 campus and the remarkable collection in the Library of Birmingham) or non-Western art to meet
 the interests of an increasingly diverse student body.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 The Department comprises 1 Professor, 3 Senior Lecturers and 6 Lecturers, a considerable
 increase from the staffing of 6 FTE in 2014, representing a transformative scale of investment in
 the UoA by the University. All staff are actively engaged in significant research. The gender
 balance is 8 women to 2 men, a reversal of the previous male-dominated makeup; and the
 present Head of Department, like the last, is female. Of five new appointments since REF2014,
 two were beneficiaries of University Fellowship schemes (REF5a 3.4.1): a Birmingham Fellow


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Nichols) and a Professorial Research Fellow (Carroll), and the other three (Hatchwell, Jones,
 Salter) were made on the basis of sustained growth in student numbers. Two of these are in
 their early careers (Hatchwell, Salter). A further member (Rampley) departed in 2019 to direct
 research on Central European art, initiated at Birmingham, at Masaryk University, Brno.
 Research activity was expanded by attracting, through external grant capture, four fixed-term
 post-doctoral researchers in the 2014–20 period (Filipová, Prokopovych, Secklehner,
 Veszprémi) linked with Rampley’s projects on museums and national identity in Central Europe.
 The Department also hosted a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow (Hnídková, 2018–20), to study
 20th-century town planning and cultural exchange in Britain and Europe.

 New appointments were made in line with two strategic priorities: 1) to extend research into
 growth subject areas relating to art production and perception in colonial and post-colonial
 contexts; and 2) to invigorate the unit’s knowledge-transfer practice, and expand capacity to
 impact on policy, society and the economy. They enhance the research streams defined
 previously (§1) and add diversity to the Department’s research profile. Hatchwell, Jones and
 Salter enrich its focus on Canons, and their work into investigating and critiquing of canons
 augments research by Berry, Hemsoll, L’Estrange and Smith. Carroll and Nichols offer unique
 expertise on imperialism, transnational art networks and decolonisation, complementing work in
 this area by Vinzent. These appointments have also re-energised the Department’s impact
 strategy, especially by expanding ongoing work to enrich the cultural and social life in the
 immediate region, and by extending this nationally and internationally. Carroll’s work on
 museums and restitution, for example, broadens the expertise of Jones and Vinzent and greatly
 increases an ability to inform collecting and curating practices in a global context. Hatchwell,
 Salter and Nichols’s research on British art and histories of spectatorship, manifest in projects
 such as MAP, has invigorated the Department’s ability to transform art-historical knowledge in
 museums and galleries, building upon the sector-leading work already being conducted by Berry
 and Smith through curatorial activity.

 Staffing strategy, framed by School and College policies for Continuing Professional
 Development and the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (REF5a
 3.3), centres on collegiality and equitability. It augments centrally-provided training with the
 Department’s provision of peer mentoring and research fora. These include colloquia themed to
 relate to research streams, featuring external academics and other professionals, and regular
 Research Lunches at which colleagues share work-in-progress and receive peer feedback.
 Recent workshops enabled colleagues to enhance material for publication (Hatchwell, Jones,
 Rampley, Vinzent), improve grant bids (Salter), and develop PhD theses. Every member of staff
 has a Department Research Mentor who offers advice on work-in-progress relating to
 publications and grants. All staff are afforded specific time for research, including a designated
 ‘research day’ in their weekly term-time schedule. Probationary staff benefit from a significant
 buy-out from teaching and administrative duties, giving them time to further their research; and
 all staff have the opportunity to apply for research leave to complete major projects (one or,
 occasionally, two semesters every three years) subject to agreed objectives monitored by the
 Head of School (HoS). Staff recently benefitting from longer periods include Berry, Jones and
 Hemsoll, which enabled them to complete manuscripts, initiate new projects or prepare grant
 proposals.

 Departmental events relating to the two research streams, coordinated by the UoA Research
 Lead, feature conferences alongside colloquia and Research Lunch workshops. Conferences,
 facilitating wider engagement, have featured prominently, most propagating the Department’s
 research streams and benefiting from external and international speakers. Some connect to the

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Canons stream: ‘House, Work, Artwork: Feminism and Art History’s New Domesticities’ (2015;
 papers published as a special issue of the Oxford Art Journal, 2017) re-analysed alignments of
 artworks and power-politics; ‘The Medium and the Message: Re-evaluating Form and Meaning
 in European Architecture’ (2017) examined buildings and their perceived messages. Linking to
 the ‘Nationalism/Imperialism’ stream were ‘Settler States: Cultural Studies of the Colonies’
 (2017), and ‘Regionalism, Value and Diversifying Post-War British Art’ (2020; in conjunction with
 Tate’s British Art Network). Three others were collaborations with IKON (see §4). The
 Department will host the annual conference of the Association for Art History in 2021,
 spotlighting work with Midlands museum partners through round-tables and further events
 planned at IKON.

 Colloquia are staged regularly (around 4-8 per year) sometimes in cooperation with colleagues
 in the School or University beyond. Open to staff and students from the Department and
 elsewhere, they showcase cutting-edge research aligned with the Department’s research
 streams. Since 2017, the format has moved away from the lecture/seminar by a distinguished
 external speaker towards one of more exploratory scope and participatory nature – invariably
 involving external or internal speakers from other disciplines and so enabling dialogue. The
 School’s research schedule ensures that Department events do not clash with other School
 activities, allowing participation across departments. Recent examples of departmentally-
 organised events facilitating such interchange include ‘Representing Home: Art, Visual Culture,
 and the Interdisciplinary Study of Home’ (2017); ‘A Cultural History of Animal Predators and
 Human Fear’ (2019); ‘Speculations, Traps and Interpretations: Networks in 15th- and 16th-
 Century Art and Music’ (2019). Research Lunches, instituted in 2017, number around 8-10 per
 year and are workshops nurturing informal cooperation and debate. They provide valuable
 opportunities for staff and PGR students to present research to wider audiences and receive
 early-stage input. Vinzent, for example, benefitted from the probing discussion of her network
 theory underpinning her monograph on space and modern art. They typically involve circulating
 a piece of writing in advance, with a short introductory paper providing the basis for questions
 and timely feedback from multiple areas of expertise and unexpected perspectives.

 Departmental support for research is augmented by School and College provision, which are
 informed by equality and diversity considerations. Individual research is supported financially by
 an annual personal allowance of £1,000. This benefited early career researchers in particular,
 assisting both Hatchwell and Salter to complete monographs. Staff preparing grants bids are
 assigned two experienced peer mentors from across the School to help develop projects, in
 addition to receiving one-to-one support from the College’s Research & Knowledge Transfer
 team, which supported successful grant bids (Carroll, Rampley, Hemsoll). New staff-members
 follow a Probationary Personal Development Plan agreed with the HoS, with yearly objectives
 agreed with a PPDP Mentor at formal meetings held at least annually. All other staff meet
 annually for a Personal Development Review, which provides an opportunity to discuss research
 achievements and aspirations and receive HoS guidance (REF5a 3.4.3). Research performance
 and impact success may be rewarded with one-off payments or additional salary increments,
 and are central criteria for promotion, which can be applied for in any annual cycle. Career
 progression is further assisted through a transparent Workload Allocation Model, ensuring
 equitable distribution of teaching, administration and research across the Department and
 School. The School runs a programme of career-development events, and all staff have
 opportunities to meet with the HoS to discuss progress.

 Equality and diversity are central to the Department’s research practice and culture.
 Departmental research probes historical diversity in the arts, with work on art-historical canons

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 exploring issues relating to gender and sexuality, and on imperial, post-colonial and global
 narratives foregrounding considerations of race. This commitment to exploring and celebrating
 diversity is embedded in the Department’s research culture. It is epitomised by the leadership
 roles currently filled by female colleagues, the proactive involvement of Department staff (Jones)
 in the School’s recently-submitted application for Athena Swan (Bronze) recognition, and the
 intentional inclusivity of Department research fora. Events are scheduled to take place at carer-
 and family-friendly times, and emphasis on workshops and Research Lunches ensures that all
 staff and PGRs at all stages can participate and benefit from support and discussion. For
 maternity, parental and adoption leave, and for workload remission on return, the Department
 follows University guidelines (REF5a 3.4.5). Four staff since 2014 have been beneficiaries, while
 another has had workload relief and a reduction in expected research outputs for reasons of
 disability. The unit is aware that all current staff are ethnically white, and that this is becoming
 increasingly out of line with the student body and with the subjects of current and potential future
 research. The unit is committed to achieving greater ethnic diversity among its staff in future
 (through recruitment), and to continuing to encourage and support diversification of its research
 through its Nationalism/Imperialism research stream.

 Collegiality and equitability underpin the Department’s impact work, too. Beyond the University,
 the unit engages in collaborations that exemplify best practice for equitable cross-sector
 partnerships. Through these projects, it mobilises research to foster change in institutional E&D
 practices, such as the engagement of new and diverse ranges of audiences. Carroll’s restitution
 work, for example, has resulted in £60,000 of Sackler-Caird funding, plus in-kind costs from
 partner museums, and now a much larger bid for ERC funding. Through MAP, colleagues have
 worked with partner institutions to uncover new information about collections relating to colonial
 narratives and representations of diverse gender and sexual identities, publishing the first open-
 access peer-reviewed journal evaluating inclusion and disability in the arts in the West Midlands.
 This, in turn, has inspired the Department to make MAP more accessible; for example, by
 supporting those with visual impairments through automated sound.

 The Department’s approach to E&D is underpinned by School, College and University policy
 (REF5a 3.4.5). An E&D Officer on the School Management Team and School Executive (where
 the Department is represented) is involved in policy-making and reports directly to the HoS. This
 officer checks that the business conducted at Executive Meetings and all research policies, such
 as the Department Research Strategy, are E&D-compliant. In addition, all School-level
 committees have a required gender balance, and diverse gender representation is mandatory on
 recruitment panels. All staff are required to complete online E&D and unconscious-bias training
 courses. As regards REF outputs, those of UoA32 were read and assessed by mixed-gender
 reading groups and, at School level, were scrutinised for E&D bias in accordance with the
 University’s Code of Practice.

 PGR training and supervision

 PGR student numbers continue to grow, with 33 registered in 2020/21(22 PhD, 6 MRes; 5 MA
 by Research) rising from 24 in 2014/15), and with 13.2 doctoral degrees awarded in 2014–20,
 compared to 10.5 in 2008–14. The unit benefits from membership of the AHRC Midlands4Cities
 (formerly M3C) consortium, winning 5 PhD studentships since 2014, plus an AHRC
 Collaborative Doctoral Studentship (Wilson) in partnership with the Oxford University Museum of
 Natural History. A further M4C-CDA, with the National Trust, is on the topic of ‘Slavery and
 Empire on Display at Charlecote Park, Warwickshire’. The new MA Art History and Curating
 programme acts as a feeder for students undertaking research in curating and exhibition

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cultures (Wilson). Four scholarships were provided by CAL, on the basis of open competition.
 CAL also offers a PhD bursary for Art History, the Haywood Scholarship. The introduction of
 Distance Learning PGR has added further research students (4), who are funded to visit the
 University once each year of study and are encouraged to attend other events. The
 Department’s approach to recruitment of PGR students aligns with the University’s commitment
 to E&D (Athena Swan Bronze).

 The establishment of research streams has given greater coherence and vitality to the unit’s
 PGR body, bringing students together for events aligned with those streams, enhancing a sense
 of community, and sharpening the Department’s appeal in student recruitment. Current research
 topics reflect the increasingly global nature of research. Subjects include architectural heritage in
 modern Romania (Minea), gender representation in contemporary Middle Eastern art
 (Sarjoughian), Chinese calligraphy in art (Xie), art in European and American department stores
 (Thom), art and design at the Oxford Museum of Natural History (Goulston), British female
 poster designers (Savage), and church design in Counter-Reformation Venice (Trend).

 PGRs are supported by a robust framework for monitoring and enabling progression (REF5a
 3.2). All PGRs have monthly meetings with supervisors, and complete annual Development
 Needs Analysis forms, to identify areas of knowledge and training which may be supported by
 centrally provided courses. A mentorship programme provides additional staff support separate
 from formal supervision, and research-training courses delivered by the University Graduate
 School provide skills development (for example, the Postgraduate Certificate in Advanced
 Research Methods & Skills). The School’s Research Student Director monitors student
 progression annually, and supervisors guide PGRs through annual progress reviews, the one at
 the end of the first year involving submitted work assessed by cross-School panels. At
 Department level, the Director of PG research runs regular work-in-progress seminars and helps
 students form reading and research groups. PGRs benefit, too, from dedicated research space
 in the Main Library, and can also use dedicated IT facilities offered by the College Graduate
 School at the Westmere Postgraduate Researcher Hub (REF5a 3.2).

 PGRs are actively encouraged to participate in the intellectual life of the Department and School.
 All are strongly advised to attend Department workshops, contributing as respondents to papers
 or presenting chapters of theses for peer-discussion with critical friends. In 2019/20, all
 Research Lunches included PGR attendees as respondents, and 25% of lunches were devoted
 to PGR work-in-progress. At School level, PGRs are encouraged to engage with research
 students from other disciplines through participation in a formal programme of inter-departmental
 seminars. These are themed to reflect the School’s WordMusicImage research agenda; the
 School’s 2019 PGR conference, ‘Spaces in Time’, featured a paper by Matthews. They enable
 students to speak about their own research, as well as instilling interdisciplinary awareness and
 developing presentational skills.

 Career development is further supported by teaching and research-sharing opportunities. PGRs
 are routinely employed, with appropriate training, in teaching first-year UG seminars and
 marking first-year essays. They are encouraged to establish research connections beyond the
 School, and, with funding from the College’s Graduate School, they can participate in
 conferences and training opportunities outside of the University, including studying at
 universities abroad. They are encouraged and supported to engage with ‘Research/Curate’, a
 student-led, cross-disciplinary network (with Jones as academic advisor) offering the opportunity
 to publish research online. They are urged, too, to connect with local galleries and publish in
 MAP. These initiatives resulted in articles on the naïve painter Alfred Wallis and on railway

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 posters (Savage, 2018/19 & 2019), and on gender binaries in the work of Yazmin Boyle (Lyons,
 2018/19). The success of the PGR environment is reflected in the notable achievements of
 recent graduates. Hannah Higham (2014) is now a much-published curator at the Henry Moore
 Studios and Gardens, Hertfordshire. Jamie Edwards (2017) moved from Oxford Brookes
 University to a lectureship at the University of Exeter, and has been invited to stage a
 forthcoming exhibition at the Barber on Bruegel. Imogen Wiltshire (2017) is now a Research
 Fellow at the University of Leicester, having been awarded repeated research grants on art
 therapy by the Wellcome Trust.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income

 A key goal in 2014 was to improve income through grant capture, especially to facilitate larger-
 scale projects and expand the critical mass and range of researchers in the unit. This goal
 was met, and research income to a value of £1,073,308 was gained during the current REF
 period, a substantial increase from the £386,624 in REF2014. External funding has facilitated
 the completion of several major research initiatives, including major monographs by Hemsoll
 (Leverhulme Fellowship and Villa I Tatti residential professorship) and Vinzent (fellowships from
 Max Weber Kolleg, Erfurt). External funding also supports L’Estrange’s continued research on
 the 16th-century author Anne de Graville (Paris Institute for Advanced Study), and Jones’s work
 on the intersection of sculpture and the decorative (Henry Moore Foundation publication and
 conference grants). Carroll’s project, in collaboration with the Royal Museums, Greenwich, was
 supported by a Sackler-Caird Trust Fellowship, and Rampley’s on pre-WW1 Central European
 museums was awarded a Leverhulme Project Grant (£286,602), and attracted 2 post-doctoral
 research fellows. Rampley then secured ERC funding (£1,928,405) for a project on Central
 European interwar art and architecture involving four research fellows, which encouraged
 Hnídková to come to Birmingham on a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowship. Other
 supporting bodies include the German Academic Exchange Service (Smith) and the Paul Mellon
 Centre for British Art (Hatchwell, Jones and Salter).

 Funding applications are central to the Department’s strategic planning for research, with agreed
 targets set in individual PDRs. Staff from the College’s Research & Knowledge Transfer Office
 and the University’s EU and International Research Support Office provide individual
 applications with tailored guidance, as well as workshops on funding bodies and research grant
 writing. This, with School support (see §2), has been crucial to Department success, and
 underpins future plans to secure income.

 To build on recent successes, Department strategy is now for all staff to have applied for at least
 one major award to support research over a 6-year period from 2020. Those involving
 collaborations with non-HEI organisations will expand partnerships already established (see §4),
 with some aimed at securing the appointments of post-doctoral research assistants. Projects
 currently in development linking to the Canons research stream are ‘Nabi Politics: Art at the
 Vanguard of Debate after 1888’ (Berry), ‘Words That See for Us: Art Writing and Modernism in
 the Local Museum’ (Hatchwell), ‘Delineating Antiquity’ (Hemsoll with the Sir John Soane’s
 Museum), ‘Decentring Medieval Women’s Book Culture’ (L’Estrange), ‘Erotic Visual Cultures in
 Weimar and Nazi Germany’ (Smith), and ‘The Production of Modern Art through Gallery
 Dealership in Twentieth-Century London’ (Vinzent). An emerging pattern here concerns the role
 of art-writing, documentation and exhibition cultures in the formation of canons. Projects tying in


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with ‘Nationalism/ Imperialism’ are ‘Property in the Process of Decolonisation and Repatriation
 from Europe’ (Carroll), ‘Crossing Borders and Defining Nations: The Reception of Foreign
 Sculpture in 19th-Century World Exhibitions’ (Jones), ‘Making the Global City: Manufacturing,
 Museums, and Material Culture in Birmingham and the World, 1700–1900’ (Nichols with BMAG),
 ‘Queer British Art’s Global Histories since 1945’ (Salter with BMAG). An overarching theme is
 the cross-national approach to the study of art and its histories.

 Infrastructure and facilities

 The Barber Institute and the University’s rich scholarly infrastructure support research in the
 Department. The Barber’s remarkable collection is of national significance and comprises some
 16,000 items of largely European art, including paintings, sculptures, prints and drawings, objets
 d’art and coins. It houses gallery and display areas for temporary exhibitions, coin and print
 study rooms, an art reference library, a lecture theatre and seminar room, and photographic and
 digital resources. The collections, and access to them, have expedited important research
 projects by academics, including Berry’s substantial loan exhibition on Vuillard (2018–19) and
 the related publication. This research formed part of the Barber’s exhibition strategy, which
 brings together international academics and curators to shed new light on its collections through
 an annual exhibition and accompanying scholarly catalogue. The Barber’s facilities also enhance
 research. The lecture theatre and seminar room serve as dedicated venues for many
 Department research events, while the publicly-accessible art library, funded by the Institute’s
 Trustees and housing material acquired by them (c.60,000 volumes), also supports acquisitions
 beneficial to research.

 Previously dispersed across three buildings, the Department is now almost entirely
 accommodated – thanks to the University’s recent investment in it – in a suite of new offices
 inside the Barber and in close proximity to its resources. This facilitates productive interactions
 across the Department and with Barber staff, to the benefit of current projects and joint future
 initiatives. Following a recent agreement with the Barber, future initiatives will follow a
 coordinated approach to focus, timing and planning, and entail curatorial input, such as into
 ‘decolonising’ the Barber collection, and increased collaboration in public engagement over
 research relating to the collections. The Department’s increased involvement has resulted in the
 scheduling of loan exhibitions on the German modernist artist Lotte Laserstein (Smith, 2022) and
 on medieval ivories (L’Estrange, 2022).

 In addition to these resources, research is supported and generated by collections and
 resources available across campus. The University’s Research and Cultural Collections (RCC;
 linked to the Department via MAP) includes collections of fine and decorative art, archaeology,
 and University heritage, and the Danford Collection of West African art and artefacts (REF5a
 4.3). These resources offer significant infrastructure and facilities for developing and enriching
 Department research priorities, such as the Danford Collection in relation to Carroll’s focus on
 decolonisation. They provide material for new research, such as a recent MRes, highly pertinent
 to the Canons stream, on the immigrant Birmingham artist Hans Schwartz (Hill), co-supervised
 with RCC and drawing on their collections. An online collections database brings together these
 and Barber objects, while the College provides IT support for such research and for designing
 websites such as MAP’s.

 The University Library, occupying a new building that opened in 2017 with state-of-the-art study
 rooms, extensive storage facilities and extended opening hours, is one of the largest academic
 libraries in the country. With a collection of 2.7 million items, including over 50,000 scholarly

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 journals (electronic and print), and access provided to 275,000 e-books, it provides a sound
 basis for art historical (and interdisciplinary) research (REF5a 4.3). Library Services affords Art
 History with a subject-specific librarian, who develops relevant resources. It also provides
 research students with formal training, ensuring library resources are used well, and supports
 them with research skills, such as academic writing, enhancing research profiles and
 disseminating research effectively. The Cadbury Research Library holds extensive collections of
 rare books and manuscripts, and archives of historic material, including Lawrence Alma-
 Tadema’s photographic archive of antiquities and architecture, the Mingana Collection of Middle
 Eastern Manuscripts, and European religious books and manuscripts. These provide a research
 foundation for future research projects (for example, L’Estrange’s new work on gender and book
 ownership) that contribute to the Canons stream.

 The Department benefits from its close proximity to the rich artistic and scholarly resources
 available in the city, such as IKON (collaborating in three recent conferences) and Birmingham
 Museums and Art Gallery. BMAG houses some 800,000 objects, with major holdings of
 European and British old-master paintings and sculptures, and a current emphasis on acquiring
 and exhibiting contemporary British art, as well as extensive collections of decorative arts and
 material from South Asia, Africa and Oceania. BMAG thus offers much scope for the
 Department’s research streams, particularly in respect to a resurgent research into British and
 non-Western art. Its collections have prompted PGR student Matthews’s interdisciplinary
 cataloguing project, and Nichols’s decision to focus on BMAG as a case study in her current
 research project on manufacturing and material culture in Birmingham.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Collaboration with non-HEIs is fundamental to the unit’s overall research strategy and the
 effectiveness of its research streams (§1). Partnerships, especially with museums, bring the
 critical questions addressed by the research streams into dialogue with a range of institutions
 and publics. Such questions concern 1) the constructing and contesting of canons and the
 effects this has had; and 2) urgent debates on art and the relationship of cultural heritage to
 nationhood and empire.

 Since 2014, the unit has significantly expanded its external research partnerships. This has
 resulted in the devising of museum displays and staging of public exhibitions, the generation of
 open-access research, and the production of policy documents for the museum sector. It has
 thus been instrumental in assisting partner institutions to promote their collections and activities,
 and to engage with wider publics of many kinds, through exhibitions and associated events,
 and through the development of sustainable curatorial strategies for museum displays fit for
 current or incipient cultural needs.

 At local and regional level, MAP (led by Nichols and Hatchwell) takes advantage of the rich
 array of nearby resources and expertise through sustainable collaboration with 13 partner
 institutions. Some are city-based: the Barber Institute, the University’s Research and Cultural
 Collections, Birmingham Museums Trust (the umbrella for the city museum and art gallery –
 BMAG – and other city museums), and the Royal Birmingham Society of Artists. Others are
 located elsewhere in the region: Coventry’s Herbert Art Gallery and Museum; Dudley Museum
 and Art Gallery, Leamington Spa’s Art Gallery and Museum, Leicester’s New Walk Museum and


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Art Gallery, Stoke-on-Trent’s Potteries Museum and Art Gallery, Walsall’s New Art Gallery and
 Wolverhampton Art Gallery. The network has continued to expand through the addition in
 2018/19 of the Derby Museum and Lincoln’s Usher Gallery. Other partnerships include those
 with IKON and Compton Verney. Through MAP and its research streams, the Department helps
 to generate new knowledge on diverse collections (of both fine art and other material) that often
 are ignored in scholarly investigation, while also addressing the wider national and global
 histories under which these institutions and collections were formed. MAP provides museums
 and galleries with a research capacity otherwise unsustainable, because of significant
 budget reductions and greatly-limited operational abilities, by way of its online open-access
 journal, which provides a forum for new research with contributions from curators, academic staff
 and students.

 Collaborative initiatives inform museum and gallery strategies and underpin the organising,
 hanging and displaying of their permanent collections, as will be seen in the planned rehang of
 BMAG’s permanent collection (2020 onwards). Collaboration with BMAG has resulted in PGR
 placements, and other partnerships have led to the curation by Department researchers of
 exhibitions at Walsall’s New Art Gallery (‘Wanting to Say: Finding a Place in the Past’: Salter and
 Nichols, 2017) and Wolverhampton Art Gallery (‘Reframing the Wild: Humans, Animals and Art
 1750-1950’: Shaw and Nichols, 2019). A recent agreement with ArtUK helps to ensure that MAP
 research reaches national audiences; each year, 2-3 articles are also published (along with
 other staff contributions) on ArtUK’s website.

 Among other local alliances, that with the Barber (§2), hitherto aligned mainly with the Canons
 research stream, has facilitated exhibitions such as Berry’s on Vuillard (2019), and the planned
 exhibitions on Lotte Laserstein and medieval ivories. The Department’s proposed contribution
 towards ‘decolonising’ the Barber collection, however, is underpinned by the
 Nationalism/Imperialism stream. The Department is now working with the Barber to forge a
 new partnership for research collaboration with Compton Verney. Partnership with IKON has
 spawned three conferences: ‘Czech Questions’ (2016) and ‘Käthe Kollwitz’ (2017) and ‘Art on
 the Move: Mobility in the Long Nineteenth Century’ (2018). The Kollwitz conference coincided
 with an IKON exhibition of the artist’s work and a related exhibition at the Barber on
 Expressionist prints and drawings (2017–18). Hatchwell’s involvement with local partnerships via
 MAP has been extended to the national level through the launch of a sub-group of the Tate’s
 British Art Network on ‘Post-war British Painting in Regional Collections’ (funded by Tate/Paul
 Mellon Centre/Arts Council England). This sub-group provides another forum for sharing cutting-
 edge academic research with the museum and gallery sector. A notable outcome of MAP activity
 was the redistribution of artworks formerly owned by Derby County Council to accredited
 museums across the country. Further regional ties have been made; for example, through a
 local partnership with the National Trust, resulting in a workshop co-organised by Nichols (2018)
 in preparation for the Trust’s 2022 research theme ‘Legacies of Colonialism’.

 Collaboration nationally and internationally has been energised by the research streams.
 Rampley’s project ‘Promoting National and Imperial Identities: Museums in Austria-Hungary
 1867–1918’ entailed working with the University of Vienna, the Museums of Applied Art in
 Budapest, Vienna and Prague, and the Hungarian National Museum. This pioneering
 transnational study into museums of design and industry in the Habsburg Empire and their
 economic and social impact has since resulted in a monograph (Rampley et al., 2020).
 Rampley’s subsequent project, ‘Continuity/Rupture: Art and Architecture in Central Europe
 1918–39’, likewise profited from these same institutional connections. Carroll’s work on
 restitution and post-coloniality has involved collaborations with the Royal Museums, Greenwich,

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Tate Modern, the British Museum and the Pitt Rivers Museum in Oxford, and also with the
 National Gallery in Victoria, Australia, and Te Papa in New Zealand. Her research saw the
 inauguration at Greenwich’s National Maritime Museum of the Heritage Lottery-funded ‘Pacific
 Encounters’ gallery (2018), which placed new critical focus on the UK’s imperial expansion. It
 facilitated the ground-breaking repatriation of 32 objects to their source communities in New
 Zealand. Related work for Tate Modern has informed the gallery’s decision to develop a new
 collection of Australian art with emphasis on appropriate indigenous perspectives. Carroll’s new
 project with partners in Germany, France, Austria and Mexico will work on repatriation cases
 with government departments and mediate between communities of claimants. Other initiatives
 saw Vinzent, as an Adjunct Professor at Korea University (2010–15), curate an exhibition on
 performance art at the university’s Ilmin Centennial Memorial Museum and the Waidspeicher
 Galerie in Erfurt in 2016. Research by Smith into marginalised German art of the interwar years
 informed an international exhibition on the contested legacy of the art dealer Wolfgang Gurlitt
 and his ties with National Socialism (Linz 2019; Würzburg 2020). Smith contributed an essay to
 the exhibition catalogue (2019), and another on popular culture, art and alterity to the catalogue
 of the international exhibition ‘Into the Night: Cabarets and Clubs in Modern Art’ (Barbican 2019;
 and Vienna 2020). She then wrote and presented a 15-minute radio programme on the Weimar
 Republic (BBC Radio 3, ‘The Essay’; 2019).

 Links with the National Portrait Gallery, previously established by the Barber Institute, are being
 extended (since 2020) through a project on the emigration to Britain and early work of Lucian
 Freud (M4C-funded PhD studentship application). Hemsoll’s collaboration with London’s Soane
 Museum will result in a new catalogue of a significant group of architectural drawings and an
 exhibition scheduled for 2022/23.

 Wider influence and contribution to the sustainability of the discipline

 Department staff have also set up subject-specific networks of art historians, historians
 and other professionals engaged in congruent research areas. Nichols brought established
 and early-career academics together in work that resulted in a co-edited volume on the cultural
 and social legacy of the 1851 Great Exhibition (After 1851; 2017). This grouping also resulted in
 a second co-edited volume, on the interaction between nineteenth-century British art and
 industry (Art Versus Industry?; 2019). Jones brought together a group of scholars, augmented
 with curators and artists, to explore wide-ranging connections between sculpture and the
 decorative arts, seventeenth-century to contemporary, which again resulted in a co-edited
 collection (Sculpture and the Decorative, 2020).

 Staff are regularly solicited as experts to comment on grants and publications by a wide
 range of national and international bodies. These have included institutions drawing on
 Departmental expertise in the politics of cultural heritage, such as the International Council on
 Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS); bodies that facilitate international collaboration, such as the
 National Humanities Center, North Carolina, USA, and the German Academic Exchange Service
 (DAAD); and bodies that draw on the Department’s interdisciplinary work on nationalisms, such
 as Fonds zur Förderung der wissenschaftlichen Forschung (Austrian Science Fund), Fonds
 national de la recherche scientifique (Belgium), the European Science Fund, European
 Research Council, the National Science Foundations for Poland, Croatia and the Czech
 Republic, and Deutsche Forschungs Gemeinschaft.

 Staff have given major plenaries and invited lectures at numerous institutions of international
 standing: UK – Darwin Lecture, University of Cambridge (Carroll); Italy – I Tatti, Florence

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Hemsoll), Università del Salento at Lecce (Vinzent); the Palladio Museum, Vicenza (Hemsoll);
 Germany – Freie Universität, Berlin (Vinzent), Staatliche Museen zu Berlin (Smith), University of
 Bonn (L’Estrange), Max Weber Kolleg, University of Erfurt (Smith, Vinzent); Switzerland –
 University of Geneva (L’Estrange), Kunsthistorisches Institut, University of Zurich (Vinzent),
 Accademia di architettura, Università della Svizzera italiana, Mendrisio (Nichols); USA – J. Paul
 Getty Museum, Los Angeles (L’Estrange), Loyola University, Chicago (Vinzent), Busch
 Reisinger Museum, University of Harvard (Rampley); Australia – Daphne Mayo Lecture,
 University of Queensland (Carroll), University of Melbourne (Nichols).

 Two staff members serve or served as journal Lead Editors: Berry (Oxford Art Journal; since
 2017) and Hemsoll (Architectural History; 2014–17). Two others are editorial board members:
 Carroll (Third Text) and L‘Estrange (Renaissance Studies). L’Estrange is advisory-board
 member for the series ‘Early Social Performance’ published by ARC/Amsterdam University
 Press; Jones for the series ‘Material Culture of Art and Design’ (Bloomsbury Academic) and
 Vinzent for the series ‘SpatioTemporality’ (De Gruyter). Woodfield, as Honorary Professor, is
 editor of the Journal of Art Historiography and series editor of ‘Studies in Art Historiography’
 (Routledge). Staff act as readers for a wide range of internationally-recognised journals (Art
 Bulletin, Art History, Journal of the Warburg and Courtauld Institutes, Renaissance Studies,
 Sculpture Journal, Third Text) and scholarly publishers (Amsterdam University Press, University
 of California Press, Manchester University Press, MIT Press, Penn State University Press, Yale
 University Press).




                                                                                           Page 15
