Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Wolverhampton

 Unit of Assessment: 3 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 How Research is Structured across the Unit

 Research in Unit of Assessment (UoA) 3 is facilitated through the Research Institute in Healthcare
 Science (RIHS), a multidisciplinary, cross-Faculty research institute (RI) with members drawn from
 the Schools of Science (22 staff), Pharmacy (12 staff) and Medicine & Clinical Practice (9 staff) in
 the Faculty of Science and Engineering (FSE); and the Caring for Lifelong Health Research Centre
 (11 staff) situated in the Faculty of Education, Health and Wellbeing (FEHW). The number of
 Category A staff submitted to REF2021 has increased by almost 70%, from 32 returned in
 REF2014 to 54 (47.3 FTE) in the current submission, reflective of significant levels of investment
 in staff and infrastructure by the University.

 The research objectives of RIHS have continued to evolve in response to national and global
 healthcare priorities and are reflected in a restructuring in 2018 to build larger, multidisciplinary
 research groupings that are organised around four themes in areas of key strengths, detailed
 below and in Figure 1. Research objectives in these themes are delivered by subgroups focusing
 on specific aspects of each integrated portfolio. Each subgroup is led by a senior staff member
 with support from academic colleagues, postdoctoral researchers, postgraduate research
 students (PGRs) and technicians. There is considerable complementarity both within and between
 research themes and this matrix model provides a stimulating and vibrant environment for staff
 and students who are able to contribute to multiple research subgroups in different themes. RIHS
 has also initiated a range of cross-disciplinary research programmes with University colleagues in
 Psychology, Computer Science, Engineering, Social Policy, Sports and Art, recognising that this
 type of collaborative effort is critical to successfully tackle complex health issues (Figure 1 and
 Sections 1.3, 1.4).




                                                                                         Digital Heath
                Molecular       Communicable                                             and Medical
               and Clinical     Disease and Infection                                    Technology
                Medicine        Control


                              RIHS                            Rehabilitation         UoAs
                                                                               3, 4, 11, 12, 20,
                                                                                    24, 32

              Pharmacology      Public Health
                  and           and Healthcare
              Pharmaceutics     Delivery
                                                                                   Patient-centred Care




       Figure 1. RIHS core research themes and developing inter-disciplinary collaborative
                                        programmes




                                                                                                          Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research in RIHS is informed by service users and patient beneficiaries through the University’s
 Public and Patient Involvement and Engagement (PPIE) group, RESULT (Research Enabling
 Service-Users and the University to Learn Together), established in 2015 to promote the interests
 of patient and public representatives in health research.

 RIHS’ core research themes comprise:

 Molecular and Clinical Medicine (Armesilla, Attridge, Barrow, Basu, Brookes, Clark, Conner,
 Cotton, Churchill, Day, Dunmore, Gama, Goggolidou, Kirkham, Moore, Morris, Nicholl, Ojo,
 Omar, Patel, Pillay, Steed, Tang, Wang, Warr)
 Research in this theme is focused on understanding cellular and molecular mechanisms
 underpinning biological and clinical aetiology of chronic disease (cardiovascular disease; chronic
 obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD); ciliary disease; diabetes; inflammatory bowel disease)
 and cancer (bone, breast, brain, colorectal, lung, myeloma, pancreatic, renal, metastases) and the
 development of novel targeted therapeutic strategies. Complementary workstreams include
 investigations of inflammatory and immune response; interactions with tissue microenvironment
 and microbiome; and establishment and validation of new, representative pre-clinical disease
 models.

 Communicable Disease and Infection Control (Bartlett, Basu, Brookes, Dunmore, Gibson,
 Heaselgrave, Low, Manning, Morrissey, Omar, Rahman, Roberts)
 This theme encompasses research in a diversity of novel anti-microbial strategies to combat
 infectious disease including optimisation of antimicrobial effectiveness in chronic wound care;
 antimicrobial resistance in respiratory infections and impact of pneumococcal vaccines; diagnosis
 and treatment of Acanthamoeba keratitis and contact lens disinfection; and molecular aetiology of
 food-borne pathogens including Campylobacter and Clostridium, and use of probiotics to reduce
 infections in the food chain. Researchers are also developing novel ex-vivo systems to model
 microbial infections.

 Pharmacology and Pharmaceutics (Armesilla, Ball, Elsaid, Heaselgrave, Howl, Jones, Kaialy,
 Low, Moore, Morrissey, Nicholl, Ojo, Rahman, Tang, Wang, Warr, Wright)
 In this theme, researchers are engaged in drug design, formulation and delivery innovations to
 advance research findings generated in the Molecular Medicine and Communicable Disease
 themes as well as pursuing independent research strands. There is an emphasis on drug
 repurposing and repositioning in addition to the design, synthesis and evaluation of novel drug
 analogues. Strategies to improve bioavailability of therapeutic compounds include utilisation of
 delivery mechanisms (nanotechnology, liposome encapsulation and bioportides) and
 enhancement of physiochemical and mechanical properties of pharmaceuticals. A relatively new
 workstream focusses on novel biotherapeutics including cell secretomes and microbiomes.

 Public Health and Healthcare Delivery (Antoun Rey, Ball, Barratt, Bond, Chen, Drozd, Jester,
 Jutlla, Lim, Matheson, Morrissey, Murandu, Pillay, Purewal, Rahman, Steed, Thomas)
 The emphasis of this research theme is to investigate the causes of disease and health inequality
 using population-bases methodologies and to improve healthcare service delivery and practice.
 Workstreams include epidemiology, medication adherence and patient-centred communication to
 enhance management of chronic, non-communicable disease (cardiovascular disease, cancer,
 COPD, dementia, diabetes, psychiatric disorders, stroke) in community and primary care settings;
 chronic wound care and models of service delivery; and nutrition support and medication
 behaviour in parenteral fluid systems.

 RIHS also accommodates research in Forensic Science, with a focus on molecular anthropology,
 microbiological taphonomy and forensic genetics (Rogers, Schmerer, Whitehead).




                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Research Objectives Past and Future and Performance

 The overarching vision of the research undertaken in RIHS is to understand human disease at
 cellular, individual and population levels and to use this knowledge to improve survivorship and
 quality of life and care. In 2014, research in UoA3 was predominated by a relatively small number
 of laboratory-based disciplines and hence, the RIHS research strategy outlined in REF2014
 focussed on consolidation of areas of strength in biomedicine and pharmacology and developing
 opportunities for translation of academic research activities to address healthcare problems.

 Considerable progress has been made towards achieving this aim through the enhancement of
 our strategic partnership with the Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust (RWT). The University and
 RWT have a proven track record of collaboration since 2010 in a small number of important clinical
 disciplines (cardiovascular disease, gastroenterology, diabetes, oncology) and the University has
 provided investment of GBP 1 million from its Research Investment Fund in the current REF cycle
 to strengthen translational medical and clinical research. The appointment, in 2019, of 7 RWT
 Consultants to fractional Professorial academic positions in Clinical Medicine at the University
 (Basu, Brookes, Churchill, Cotton, Gama, Pillay, Steed) and a programme of jointly-funded PhD
 studentships between the University and RWT has strengthened existing networks and provided
 new opportunities for RIHS to engage in health research, particularly in clinical biochemistry,
 haematology, neonatology, obstetrics and pharmacy practice. Additional new collaborations have
 been established with clinical consultants in RWT and other NHS Trusts (including Birmingham
 Women’s and Children’s NHS Foundation Trust; Dudley NHS Foundation Trust; Sandwell and
 West Birmingham NHS Trust; University Hospitals of Derby and Burton NHS Trust) in the fields of
 infectious disease, COPD, kidney disease and cancer diagnostics.

 RIHS has also expanded its research portfolio to introduce new complementary disciplines in
 patient-facing healthcare practice, public health and clinical epidemiology with the appointment of
 11 new staff in these areas, including three Professorships (Learning and Teaching-Health, Bond;
 Nursing, Jester; Pharmacy Practice, Ball). These new research programmes have advanced the
 evidence base of health care practice, informed the development and provision of innovative cost-
 effective services and ultimately impacted positively on patients’ experiences and outcomes as
 detailed in Section 1.3.

 In 2018, University signed a MoU with West Midlands Ambulance Service which has now become
 the first University Ambulance Trust in the UK. Members of RIHS are working with the new Trust
 on research initiatives in clinical practice, major incident response and management and clinical
 data management. Joint research is developing beyond healthcare projects to encompass cyber-
 security, workforce planning and transport modelling.

 Our strategy for 2021-2026 will build on these successes to deliver research that is innovative and
 impactful, and that aligns with the global, national and regional health objectives of Horizon
 Europe, UK Research and Development Roadmap and the West Midlands Combined Authority.
 In addition to strengthening research portfolios in our four core themes, we will also engage in
 forward-looking, multi- and inter-disciplinary research programmes to achieve patient benefit,
 including:

    1) In partnership with colleagues in UoA11 (Computer Science) (detailed in Section 1.4) and
       UoA12 (Engineering), we will grow the Digital Health and Technology programme with
       integrated workstreams to include:
          using artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) to interrogate large
            biological data sets derived from ‘-omics” platform analyses of tissue in multiple
            diseases. Molecular data will be integrated with clinical image analysis (MRI scans,
            X-rays, pathology micrographs) to develop novel prognostic and predictive patient
            stratifications of disease progression and response to therapy
          developing portable/wearable, non-invasive sensors for continuous measurement
            and monitoring of biomarkers eg glucose levels, SpO2, heart rate, blood pressure


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
             employing additive manufacturing to develop novel antimicrobial materials to reduce
              infection transmission in healthcare settings.

    2) We will expand our collaboration with colleagues in the Sport and Physical Activity
       Research Centre (SPARC), the Centre for Psychological Research, and computing to
       develop a new research area of Rehabilitation with workstreams including:
         efficacy of exercise in chronic disease with RIHS members providing expertise in
            longitudinal tracking of molecular markers; use of patient reported outcome and
            experience measures; and development of e-learning materials for healthcare
            practitioners
         influence of psychological and socio-economic factors on patient acceptability of
            interventions and development of education tools to effect behavioural change
         creation of software tools to support recovery and self-management of long-term
            conditions.

    3) Together with colleagues in from the Institute for Community Research and Development
       and key stakeholders and beneficiaries in the University’s RESULT group and regional
       NHS Trusts, we will progress our work in Patient-centred Care. In addition to our core
       research subgroups, we will collaborate in a programme to investigate patients’ digital
       abilities and exclusion from digital models of healthcare delivery. We will also expand
       provision for PPIE, including increasing the numbers and diversity of the membership of
       RESULT.

 Underpinning these objectives is our commitment to continue to invest in the RIHS research
 community for all members through:
         increasing external income by 30% over the next REF cycle, with an emphasis on
            responding to Horizon Europe, NIHR and UKRI funding calls that are compatible with
            our research objectives, detailed in Section 3.1
         enhancing opportunities for staff development, increasing the number of promotions
            and timely succession planning to retain expertise and ensure sustainability of
            research disciplines
         increasing our PGR recruitment from 25 to 40 enrolments per year, whilst continuing
            to provide a stimulating and supportive environment.


 1.3 Impact from the research and the link to Impact Case Studies

 RIHS is predicated on the concept of enabling staff with complementary skill sets across academic
 and clinical disciplines to work together to address complex healthcare challenges and to facilitate
 impact. The implementation of the thematic research groupings and the formalisation of our
 research collaboration with RWT have enhanced the opportunities for successful translation of
 applied healthcare research into practice, evidenced in our 4 submitted Impact Case Studies
 (Enhancing professional practice and public understanding of end-of-life care and organ donation,
 ICS Organ Donation; Enhancing person centred care through improving clinical communication,
 ICS Communication; Improving the wellbeing of populations at risk of digestive and eating
 disorders, Digestive Health; Improving health and wellbeing of patients with cancer through
 exercise-based rehabilitation, ICS Cancer Exercise ) and wider contributions.

 Influencing and informing healthcare practice guidance and policies
 RIHS researchers engage with professional organisations, including the National Clinical
 Research Networks (NCRN), National Institute of Clinical Excellence (NICE), Public Health
 England (PHE), the Royal Colleges and regulatory bodies, to facilitate approval and
 implementation of recommendations into official policies. Contributions to the development of
 national and international guidelines include:
       NICE guidelines on “Organ donation for transplantation: improving donor identification and
         consent rates for deceased organ donation” (ICS Organ Donation) and “Shared decision
         making” (ICS Communication)

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       NICE recommendation of the ‘Quality of Life Wound Checklist’ and its adoption within the
        Manchester University NHS Foundation Trust Leg Ulcer Pathway (ICS Communication)
       PHE guidance documents for supporting dysphagia in people with learning disabilities (ICS
        Digestive Health)
       Royal College of Nursing national competencies for orthopaedic and trauma nursing (ICS
        Communication)
       UK Government guidance for the oral care of people with intellectual disabilities (ICS
        Communication)
       Conception and development of the consensus statements for Inflammatory Bowel
        Disease (IBD) standards for UK NHS trusts (ICS Digestive Health)
       International expert consensus guidelines on parental provision of micronutrients in adult
        and paediatric patients (Ball; Morrissey https://doi.org/10.1002/jpen.1525;
        https://doi.org/10.1002/jpen.1990)

 Training and education of healthcare professionals
 Research has contributed to the enhancement of delivery of healthcare provision in a number of
 disciplines and settings including:
      Development of an award-winning specialist training programme by CanRehab UK
          (www.canrehab.co.uk) to deliver a Level 4 award in Cancer and Exercise Rehabilitation
          using evidence from a Cochrane review (ICS Cancer Exercise )
      Creation and delivery of an exercise-based cancer rehabilitation programme at Dudley
          NHS Foundation Trust hospitals (ICS Cancer Exercise )
      The Stork programme which delivers training to neonatal healthcare professionals and
          directly to parents/carers (detailed in Section 4.2)

 Raising awareness in key beneficiaries and enhancing public understanding
 Dissemination of research outcomes to patients and public audiences has been achieved through
 diverse routes including:
      Development of patient information booklets and online self-help materials for patients with
        binge eating disorder (ICS Digestive Health)
      The “Living in Silence” art exhibition which used innovative, mixed media approaches to
        destigmatise and improve understanding of chronic IBD in the female South Asian
        population in Wolverhampton and the surrounding regions in collaboration with the
        University of Wolverhampton Art School (ICS Digestive Health)
      Creation of the unique organ donor memorial sculpture, ‘The Gift of Life’, situated outside
        the entrance to the Emergency Department at New Cross Hospital, Wolverhampton (ICS
        Organ Donation)
      Television, radio and press reporting of
             organ donation awareness and communication strategies targeting BAME
                communities (ICS Organ Donation)
             development of novel non-hormonal male contraception (detailed in Section 4.3)

 In addition to the pathways described above, we anticipate that during the next REF cycle, impact
 will be realised through commercialisation and licencing of new therapeutic products as the
 underlying research programmes in disease biology and drug design and delivery mature,
 including those for which patents are already held by the University (detailed in Sections 4.1 and
 4.3).

 1.4 Supporting Interdisciplinary Research

 RIHS recognises that interdisciplinary collaboration is integral to the achieving the strategic
 objectives outlined in Section 1.2. New co-operative partnerships developed in the REF census
 period include:
      The Patient Communication Group, bringing together expertise from RIHS, Psychology,
         Education and Linguistics, has focussed on clinical consultations, shared-decision making


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        and person-centred care, culminating in the ICS “Enhancing person centred care through
        improving clinical communication”.
       RIHS and SPARC have developed a collaborative programme of work around exercise as
        medicine, with these synergies leading to the submission of the ICS “Improving health and
        wellbeing of patients with cancer through exercise-based rehabilitation” and the award of
        University Research Investment Funding for an ambitious programme of interdisciplinary
        work to investigate cancer and rheumatoid arthritis (commencing 2021).
       Clinical and laboratory members of the gastroenterology research sub-group in RIHS are
        working with analytical chemists, health psychologists and artists to improve diagnosis and
        quality of life in patients with IBD and enhance public understanding of this condition. The
        University is also funding a new project in this sub-group “An Innovative Diagnostic Test
        for Bile Acid Malabsorption in Crohn’s Disease Patients (ID-BAM)” to commence in 2021.
       A series of multi- and inter-disciplinary research programmes is planned between RIHS
        and colleagues in computing as detailed in Section 1.2. One project, using AI and ML to
        build data models to predict iron deficiency anaemia in pregnancy, has commenced and is
        supporting a new PhD studentship jointly supervised between computing and RIHS.


 1.5 Progress towards an Open Research Environment

 The University provides a robust platform for providing green-route open access to all research
 published through our repository (WIRE) and staff are active in the free sharing of research data,
 methodologies, reagents and expertise where this does not conflict with the University’s IP using
 appropriate repositories. All RIHS staff have received training in using the research information
 system (Symplectic Elements) and WIRE and compliance with Open Access is regularly
 monitored within the Unit and forms a key aspect of the appraisal system for research active staff.


 1.6 Supporting a Culture of Research Integrity

 RIHS is committed to maintaining the highest levels of research integrity and adheres to the five
 principles of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and DORA, to which the University is a
 signatory. Details of all University research policies, procedures and guidelines are circulated to
 RIHS staff, including all updates and revisions by the University’s Research Integrity Manager.
 Research integrity objectives are included in staff appraisals and the annual progress review of
 PGR students.

 All research staff receive the Handbook for Ethical Approval and Practice Procedures as part of
 induction and all staff research is required to undergo ethical review by either the Life Sciences
 Ethical Committee in FSE or the Health Ethics Committee in FEHW depending on the subject
 matter of the proposal. All PGR research projects are subject to scrutiny in the same way as staff
 projects, thus exposing doctoral students to the principles of ethics at an early stage of their career
 through constructive feedback. In addition, all research in health and social care undergoes high
 level scrutiny by the University Sponsorship Sub-Committee before institutional sponsorship is
 granted, prior to application for HRA ethics and R&D approval.


 2. People

 Staff and PGR students are integral to the research environment of RIHS. The RI promotes a
 holistic, inclusive culture in which the research activities undertaken by academic staff and PGR
 students are augmented by honorary and visiting fellows and underpinned by the strong and well-
 coordinated support of dedicated teams of staff from Technical Services, the Research Policy Unit,
 Finance and the Project Support Office (detailed in Section 3.2).




                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1 Staff Strategy

 2.1.1 Staffing development and recruitment
 RIHS applies the principles of the University’s Research Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Staff for which the University was awarded the European Commission’s HR
 Excellence in Research Award in 2012, with successful re-accreditation in 2016. This includes a
 workload model with research time allocations for academic staff ranging from 50% to 11% of total
 time including:
      Scholarly and Research Activity workload hours of 180-620 hours (800 hours for
         Professors) based on performance criteria of quality of research outputs, evidence of
         impact, external research funding, internal and external service
      180 hours of protected time for Self-Managed Research and Scholarly Activity
      up to 200 hours to support the research of new staff, often ECRs, to support their
         integration

 All RIHS staff are assigned a research mentor and further CPD and training opportunities are
 identified and actioned through the annual appraisal process. This provides a sustainable
 research structure within which to nurture junior staff member and facilitate succession planning.

 Full-time and part-time staff at all stages of their careers are eligible to apply for research or
 sabbatical leave. One member of staff was funded with 60 hours study leave to complete 4
 manuscripts from their professional doctorate research (Drozd). RIHS has supported several staff
 with travel and subsistence to visit external institutions in the UK and overseas for periods of up
 to 4 weeks to undertake collaborative research and training and complete discreet pieces of work
 (Armesilla; Goggolidou; Jester; Jones; Kirkham; Nicholl; Wang). RIHS has also funded members
 of the technical support team to attend research development training. QR funding is available to
 support all staff to attend UK and international conferences if they are presenting authors, invited
 speakers or attending as a societal committee member or other official representative and in the
 census period, RIHS has provided funding of >GBP70,000 to support these activities.

 RIHS offers opportunities for staff to engage in internal service and contribute to shaping University
 research policy through representation of the RI on multiple research committees including
 University Research Committee (Bond, Warr); Doctoral College Advisory Board (Morris); Faculty
 Research Committees (Ball, Bond, Goggolidou, Jones, Matheson, Morrissey, Warr); Research
 Awards Sub-Committee (Warr); Researcher Development Concordat Sub-Committee
 (Goggolidou; Jester); University Ethics Sub-Committee (Warr).

 In 2018, 3 members of RIHS (Ball, Walker, Warr; 2F:1M) attended the University’s five-day
 Academic Research and Innovation Leadership Programme, based in the UK and Brussels and
 organised by the Project Support Office to maximise EU opportunities pre-Brexit and to develop
 strategic thinking for EU/R&I funds post-Brexit. Subsequently, Ball contributed to a Horizon2020
 MSCA-ITN-2019 bid with a consortium based in Denmark, Northern Island, Norway and Sweden.

 There have been 36 new Category A appointments in the Unit during the census period covering
 all disciplines and comprising 67% of submitted staff. Appointing panels give due consideration
 to the research discipline and interests of applicants and these staff have been recruited to
 strengthen and enhance the ongoing research strategy and objectives in RIHS (outlined in Section
 1.2) in addition to fulfilling curriculum commitments. Shortlisting and interview panels are balanced
 for gender and ethnicity. Ten positions were at Professorial level (4F:6M; 4 BAME), with 5 new
 Readerships (2F:3M; 1 BAME) and 21 appointments made at L/SL (10F:11M; 11 BAME).

 There have also been 10 internal promotions including 1 to Senior Lecturer (Thomas; 1F), 4 to
 Reader (Dunmore, Goggolidou, Jones, Walker; 3F:1M) and 5 to Professor (Chen, Kirkham, Tang,
 Warr, Wang; 1F:4M; 3 BAME). With these new appointments and promotions, the overall
 demographic profile for staff in the Unit comprises 16 Professors (5F:11M; 6 BAME), 10 Readers
 (4F:6M; 1 BAME) and 28 L/SL staff (13F:15M; 13 BAME), all of whom are employed on permanent
 contracts.

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.1.2 Support for staff at the beginning of their careers
 Staff are eligible to apply to the University’s Staff Scholarship Scheme to cover fees for doctoral
 degree programmes, with an annual allocation of 70 workload hours to support completion. During
 the census period, the scheme has delivered one professional doctorate completion (Drozd) and
 one PhD completion (Eshareturi) with two further members of staff currently enrolled within the
 Unit.

 The University provides an Early Researcher Award Scheme (ERAS) as an opportunity to secure
 seed core grant funding and deliver a research project that will yield publications and/or
 development of funding opportunities, coupled with a targeted career development programme.
 Successful applicants receive a research budget of GBP5,000, 300 workload hours, research
 skills workshops, action learning sets and dedicated mentoring support. Since 2014, 7 ERAS
 fellowships have been awarded to members of RIHS in areas including immunosuppression in
 cancer, delivery of chemotherapeutic, biopharmaceutical and antimicrobial agents, forensic
 taphonomy, and caring for dementia patients (Attridge, Clifford, Kaialy, Low, McConville, Rahman,
 Rogers). As a direct result of their ERAS programmes, these staff have collectively produced 14
 peer-reviewed articles, secured external research income of GBP198,000 and supervised 18 PhD
 students as DoS,

 In 2020, Clark was awarded GBP10,000 as one of the first Lord Swraj Paul Early Career Research
 Fund Fellowships for the project “The Molecular Details of the Human Bodies Fight Against Aging
 and Age-Associated Disease” and is leading this interdisciplinary project with collaborators from
 RIHS (Nicholl) and University of Leicester’s Institute of Structural and Chemical Biology (Dr
 Christos Savva).

 All RIHS early-career staff are nurtured within one or more of the 4 research themes and are given
 opportunities to join PGR supervisory teams as appropriate. They also receive priority allocation
 of PhD studentships funded by the RI or University. The Doctoral College offers a comprehensive
 Research Supervisor Development Programme covering all aspects of postgraduate degrees
 including student well-being, supporting international students (currently comprising 30% of PGR
 students in RIHS), and conducting or chairing doctoral examinations. The Early Career
 Researcher (ECR) development programme provides 30 workshops annually and drop-in
 sessions to support ECRs in the preparation, delivery and dissemination of research. Early-
 career staff are eligible to apply for seed research funding from RIHS of up to GBP20,000 in their
 first year of appointment.

 2.1.3 Procedures to stimulate and facilitate exchanges between academia and business,
 industry or public or third sector bodies
 Alongside the appointment of 7 Clinical Professors (detailed in Section 1.2), opportunities to
 increase translational healthcare research have also been strengthened through the award of
 Honorary and Visiting appointments to NHS consultants including 6 Professorships (Bayliss-Pratt,
 Nursing and Interprofessional Education; Kirk, Paediatric Research; Livingston, Clinical
 Biochemistry; Middleton, Public Health; Singh, Metabolic Disease); and 2 Senior Lectureships
 (Ford, Clinical Science; Min, Chemical Pathology). These are augmented by the appointment of
 Honorary Research Fellows based in UK HEIs (Maslin, Public Health; Matheson-Monnet,
 Healthcare Innovation; Salman, Cellular Neuroscience). There are also numerous additional
 ongoing collaborations between RIHS staff and NHS medical and healthcare practitioners,
 detailed in Sections 1.2 and 4.1.

 The present Chair of the West Midlands (Black Country) REC is a member of staff in FEHW and
 provides invaluable guidance regarding the NHS ethical framework and preparation of successful
 applications through IRAS to both PGRs and staff.

 RIHS staff also regularly host placements for academics and PGRs from HEI in the UK and
 overseas for periods of up to 6 months, as part of formal exchange schemes, to conduct
 collaborative work or to access to equipment and research expertise at the University. These

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have included a 12-month Visiting Scholarship for a senior academic from the Affiliated Hospital,
 North China University of Science and Technology; a 6-month placement for an Erasmus+ project
 (UNIPHARMAGRADUATES) scholarship awarded by La Sapienza University in Rome; an
 elective placement for a medical student registered at Exeter University; Clinical Research
 Fellows; NIHR-funded Clinical Research Interns; and multiple visitors from UK and international
 HEIs.

 RIHS advocates the appointment of external members to PGR supervisory teams where their
 expertise and experience can augment that of UoW staff. External second supervisors have
 supported 28 PhD programmes during the census period (including 6 completions) and include
 NHS consultants and international health practitioners; former UoW staff members; and
 academics from UK and international HEIs and industry (e.g. Bristol Laboratories Limited; Medical
 University of Bahrain; University of Colorado; University of Nottingham; University NSW, Sydney).

 2.1.4 Recognising and rewarding staff for carrying out research and for achieving impact
 RIHS has nominated staff members for the Vice-Chancellor’s annual Staff Excellence awards in
 the categories of Outstanding Contribution to Research (Howl, Runner up 2017; Wang -
 Experimental Cancer Therapeutics Research Group, Winner 2018); Excellence in Partnership
 (Walker, Runner up 2016); and An Extra Mile (Rosalind Franklin Technical Services Team, Runner
 up 2017). In 2017, Howl and Jones were awarded the Vice Chancellor’s Special Award for their
 pioneering research using cell penetrating peptides to modulate sperm motility and potentially
 develop new forms of male contraceptive or enhanced fertility treatments.

 Research success and impact are disseminated throughout RIHS via email newsletters and to the
 wider University community and externally through regular news features on the University
 website and in Research Matters, the UoW quarterly publication that celebrates research success
 and opportunities. This magazine has featured numerous articles submitted by RIHS to highlight
 research activities of its staff and PGRs, including seminal publications, grant income and peer
 recognition.


 2.2 Research Students

 Our vibrant PGR student community is a valued component of the research environment in RIHS.
 Monitoring of progress of PGRs and support for their professional and personal development is
 embedded in the culture of the RI in order to maximise successful and timely completion of
 research degrees and to enhance future career pathways for our students.

 In the 2019 PRES survey, the University’s JACS1 Discipline Other Health Subjects scored highly
 and was placed in the 2nd quarter for Supervision (ranked 12th out of 45); Research Culture (ranked
 15th out of 45); Professional Development (ranked 22nd out of 45); and Overall Satisfaction (ranked
 19th out of 45). The areas for improvement highlighted in the 2019 PRES survey have been
 incorporated into the RIHS PRES action plan (Section 2.2.3).

 In the census period, there have been 40 PhD completions and 85% of these graduates have
 secured employment related to health in HEIs, NHS Trusts or industry (Section 2.2.4).
 Collectively, this cohort of students have 62 peer-reviewed journal articles, including 33 with a
 PGR as leading author and 31 with multiple PGR authors.

 2.2.1 Recruitment of doctoral research students
 In addition to the 40 PhD completions to July 2020, a further 84 PGR (78 PhD and 6 MPhil)
 students are currently registered in RIHS. The growth in recruitment is reflective of the increase
 in numbers of research-active staff across all disciplines in the Unit and also the introduction of
 staggered start dates for PGRs throughout the year. In addition, the flexibility of part-time
 registration facilitates participation in PGR degree programmes for individuals with extenuating
 personal circumstances, including caring responsibilities, financial considerations and
 requirement to maintain professional practice in the NHS. Approximately 20% of the current cohort

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of PGR students are studying on a part-time basis. Short-listing and appointment panels for PhD
 studentships are balanced for gender and ethnicity where possible.

 2.2.2 Evidence of studentships from major funding bodies
 Investment by the University, RIHS, UK research charities and NHS Trusts partner organisations
 has provided 17 fully-funded PhD bursaries during the census period. This includes 8 PhD
 studentships for which external funding was matched by RIHS. Although a significant number of
 PGR students have been funded by overseas government bursaries, there has been a progressive
 shift towards self-funding for PGR degrees for both home and overseas students and in 2020,
 50% of our PGRs are self-financed. Approximately 30% of our current PGR cohort are
 international students.

 2.2.3 Monitoring and support mechanisms linked to evidence of progress and of successful
 completions
 More than 80% of staff with significant responsibility for research are involved in PGR student
 supervision. The Director of Studies (DoS) is supported by additional members of staff with
 appropriate subject knowledge and this structure enhances academic, technical and pastoral
 support for PGR students and also provides opportunities for less experienced members of staff
 to develop and refine their supervisory skills. External supervisors may be appointed when
 appropriate to augment the expertise of University of Wolverhampton staff in the team. New
 members of staff undertake mandatory University research supervisor training and all supervisors
 are required to undergo periodic refresher sessions. The supervisory team meets at least monthly
 with the student (bi-monthly for PT students) to provide strategic oversight of the project and to
 ensure that the student is fully appraised of their progress and provided with feedback on a regular
 basis. Time for supervisory meetings is an integral component of the workload allocation model
 for the DoS and secondary supervisors and details of each meeting is recorded by the DoS. Each
 student participates in the Annual Progress Review process during which 2 independent academic
 staff assess their progress in data gathering and primary research; personal skills development;
 and research dissemination and impact over the preceding 12 months. As part of this review, all
 students complete a Personal Development Plan and a training needs analysis and these are
 reassessed throughout their degree programme.

 The progress of PGR students is overseen by the RIHS or FEHW Research Student Board (RSB)
 which convenes bi-monthly. Membership of the Board comprises the Director of RIHS (Associate
 Dean for Research in FEHW), the Postgraduate Research Tutor, the Research Support Tutor, the
 Research Skills Tutor, 10 additional academic staff covering all areas of research and
 representatives from the University’s Doctoral College and Registry. The RSB considers and
 approves applications and enrolments; co-ordinates and monitors progression of PGRs including
 the APR process; monitors supervisory meeting records; scrutinises proposed examination
 arrangements; assesses skills training provision; monitors progress of the RIHS PRES action plan;
 and considers additional new initiatives to improve PGR provision tabled by RSB members or
 PGR representatives.

 2.2.4 Support for skills and career development
 In 2014, the University founded a Doctoral College that has overall responsibility for PGR student
 activity, governance and compliance across the University and provides an extensive programme
 of generic research skills and personal development training, detailed in the Institutional
 Environment Template, Section 3.2. In response to the 2019 PRES survey, RIHS is delivering
 discipline-specific training after canvassing the student body for their needs; these include
 bioinformatics and statistical analysis of large data sets; and ethical frameworks for research in
 health.

 RIHS hosts a monthly external seminar series that is open to all staff and students, with eminent
 invited speakers from the UK and Europe. In 2019, RIHS implemented a new, mixed format PGR
 seminar series to provide opportunities for students to develop research and presentation skills
 and network with their peers and academic staff in a supportive environment. In each session,
 there are a variety of presentation formats and topics to suit all stages of research degrees

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 including data presentations; journal club papers; novel technologies; and conference
 posters/orals, giving PGRs an opportunity to practise accepted abstract presentations for external
 meetings. Skills sessions are incorporated into the seminar series and Alumni PhD students are
 invited to present their postdoctoral research being undertaken at their new institutions. PGR
 students chair these sessions, providing a valuable opportunity to develop this complementary
 skill set. During COVID restrictions, the PGR seminars were held weekly online to facilitate remote
 communication and cohesion in the RIHS community. PGR students are also strongly
 encouraged to present their research at the University of Wolverhampton Annual Research
 Conference.

 RIHS recognises the importance of conference participation for PGR students in order to
 disseminate data and network with members of the research community in their specialist areas.
 The RI encourages and supports PGR students to apply for external travel grants but if these are
 unsuccessful, RIHS provides funding for students to attend at least one conference during their
 period of registration. A number of PhD students in RIHS have been awarded prizes for the
 presentation of their research at scientific conferences: SET for Britain Silver Prize, 2016
 (Kannappan DoS Wang); Poster Competition Prize British Lung Foundation Alumni Conference
 2016 (Kannappan DoS Wang); Best student abstract prize, NCRI Cancer Conference, 2017
 (Nkeonye, DoS Wang); runner up best science poster prize, British Neuro-oncology Society
 Annual Conference, 2018 (Blakeway, DoS Warr). Other student awards include first prize for
 original research Asian Case Report & Original Article Competition, 2018 (Subasinghe, DoS
 Morrissey).

 RIHS also encourages research placements for short periods of time for PGRs using the national
 and international collaborative networks of RIHS staff members and appropriate funding from
 learned societies or from RIHS. Recent placements include;
      2 months at Sichuan University, Chengdu, China, 2018 (Butcher, DoS Wang)
      3 weeks at the Warsaw Military Institute of Medicine, Poland, 2018 (Trela, DoS Attridge)
      multiple 2-3 day visits over 4 months to the Centre for Nephrology, Royal Free Hospital,
        University College London, 2018 (Richards, DoS Goggolidou)
      2 weeks with Professor Murphy’s group at the Sir William Dunn School of Pathology,
        University of Oxford, 2019 (Richards, DoS Goggolidou)
      6 weeks in the laboratory of Dr Juan Miguel Redondo at CNIC, Spain, 2019 (Khan, DoS
        Armesilla)

 PGRs have expressed how invaluable they found the experience of working in different laboratory
 environments and research cultures:

 Butcher: “I would like to thank you for this truly invaluable experience as the challenges I have
 faced throughout this journey have furthered my confidence both as a scientist and in myself”.

 Richards: “These opportunities have opened new avenues for me to explore during my PhD, given
 me access to new materials and machinery that I do not have access to at the University of
 Wolverhampton and has been valuable to my personal development as a researcher”.

 Khan: “I am so grateful to have been presented with the opportunity to visit a research institute
 dedicated purely to cardiovascular research. Seeing the expertise practiced in the CNIC has been
 invaluable for my project and my future career as a researcher”.

 In the census period, RIHS has provided funding of >GBP40,000 to PGRs to support these
 activities.

 PGRs are encouraged to disseminate their research to a diverse audience of stakeholders; for
 example, representatives of charities and other funding bodies; clinical practitioner; MPs and
 journalists; and non-specialist members of the public during Open Days and outreach events.
 RIHS plans to provide additional opportunities for PGRs to engage with service users and a lay
 community through the University’s PPIE Group, RESULT.

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The quality of PGR provision in RIHS is evidenced by the career trajectory of our PhD graduates.
 A significant proportion of the students who completed since 2014 have undertaken postdoctoral
 research (40%) or secured academic positions (20%) at universities including the Babraham
 Institute, Cambridge; Imperial College London; Kaduna State University, Nigeria; North Western,
 Chicago, USA; Queen Mary University, London; Ruhuna University, Sri Lanka; and San Jose
 State University, USA. A further 25% of graduates returned to clinical practice or gained
 employment in the pharmaceutical industry.
 2.3 Equality and Diversity

 RIHS values the diversity in its staff and PGR student population and continually scrutinises issues
 of equality and diversity in all its activities. Staff and students are eligible to engage in all
 appropriate opportunities, regardless of whether they are employed on FT, PT, permanent or fixed
 term contracts or studentships. In 2016, RIHS produced a gender equality action plan (GEAP)
 with the target of increasing gender parity in all research staff and a ratio of 40:60 in the RIHS
 Readership/Professoriate by 2020. Staff recruitment and development were also monitored for
 ethnicity. As a result of these activities, the proportion of female staff has increased from 31% in
 the REF2014 submission to 41% in REF2021 and similarly, the number BAME staff has increased
 from 22% to 37% in the current REF cycle. The RI supports the University’s Leadership
 programmes for under-represented groups, and since 2014, 4 women and 3 BAME staff have
 been promoted to Reader and/or Professor, resulting in a RIHS research leadership profile
 comprising 35% women and 37% BAME staff, compared to the UK average of 28% female and
 18% BAME Professors reported by HESA for 2019/20. The current RIHS leadership profile also
 compares favourably to 2014, when the RIHS Readership/Professoriate comprised only 9%
 women and 9% BAME staff, although the RI recognises that further improvements are necessary.
 The University REF Code of Practice was followed in selecting the output portfolio, paying due
 regard to equality and diversity considerations whilst safeguarding confidentiality. The current
 PGR cohort comprises 60% female and 69% BAME students.

 RIHS also monitors equality and diversity considerations in opportunities for development for
 researchers at all career stages, including support for ERAS applications; training; promotion;
 invitations to present keynote lectures and Chair sessions at internal research conferences;
 representation of RIHS at University Committees and Panels; and distribution of internal research
 funding. The RIHS RSB scrutinises the composition of PGR supervisory teams to promote gender
 balance and equality of opportunity to contribute to supervisory activity. In 2014, 47% of
 supervisory teams were gender balanced and this has risen to 52% in 2020, with a further 11% of
 female only supervisory teams. RIHS tries to assign female researchers to female mentors where
 possible whilst ensuring that these individuals are not overloaded to the detriment of their own
 research career. The programme of invited presenters for the RIHS External Seminar Series is
 reviewed to ensure gender and ethnicity balance.

 RIHS supports flexible and remote working patterns as appropriate to engender participation and
 inclusion in research activities, retain experience and facilitate succession planning, particularly
 for individuals with caring responsibilities or underlying health conditions. Internal meetings and
 other events are scheduled within core working hours and RIHS facilitates attendance at
 conferences and other external events for staff and PGRs with extenuating circumstances through
 provision of additional funding to cover travel during peak periods and daily registration costs. In
 the census period, three members of staff were granted a permanent reduction in hours due to
 caring responsibilities or as preparation for phased retirement.

 Line managers meet with staff before and after maternity, paternity or adoption leave to ensure
 that they are fully informed of University provision and support and to remind them of opportunities
 to work flexibly or to reduce working hours. Individuals are also given the option of participating
 in Keep-in-Touch days, at their discretion. Four members of staff have returned to work on pre-
 maternity hours and 1 member of staff was granted a permanent reduction in hours. A further
 member of staff was permitted to move from 0.8FTE to FT hours following a change in personal
 circumstances. Similarly, staff returning after career breaks, or long-term illness, may request to


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 change hours temporarily or permanently and phased return to work following long-term illness is
 managed via a referral to the University’s Occupational Health provision.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Funding and Strategies for Generating Research Income

 In the current REF cycle, research income totalled GBP1,983,069, a small shortfall compared to
 that for REF2014 (GBP2,367,039) and this is possibly attributable to changes in staff profile with
 a significantly higher proportion of early career staff submitted to REF2021. However, we have
 increased funding by EU government bodies from GBP13,707 to GBP325,570, including 2
 prestigious Marie Sklodowska-Curie Actions (MSCA) Fellowships:
      NANODISCAN (EU FP7-PEOPLE EUR299,558)
      DEMAIRPO (Horizon 2020 EUR195,454)

 We have sustained our successful track-record of funding from UK-based charities, totalling
 GBP1,054,721 and accounting for approximately 50% of research income for REF2021. The
 majority of these awards have been secured in open competition from disease-specific charitable
 organisations and support laboratory-based projects. We will continue to seek funding from these
 sources; however, we recognise that the overall funds available from UK charities may be
 constrained in the short to medium-term as a consequence of the COVID pandemic. During the
 2021-26 REF cycle, we will explore opportunities for income generation from key funders who hold
 research strategies and programmes that align with our research objectives, particularly those that
 invite cross-disciplinary, collaborative proposals. These include
       Horizon Europe 2021-27 (MSCA; Global Challenges and European Industrial
         Competitiveness Pillar II-Health; Missions- Cancer)
       Wellcome Trust (Mental Health and Infectious Disease Programmes)
       NIHR (Research for Patient Benefit and Research for Social Care Programmes;
         Antimicrobial Resistance)
       UKRI (MRC - Better Methods, Better Research; EPSRC – Healthcare Technologies).

 Income from PGR research support fees was significantly elevated from GBP45,791 in REF2014
 to GBP220,100, reflecting the growth in doctoral registrations, including self-funding students. We
 anticipate further increases in this funding stream over the next 6 years as we expand our PGR
 provision.


 3.2 Organisational Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact

 Research activities in RIHS are underpinned by essential central infrastructure from the University,
 particularly with regard to research governance and integrity, finance and impact. Research
 support services include:
      the RPU which maintains oversight and governance of research policies and procedures
         (as referenced in Sections 1.5 and 1.6)
      the Doctoral College which administers PGR degree programmes and supports staff and
         PGR development and training (as referenced in Sections 2.1 and 2.2)
      the PSO which provides support and management for funded projects pre- and post-
         award.

 Information regarding health-related external funding opportunities is provided by one of the PSO’s
 dedicated Funding Information & Research Officers to the Director of RIHS on a weekly basis, for
 dissemination to relevant staff. The PSO also supports research staff through its Project Bidding
 Development Team to assist with bid preparation and submission, including budget costings and
 quality assurance; and the Project Management and Governance Team which provides post-
 award services. RIHS also benefits from assistance from Faculty Project and Bidding Support
 Managers and from a dedicated Management Accountant who administers all research budgets
 in the RI. The Director of RIHS and senior researchers meet monthly with the assigned Impact

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Officer to review all aspects of research impact in the RI including research design, partnerships,
 dissemination and training.

 Staff benefit from the support of the University Intellectual Property Manager in preparing patent
 applications and in the development of commercialisation of their research, with indicative
 examples in Sections 4.1 and 4.3. RIHS has a dedicated administrator with responsibility for
 organising internal and external research events and staff travel; and for managing the RIHS RSB
 (Section 2.2.3).


 3.3 Equality and Diversity

 The Rosalind Franklin Building (RFB), which houses RIHS research laboratories, is fully
 accessible for individuals with impaired mobility. The Director of RIHS and the technical services
 team regularly review infrastructure, equipment, Codes of Practice and Standard Operating
 Procedures to identify any modifications or revisions that would enable staff or students with
 physical disabilities to engage in research.


 3.4 Research Infrastructure

 3.4.1 Provision and operation of specialist research infrastructure and facilities
 The University has invested significantly in new infrastructure to support research in RIHS. Since
 2014, laboratory-based members of RIHS occupy purpose-built accommodation, on the 4th and
 5th floors of the new RFB on the City Campus in Wolverhampton. This GBP 25 million, 7000m2
 building houses both teaching and research laboratories together with research support facilities
 and flexible exhibition space for outreach work and activities aimed at the public understanding of
 science. Space for research is greatly expanded over that which was available before 2014, with
 enlarged facilities for pharmacology and microbiology research including a new fermentation suite.
 The research laboratories are supported by an experienced technical team with responsibility for
 the support of the building and general research infrastructure including:
      Safety cabinets, flow hoods and incubators
      Cryogenics
      Autoclave sterilisation
      Human Tissue Authority and Ionising Radiation compliance
      Waste handling and consignment
      Electrical safety compliance
      Specialist gases
      Consumable and specialist research ordering and storage

 The University committed a further GBP 2 million to provide major pieces of equipment including
 facilities for:
      Confocal, fluorescence, laser-capture dissection and scanning electron microscopy
      Mammalian cell culture and manipulation including dedicated facilities for Genetically
          Modified Organisms
      Genetic analysis, including molecular cytogenetics, sequencing and Q-PCR
      Microbiology including class I and class II containment
      Flow cytometry
      Physiological analysis, including pulmonary function, respiratory VO2 / VCO2 and non-
          invasive blood pressure
      Pharmacy tableting instrumentation
      Chromatography, including High Performance Liquid Chromatography, Liquid
          Chromatography Mass Spectrometry and Gas Chromatography
      Thermogravimetric Analysis
      Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (Inductively Coupled Plasma and Infrared Spectroscopy


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Technical staff with specific experimental skills provide maintenance, training and
        operational support for equipment detailed above.


 3.4.2 Cross-HEI shared or collaborative use of research infrastructure
 RIHS staff and PGR students make extensive use of collaborative agreements with other HEIs in
 the UK and overseas to access expensive and/or specialist research facilities, including:
      In-line size-exclusion chromatography small angle X-ray scattering (SEC-SAXS) at the
        Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Lightsource, Stanford University; and Neutron spin echo
        spectroscopy at the Institut Laue-Langevin, Grenoble resulting in 2 publications,
        Biophysical Journal 115(4):642-654 (2018); PNAS 116(43):21545-21555, 2019 (Nicholl)
      nLC-QTOF mass spectrometry at Aston University (Attridge)
      Cryo-electron microscopy at the Institute of Structural and Chemical Biology, University of
        Leicester (Clark)
      ChIP-Seq at the Dunn School of Pathology, University of Oxford (Goggolidou)
      Zebrafish models at the Bateson Centre, Sheffield University leading to a significant
        publication, Nat Commun. 2019 Feb 13;10(1):732. doi: 10.1038/s41467-019-08590-7
        (Armesilla)
      in vivo rodent models of disease at multiple institutions including Imperial College London;
        MRC Harwell; Queen Mary University, London; University of Cardiff; University of Central
        Lancashire; University of Leeds; University of Manchester; University of Rochester, USA;
        and University College London, leading to 8 peer-reviewed publications submitted to
        REF2021 (Armesilla, Goggolidou, Kirkham, Warr, Wang)
      Access to tumour biopsy samples at the Walton Centre, Liverpool and Royal Preston
        Hospital Joint Tissue Bank through a reciprocal MoU agreement which underpinned
        income generation of GBP336,000 from UK charities (Morris, Warr).


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Arrangements and Support for, and Effectiveness of, Research Collaborations, Networks
 and Partnerships

 RIHS staff collaborate extensively with researchers throughout the UK and globally with notable
 success as evidenced in selected examples:

       Howl and Jones have a long-standing collaboration with Professor Margarida Fardilha’s
        team at the University of Aveiro, Portugal, to develop and characterise STOPSPERM
        bioportide technologies for the control of male fertility and to identify cell penetrating
        bioportides that may selectively induce apoptosis in prostate cancer cells. Joint grant
        funding has been awarded to support this research from the Portuguese Foundation for
        Science and Technology (EUR194,317 in 2016: EUR110,000 in 2019) and EPIC-XS
        Horizon 2020 European Funding for Research and Innovation (EUR25,000 in 2019).
        Intellectual property arising from this research is protected via two patents co-owned by
        the Universities of Wolverhampton and Aveiro (Peptides modulating sperm motility by
        modulating the phosphoprotein phosphatase 1C, International Patent Application No.
        PCT/GB2018/052046; PPP1CC2 interactome-derived bioportide technologies for the
        control of sperm motility and male fertility, UK Patent Application No. 1711620.3). Howl is
        a member of the supervisory team for 2 PhD students registered at University of Aveiro.

       Pillay is the Chief Investigator of a multicentred national study, OptiPrem: Optimising
        neonatal service provision for preterm babies born between 27 and 31 weeks of gestation
        using national data, qualitative research and economic analysis awared by the NIHR
        HS&DR Health Services and Delivery Research (HS&DR) programme (2017-2021). Other
        participating institutions include the National Neonatal Research Database & Neonatal
        Data Analysis Unit; Imperial College, London; Nuffield Department of Population Health,

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        University of Oxford; and College of Health Sciences, University of Leicester. The study
        aims to assess best place of care (neonatal intensive care unit vs local neonatal unit) for
        preterm babies born between 27-31 weeks in England using analysis of morbidity and
        mortality outcomes, cost of care and social ethnography to assess parent and staff
        perspectives on place of care.

       The PANDA Programme (Primary prevention of maternal Anaemia to avoid preterm
        Delivery and other Adverse outcomes) is an NIHR-funded collaboration between Churchill
        and Professor Simon Stanworth, NHS Blood & Transfusion Service and Professor Marian
        Knight, National Perinatal Epidemiology Unit, University of Oxford investigate all aspects
        of care required to prevent iron deficiency anaemia in pregnancy and reduce low birth
        weight and preterm birth. The preliminary work, dose-ranging and behavioural research is
        centred in RWT under the supervision of Churchill as lead obstetrician prior to the
        commencement of a large multi-centre RCT.

       In 2019, Basu and Morrissey established the West Midlands Research Collaborative
        (WMRC). This group is hosted by University of Wolverhampton and NIHR facilitates a
        robust interface between academia and clinical colleagues from all major hospital trusts in
        the region (including Heart of England, University Hospital Birmingham, Coventry, City
        Sandwell, Russells Hall and University Hospitals North Midlands) in order to undertake
        collaborative research for haematological conditions.

 Staff within RIHS hold appointments in a wide variety of HEIs nationally and internationally
 including 9 Honorary or Visiting Professorships (Charles Stuart University, NSW, Australia (Ball);
 Anhui Medical University and Guangzhou Medical University, China (Chen); University of
 Southern Denmark (Jester); University of Messina, Italy (Kirkham); Heibei Union University and
 Postgraduate Medical School of the PLA, Beijing, China (Wang); Third Military Medical University,
 China (Wang, Warr). Five further members of staff hold Honorary or Visiting Senior Lectureships
 or Fellowships at UK and international HEIs (Armesilla, Goggolidou, Howl, Kaialy, Morris). Jester
 is International Advisor to the Hong Kong College of Orthopaedic Nursing.

 In addition to research collaborations detailed in Sections 3.4.2, and the Honorary positions
 detailed above, staff work in partnership with colleagues at the Centro Nacional de Investigaciones
 Cardiovasculares, Madrid; Medical University of Vienna,; Medicines Optimisation and Innovation
 Centre, Antrim, NI; Moorfields Eye Hospital; Sichuan University, China; Universidad de
 Extremadura, Badajoz, Spain; Universitas Islam School of Pharmacy, Indonesia; University of the
 Aegean, Greece; University of Birmingham; University of Cologne, Germany; University of Hull;
 University of Helsinki, Finland; University of Keele; University of Newcastle; University of
 Nottingham; University of NSW, Sydney, Australia; University of Oslo, Norway; University of
 Reading; University of Ruhuna, Sri Lanka; University of Southampton; University of Stockholm
 Sweden; University of Tromso, Norway; University of Umea, Sweden; University of Vig, Spain.


 4.2 Relationships with Key Research Users, Beneficiaries or Audiences

 Pillay is Programme Director for the STORK Collaborative, anchored in RIHS at the University.
 The STORK (Supportive Training, Offering Reassurance and Knowledge) programme is an
 interactive educational empowerment package, designed and developed for parents, carers and
 families. The training programme focusses on reducing risks for infant mortality with embedding
 on neonatal units. It has been publicised through the Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust
 (https://www.royalwolverhampton.nhs.uk/your-health/stork-reducing-the-risk-of-infant-mortality-
 in-wolverhampton/), and is now being taken up by NHS Trusts in neighbouring regions (Dudley,
 Shrewsbury and Telford, Worcestershire). The objective is to help partner teams in neonatal units
 to deliver a programme that is best suited to their local population through understanding key
 drivers for community uptake of messages around reducing the risks for infant mortality in the
 region and implementing change accordingly. Over 1,000 parents have received training in the
 Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust neonatal unit alone and has resulted in three parents being able

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to resuscitate their own baby (https://youtu.be/2PNu0KGsbh4). There are also online resources
 with the progressive web app for parents to use on their mobile phones
 https://storkforparents.goodbarber.app/ which has had 17,000-page views up to May 2020, of
 which 6,224 were unique sessions.

 Heaselgrave is the principal expert for the British Standards Institute (BSI) in the field of contact
 lens disinfection and UK representative at International Standards Organisation (ISO) meetings.
 He has worked with other international committee members to develop the new ISO 19045
 Acanthamoeba disinfection standard. He has also collaborated with Bausch & Lomb (one of the
 industrial members of the American National Standards Institute) to optimise the testing protocol
 for this standard.

 Additional engagement of RIHS members with industry includes:
     a Knowledge Transfer Partnership with Malvern Cosmeceuticals Limited (Innovate UK
        grant Novel Nanoparticle Targeting of Antimicrobials to Infected Diabetic Foot Ulcers), to
        develop novel lipid nanoparticles which can deliver antimicrobials directly into the wound
        (Heaselgrave)
     a Knowledge Transfer Partnership with Crestwood Environmental Ltd (Innovate UK grant
        KTP010076), to establish their Environmental DNA (eDNA) provision (Schmerer)
     consultancy to the pharmaceutical company PharmaMax Inc (Kirkham)


 4.3 Wider Contributions to Economy and Society
 Wang heads a team of cancer biologists and pharmacologists, who have been working since 2012
 to improve bioavailability and anti-cancer efficacy of the anti-alcoholism drug, disulfiram, in a range
 of different tumour types. Patent applications for novel nanoparticle-encapsulated formulations
 have been granted (‘PLGA encapsulated Disulfiram’, USA10695299, EP3370706,
 IN201827020712, CN108513543). In 2018, the University’s Knowledge Exchange Team (Pollard)
 provided support to establish a spin-out company, Disulfican Ltd, with financial investment from
 University of Wolverhampton and external investor Caparo PLC, to exploit IP assets developed in
 RIHS. Subsequently, Disulfican Ltd and its Chinese partner Suzhou Bank Valley Nanomaterials
 Ltd were awarded funding of GBP645,000 from the Jiangsu-UK Industrial Challenge Programme
 (co-funded by Innovate UK and Jiangsu Science and Technology Department in the People’s
 Republic of China) for the project “Formulation and testing of PLGA-DS as an anti-cancer therapy
 for FDA and EMA new drug application”.

 The research of Howl and Jones (detailed in Section 4.1) to use bioportides to selectively target
 post-testicular events and potentially develop a non-hormonal male contraceptive was reported
 widely in national and international press, radio and television. Howl and Jones participated in a
 BBC Radio 1 documentary “The Future of Contraception” and in Channel 4’s “Live Well for Longer”
 series, episode “Sex, Drugs and Alcohol”, and the BBC Horizon team to filmed this work being
 undertaken in the RFB for its episode “The Contraceptive Pill: How safe is it?”. As a result, the
 public awareness of issues around effective and safe contraceptive decisions has been raised,
 particularly in a younger audience.

 RIHS regularly hosts work experience placements for local A-level students (> 60) and for Nuffield
 project students (>30), nurturing the scientific minds of the future and providing inspiration and
 motivation for them to study life science or healthcare courses in UK HEIs. A research student
 exchange programme with three universities in India (PSG Institute, Coimbatore; VIT University,
 Vellore; SASTRA University, Tanjore) has also been established in RIHS, providing an
 opportunity for 15 (to date) overseas UG students to spend 6 months embedded in a research
 environment and contributing to ongoing laboratory programmes. RIHS staff have also contributed
 to STEM outreach and community engagement activities for local schools including a Science
 Lecture Series for 6th form students and “Female Role Models in STEM” events for year 5/6 pupils.




                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.4 Engaging with Diverse Communities and Publics

 The West Midlands BAME Research Group (led by Basu) has a membership of key staff from
 across Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust, University of Wolverhampton (Ball, Kirk, Morrissey),
 University of Birmingham and NIHR CRN West Midlands local NHS organisations representing a
 number of health specialities in secondary, primary and community care. The Group also has a
 lay representative from the NIHR CRN West Midlands Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Research
 Champions Group. The consortium was initially conceived to investigate the disproportionate
 impact of COVID-19 on BAME communities and has completed “The Uptake Study: Insights And
 Beliefs Of The UK Population On Vaccines During The Covid-19 Pandemic”:
 https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ZrcidF1cOgjyZzGAjZVK6SOVarFSWdKZ/view?usp=sharing
 https://drive.google.com/file/d/1nj93YuldQsB9G2x1dYubDLYh5MqrdrmK/view?usp=sharing
 Additional research streams include:
     ● Healthy ageing in BAME groups
     ● Local health inequalities, community engagement and participation in health research
     ● South Asian communities and the impact of Public Health England messages
     ● Access for BAME groups in postgraduate research study.

 RIHS engages with service users through the University’s PPIE group in healthcare research,
 RESULT. Members provide lay support to research activities in RIHS at all stages including
 development of research proposals and funding applications; help to inform the design of data
 collection tools; development of patient information leaflets; consent forms or other research
 materials; and review of ethical issues.


 4.5 Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline

 Churchill is a member of the Steering Committee for the James Lind Alliance Prospective Priority
 Setting Partnerships: Diabetes in Pregnancy, established between the National Perinatal
 Epidemiology Unit, University of Oxford, the James Lind Alliance, Diabetes UK, healthcare
 professionals (HCPs) and people who have lived experience of diabetes and pregnancy. The aim
 is to produce a top ten list of research questions that women, their support networks, and HCPs
 agree are the most important for research to address in diabetes and pregnancy. The top ten list
 will be shared with the public, research funders, national policy makers and clinical studies groups
 to inform their priorities and strategies for funding research.

 In 2019, Brookes undertook a survey in future trainees in Gastroenterology to support the
 development of the next generation of aspiring principal and chief investigators (Frontline
 Gastroenterology 2019;10:57-66) and he is now leading a wider engagement process with the
 Royal College of Physicians to investigate barriers to research engagement amongst newly
 appointed NHS Consultant Physicians.


 4.6 Indicators of Wider Influence

 4.6.1 Journal Editorships
 Kirkham is Editor in Chief for the Journal of Inflammation. Jester and Bond hold Deputy Editorships
 for the International Journal of Trauma and Orthopaedic Nursing and BMJ Health & Care
 Informatics, respectively. Bond is also a member of the Editorial Subcommittee of the Directory
 of Open Access Journals. RIHS staff serve on the editorial boards for a further 10 peer-reviewed
 journals.

 4.6.2 Participation on Grants Committees
      Brain Tumour Research, Scientific and Medical Advisory Board Member, 2013 – present
        (Warr)
      NIHR Research for Patients Benefit, Awards Committee Member, 2019 - present
        (Brookes)

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Guts UK, Awards Committee Member, 2015 - present (Brookes)

 4.6.3 Fellowships
 Members of RIHS hold Fellowships at the following institutions:
      Royal Society of Biology: Gibson; Jones; Kirkham
      New Zealand College of Pharmacists: Ball
      Royal Statistical Society: Chen
      Institute of Biomedical Sciences: Goggolidou; Heaselgrave
      Australian College of Pharmacy Practice: Morrissey

 4.6.4 Membership of Research Council or Similar National and International Committees
 Indicative exemplars of representation of RIHS staff on national and international committees
 include:
      British Society of Gastroenterology Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Committee Member
         2018- present (Steed)
      CHIVA (Children’s HIV Association UK), Steering Committee Member, 2020 - present
         (Pillay)
      Department of Health’s Task and Finish Working Group on Brain Tumour Research,
         Committee Member 2015 – 2017 (Warr)
      European Peptide Society, UK Council Representative, 2010 – 2018 (Howl)
      European Peptide Society, Scientific Affairs Committee Member, 2016 – 2020 (Jones)
      European Respiratory Society, Secretary of Group 5.1 Airway Pharmacology & Treatment,
         2015 - 2018 (Kirkham)
      Inflammatory Bowel Disease UK, National Board Member 2019 – present (Brookes)
      Innovative Medicines Initiative Horizon 2020 T3, Expert Panel Member 2019-2020
         (Matheson)
      Institut Laue-Langevin, Grenoble, College 8 (Biology), Sub Committee Member 2019-
         present (Nicholl)
      NCRI, Brain Tumour Clinical Studies Group, Novel Agents and Translational Research
         Sub-group Member, 2010-2016 (Warr)
      NIHR Gastroenterology & Hepatology Joint National Speciality Committee, Co-chair, 2019
         - present (Brookes)
      Royal College of Physicians Research, Committee Member, 2020 - present (Brookes)
      NCRI Clinical Research Network (CRN) Myeloma Subgroup, Committee Member 2012 -
         present (Basu)
      Royal College of Nursing (RCN) Society of Orthopaedic and Trauma Nurses, National
         Steering Committee Member 2013 – 2017 (Drozd)
      Prostate Cancer Research, Patient Advocacy Committee, Chair 2019 – present
         (Matheson)
      Royal Society of Chemistry, Protein and Peptide Science Group, 2014 – 2019 (Jones)
      West Midlands NIHR, Deputy Clinical Director, 2019 - present (Brookes)
      West Midlands Research Network GI Research, Specialty Lead and Chair, 2013 – present
         (Brookes)
      West Midlands NIHR Clinical Research Network, Clinical Research Lead for Haematology
         and Oncology (DIV1) (Basu)
      UK Obstetric Surveillance System, Steering Committee Member, 2014 - present (Churchill)

 4.6.5 Invited Keynotes, Lectures and/or Performances, or Conference Chair Roles
 RIHS members have presented > 40 invited or keynote lectures at prestigious national and
 international events including International Conference on Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical
 Science, Seoul, 2017, Parenteral Drugs Association, Berlin, 2017 (Ball); International Nursing
 Symposium, Riyadh 2019 (Bond); 1st International Conference on Environmental Factors and
 Public Health, Guangdong, China, 2017 (Chen); 27th American Peptide Symposium, Whistler,
 Canada, 2017, 34th European Peptide Symposium Leipzig, 36th European Peptide Society
 Symposium, Dublin, 2018: (Howl); 9th Biennial Orthopaedic Nursing Conference, International


                                                                                       Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Collaboration of Orthopaedic Nursing (ICON), Hong Kong, 2016 (Jester); 36th European Peptide
 Society Symposium, Dublin, 2018; FinMedChem, 2018 (Jones); World Inflammation Congress,
 London 2017 (Kirkham); World Orphan Drug Conference, Barcelona, 2017 (Wang).

 4.6.6 Refereeing Academic Publications or Research Proposals
 All RIHS staff review grant applications for national and international funding organisations and/or
 research articles for journals. Indicative exemplars of funding bodies include Biotechnology and
 Biological Sciences Research Council (Dunmore; Goggolidou; Moore); Brain Research UK (Warr);
 Childhood Cancer and Leukaemia Group (Warr); Economic and Social Research Council (Lim);
 Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (Tang); EU Horizon 2020 (Goggolidou);
 European Respiratory Society (Kirkham); Marie Sklodowska-Curie COFUND (Moore); Medical
 Research Council (Chen; Dunmore; Moore; Warr); NIHR (Brookes; Chen; Pillay); Prostate Cancer
 Research (Matheson); Rosetrees Trust (Warr); Royal Society of Chemistry (Moore).

 Examples of journals for which peer review has been conducted include Audiology and Neuro-
 Otology; BMJ Open; British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology; Dementia; International
 Psychogeriatrics; Journal of Advanced Nursing; Journal of Alzheimer's Disease; Journal of
 Molecular Medicine; Journal of Neuroscience; Journal of Neuro-Oncology; Molecular and Cellular
 Biology; Patient Education and Counselling; PLoS One; Scientific Reports.




                                                                                             Page 20
