Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Cardiff University
 Unit of Assessment 12: Engineering
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Context and structure
 The School of Engineering (ENGIN) is the largest School within Cardiff University’s College of
 Physical Sciences and Engineering with a headcount of 115 academic, 213 research and
 professional service staff and 207 registered postgraduate-research students. We are a thriving,
 supportive and inclusive international centre of scholarly excellence and impact with deep-rooted
 industrial links, focusing on five interdisciplinary priority research areas (in alphabetical order):
 Advanced Manufacturing, Civil Infrastructure, Compound Semiconductors and
 Applications, Engineering for Health and Sustainable Energy. Our success since REF2014 is
 reflected in significant cross-disciplinary and collaborative expansion, new appointments and
 major investments in facilities and infrastructure.
 During the REF assessment period, we increased category-A staff numbers by 23% (from 88.2
 to 108.8 FTE), ECR staff by 31% (from 19 to 25 FTE) and research staff by 22% (from 76.9 to
 94 FTE, see Section 2), and secured 639 research awards representing £97M, an increase of
 102% compared to REF2014. Research income(REF4b) increased from £44M in the previous
 REF (£8M p/a) to £79.6M over the current period (£11.4M p/a), with over double the number of
 PhD completions (416 compared to 205). We have published 2,132 peer-reviewed journal
 papers and our eight impact case studies, aligned with our interdisciplinary priority research
 areas, reflect our international reach and extensive business collaborations. These were
 supported by a new dedicated Business Interface (Section 3.3), which further facilitated over 197
 commercial research projects for business in the period (totalling £14.3M), as well as 116 service
 or consultancy projects (£1.1M) and 118 PhD projects with external partners.
 1.1.1 School structure
 The School is organised into three departments with associated Research Groups. This structure
 ensures that we maintain the strength and health of our disciplinary expertise, allowing
 researchers to collaborate in communities to develop and sustain disciplinary knowledge. For
 efficiency and reliable service provision, administrative and technical facilities are shared (Section
 3).
 Architectural, Civil and Environmental Engineering (ACE, led by Cleall) - 24.2 FTE with five
 research groups: Applied and Computational Mechanics (ACM), the BRE Trust for Sustainable
 Engineering, Materials for Life (M4L), with the Geoenvironmental Research Centre (GRC) and the
 Hydro-Environmental Research Centre (HRC).
 Electrical and Electronic Engineering (EEE, led by Lees) - 34 FTE with four research groups:
 Magnetics and Materials (M&M), the Centre for High Frequency Engineering (CHFE), the Centre
 for Integrated Renewable Energy Generation and Supply (CIREGS) and the Advanced High
 Voltage Engineering Research Centre (AHIVE).
 Mechanical and Medical Engineering (MMM, led by Pullin) - 39.2 FTE with three research
 groups: High Value Manufacturing (HVM), Tribology and Performance of Machines, Structures
 and Materials (TPMSM) and the Centre for Research into Energy, Waste and the Environment
 (CREWE), with Medical Engineering (MED) spanning both EEE and MMM departments.
 1.1.2 Priority areas
 Since REF2014, five interdisciplinary priority research areas were developed, allowing us to
 better target investment and provide an environment where wide-ranging expertise is brought
 together to tackle important interdisciplinary research challenges. This is supported by
 considerable investment in major infrastructure (Section 3) and a focus on developing a new
 generation of research leaders (Section 2). Our focus on priority areas reflects our commitment to
 ensuring an inclusive, open and collaborative environment that promotes internal and external
 interdisciplinarity. This was highly successful; for example, we collaborated with 19 out of 24
 Cardiff University Schools during the REF period.

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Advanced Manufacturing (31.45 FTE) Research leaders: Clarke, Featherston, Holford, Liu,
 Pullin and Setchi. With 20 PDRAs and 66 PhD students on the census date (119 graduated over
 the REF period), this priority area achieved 908 publications, including 602 journal papers and
 136 grants (£15.1M) during the REF period. Highlights: the formation of the Centre for Artificial
 Intelligence, Robotics and Human-Machine Systems (IROHMS), a £4.6M project led by ENGIN
 (Setchi), involving the Schools of Computer Science (Allen) and Psychology (Jones), advancing
 how humans and robots collaborate to accelerate digital manufacturing. £1.8M was invested into
 the Autonomous Systems and Robotics, Human-Robot Interaction, the Renishaw Digital
 Manufacturing and Metal Additive Manufacturing Laboratories with 274m2 experimental space,
 which enabled advanced tribology solutions for frigates, helicopters and aeroplanes (impact case
 study - Evans H.P.).
 Civil Infrastructure (19.1 FTE) Research leaders: Cleall, Jefferson, Pan, Sapsford and Thomas.
 With 16 PDRAs and 25 PhD students (67 graduated), this priority area achieved 392 publications,
 including 307 journal papers and 96 grants (£15.2M) over the REF period. Highlights: the M4L
 research group leading the £4.8M EPSRC Resilient Materials for Life (RM4L) programme grant
 with Bath, Cambridge and Bradford Universities, pioneering self-diagnosing and self-healing
 concrete (Jefferson). With £400,000 investment into the concrete, light-structures, building and
 infrastructure information modelling and hydraulics laboratories and 1,800m2 of experimental
 space, the area supports two Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs), the EPSRC Water Informatics
 Science and Engineering (WISE) and NERC GW4 FRESH, resulting in three impact case studies
 (Jefferson, Ahmadian, Rezgui).
 Compound Semiconductors and Applications (12.08 FTE) Research leaders: Bennett, Elgaid,
 Lees, Quaglia, Tasker and Wallis. With nine PDRAs and 11 PhD students (32 graduated), the
 area achieved 249 publications, including 129 journal papers and 60 grants (£21.2M) over the
 REF period. Highlights: a partnership with Cardiff School of Physics and Astronomy in the £10M
 EPSRC Future Compound Semiconductor Manufacturing Hub (Tasker, Elgaid) and a £4M
 EPSRC Programme Grant on Integrating Gallium Nitride (GaN)-on-Diamond Microwave
 electronics (Tasker), the £5.2M GaNforCS project (ERDF, Lees) and the £77M University
 investment in the Institute for Compound Semiconductors (ICS, ENGIN and School of Physics),
 part of the £131M Translational Research Hub (TRH) on the University’s new £300M Innovation
 Campus development. This priority area partners the £6.5M EPSRC Compound Semiconductor
 Manufacturing CDT (with Cardiff Physics, Manchester, Sheffield, UCL) with £3.2M in contributions
 from 23 industrial partners including Airbus, Hitachi, IQE, and Huawei.
 Engineering for Health (13.6 FTE) Research leaders: Barrow, Evans S., Holt, Porch and Spezi.
 With 11 PDRAs and 27 PhD students (56 graduated), the area generated 428 publications,
 including 308 journal papers and 118 grants (£11.4M) over the REF period. Highlights: the £5M
 Musculoskeletal and Biomechanics Research Facility (MSKBRF) and £1.2M EPSRC
 Osteoarthritis Technology NetworkPlus (OATech+) (Holt), with an associated 600m2 state-of-the-
 art research space (Section 1.4), and an ongoing collaboration between Velindre NHS Trust and
 the Cancer Imaging and the Data Analytics team (CIDA, Spezi) leading to the PET-based Adaptive
 Radiotherapy Clinical Trial (PEARL)with Swansea, Bristol, and Guy's and St Thomas NHS Trusts,
 and evaluation agreements with MIM Software (Cleveland, Ohio) and Varian Medical Systems
 (Palo-Alto, California), as well as collaborations with Intel-UK on AI for image segmentation.
 Sustainable Energy (33.65 FTE) Research leaders: Bowen, Cipcigan, Haddad, Jenkins, Liang,
 Rezgui, Thomas, and Wu J. With 40 PDRAs and 78 PhD students (142 graduated), the area
 generated 1,254 publications over the REF period, including 786 journal papers and 229 grants
 (£34.2M). Highlights: the £24M FLEXIS programme on flexible energy, a collaboration led by
 ACE (Thomas), EEE (Jenkins, Haddad) and MMM (Bowen), involving six Cardiff University
 Schools. This project includes a large-scale demonstration area in Port Talbot to support prototype
 systems-scale experimentation and deployment of resilient, affordable and secure energy.
 Complementary to this are the £18M UK Energy Research Centre (UKERC-4) and £5.3M
 Supergen Energy Network Hub projects, co-led by (Wu J.), with the £1M EPSRC Network+
 Decarbonising Transport Through Electrification (DTE, Cipcigan) project. £7M was invested into
 the High Voltage and Lightning Laboratories with 280m2 of experimental space, £500k into the
 1,300m2 Gas Turbine Research Centre (GTRC) test facility and a further £500k into Power

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Electronics Laboratories. The priority area is a partner in the EPSRC CDT for Resilient
 Decarbonised Fuel Energy Systems and delivered four impact case studies (Bowen, Crayford,
 Haddad, Ugalde-Loo).
 1.2 Research and impact strategy
 Our strategy is steered, approved and implemented by School Board, chaired by Head of School
 (HoS, Wu J.), in consultation with the Research Committee, chaired by Director of Research
 (Setchi), attended by the Director of PGR Studies (DPGR, Grosvenor), Heads of Department
 (HoD) and Research Group Leaders. Working closely with staff, the Research Committee
 supports and promotes best practice for a vibrant research environment. We developed our own
 online research grant pipeline support tool, managed by the Research Office and overseen by the
 Research Committee, allowing us to nurture long-term bid development and provide support for
 feasibility studies, peer review and analysis of application outcomes.
 Since REF2014, our strategy focussed on key objectives to further support our capabilities.
 i)     Strengthen our academic base. By recruiting both outstanding established and early-career
        researchers, we have improved our long-term sustainability. Since REF2014, we recruited
        142 researchers and 39 academic staff across all our departments, with notable appointments
        including Elgaid, Bennett and Wallis to the Compound Semiconductors and Applications
        priority area; Ji from Dyson and Hernandez Vega from Apple into full lectureship positions
        supporting robotics and Advanced Manufacturing; as well as Quaglia and Morini from MSCA
        Fellowships into full lectureship positions that support high-frequency electronics and solid
        mechanics.
 ii)    Expand and improve our postgraduate research student provision. We added two new
        CDTs in Compound Semiconductor Manufacturing (ENGIN and School of Physics) and
        Resilient Decarbonised Fuel Energy Systems (led by Nottingham in collaboration with
        Sheffield). These complement the existing WISE CDT run in collaboration with Exeter, Bath
        and Bristol. We lead the Cardiff Sustainable Transport Doctoral Training hub (Cipcigan,
        Featherston) supported by EPSRC Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP), and a new Marie
        Skłodowska-Curie Actions (MSCA) Initial Training Network (ITN) on Innovative Tools for
        Offshore Wind and DC Grids (INNODC) (Liang) and participate in a further three ITNs
        (Section 4.1).
 iii)   Collaborate with the best researchers globally. We have enhanced and developed our
        global links, including 54 projects (£10M) funded from European funding schemes
        (Horizon2020, MSCA, Research Fund for Coal and Steel) and more than 40 collaborative
        projects with international partners through funders, including the EPSRC/Natural Science
        Foundation of China, EPSRC/Fonds National de la Recherche Luxembourg, RAEng, British
        Council, Newton Fund and the GCRF. We have built relationships with international industry
        partners; for example, securing over £1.4M from China Communications Construction
        Company to support building information modelling research and application.
 iv)    Establish influence through internationally leading research roles (see Section 4). Staff
        expertise is widely recognised through policy advice to UK/EU governments, with examples
        including British Standard Institution committees (BSI) PEL37/1, PEL37/2, PEL42, and
        GEL81 International Standard Committees of International Electrotechnical Commission
        (Haddad); National Flood Resilience Science Advisory Group to UK Government, Hinkley
        Point C Stakeholder Reference Group to Welsh Government (Falconer); Russell Group Post-
        18 review advisory group; Welsh Government Women in STEM Industry Sub-Committee,
        Non-Executive Director UKRI STFC Council, including membership of the Finance and
        Governance Committee and STFC/Innovate UK Joint Forum (Holford).
 v)     Strengthen collaboration with industry and invest strategically in our research and
        innovation infrastructure (see Section 3). Facilitated by our new business interface, we
        strengthened business collaborations with commercial research awards totalling £14.3M.
        Strategic collaborations and major investments have accelerated our research; for example,
        through close working with Compound Semiconductor Cluster partners (IQE, SPTS
        Technologies, Newport Wafer Fab and the CSA Catapult), with the new £131M TRH, placing

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     semiconductor electronics research at the centre of Cardiff’s new £300M Innovation Campus.
     Similarly, £3M investment by National Grid and Airbus enabled innovative research into
     damage to carbon composite panels during lightning strikes.
 Our strategy is further guided and co-developed by our Industrial Advisory Board (IAB), with
 over 40 members from Airbus, National Instruments, and GE; Welsh Government; UK
 Government; and other research user organisations such as Natural Resources Wales. The
 Board’s industrial chair (Rolley) holds formal quarterly meetings, with sub-groups tasked with
 advising on topics aligned with our research priorities, including, for example, future energy
 systems and low carbon manufacturing for the net-zero agenda, and applications of compound
 semiconductors. Public engagement has remained an important aspect of our strategy, with a
 dedicated public engagement officer supporting funding applications, training, and engagement
 with wider audiences reaching approximately 8,000 people annually (see Section 4.3 for
 examples).
 Over the next five years, we will:
 ▪ Continue to build depth, capacity and critical mass in our five interdisciplinary priority
   areas enabling large-scale collaborative projects that deliver a wide range of impact. For
   example, we will make investments to support major compound semiconductor projects,
   forging deeper collaboration with the School of Physics and partners clustered around the CSA
   Catapult (IQE, Newport Wafer Fab, SPTS Technologies and Microchip). We will shape the
   research agenda in Sustainable Energy in collaboration with industrial, policy and academic
   partners (e.g. National Grid plc, Wales and West Utilities, Welsh Government, and the GW4
   Alliance) building a solid intellectual foundation for growth and new landmark projects,
   particularly concerning future energy infrastructure and the circular economy for Net Zero.
 ▪ Prioritise our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion strategy (Section 2), which is central to
   supporting untapped potential and removing barriers to success for existing staff and staff
   recruitment. Our priority areas and cross-cutting themes (CCTs) will support our ECRs and
   other staff in undertaking further interdisciplinary and challenge-based research, helping their
   transition to future research leaders. This will be supported through mentoring, encouraging
   ambitious career goals and leadership opportunities, coupled with the University’s wider
   comprehensive support for career development (Section 2; also REF5a).
 ▪ Continue to attract the highest quality staff and research students into our priority areas,
   with strategic recruitment targeting complementary expertise to support major challenges; for
   example, The Circular Economy and Net Zero, as well as enhancement to support discipline
   strengthening; for example, in Compound Semiconductor and Civil Infrastructure priority areas.
   New staff will receive mentorship, training and support aligned to future research leadership,
   in close collaboration with our industrial and international partners. Exploiting our three existing
   CDTs and internal investment, we will increase numbers of high-quality research students by
   aligning our future CDT proposals with our five interdisciplinary priority areas.
 ▪ Target strategic collaborations with industry to develop and exploit innovation in our priority
   areas, with compound semiconductor electronics, energy, transportation, AI and robotics as
   our initial focus. We will further enrich these collaborations by hosting additional senior visiting
   academics and industrialists to reaffirm our innovation-led culture.
 ▪ Through the GW4 Alliance (REF5a), we will seek complementary expertise to develop
   research communities and flagship centres with cutting-edge equipment and facilities.
   This approach will reflect successes initiated at Cardiff University, such as GW4 Centre of
   Excellence in the Built Environment (Rezgui), Composites for Enhanced Lightning
   Performance (Haddad), Unlocking the Science for an Autonomous Structural Health Monitoring
   System (Featherston) and AVaRICE-Algal Valorisation and Remediation of Metal Ion
   Contaminated Effluents (Sapsford).
 ▪ Building upon successes, we will significantly extend and deepen our interdisciplinary and
   interinstitutional collaborations to address Net Zero challenges and industrial strengths in
   Wales and the UK. This will build on our strategic collaborations with the South Wales Industrial
   Cluster, the Compound Semiconductor Cluster, the Welsh Government Smart Living Initiative

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    and the GW4 Alliance. We will target the UKRI Strength in Places Fund and the Levelling Up
    agenda of the UK Government. We will further catalyse significant research and development
    within Wales and contribute to its green recovery and clean growth agendas, maximising the
    quality, impact and societal benefits of our research.
 1.3 Research impact
 We are committed to maximising the impact of our research by working to solve industry-identified
 challenges (Section 3), using impact acceleration, Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) and
 support for staff to achieve impact. We ensure our research activities align with the most pressing
 global challenges and societal needs, reflected by our interdisciplinary priority areas, staff interests
 and capabilities (Section 1.1.2). Impact is embedded within our culture, supported by our personal
 development review and training processes (Section 2). Impact is supported by the Business
 Interface team, who promote technology transfer through regular drop-in sessions and attendance
 at research group, departmental and other meetings. We support and enhance impact in each of
 our priority areas, including the exploitation of data and AI for advanced manufacturing, advanced
 modelling capabilities and materials for civil infrastructure, exploitation of compound
 semiconductor technologies, devices to support and promote health, and developments for clean
 and resilient integrated energy systems.
 To achieve this, we value the following mechanisms:
 Partnerships and collaborations. Highlights in the REF period include the Compound
 Semiconductor Cluster, a major industry-led initiative based in South Wales attracting over £600M
 investment, with £76.5M attributable to ENGIN in the form of infrastructure, equipment and grants
 (Tasker, Elgaid, Wallis, Bennett and Lees), with collaborations enabling the formation of the new
 Compound Semiconductor Manufacturing CDT. Further examples include Magnetic Materials and
 Applications (MAGMA), a European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) supported collaboration
 between Cardiff University and Tata Steel (£2.1M, Evans S., Anderson) delivering technology
 change in manufacturing of magnetic materials, National Grid supporting AHIVE investing over
 £2M to extend experimental capabilities (impact case study - Haddad) and Atkins Global
 supporting BRE’s work into urban sustainability (impact case study - Rezgui).
 The majority of our impact case studies arose from collaborative research projects: a waste
 energy recovery strategy for Tata Steel in Port Talbot, saving over £44M energy costs (Bowen);
 best practice for measuring aircraft engine particulates, adopted by the UN as a global standard
 and saving Rolls-Royce over £15M (£5M p/a ongoing, Crayford); algorithms underpinning LUSAS
 concrete modelling software, used across the world in construction (Jefferson); energy
 optimisation methods for buildings deployed internationally by Schneider Electric (Rezgui);
 influence of National Grid policy and saving Tata Steel over £5M (Haddad); tribology used in the
 design of propulsion of new frigates and aircraft bearings with DBS, Rolls-Royce and SKF (Evans
 H.P.); Europe's first MVdc connection (ANGLE-DC) between Anglesey and Bangor, saving SP
 Energy Networks over £10M (Ugalde-Loo).
 Industry research funding and consultancy. We secured joint research projects with industry,
 attracting over £14M in direct industrial funding from major UK and international businesses
 (including Airbus, Huawei, National Grid, Renishaw and Rolls Royce), regional employers or
 SMEs. We have attracted £2.4M funding from InnovateUK, including 11 KTPs with businesses to
 exchange knowledge, drive innovation and develop graduate employees. Many of our industrial
 links generated ongoing collaborations and multiple impacts; for example, during the current REF
 period, two KTPs were secured with SRS Works developing a new photo-voltaic invertor, leading
 to an academic staff appointment (Wang) and extending a city-wide district cooling scheme, whilst
 a third involved the design, manufacture and test of a domestic thermal battery.
 We have a strong portfolio of service and consultancy projects with 124 awards over the REF
 period (£1.1M), utilising our staff expertise and facilities to support commercial or regulatory
 activity, including Buru Happold, Haydale, MBDA, Costain, Mouchel, Oxford Instruments, SAS
 International, SEG Automotive, Semtech, Sony, Tesla and TWI. Through our collaboration with
 the NHS Cedar Healthcare Technology Centre, we support research and evaluation of e-medical
 devices and diagnostics.


                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Industrial-funded studentships. Industry funding supported 118 studentships over the REF
 period, including 43 part-funded from EPSRC sources: Industrial CASE, CASE conversion, NPIF,
 and DTP. Key partners include Airbus, Ampleon, Alstom, Arup, Aston Martin, BRE, Charles Owen,
 Costain, Ferrovial, Infineon, Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 Team, Merck Group, National Grid,
 Renishaw, Rolls Royce, RWE Energy, SKF, Tata Steel and Toshiba.
 Policy advice and international standards. Reflecting our expertise, Unit staff provided
 extensive consultation to policy makers and government over the REF period; for example, with
 UK Government, we advised the BEIS Panel on Electricity Market Reform (Jenkins) and the
 National Flood Resilience Science Advisory Group (Falconer). In the built environment, we
 advised the BRE (Building Research Establishment) UK digitalisation agenda, through a BRE
 funded Chair (Rezgui), leading to the BIM and Digital Built Britain initiatives. For Welsh
 Government, we advised the TechValleys Strategy Group (Setchi), the 5G Expert Group (Tasker),
 and the Flood and Coastal Erosion Committee (Wilson), with further examples provided in Section
 4.5.
 Public engagement and outreach. We engaged with over 43,000 people over the REF period
 through festivals, workshops and other activities. A dedicated member of support staff
 facilitates STEM and public engagement, supplemented with training from specialist organisations
 such as Science Made Simple. We prioritise working with under-represented groups and their
 influencers; for example, since 2017, our annual open-to-all Museum After Dark event attracts
 parents with primary age children from diverse backgrounds. In 2019, over 1,000 people attended
 the event, supported by Kirsty Williams MS, the Welsh Government Minister
 for Education. Through our RAEng Ingenious grant, we work with the Go Girl Academy to embed
 gender inclusive practice into our training for outreach volunteers and with Girlguiding to develop
 a new badge in electromagnetism. We co-lead the STEMlive event, an immersive STEM
 experience for secondary pupils, solving engineering challenges related to living on Mars.
 Working with over 40 partners through public engagement activities, we have built relationships
 and raised our profile with industry, the public and third sector. Celebrating the breadth of STEM
 in Wales, we partnered with Amgueddfa Cymru National Museum Wales, First Campus,
 Techniquest, See-Science, Cardiff Science Festival, Rudry Festival, the Worshipful Company of
 Wales and Central South Consortium. We contributed to Cardiff Council’s ‘Cardiff Commitment’,
 linking local schools and industry, stimulating early years awareness of engineering. In the UK
 context, we partnered the Smallpeice Trust, the IMechE, the IOP, the IET, the Royal Society of
 Chemistry, and the ICE to deliver engineering events and activities targeting young people and
 their families.
 1.4 Interdisciplinary research
 Promoting interdisciplinary research was a core objective in this REF period, aligned to the
 introduction of priority areas (Section 1.1.2), with ENGIN academics co-authoring research outputs
 with 19 of the University’s 24 Schools and 25% of outputs in our submission categorised as
 interdisciplinary.
 Our researchers are fully benefiting from key interdisciplinary entities on the University’s £300M
 Innovation Campus (REF5a), including the Cardiff University Brain Research and Imaging Centre
 (CUBRIC; Holt, Whatling, Gallichan and Evans S.), a £44M investment with four MRI scanners
 (MEG, EEG and TMS) providing state of the art imaging and other facilities with some of the very
 best equipment in Europe, and supporting cross-disciplinary collaborations in a wide range of
 subjects, including radiation oncology (Velindre Cancer Centre, Spezi), medical image analysis
 and big data.
 Our longstanding involvement with the Cardiff Institute for Tissue Engineering and Repair led to
 the establishment of the £2M Biomechanics and Bioengineering Centre (ARUK, now Versus
 Arthritis), a collaboration with Cardiff Schools of Biosciences, Healthcare Sciences, Medicine,
 Dentistry and Pharmacy, which delivered over £25M research funding and >300 journal papers.
 The Musculoskeletal and Biomechanics Research Facility (MSKBRF, £5M) established in 2015,
 led by Holt, is an interdisciplinary research facility providing state-of-the-art motion capture,
 biplanar video fluoroscopy and other capabilities and supports an NHS clinical service. The
 MSKBRF leads the multidisciplinary OATech+ (£1.2M, EPSRC, Holt). Our partnership with the

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CEDAR NHS-Academic evaluation centre continues to support the NICE Medical Technologies
 Evaluation Programme (Evans S., £1.1M).
 We lead IROHMS (£4.6M, ERDF, Setchi) targeting emerging interdisciplinary opportunities at the
 intersection of AI, robotics and human-machine systems, involving the Schools of Computer
 Science and Psychology, and with strong industrial support from 60 partners, including Airbus,
 Aston Martin, and Dyson, the Centre generated £4.6M research funding. We also lead MAGMA
 (£2.1M, ERDF, Evans S., Anderson) with the Schools of Physics and Chemistry, building capacity
 in magnetic materials research, developing and testing materials for motors and other electrical
 machines critical in the development of electric vehicles. We are partners in ASTUTE 2020 (£8.9M,
 ERDF, Setchi) supporting manufacturing companies across Wales, collaborating with Cardiff
 Business School and the School of Medicine.
 We lead the Cardiff Materials Research Network (CMRN, Evans S.), involving over 180 academic
 staff from 22 of 24 Cardiff Schools. The Network secured >£1.5m in new research funding during
 its first 18 months. The Cardiff Transport Futures Research Network (Cipcigan) developed
 successful new cross-disciplinary research perspectives, bringing together 60 academics across
 six Schools and all three Colleges to examine the nature and impacts of new and emerging
 transport technologies. These include electric vehicles, autonomous vehicles, mobility as a
 service, all underpinning our EPSRC DTE Network+ award (£1M) as well as the establishment of
 a Cardiff University Interdisciplinary Doctoral Training Hub in Sustainable Transport (EPSRC-
 DTP).
 We co-lead the Energy Systems Research Institute (Bowen, Jenkins, Wu, Haddad, Rezgui,
 O’Doherty), tackling the global challenges of how we continue to generate, distribute and utilise
 energy through an interdisciplinary systems-based research culture. This encompasses physical
 and social sciences, drawing on research excellence from ten Schools across the University. We
 play a significant leadership role in other University Research Institutes (REF5a), including the
 Water Research Institute (Rezgui, Sapsford, Bray), addressing the grand challenge of sustainable
 water management for people and ecosystems in a changing world; Data Innovation Research
 Institute (Setchi, Beach, Liu, Holt), which conducts fundamental research in managing, analysing
 and interpreting massive volumes of textual and numerical information and the Sustainable Places
 Research Institute (Rezgui) which studies the complex interrelations between, ecology, society
 and economy, looking at how cities and regions can develop sustainable spatial strategies.
 1.5 Research ethics, integrity and open research
 Cardiff University is a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment
 (DORA) and we are committed to the fair assessment of research based on its intrinsic value when
 considering applications for employment, promotion and internal funding. We are fully committed
 to responsible research, aligned to the University’s commitment to research integrity (REF5a). For
 research involving human participation, we comply with all University research ethics procedures;
 our Research Ethics Committee Chair (Spezi) is responsible for assessing and managing research
 ethics applications, overseen by the Cardiff University Open Research Integrity and Ethics
 Committee. Projects adhere to the University’s Human Tissue Act, with such activities overseen
 by a Human Tissue Officer (Spezi) who works closely with University teams to ensure compliance.
 In line with University policy, mandatory online Research Integrity Training ensures all research
 staff and students understand and discharge their responsibilities. We are committed to an open
 research environment that promotes access to scientific knowledge free of charge to all. Our
 Open Access Co-ordinator (OAC, Whyte) manages compliance, produces guidance, oversees
 training and reports to the Research Committee. The OAC ensures that post-print files and
 bibliographic details for publications are available in Cardiff’s digital publications repository in
 accordance with Institutional and funder requirements (3,184 outputs in the period).
 We require and assist all staff and PGR students to register with ORCID. We fully support the
 2016 Concordat on Open Data; all projects have a data management plan with research data
 made openly available and reproducible (subject to relevant regulatory considerations) via our
 University research portal (uniquely identifiable via DOI), funder, project or subject/generic
 repositories (e.g. British Geological Society, Zenodo).


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People
 2.1 Staffing strategy
 We focus on recruiting, developing and retaining outstanding research staff in priority and
 emerging research areas, whilst providing a supportive and inclusive research environment that
 promotes excellence. Our staffing strategy extends to all and is based on trust and integrity,
 allowing staff to thrive whilst prioritising their health and wellbeing.




                                                                             Our Staffing Strategy

                                                                                         Connected




                                                                                                                 Career Development of Researchers
                                                                             EDI                       Vibrant
                of Research Staff and Students




                                                                                        Communities    Culture




                                                                                                                      Concordat to Support the
                    Ensuring the Wellbeing




                                                                                Strategic Recruitment and
                                                 Staff Specific Strategies




                                                                               Developing a Research Focus


                                                                                   Staff Development and ECR
                                                                                             Support


                                                                             Recruitment and Support of Post-
                                                                                  Graduate Researchers



                                                 Figure 1 - Key elements of our Staffing Strategy
 Our approach, outlined in Figure 1, is guided by three key values:
    •   Equality, diversity & inclusion (EDI) - enabling an open, inclusive and collaborative
        research environment, recruiting students and staff from underrepresented groups and
        ensuring we are inclusive in developing, applying and embedding our research and impact
        strategies.
    •   Developing connected communities to support our priority research areas, enabling and
        supporting interdisciplinary research, building networks across ENGIN, the University and
        beyond.
    •   Promoting a vibrant culture through our staff, enhancing creativity in our research and
        teaching and engendering a sense of belonging where all staff feel involved and valued.
 These values are supported and guided by the Concordat to Support the Career Development
 of Researchers (REF5a) which underpins all our staffing and development activities, together
 with a commitment to ensure the wellbeing of research staff and students.
 2.2 Staff and ECR recruitment
 In line with our research strategy, we focussed on strategic recruitment to strengthen and
 increase capacity within our five priority areas (Section 1.1.2) as well as to improve the


                                                                                                                                                     Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 diversity of our staff. Since REF2014, we appointed 41 new academic staff members, including
 36 lecturers (19 ECRs), two readers and three professors.
                                      2014                      2021                % increase
        REF eligible staff 88.2 FTE (count 91)        108.76 FTE (count 116)             23
                     ECR 19 FTE (count 19)            25 FTE (count 24)                  31
          Research Staff 76.9 FTE (count 81)          94 FTE (count 96)                  22

 ECR recruitment and development is central to our strategy. For example, in our Advanced
 Manufacturing priority area, we recruited Xie in fluid mechanics, who co-leads the Multiphysics
 and Mechanics CCT; Ji in robotics, who co-leads the AI and Robotics CCT and Petri for smart
 engineering infrastructures. To strengthen our Sustainable Energy priority area, we recruited Ming
 to lead on power electronics, through a Smart Grids Fellowship and a five-year secondment to the
 CSA Catapult, and Li, leading on energy materials, through a Sêr Cymru II Research Fellowship.
 To strengthen our other priority areas, we recruited Morini into Civil Infrastructure to lead on solid
 mechanics, through a Marie Curie COFUND Fellowship, Slocombe and Quaglia (MSCA Fellow,
 now lecturer) into Compound Semiconductor and Applications, and Gallichan (CUBRIC) into
 Engineering for Health.
 We recruited specialised senior staff to underpin core capabilities and provide research
 leadership, for example, Elgaid from Glasgow with expertise in GaN technology for high
 frequency devices; Wallis from Cambridge with expertise in epitaxial growth; and Bennett, a
 photonics expert from Toshiba, are strategic recruitments into the Compound Semiconductor and
 Applications priority area. Gei, with expertise in applied computational mechanics, was recruited
 to strengthen the Civil Infrastructure priority area.
 We actively recruit staff from under-represented groups and diverse backgrounds with BAME staff,
 increasing from 16% (2013/14) to 30% (2018/19). A proactive approach to encourage staff to
 update personal details led to a positive trend in disclosure of ethnicity details (70% in 2013/14 to
 90% in 2018/19)1.
 Senior promotions include Holford to Deputy Vice-Chancellor (2017), Evans S. to Head of
 School (2015), Benedikt to Deputy Director for International (2016) and Cleall, Pullin and Wu J. to
 Heads of ACE, MMM, EEE Departments (2018) respectively.
 2.3 Staff development and ECR support
 Our staff development strategy supports all staff, regardless of grade or career pathway,
 with all staff assigned a mentor to support the transition to a new workplace and new starters
 receiving the ‘Your first 90 days’ pack providing key information and advice in building confidence
 and research networks. All new starters are supported to participate in their research groups, and
 the seven challenge-driven and cross-disciplinary research CCTs. These themes are typically led
 by ECRs and facilitate the ability of junior researchers to cross disciplines and collaborate
 in new networks (AI and Robotics, Future Materials, Healthy Living, Multiphysics Mechanics,
 Nanoengineering, Sustainable Transport and Urban Intelligence).
 All staff benefit from an annual personal development review (PDR), with a 100% completion rate
 since REF2014. This review identifies future goals, potential research impact, promotion and
 training and development needs. Working through line managers, we identify help where needed
 with bespoke support plans that include workload review or periods of study leave. Over the last
 three years, we provided external coaching on four occasions; two to support career development
 and two to support those identified with a disability to help them develop career strategies. During
 the REF period, we implemented mechanisms and commitments to support all staff including:
 ▪ A robust and objective procedure for agreeing reasonable adjustments to workload, with
   discussions led by line managers with the Head of Teaching (HoT) for teaching-related duties,

1 Copyright Higher Education Statistics   Agency Limited 2020. HESA cannot accept responsibility for any
inferences or conclusions derived by third parties from its data.

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    the Head of Department (HoD) for any departmental duties and the Head of School (HoS) for
    School-wide duties. Academic staff on Teaching and Research contracts are allocated 400
    hours dedicated research time in the workload model (or pro rata for part-time staff).
 ▪ Encouraging, promoting and providing the infrastructure to enable flexible working
   arrangements, such as supply of appropriate IT and accommodating staff preference for
   teaching times.
 ▪ Providing support for staff and research students with caring responsibilities; for example, we
   provide a room with specialised storage facilities for breastfeeding mothers returning to work.
   We were early adopters of the Returners Support Scheme (REF5a, section 3.2.2), providing
   adjustments to workloads for staff returning from long-term absence, parental leave and those
   managing long-term illness.
 ▪ Supporting the University Dignity at Work and Study Policy, where we recruited five new Dignity
   at Work contacts and publicised them widely across ENGIN (Section 2.5). We also
   implemented review procedures to ensure that research funding applications embed EDI within
   their management and monitoring plans.
 ▪ A protected annual budget of £25k for external courses for staff to address their current and
   future training needs, identified through probation, the PDR process and discussions with line
   managers.
 ▪ Mandatory line manager training covering recruitment and contract management, managing
   and supporting staff and promoting wellbeing, developed in response to staff survey feedback.
 ▪ Supporting development of effective collaborations; for example, encouraging staff to secure
   complementary positions overseas; Lin, Tsinghua University; Bordas, University of
   Luxembourg; De Angelis, University of Bologna; Kerfriden, Paris Mines and Gei, University of
   Trieste.
 2.3.1 Supporting Early Career Researchers
 Supporting and developing ECRs is central to our research and impact strategy, allowing us to
 build depth and capacity in our five interdisciplinary priority areas and enabling large-scale
 collaborative projects that will deliver a wide range of impact.
 During the REF period, we supported fellowship applications in strategically relevant priority areas
 as a way of both attracting future research leaders and supporting their transition to permanent
 academic and leadership posts. Since REF2014, we are delighted to have secured 24 ECR
 fellowships as a result of our focus, a significant increase on REF2014 (two ECR fellowships) and
 clearly evidencing depth and quality of our future research leadership. These include EPSRC
 Fellows (Kim, Bennett, Qadrdan), EU-MSCA Fellows (Simonovic, Theodoridou, Cernescu, Follett,
 Moreno Rubio, Quaglia, Mu), Sêr Cymru-National Research Network Fellows (Choi, Williams, Li
 Z., Claus) Sêr Cymru Industrial Fellows (Kundu, Steer, Hirshy), MSCA COFUND (Morini,
 Perepelkin, Noorikalkhoran, Li), and Royal Academy of Engineering (RAEng) Fellows (Zabek,
 Follett, Kundu). Many staff defined as ECRs at the beginning of the REF period now lead
 substantial projects within our priority research areas. In Sustainable Energy, Anderson leads
 MAGMA (£2.1M, ERDF); Sapsford heads In-Situ Recovery of Resources from Waste Repositories
 (INSPIRE, £722k, NERC,); and Valera Medina leads Storage of Ammonia for Energy (£1.5M,
 EPSRC). For Compound Semiconductors and Applications, Lees leads GaNforCS (£5.2M, ERDF)
 and in Advanced Manufacturing, Pullin secured three KTPs (£1M, InnovateUK).
 We develop future research leaders through various mechanisms, such as mentoring and
 encouragement to play leading roles in committees, as well as leadership of CCTs. For example,
 Garcia Rocha co-led the Future Materials CCT and was a member of the CMRN Steering Group
 is now a Ramón y Cajal Senior Research Fellow at Instituto Nacional del Carbón, Spain (2020).
 Two ECR networks support our staff; one at College level to enhance collaboration, and another
 at School level organised and managed by the Research Staff Coordinator (Albano). These
 provide support, for example, in preparing new investigator awards. Seedcorn funding (£10kp/a)
 is ringfenced and allocated competitively, and was used to support various activities, including
 preparing a first grant proposal by Xie on a feasibility study investigating turbulence in hydraulic

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 jumps over rough riverbeds; for Petri, proof of concept research on an edge-cloud environment
 for smart buildings; and for cohort activities such as carbon literacy training.
 The University’s Commercial Development Team (REF5a, Section 4.4) provides bespoke support
 to staff, including ECRs, through one-to-one training and drop-in sessions. ECRs are encouraged
 to lead on EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) proposals, and five of the ten ENGIN ECRs
 that led proposals in 2019/20 successfully secured funding.
 We recognise that post-doctoral researchers and ECRs need opportunity, encouragement,
 support and development at the start of their academic careers. During probation, ECRs undertake
 Academic Practice training supported by a dedicated mentor leading to Fellowship of the HEA.
 Since its inception in 2015, 14 staff completed Academic Practice, of which eight are now Fellows,
 and six are working towards this goal. In 2019, we introduced the Trevithick Rising Stars pilot
 scheme within the EEE department, providing an opportunity for PDRs and ECRs to work closely
 with a senior colleague to experience teaching in a positive and managed way, gaining key
 pedagogical perspective and developing skills through teaching and producing modular content.
 This is now being extended across ENGIN. We encourage and support all ECRs to participate in
 University development schemes (REF5a), including The Cardiff Academic, The Cardiff
 Researcher and Cardiff Futures. 11 staff have benefited over the REF period, including Wu J.
 (HoS), Slocombe (HoT-EEE) and Marsh (HoT-MMM). Beyond the University, other programmes
 include the GW4 Crucible promoting interdisciplinary research approaches (Choi, Barba, Xie),
 GW4 Mock-Panel Training (Garcia Rocha) and Welsh Crucible (Ayre, Eaton, Liang, Pearson,
 Theobald and Williams).
 2.3.2 Dedicated research leave programmes
 In addition to the University’s Research Leave Fellowship Scheme (REF5a, Section 2.1.5), we run
 biannual research leave calls open to all academic staff. Since 2015, 15 academic staff (33%
 female) were supported to deliver new research opportunities, including Setchi (2017-18) who
 secured a £4.6M ERDF award to establish IROHMS, conducting research in additive
 manufacturing with Airbus, Sandvik Osprey and Continental Teves; and Lees (2018-19) who
 established a £5.2M GaNforCS ERDF project to create a supply chain for GaN transistors in the
 UK, involving ten industrial partners, the CSA Catapult and Welsh Government. The University’s
 Disglair Lectureship Scheme (REF5a), enabled O’Doherty and Jefferson to accelerate research
 in the Civil Infrastructure priority area, with ECR’s Allmark and Novelli appointed to their first
 academic post as a result.
 2.4 Research students
 Our substantial, diverse and vibrant PGR community grew by 8%, from 191.75 registered FTE in
 2013 to 207.5 FTE in 2020, 44% home and 56% overseas. The PGR Tutors Committee comprising
 the Director of Postgraduate Research (DPGR) and departmental PGR Tutors manage all aspects
 of the PGR experience, supported by our PGR Admin Team (4.2FTE) and PGR Student Staff
 Panel.
 EDI considerations permeate our PGR practices, informed by UKRI expectations, the University’s
 Strategic Equality Plan and our EDI Committee. Aligned to our commitment to grow the diversity
 of the discipline, we seek to recruit high quality candidates using selection processes that clearly
 emphasise our commitment to EDI. Although much remains to be done, the proportion of female
 PGR engineers is increasing; for example, 12.5% on EPSRC studentships (current three-year
 average) compared to 7% in REF2014.
 Since REF2014, we supported 244 funded studentships, 95 full or part funded by EPSRC
 (including 21 industrial case awards) and 118 including collaborative partner contributions from,
 for example, Airbus, Aston Martin, Cancer Research Wales, Huawei, Mercedes-AMG Petronas
 F1 Team, National Grid, Renishaw, Rolls Royce, Toshiba, Costain and Lusas. We used our own
 and College funds to support interdisciplinary studentships with partner Schools, including
 Biosciences, Business, Chemistry, Computer Science, Dentistry, Earth and Environmental
 Sciences, Healthcare Sciences, Mathematics, Medicine, and Physics.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since REF2014, we increased our participation in ESPRC CDTs and MSCA ITNs, working with
 partner universities and industry to deliver cohort-based development and training, including:
 ▪ WISE CDT in the Civil Infrastructure priority area with GW4 partners Exeter, Bath and Bristol
   and 20 studentships in Cardiff.
 ▪ Compound Semiconductor Manufacturing CDT led by Cardiff University with Manchester,
   Sheffield and UCL and 26 studentships shared with the School of Physics.
 ▪ Resilient Decarbonised Fuel Energy Systems CDT in the Sustainable Energy priority area, with
   Nottingham and Sheffield starting in October 2019 with at least 17 studentships allocated to
   us.
 ▪ Leadership of two MSCA ITNs in the Sustainable Energy priority area, INNODC and Multi-
   Terminal DC Grids for Offshore Wind (MEDOW) and with eight studentships in Cardiff. We are
   a partner in a further three ITNs, facilitating recruitment and mobility of high-quality PGR
   students.
 ▪ Further CDTs including ESF-supported Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (six
   studentships), NERC Freshwater Biosciences and Sustainability CDT and NERC GW4+ DTP
   (one studentship each).
 In 2019, the University approved the establishment of five Interdisciplinary Training Hubs (EPSRC
 DTP funded) to further develop cohort-based researcher training, with ENGIN leading the
 Sustainable Transport Hub (Featherston, Cipcigan) and partnering with the Sustainable Plastics
 and Biosensors and Diagnostics Hubs (led by Chemistry). These form a catalyst for development
 of innovative cohort training plans designed to increase numbers of high-quality research students
 through alignment of CDT proposals with our five interdisciplinary priority areas (Section 2.1, ‘The
 next five years’).
 PGR monitoring and support mechanisms are overseen by the DPGR, PGR Tutors and
 Academic Supervisors (minimum of two for all students) with support from the PGR Office. All
 supervisors undertake formal training by the University every three years. A revised online
 progress monitoring system was introduced in 2017 to allow regular feedback and a clear path for
 identifying and rectifying concerns. Progression milestones include an initial three-month report,
 followed by annual and interim reviews. Annual reviews include the submission of written work
 and a mini-viva chaired by an independent academic.
 All PGRs are allocated office space, appropriate laboratory facilities and integrated within a
 research group. PGR Tutors and the DPGR provide academic support routes outside of the
 supervisory team, whilst the PGR Staff Student Panel, chaired by a student representative,
 promotes informal support mechanisms and social activities.
 PGR skills development and career progression extends Doctoral Academy provision (REF5a,
 3.4) to focus on subject specific activities and enhancing our PGR community. Structured around
 the University’s transition, acquisition, completion and employability (TACE) framework, support
 includes ENGIN induction, health and safety, laboratory training, sustaining momentum and
 completing, and commercialisation workshops. We host an annual three-day postgraduate
 research conference in Gregynog, mid-Wales, and a one-day conference organised by PGR
 students. Students are allocated a £2.4k research account to support research training and
 networking over the studentship duration independent of their research projects, often
 supplemented with Research Training Support Grants, bench fees, partner or other contributions.
 Our PGR International Experience fund of typically £12k p/a is competitively awarded, supporting
 up to six visits to internationally renowned universities or research facilities, with examples
 including Canada, China, Germany, France, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand and the USA
 (University of Chicago, Duke University, University of Illinois, Mississippi State University,
 Berkeley CA, Stanford and Texas A&M). Most industrial studentships include a partner-placement,
 and we encourage and facilitate other types of placements, including UKRI Policy Internships; for
 example, Government Office for Science (Leech) providing PGR students with opportunities to
 work within highly influential policy organisations (section 4.4).



                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.5 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 EDI is central to our culture, and in 2019 we were re-accredited with an Athena Swan Bronze
 Award. Meeting six times a year, our EDI Committee provides strategic direction, embedding EDI
 through a diverse membership, including students and staff at all career stages as well as support
 from senior management. The Committee recognises the need to move beyond gender diversity
 to a wider brief for all protected characteristics and actively engages with the University’s BAME+
 Staff Network. Three ENGIN staff are members of the Race Equality Supervisory Panel (RESP),
 which was recently recognised for best practice at a national level in the published Equality and
 Human Rights Commission report, ‘Tackling Racial Harassment: Universities Challenged’.
 We support staff with protected characteristics, identifying and implementing reasonable
 adjustments. For example, following a staff member’s dyslexia diagnosis, we implemented
 recommended adjustments utilising Access to Work funding. We actively engage with Access to
 Work to support staff with disabilities, providing physical as well as coaching support. In response
 to Covid-19, we supported three staff members through the University's Covid-19 flexible working
 scheme, adjusting their working arrangements to align with caring responsibilities. Further, 22
 academic staff members currently benefit from formal flexible working arrangements, with many
 others using informal arrangements, across all career pathways. We ensure diverse interview
 panels that include female and BAME staff whenever possible. There have been 23 BAME staff
 promotions compared to nine over the last REF period, and senior promotions for women include
 Featherston (2015) and Setchi (2018) to Deputy Head of School and Director for Research and
 Innovation respectively, and Holford, Deputy Vice-Chancellor (2017), who received a CBE for
 services to engineering and the advancement of women in engineering (2018).
 To ensure that wellbeing of staff and research students is embedded within our Staffing Strategy,
 we formed a Wellbeing Group to catalyse wellbeing activities suggested by staff and research
 students, including a book club, museum tours, board games and table tennis facilities. We
 established Dignity and Wellbeing Contacts trained to offer confidential advice and support to
 people facing issues with harassment or bullying, with contacts from all career pathways: Holt,
 Kennedy, Keenan, Trowbridge and Qadrdan. This initiative was later adopted at College level and
 implemented across the University.
 We are an international school attracting the best staff from across the globe, and currently 20%
 of academic staff originate from non-EU countries. We support and promote the Trevithick Women
 in STEM group (TWISTEM), a grassroots group open to staff from across the University.
 TWISTEM holds monthly events supporting all who identify as female, additionally working to
 recognise the critical contributions of men in driving gender equality. ENGIN support for TWISTEM
 includes providing networking lunches, Q&A sessions on women in STEM and the University
 (Holford), as well as organisational support.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Research funding
 During the REF period, we secured 639 research awards (337 in REF2014), representing an
 award value of £97M. This is a 102% increase compared to the previous REF period (£48M), and
 as a result, research income spend (REF4b) substantially increased from £44M in the previous
 REF period (£8M p/a) to £79.6M over the current period (£11.4M p/a). Funders include UKRI
 (ESRC, EPSRC, MRC, NERC, STFC, InnovateUK), UK Government departments, Welsh
 Government, the NHS, charities (including RAEng, Royal Society, Alzheimer’s Society, Versus
 Arthritis, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, British Council, Cancer Research Wales, Leverhulme
 Trust Wellcome Trust), Europe, and industry. This success has given us a diverse and balanced
 portfolio of awards in support of our strategic aims across all our priority areas
 Over the REF period, we focussed on securing larger grants alongside fellowships as a
 means of attracting and developing world-class researchers to increase our capacity. We
 secured 13 grants each worth over £1M (compared to three in REF2014) and were awarded 26
 externally funded Fellowships from the EPSRC, RAEng and European sources (Sections 2.3
 and 4.5). To support this, we strategically used small grants (340 awards <£50k) to help initiate
 new research ideas, support researcher mobility (GCRF, Newton Fund), develop ECR track-

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 records (e.g. EPSRC IAA and Royal Society Small Equipment Grants), and establish new
 research partnerships and industry collaborations (InnovateUK/Small Business Research
 Initiative) feasibility studies, as well as applied research with local SMEs. This was invaluable in
 supporting larger research grant applications aligned with our five priority areas (Section 1.1.2).
 We have focussed on supporting researchers during the grant application process, with particular
 emphasis on ECRs, through interaction with line managers, mentors and dedicated support
 activities (Section 2.3.1). The ENGIN Research Office (applications and awards support),
 Business Interface (impact, knowledge exchange and commercialisation) and Public Engagement
 Officer (communication and outreach) provide professional support to all aspects of grant capture
 and delivery.
 In our Advanced Manufacturing priority area, we secured 136 grants (£15.1M) across six
 research groups (Section 1.1.1). Highlights include: ACM secured 12 awards with a focus on staff
 mobility and exchange, including a RAEng Industrial Fellowship with Airbus (Kundu) applying
 industrial mathematics to develop aircraft wing designs using machine learning, Sêr Cymru-MSCA
 Co-funded Fellowships (Morini, Noorikalkhoran, and Li) and a RAEng Distinguished Visiting
 Fellowship (Dorfmann, Tufts University). HVM secured 54 awards, including ASTUTE 2020 and
 leadership of IROHMS (Setchi). M&M (21 awards) were awarded MAGMA (Anderson), while
 TPMSM successful secured 47 awards, including EPSRC Fellowship (Kim) and MSCA
 Fellowships (Cernescu, Perepelkin, and Li).
 Our Civil Infrastructure priority area secured 96 grants (£15.2M) across three research groups.
 The GRC secured 54 awards, with highlights including the NERC-UKRI funded INSPIRE
 (Sapsford) creating new in-situ technologies to harness waste for economic and environmental
 gain. Our HRC obtained 35 awards, including an MSCA Fellowship considering sediment
 dynamics of instream wood-jams and managed installations (Follett). M4L secured seven grants
 and lead an EPSRC Programme Grant RM4L (Jefferson) developing biomimetic construction
 materials.
 In our Compound Semiconductors and Applications priority area, we secured 60 grants
 (£21.2M) across three research groups. CHFE highlights include GaNforCS ERDF (Lees) bringing
 together a complete supply chain for high-frequency transistor manufacture in South Wales; an
 EPSRC Manufacturing Fellowship (Wallis) developing GaN-based optoelectronics; and a novel
 millimetre-wave on-Wafer Characterisation Facility (Tasker). CIREGS obtained a CSA Catapult
 Industry Fellowship (Ming), and M&M an EPSRC Manufacturing Fellowship (Bennett) with
 membership of the EPSRC Hub in Quantum Computing and Simulation.
 Our Engineering for Health priority area secured 118 grants (£11.4M) involving three active
 research groups. MED obtained 80 awards with highlights including the MSKBRF and OATech+
 (section 1.4). CHFE were awarded 28 awards, including a large H2020 grant - Artificial Cells with
 Distributed Cores to Decipher Protein Function (Barrow), and microwave-enabled, non-invasive
 blood glucose sensors (Porch). M&M secured nine awards, including NIHR - Generation and
 Evaluation of Hand Therapy Devices for Epidermolysis Bullosa (Meydan).
 In our Sustainable Energy priority area, we secured 229 grants (£34.2M). CIREGS obtained 90
 awards, with a strong EPSRC track record (35 awards) on smart grids and multi-vector energy
 systems (SUPERGEN Hubs, Jenkins and Wu J.) including integrated decarbonised electricity
 (MEDOW, Jenkins and Liang), gas (EPSRC Fellowship, Qadrdan), heat (UKERC-4, Wu J.) and
 electrified transport (DTE Network, Cipcigan). AHIVE obtained 40 awards focusing on high voltage
 electrical network infrastructure, with contributions from industrial partners, including Airbus and
 National Grid (Haddad). GRC leads FLEXIS (Thomas) building flexible energy systems, while the
 BRE Trust for Sustainable Engineering secured 40 awards, with a strong track record of
 participation in Horizon2020 on building and district energy management (12 projects, Rezgui).
 CREWE obtained 55 awards focussing on flexible power generation, zero carbon fuels and
 industrial waste heat and gas utilisation (impact case study - Bowen), as well as low-emission
 transport (impact case study - Crayford).




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Operational and scholarly infrastructure including specialist equipment
 While predominantly based in the University’s Queen’s Buildings, the University is providing critical
 new investment for ENGIN at Cardiff’s new £300M Innovation Campus and unique offsite
 industrial facilities are available for researchers: The Gas Turbine Research Centre in Neath Port
 Talbot and the Morgan-Botti Lightning Laboratory in Cardiff. Since REF2014, £33M has been
 invested from a range of sources to enhance our research laboratories and associated space,
 aligned to enhancing research advances in our priority areas (Section 1).
 We continually work to make infrastructure and facilities accessible to all, and in line with our
 commitment to EDI, we have modified laboratories to improve accessibility: the Musculoskeletal
 and Biomechanics Research Facility, for example, has accessibility designed in, with ground floor
 access, disabled toilets and changing rooms, broad corridors and direct access to parking.
 3.2.1 Investments into facilities
 Investments from diverse sources have been targeted to ensure strategic priority areas reach their
 full potential and are internationally competitive. For example, growth in compound semiconductor
 research is being transformed through a £77M University capital investment into the Institute for
 Compound Semiconductors (ICS), part of £131M Translational Research Hub (TRH) within the
 University’s Innovation Campus development due to open Spring 2022. The TRH will
 accommodate a total of 329 staff, including 49 research-active academic staff from ENGIN,
 Physics and Chemistry, together with 51 post-doctoral research staff and up to 180 PGR students.
 The ICS will occupy two floors of the TRH, with one floor dedicated to ENGIN, providing 1,500m2 of
 specialist cleanroom facilities. This unique environment strengthens our cross-disciplinary
 collaboration with Physics, specifically around compound semiconductor applications. Investment
 into the ICS was backed by a £17.3M UK Research Partnership Investment Fund award from
 UKRI and Welsh Government, driving the fabrication, testing and development of ground-breaking
 compound semiconductor technologies. We are a partner in the Compound Semiconductor
 Centre, a joint venture between IQE and Cardiff University (£24M from Cardiff University),
 ensuring research at ICS is commercialised into new technologies and applications.
 At a School level, during the REF period, over £33M has been invested strategically into our
 priority areas aligned to our research strategy (see Section 1.2):
 Compound Semiconductor and Applications (£15.8M): a £12M Welsh Government Award
 (including £5M for molecular beam epitaxy and metal organic chemical vapour deposition facilities
 located in ENGIN); £13M from ERDF (awards split 50/50 between ENGIN and the School of
 Physics) plus a £2M (£500k to ENGIN) Compound Semiconductor Underpinning Equipment Grant
 (Thomas, EP/P030556/1); a GaN materials characterisation facility (£100k, Wallis) for
 measurement of large diameter wafer-bow; a new Quantum Technology Laboratory (£760k,
 Bennett) in the ICS supporting research in quantum technologies; a new characterisation facility
 (£1.5M EPSRC Equipment Grant, Tasker) extending capabilities to mm-wave frequencies. In
 terms of enhancements to existing facilities, the cleanroom in Queen’s Buildings was upgraded
 (£450k) to support ICS development and the new EPSRC Compound Semiconductor CDT.
 Advanced Manufacturing (£3.5M): a spark plasma sintering (SPS) system (£240k, Garcia
 Rocha) and measurement equipment (£300k, Prickett) to refurbish the Renishaw Metrology
 Laboratory; a new acoustic camera (£202k, Pearson) led to a project with Airbus considering the
 entire lifecycle of aerospace structures using structural health monitoring; two new robotics
 laboratories (The Autonomous Systems and Robotics Laboratory, £350k, and the Human-Robot
 Interactions Laboratory, £420k, Setchi), together with the Metal Additive Manufacturing facility
 (£600k, Setchi, Prickett) supported by Renishaw; a Mazak VCS430 Vertical Machining Centre was
 purchased by Renishaw (£350k) and ENGIN (£100k) in 2015 (Setchi, Prickett), enabling work in
 smart manufacturing and advanced nanocomposites. For existing facilities, our Micro/Nano
 Manufacturing capability was enhanced (£155k) by investment in transmission electron
 microscopy and our Structural Performance and Tribology Laboratories benefited from a 3D-laser
 scanning vibrometer (£500k) and new controllers (£145k).
 Engineering for Health (£5.2M): the new 6,000m2 MSKBRF (£5M, Holt) provides state-of-the-art
 research access to patients and clinicians. Capabilities include a teaching laboratory, full motion

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 analysis to clinical standards, micro-CT scanner, DEXA scan and fluoroscopy laboratory with
 dynamic biplanar fluoroscopy (dynamic 3D x-ray imagery, unique in Europe). As part of
 enhancements to existing facilities, our Medical Diagnostic Laboratory, through our research
 partnership with Cardiff and Vale UHB, now provides MRI, X-ray, ultrasound, and whole-body
 radiation counter facilities. The Medical Ultrasound and Sensor Laboratory received investment
 (£50k) for new ultrasound equipment. The Human Factors Technology Laboratory was upgraded
 (£150k) with motion capture and other multimedia equipment.
 Sustainable Energy (£8.6M): a new Medium Voltage Direct Current Laboratory (£300k, donated
 by Windsun Ltd.), sponsored by SP Energy Networks (£200k), was successfully applied in the
 £15M ANGLE-DC project realising a medium voltage direct current link between Anglesey and
 North Wales, a national flagship Electricity Network Innovation Competition demonstration project
 funded by Ofgem (impact case study - Ugalde-Loo). For existing facilities, the National Grid
 strategic partnership continued to support AHIVE through a £2M investment, supporting increased
 experimental capacities and securing staff positions. University investment of £1M allowed the
 relocation of laboratories to a new, dedicated facility in 2016/17; subsequently, grant funding of
 £4M (National Grid and EPSRC) allowed the installation of 300kV transformer and a 400kV gas
 insulated demonstrator test rig. Facilities in the CIREGS Power Electronics Laboratory were
 enhanced (£500k) to include real-time simulators (RTDS and Opal RT). A Medium Voltage Direct
 Current simulator was commissioned, as well as a new laboratory for interdisciplinary energy
 research on gas/electricity systems (£100k). The Gas Turbine Research Centre facility was
 significantly enhanced since REF2014 with investment (£200k) in low carbon technology to reduce
 facility operating costs and carbon footprint. A further £300k was invested in advanced optical
 diagnostic equipment, enabling new research into the zero-carbon fuels hydrogen and ammonia.
 Civil Infrastructure (£430k): our Hydraulics Laboratory was upgraded with new flumes (£24k)
 and a full range of state-of-the-art instrumentation for measuring flows (£85k), while our
 Geotechnical Laboratories were refurbished and updated (£170k). Our Building Information
 Modelling Laboratory was enhanced with a new visualisation and high-performance computing
 facility for architectural building modelling (£150k). The Materials Characterisation and
 Construction Materials Research Laboratories were refurbished, and equipment installed to allow
 characterisation of self-healing cementitious materials.
 All facilities are supported by a team of technical and professional services staff; since REF2014
 we increased our research technical support by five FTE. A pool of infrastructure technicians (33
 FTE) supports the general operation and upkeep of the research laboratories, with dedicated
 technicians (4.5 FTE) supporting specialist laboratories. Fully equipped mechanical and electronic
 workshops provide bespoke manufacturing and specialised maintenance. We promote technical
 staff representation on key committees; Health and Safety and ENGIN Operations Group (Hunt),
 and in 2019, the annual Technicians Conference was organised jointly between ENGIN and
 Physics and hosted on site. We also promote the Technical Commitment (REF5a) and support
 our staff to become accredited.
 3.3 Infrastructure and expertise contributing to impact
 The Business Interface (Section 1.3) is central to our current and future strategy, focussed on
 knowledge transfer and maximising the impact of our activities. Our School Research Office,
 meanwhile, ensures that grant applications include appropriately designed and resourced impact
 generating activities while advising on impact focussed schemes (e.g. EPSRC IAA, GCRF, H2020
 Proof of Concept funding). The Interface hosts Technology Transfer Officers (TTO) from the
 University Commercial Development Team (REF5a, section 4.4); for example, supporting the
 SETSquared Scale-up Programme, helping academics and high growth potential SMEs connect
 (Beach, ‘digitisation of construction regulations’ via the Construction Innovation Hub, £430k), or
 working with researchers developing a non-invasive blood glucose monitor (led by Porch) to
 devise a commercialisation strategy and support initial clinical trials. Cardiff Partnership seed
 funding (£99k) was used to underpin IP and optimise the sensor, leading to a Wellcome Trust
 grant (£1.1M, Porch) for prototype development and clinical studies. A licence agreement was
 concluded in June 2019 for commercialisation which included a £250k development project and a
 royalty return to the University.


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ENGIN facilities, including laboratories and equipment, are accessible to SMEs and other
 collaborators to test or develop new materials, processes and products. Large industrial partners,
 such as Airbus, National Grid and Tata Steel, value access to our major facilities with unique
 capabilities, including the GTRC, the Morgan-Botti Lightning Laboratory (MBLL) and the GRC’s
 Characterisation Laboratories for Environmental Engineering Research (CLEER) facility (see
 Section 1.3 for scale of engagement).
 We actively engage with the Cardiff University Innovation Network (REF5a) with success in
 several University Innovation and Impact Awards: Valera Medina and Siemens, Sustainable
 Innovation Award (2019); Pullin and Microsemi, Business Innovation Award (2018); Lees and
 Flintec, Business Innovation Award (2017).
 3.4 Major benefits-in-kind
 Project partners play an integral role in our research, providing direct cash and in-kind support
 including expertise, staff time, access to facilities and test sites or provision of materials and
 equipment. UKRI grants secured during the REF period included £4.5M of in-kind contributions,
 (e.g. Resilient Materials for Life (RM4L), including £400k in-kind contribution to demonstration and
 site trials from Costain, or Accelerated Supergene Processes in Repository Engineering
 (ASPIRE), 17 project partners, including donations of equipment, public engagement expertise
 and samples). Major ERDF funding also included significant match, for example, GaNforCS
 SMART Expertise, with over £2.8M in-kind funding from industrial partners, including Newport
 Wafer Fab, IQE and SPTS Technologies/Orbotech, who provided technical staff, equipment and
 cleanroom access. MAGMA received £750k match in the form of staff secondments and
 equipment.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 The breadth and international profile of our research collaboration can be evidenced through co-
 authorship: 65% of our REF2021 papers (176/272) include joint authors (278 different Institutions),
 with 45% (122) involving authors from outside of the UK (39 unique countries) and 11% including
 end-user or industry authors; whilst 78% (499/639) of grants secured in the REF period involved
 collaborative research with partners or users.
 International collaborations extend across all priority areas and resulted in 36 H2020 projects
 (£7.3M) including: MSCA ITN INNODC (£765k), led by Liang, with partners Politecnica Catalunya,
 U.Porto, DTU, KU Leuven and six international industries, training European leaders in renewable
 smart energy and tackling climate change; pISCES, THERMOSS, PENTAGON (£1M total), led
 by the BRE Trust for Sustainable Engineering, which were H2020 companion projects, reducing
 energy use and tackling fuel poverty by enhancing urban energy efficiency with partners from Italy,
 Germany, Spain, France, Switzerland, Belgium, Czech Republic and Ireland; and COST, a 28
 partner European Co-operation in Science and Technology (chaired by Pullin), considering the
 optimisation of design for inspection to maximise the full benefit of in-service, continual monitoring
 of aerospace structures for cleaner and safer skies.
 We hosted 147 visiting academics and 74 visiting researchers during the period including RAEng
 Distinguished Visiting Fellows Beroual (Lyon); Thompson (Mississippi State); Dorfman (Tufts);
 Sklonlewski (Maryland) plus RAEng Visiting Professors Edwards (Culham Science Centre) with a
 focus on nuclear engineering and Yang, (Olympus Surgical Technology Europe), focussing on
 Medical Device Design. GCRF/Newton Fund awards developed new links and joint research with
 Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Columbia, Egypt, India, Jordan, Malaysia, Senegal and Vietnam.
 Visits have facilitated mutually beneficial outcomes, e.g. a paper generated by a visiting PhD
 student won the 13th European Microwave Integrated Circuits Conference Young Engineer Prize;
 multiple co-authored papers (including in our submission, e.g. 10.1088/1741-2552/ab0328;
 10.1007/s10915-017-0392-0); or grant awards, e.g. Valera-Medina being invited to join the €12M
 H2020 FLEXnCONFU consortium.




                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 National collaborations delivered 122 new UKRI awards (£32M to ENGIN), with our researchers
 leading 34. Notable examples of national project leadership include the following, as well as
 examples provided in Sections 1 and 3:
 ▪ The EPSRC Programme Grant RM4L (Jefferson), with Bath, Bradford and Cambridge (£4.8M).
 ▪ The Future Compound Semiconductor Manufacturing Hub (£10.3M, £1.5M to ENGIN) - a
   major collaborative initiative led by the School of Physics, with academic partners including
   Sheffield, UCL and Manchester, with 23 industrial partners.
 ▪ The EPSRC Network+ OATech+ (£1.2M, Holt) with Imperial College, Royal Veterinary
   College, Leeds and Strathclyde developing a multidisciplinary approach to the prevention and
   treatment of osteoarthritis.
 ▪ The EPSRC DTE Network+ (£1M, Cipcigan) with partners including Cranfield, Birmingham,
   Bristol and Southampton Universities, along with Aston Martin, Ricardo Group, National Grid,
   Transport for London, Transport for Wales, Welsh Government, the IEEE and others.
 Regional and Welsh collaborations saw major developments through the formation of the
 Compound Semiconductor Cluster (Section 1.3) involving five international companies: IQE,
 Newport Wafer Fab, SPTS Technologies, Microchip with Swansea University and the CSA
 Catapult. We are a key partner of the GW4 Alliance (REF5a) and lead a large portfolio of
 collaborative grants funded by the Welsh Government designed to promote strategic cooperation
 within Wales. FLEXIS (led by Thomas, Haddad, Jenkins, Bowen) is a £24M research programme
 conducted in consortium with Cardiff, Swansea, University of South Wales, Neath-Port Talbot
 County Borough Council and Tata Steel to achieve a resilient, affordable, secure energy system
 across Wales with potential for global application. MAGMA is a £2.1M project (Evans S.,
 Anderson), in which ENGIN, the School of Chemistry and Tata Steel are delivering technology
 change in processing, characterisation, manufacturing and recycling of magnetic materials.
 4.2 Engaging with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences
 In addition to editorial and advisory roles and leadership in national and international research
 communities, learned societies and professional bodies (Section 4.5), examples of engagement
 across all priority areas include delivery of over 200 industrial collaborative research projects with
 partners including Airbus, Arup, China Communication Construction, Cogent Power, GE
 Healthcare, GlaxoSmithKline, Huawei, IQE, Mercedes-Benz, NASA, National Grid, Olympus, Tata
 Steel and Toshiba. Working with Rolls-Royce, we defined best practice for measuring aircraft
 engine particulates, now adopted by the UN as a global standard (impact case study - Crayford),
 as well as applied Cardiff tribology research in the design of propulsion of new frigates and aircraft
 bearings (impact case study - Evans H.P.).
 Our international reach extends through our European links and strategic international
 collaborations to over 40 joint externally funded projects, 36 H2020 projects, with examples
 including the MSCA ITN INNODC engaging with six international industrial partners and
 strengthening Europe’s position of leadership in renewable smart energy (others in Section 4.1).
 We provide international policy advice; for example, International Standard Committees of
 International Electrotechnical Commission (Haddad) and Foreign Membership of the Chinese
 Academy of Engineering (Falconer, Section 4.5).
 Successful strategic engagements with industry led to longstanding relationships and
 partnerships, including Tata Steel, recovering heat waste and significantly reducing energy costs
 and CO2 emissions (impact case studies, Bowen, Haddad). The MBLL (Haddad) engages in
 research with the Airbus, HEXCEL and the National Composite Centre through the PROTEST
 project (£2.6M), investigating ways of protecting aircraft from lightning strikes. Collaborations also
 led directly to RAEng Industrial Fellowships (Cipcigan, Kundu) at National Grid and Airbus.
 A strategic engagement with Renishaw in the Advanced Manufacturing priority area delivered
 five EPSRC iCASE PhD studentships and, spanning MMM and EEE departments, resulted in the
 development of novel RF and microwave techniques to assist in additive manufacturing, leading
 to the filing of several patents (e.g., EP3200942A1, 2017). We also have a well-established track-
 record of KTPs with 15 awards since REF2014 including wireless, autonomous weight-measuring

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 load-cells (Innovate UK KTP with Lees and Flintec UK, Feb 2014-Sep 2015, £128k) which won a
 CUIN Business Innovation Award.
 Aligned with our Engineering for Health priority area, and through our collaboration with the NHS
 CEDAR Healthcare Technology Centre, we support research and evaluation of medical devices
 and diagnostics. CEDAR is one of four centres supporting UK healthcare through the Medical
 Technologies Evaluation Programme (NICE, £1.1M funding to ENGIN).
 School members are active in global networking and dissemination via conferences, including 950
 presentations openly available via our online repository. We organised and hosted six major
 conferences aligned with our priority areas, including the 24th Conference of Computational
 Mechanics ACME-UK (2016), Recent Appointees in Materials Science RAMS2018, 30th British
 Machine Vision Conference at Cardiff BMVC 2019, the International Workshop on Integrated
 Nonlinear Microwave and Millimetre-wave Circuits (INNMIC2020), the UK Nitrides Consortium
 conference in 2020 and the 9th International Conference on Applied Energy (2017), with over 700
 delegates, including the Chief Scientific Advisor to BEIS, John Loughhead, as a keynote speaker.
 4.3 Engaging with Diverse Communities and the Public
 Our Public Engagement Officer coordinates our engagement and outreach programme, reaching
 approximately 8,000 people a year. We run regular staff training on best practice and public
 engagement techniques, and we focus on building long-term relationships with primary and
 secondary schools leading to visits, workshops and teacher CPD. Our Tidal Power project with
 Radnor Primary School provided support to design turbines for the Bristol Channel and was highly
 commended in the Young Innovator category of The Engineer’s Collaborate to Innovate Awards.
 Our Cardiff Marine Energy Research Group (part of CREWE) supported the creation of GCSE
 resources, including lesson plans, for the National STEM Learning Centre. We work with diverse
 communities, such as Willows High School, where 44% of pupils are eligible for free school meals,
 and 68% of pupils live in the 20% most deprived areas in Wales. Students from Willows Year 7
 join us annually for hands-on interaction with projects in our laboratories, while students from
 Ninian Park Primary, with a similar dependency on free school meals and with 84% of students
 with English as an additional language, performed their own Science Magic Show in ENGIN.
 Following a review of activities and best practice (2016), we established a new evidence-based
 strategy for public engagement focussing on ensuring our activities and actions are gender
 neutral. This includes emphasising how engineers help people, choosing universal themes such
 as health and sustainability, replacing competition with collaboration as an engagement tool. In
 2019, we received an Ingenious grant from the RAEng to work with Go Girl Academy and
 Girlguiding. We trialled resources and provided training to engineers in inclusive practice, ran
 engineering workshops at school holiday clubs for girls and developed an electromagnetics
 Girlguiding challenge badge.
 Our researchers engage at public events such as the National Eisteddfod (recognised as the most
 important Welsh cultural event, attracting many thousands of visitors over a week), the Green Man
 music festival, Rudry Music Festival (engaging with 150 families in ‘motor madness’ and robotic
 hands activities, Lees), Edinburgh Science Festival - How to start an electric car and Cardiff
 Science Festival (Cipcigan). We lead several interdisciplinary University events, such as the
 annual STEM live: Mission to Mars, a one-day immersive experience involving 12 secondary
 schools and approximately 150 12- to 13-year-olds participating in a range of interactive STEM
 activities themed around a voyage to live on another planet. The aim of these events is to
 showcase the vital importance of engineering, maths and science to a wide audience.
 Examples of wider contributions to economy and society include the FIFA-accredited Medical
 Centre of Excellence (Nokes), a joint facility with Cardiff Metropolitan University and the Football
 Association of Wales, focussed on providing the best medical care to all those participating in
 football, irrespective of age or gender. We also collaborate with the School of Earth and
 Environmental Sciences developing ‘CryoEgg’, a system for exploring radio propagation through
 glacial ice in North East Greenland (Lees). This work attracted significant attention in national
 media and was nominated for ‘The Engineer’ Collaborate to Innovate award in 2019.



                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.4 Contribution to the sustainability of engineering
 During the period, 416 students received research degrees and are now applying their skills
 globally, for example, as academics in the UK (including, at Cardiff, Allmark, Barba, Wyatt) or
 worldwide (e.g. China, India, Iraq, Libya, Malaysia, Netherlands, Norway, Saudi Arabia, Spain) as
 postdoctoral researchers, or in industry and the public sector (e.g. Atkins, BEIS, Carbon Trust, EA
 Technologies, Google, HR Wallingford, Intertek, National HVDC Centre, STFC, Tata, Welsh
 Water, ONS), contributing to the sustainability of the sector. To help promote the sustainability of
 the discipline, Holford sits on the Russell Group Post-18 review advisory group, co-chaired the
 Welsh Government Talented Women for a Successful Wales report and is Non-Executive Director
 of the UKRI STFC Council, including membership of Finance and Governance Committee and
 STFC/Innovate UK joint forum. Falconer is the Foreign Member of the Chinese Academy of
 Engineering and the National Flood Resilience Science Advisory Group to UK Government and
 Hinkley Point-C Stakeholder Reference Group to Welsh Government.
 We develop future research leaders through various mechanisms (Section 2.3), such as mentoring
 and encouraging ECRs to play leading roles in our committees and CCTs. Many staff, including
 ECRs, promote discipline sustainability through membership of national committees and
 standards bodies, including BSI GEL/081 Protection against lightning (Robson), IEEE MTT
 Technical Committee 5 High Power Amplifiers (Quaglia), Royal Society Policy Briefing on
 Ammonia (Valera Medina), Welsh Government’s Flood and Coastal Erosion Committee (Wilson)
 and the IET Power Academy (Robson), Vice-Chair and Secretary of SAE-31 international
 technical committee for particulate matter emissions (Crayford).
 All academic staff are expected to contribute to the fundamental process of peer review for journals
 and further contribute to the discipline by acting as external examiners and reviewers. Academic
 staff have authored, edited or contributed to 88 books and monographs, extending the
 underpinning knowledge base of the discipline.
 Our staff provide informed and impartial assessments supporting the allocation of research funds,
 e.g. BBSRC, EPSRC (25 Full and 23 Associate Peer Review College Members), NERC, MRC,
 Leverhulme Trust, Royal Academy of Engineering, Innovate UK, Royal Society, Wellcome Trust;
 at the European level as expert evaluators for H2020, MCSA, ERC, European Science
 Foundation; and with National Research Councils, including Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada,
 Denmark, Chile, China, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Ireland, Italy, Israel,
 Kazakhstan, Lithuania, Mexico, the Netherlands, Qatar, Singapore, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain,
 Switzerland, UAE and USA, reflecting our international engagement, reach and reputation.
 4.5 Indicators of wider influence of the research base
 Many staff are, or have been Editors-in-Chief, editors or associate editors of international
 journals. With the IEEE, Cripps on Microwave and Components Letters; Haddad with
 Transactions on Dielectrics and Electric Insulation; Melikhov and Transactions on Magnetics;
 Setchi on Access; and Liu Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering. For the IET, Wu
 J. on the Journal of Smart Grids and is Deputy Editor-in-Chief of the Journal on Energy System
 Integration. Other positions reflect our breadth of expertise: Cipcigan, Smart Grids and Power
 Systems and Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews; Jefferson, European Journal of Civil
 Engineering; Bordas, Advances in Applied Mechanics; Brousseau Manufacturing Letters; Valera
 Medina Journal of Thermal Science; Mourshed, PLoS One; O’Doherty, International Marine
 Energy; Jenkins former Chair ICE Energy; Benedikt, Microwave and Optical Technology Letters;
 Liu ASME Journal of Computing and Information Science in Engineering, Journal of Industrial and
 Production Engineering, Autonomous Intelligent Systems and CCF Transactions on Pervasive
 Computing and Interaction; and Tripathy Canadian Geotechnical Journal.
 We dedicate significant time and expertise advising professional bodies, standard committees
 and in expert advisory roles. Representing our Sustainable Energy priority area, Liang is a
 member of five CIGRE Working Groups (B4.58, B4.60, B4.62, B4.72, B4/C6-37) and the China
 Electric Power Technology Collaboration. With the British Standard Institution Committees (BSI)
 Haddad is involved with PEL37/1, PEL37/2, PEL42, and GEL81 International Standard
 Committees of International Electrotechnical Commission; Cipcigan is on the Technical
 Committee ESL/120 Electrical Energy Storage; Robson on the GEL/081 Protection Against
 Lightning. Valera Medina participated in a Royal Society Policy Briefing and Robson is involved

                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with the IET Power Academy. Li is a Standards Committee Technical Executive of buildingSMART
 (producing BIM ISO standards) and leads the development of IFC ISO 16739-1:2018 extension -
 IFC Ports and Waterways (IFC4.3).
 In our Advanced Manufacturing and Engineering for Health priority areas, Evans S. supported the
 Canadian Standards Agency Z325 Committee and NHS Wales Evidence Based Purchasing
 Board; Setchi worked with the European Institute of Innovation and Technology and Tech Valleys
 Strategic Advisory Group; Haddad on the Technical Advisory Board for National Grid Advisory;
 Pullin on the RILEM Technical Committee; and Holt with the IMechE Biomedical Board. Other
 priority areas include Mourshed, Wilson, and Cipcigan advising Welsh Government Committees;
 Quaglia on the IEEE MTT Technical Committee 5; Tasker with the Wales 5G Expert Group; Davies
 on the Industry Innovation Platform-Infrastructures Technical Standard and Rezgui advising the
 Digital Built Britain initiative.
 Prizes, awards and other distinctions received by our academics include Holford as Fellow of
 the RAEng and CBE for services to engineering and for the advancement of women in
 engineering; Thomas awarded CBE for outstanding contribution to academic research and
 services to higher education, as well as President of the Learned Society of Wales; and Falconer
 recognised as Fellow of the European Academy of Sciences, Honorary Member of the
 International Association for Hydro-Environment Engineering and Research, Foreign Member of
 the Chinese Academy of Engineering for distinguished contributions to hydraulic engineering and
 to the promotion of China-UK exchanges and cooperation in the field.
 Tasker and Ekanayake became IEEE Fellows and Li was elected to the Royal Society of
 Chemistry. Awards include Cripps with the best annual paper in Microwave Theory and
 Techniques and the MWCL Tatsuo Itoh Award for best paper published in the IEEE Microwave
 and Wireless Component Letters; Ming won the IET Control and Automation PhD Prize; Steer was
 awarded the IoM3 Adrian Normanton Medal for best technical paper on steelmaking or casting;
 and Stoesser won the ICE George Stephenson Medal. McWhirter was included in the Science
 Council's list of 100 Leading UK Practising Scientists.
 Staff in all our priority areas deliver many keynote lectures in international conferences. For
 example, in our Advanced Manufacturing priority area, highlights include Borodich at 9th and 10th
 European Solid Mechanics Conferences EUROMECH, as well as EUROMECH Colloquium 574,
 Anadolu University, Turkey; Setchi for the 19th International Conference on Knowledge-Based and
 Intelligent Information and Engineering Systems, 7th International Symposium for Sustainability by
 Engineering, 16th Global Conference on Sustainable Manufacturing, as well as KES International
 Conference on Smart Sustainable Technologies. For the Civil Infrastructure priority area, Falconer
 in 21st International Association for Hydro-Environment Engineering and Research (IAHR) Asia
 Pacific Division Congress and 37th IAHR World Congress; Jefferson at the joint 6th European
 Conference on Computational Mechanics and 7th European Conference on Computational
 Dynamics Glasgow, Concrete Solutions International Conference on Concrete Repair Cluj, as well
 as Durable Concrete for Infrastructure under Severe Conditions Ghent 2019; and Tripathy at the
 International Conference on Soil and Environment 2016. In the Sustainable Energy priority area,
 Min for the European Conference on Thermoelectrics; O’Doherty at the International Conference
 on Renewable Energy 2019; Valera Medina for 14th Clean Air Conference 2019 and Wu J. in the
 Global Engineering Conference, London, 2018, and the China International Electrical and Energy
 Conference, Beijing, China, 2017.
 Our staff have been invited guest speakers at many prestigious institutions. In the UK, highlights
 include Porch and Gei spoke at the University of Oxford; Garcia Rocha and Xie at the University
 of Cambridge; Gei at UCL; and Bennett, Garcia Rocha, Whatling and Xie at Imperial College
 London. Gei, Liang and Evans S. have spoken at KU Leuven, one of the University’s partner
 institutions. Within Europe, talks include Bennett Technical University of Munich, Haddad ETH
 Zurich; Gei Tufts University; Gallichan Max Planck Institute-Tuebingen; Kerfriden Delft University
 of Technology; Kennedy Politecnico di Torino; and Quaglia Politecnico di Milano. Further afield,
 Gei spoke at Harvard University; Setchi the Georgia Institute of Technology and Nanyang
 Technological University; Xie Tsinghua University and University of Tokyo; Tripathy IIT Bombay;
 Borodich Russian Academy of Science; Cleall University of New South Wales, Pan University of
 Wollongong and University of Sydney.


                                                                                           Page 21
