Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Portsmouth (UoP)


 Unit of Assessment: 11 – Computer Science and Informatics


 1       Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1     Unit context

 Established in 2005, the School of Computing (SoC) focuses on research that solves key
 societal challenges in three interdisciplinary areas: health, cybersecurity, and applied
 computational intelligence. Our future strategy (Section 1.4) outlines our ambitious plans to
 further enhance our interdisciplinary research and innovation to benefit individuals and society.
 The school took part in RAE2008 (headcount: 16 staff) and REF2014 (14 staff). This submission
 includes 33 staff, a 136% increase on REF2014, reflecting a significant expansion in research
 volume in accordance with our strategic priorities (Section 1.3). We have also achieved income
 over triple that at the previous REF assessment and our research has had international impact.
 Most staff submitted to UoA11 are from the School of Computing (SoC), with a small number
 from other departments, notably the School of Creative Technologies (SCT). The submitted staff
 are 20% female and 42% BAME.

 1.2     Unit structure

 Historically, most computer science research at Portsmouth has been applied rather than pure,
 with a strong interdisciplinary flavour. In the 1990s, research was solely in applications of
 artificial intelligence technologies. This broadened in 1998 to include health informatics. By the
 2000s it encompassed networking and security applications. These have since evolved into the
 current structure where research is organised into three groups. These reflect the school’s
 strengths and we regularly review group names and composition to maintain alignment with
 strategic goals and members' interests. The groups are:

 1.2.1   Centre for Healthcare Modelling and Informatics (CHMI)

 CHMI (8 people, led by Briggs) has an international reputation for research on clinical outcome
 modelling. To give one example, NEWS is used across the NHS and is recommended
 internationally by the WHO (see Impact Case Study REF3 UoA11-NEWS). Much of this
 research is in collaboration with Portsmouth Hospitals University NHS Trust (REF5aPara16).
 Founded as the Healthcare Computing Group in 1998, the group became a formal university-
 wide research centre under its current name in 2007. It conducts multi-disciplinary research to
 answer pressing questions facing the health and care sectors including: how to design efficient,
 user-friendly and safe computer systems; how to ensure information exchange between systems
 is reliable and clinically assured; and how technology can enhance wellbeing.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2.2   Computational Intelligence (CI)

 CI (20 people, led by Liu) studies computational paradigms, with the aim of designing and
 developing algorithms that can be implemented with human machine systems. Examples include
 computational paradigms for artificial intelligence, human motion-sensing and analytics (for
 applications such as powered-wheelchairs – see REF3 UoA11-Wheelchairs), and human and
 machine/robot interaction (e.g. for robot-enhanced therapy for children with autism – see REF3
 UoA11-DREAM). The focus of much of the CI group’s work has moved to applications in health
 and wellbeing, and there is considerable overlap with the work of CHMI.

 1.2.3   Cybersecurity (CS)

 CS (11 people, led by Ashenden) was formerly the Networking and Security group. It combines
 computer science with social and behavioural science to address cybersecurity challenges
 holistically. Its research includes secure software development. It looks at the interaction
 between software developers and security practitioners, examining how people make
 cybersecurity risk decisions in different environments and under varying physiological conditions.
 Based on this, the group develops ways of understanding how to build converged security teams
 that bring together cyber, physical and personnel security functions. Ashenden is also
 Programme Manager at the UK-wide Centre for Research and Evidence on Security Threats
 (CREST), contributing to countering threats to national security.

               Table 1 – Composition of groups (*former staff not in post at census)


  Centre for Healthcare         Computational                  Cybersecurity (CS)
  Modelling and                 Intelligence (CI)
  Informatics (CHMI)


  BRIGGS, Bader, Good,          LIU, Arabikhan, Bader,         ASHENDEN, Adda, Aziz,
  Khusainov, Krokos,            Chlebikova, Dennis,            Haig, Li, Mohasseb,
  Prytherch, Scott, Yu          Gegov, Haig, Hopgood,          Owenson, Ossont,
                                Iacob, Jordanov, Joo, Ju,      Shiaeles, Williams, Zhou S.
                                Khusainov, Krokos,
                                Mohasseb, Simeone*,
                                Stevens, Yang, Yu, Zhou
                                D., Zhou S.


 1.3     Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact 2014-2020

 The structure above has ensured relevance to national and international priorities along with
 members’ research interests and delivery of the Unit’s research strategy. Within the context of
 the University’s research and innovation strategy (see REF5a), we are active participants in
 three of the University's five interdisciplinary research themes (REF5aPara9) which were
 launched in 2018 to align with national and international priorities. These themes are Future &



                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Emerging Technologies (involving the CI group), Risk & Security (involving the CS group), and
 Health & Wellbeing (involving CHMI).

 The strategic aims below were presented at REF2014, and subsequently cross-referred to the
 University's research and innovation strategy 2015-2020 (in brackets). We provide a summary of
 our achievements within this REF period.

 1.3.1       Funding: Increase our collaborative and interdisciplinary funding applications to
             sources that address key national and international strategic priorities, focusing
             on health, security and education (REF5aPara4-10&60-61)

 Research income has grown to £3.3M (up 255% since REF2014). This was achieved through
 increasing research active staff numbers, development of existing staff, and strategic investment
 in 13 new posts – resulting in 33 staff with significant responsibility for research (up 136% from
 2014) who are equipped to make funding bids.

 Our ambitions for key new partnerships align with the University’s 2030 strategy for partnerships
 growth (REF5aPara14-16) and our research prioritises key societal and economic issues that
 correspond to University research themes (REF5aPara9). For these reasons, we are successful
 in establishing new networks. The CI group draws on and shares expertise with the School of
 Mathematics and Physics, and the Faculty of Business and Law, under the theme Future and
 Emerging Technologies which is led by Hopgood. The CS group is developing new networks in
 Security and Risk, and the CHMI is exploring new collaborations within Health and Wellbeing.

 Currently, 40% of our outputs are considered interdisciplinary. By the end of the REF period, at
 least 77% of submitted staff were undertaking interdisciplinary research with the following
 disciplines:

             Engineering: 62% of staff;

             Medicine and Health: 46%;

             Sciences: 43%;

             Business and Economics: 31%;

             Mathematics: 23%;

             Arts and Humanities: 15%.

 External collaboration is now the norm, with 87% of staff collaborating in the UK, and
 international collaborations with:

             Europe: 74% of staff;

             Asia: 52%;

             USA, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa: 16%;



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

             Africa: 16%;

             Central America: 7%;

             South America: 3%.

 Specifically, 84% of staff collaborate with either industry, the public sector or charities. Of
 collaborations, 85% are with industry, 62% with the public sector and 23% with charity.

 1.3.2       Establish a cross-institutional network in Computational Intelligence (REF5aPara9)

 Having planned to convert the CI group into a University-wide Centre, the creation of the
 University Research Themes in 2018 meant that our ambitions for the CI network were best
 achieved by working collaboratively cross-university to establish research links and ensure
 alignment of all research to themes. Activity is now undertaken through Hopgood’s leadership
 and the CI group’s participation in a newly formed cluster, AIPA (Artificial Intelligence and its
 Practical Applications), which sits under the Future & Emerging Technologies Theme.

 1.3.3       Maintain and extend our focus on deploying technologies (REF5aPara17-19)

 Our deployment of technologies to solve public sector and industry-related problems has
 increased mainly through Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) (see Section 4), as has the
 number of staff involved. For example, CHMI’s KTP with Xim Ltd was based on CHMI’s clinical
 outcome modelling experience. This represents an important addition to our public sector work,
 as most of our KTP companies sell to the public sector.

 1.3.4       Continue to increase our PGR recruitment (REF5aPara21)

 Our PGR (Postgraduate Research student) recruitment has increased through a combination of
 institution-funded scholarships, international fee-paying students, and industry-sponsored
 studentships. Completions over the REF period have increased to 63 (up 103%) resulting from
 our increased capacity to support PGRs (see Section 2.2).

 1.3.5       Support staff to establish and maintain internal and external collaborations
             (REF5aPara2,9&20)

 Collaboration is now central to the Unit’s research culture (as shown under aim 1). We achieved
 this through continuous focus on training and support in this area (see Section 2). For example,
 in this REF period, 10 staff were supported to access University “pump-priming” funds
 (REF5aPara12). These are awarded competitively based on strong plans to seek external
 funding and are expected to deliver impact at the next REF.

 1.3.6       Increase research leadership (REF5aPara1-3&29)

 Our research leadership was strengthened through the appointment/promotion of 2 professors
 and 3 readers during this REF period (see Section 2).




                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.4     Achievement of strategic aims by individual research groups

 The REF2014 environment statement included specific strategic objectives for each of the 3
 research groups, all of which were met, and are discussed here.

 All research staff actively participate in at least one research group. Groups provide support to
 researchers at all career stages, facilitate internal and external collaboration, provide a sense of
 shared research identity and foster our research culture. This is achieved through encouraging
 cross-fertilization between groups, with some staff belonging to two groups, a programme of
 regular activities providing opportunities to work collaboratively, develop research questions,
 present and receive feedback on research, foster partnerships, develop new methodologies and
 techniques, share expertise, provide mentorship and support, and train and develop our
 postgraduates.

 Senior researchers in each group focus on staff development, ensure coherence of activities
 with Faculty and University strategies, ensure we attract and develop a thriving cohort of
 postgraduate students, and provide access to external academic partners.

 1.4.1   CI group: achievement of strategic objectives

 The objective was to strengthen the research excellence in this group. This was achieved
 through: supporting key researchers to progress their careers, reflected in promotions – Yu was
 promoted to professor, and Jordanov and Ju to reader; encouraging interdisciplinary research by
 strengthening collaboration – including Liu and Ju’s relocations to SoC (from Creative
 Technologies); addressing gaps in research expertise and building critical mass in key areas
 through strategic appointments (Hopgood, Iacob, Dennis, Zhou D. and Mohasseb).

 As a result, the group grew from 12 (2 female, 10 male) in 2014 to 20 in 2020 (5f, 15m) and saw
 significant increases in research funding (including major projects such as DREAM, see REF3
 UoA11-DREAM) and research publications (see Section 4).

 1.4.2   CS group: achievement of strategic objectives

 The objective was to establish research to address important national and international priorities,
 in particular meeting global security challenges through working with 1) government agencies
 and public services, 2) cybersecurity education, and 3) commercialisation of our expertise to
 help businesses. The strategic appointment of Ashenden was key and brought significant
 experience of securing and managing interdisciplinary research grant funded projects plus
 industry knowledge. Her direction and leadership became a catalyst for skills development within
 the group resulting in an attractive research environment allowing other key appointments
 (Williams, Li, Ossont and Shiaeles). As a result, the group established itself as a key player in
 this niche area in cyber-security.

 This is evidenced by group members developing collaborations with key organisations (e.g.
 Thales, Airbus Cybersecurity, MINDS&SPARKS GmbH, Siemens, HMRC), producing
 commissioned reports to inform policy, Ashenden’s leadership role in the UK-wide UKRI-funded
 CREST and her association with the University of Adelaide (see Section 4). CREST outputs
 have been viewed ~181,000 times by users in ~180 countries and the CREST App has been

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 downloaded by 530 devices. An independent review found "strong evidence that CREST
 research is having an impact for end-users… there is instrumental impact, through demonstrable
 changes to practice."

 1.4.3   CHMI group: achievement of strategic objectives.

 The objective was to focus on applied research with maximum impact and benefit to society. To
 achieve this, the group built on its growing reputation to position itself to secure additional
 research funding by developing stronger links with other universities and key organisations. The
 group now has sustained partnerships with the universities of Oxford and Southampton and an
 increasingly close and productive partnership with NHS bodies, particularly Portsmouth
 Hospitals University NHS Trust (REF5aPara16).

 We also made strategic investments in clinical outcome modelling and developing an ongoing
 academic/clinician partnership. This led to hospital staff appointments into the research group
 (Prytherch) and secondments out to the NHS (Scott) which built additional links.

 Stronger links led to an increase in publications and a five-fold increase in funding, including
 major projects such as Missed Care (the association between missed observations and nurse
 staffing levels in hospital wards), HAVEN (Hospital Alerting Via Electronic Noticeboard) and
 FOBS (safer and more efficient vital signs monitoring to identify the deteriorating patient), which
 led to life-saving impact (see REF3 UoA11-NEWS).

 1.5     Strategic Review 2016-17

 Responding to university-level changes, in 2016 the UoA undertook a strategic review. In 2017 it
 adopted these strategic aims for research and innovation:

   1.    Further develop and enhance research strengths aligned with our research priorities
         (REF5aPara4-10);

   2.    Increase our standing and visibility within the [university’s] thematic areas through high
         impact publications, significant collaborative research projects and enhanced
         engagement with user communities (REF5aPara9-10&14-19).

 These will continue to provide the framework for our strategy in the next REF period.

 1.6     Future research strategy 2021-2026

 Many of our key partnerships are with local organisations and bring local benefits. This
 contributes to the UoP’s commitment to being a ‘civic’ university (REF5aPara16). As part of this,
 we will continue to work collaboratively to promote inclusion and positively enrich economic,
 social and cultural life in the city and our region. We will strengthen our local partnerships while
 ensuring that outputs continue to have international reach and growing international impact. We
 remain committed to the areas of health, security and applied computational intelligence but will
 explore emerging areas that address key societal challenges (REF5aPara9&11).




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Unit’s future strategic objectives will continue to receive strong institutional-level support
 through the UoP research themes (each group with pump-priming and impact-building funding
 allocated to it, see REF5aPara12). The activities that will take us towards meeting the future
 strategic aims outlined below include developing our research leadership, training, capacity to
 generate income, research coherence for our interdisciplinary work, and developing our PGR
 community.

 1.6.1   How research culture underpins our future strategy

 A strong research culture includes integrity, ethical and legal standards (REF5aPara22-24), a
 vibrant research culture characterised by collaborative and interdisciplinary research
 (REF5aPara4,9,25,60,61,66), strong support for individual initiative (REF5aPara53-55),
 evidencing of impact (REF5aPara11-12&14-19), and dissemination of research to students and
 the general public (REF5aPara25-28). We continue to foster this by providing staff "refresher"
 development in integrity, and ethical and professional standards (REF5aPara22-23).

 We are increasing our commitment to open access, open data and open science – making
 them the norm to maximise research visibility (REF5aPara24). Building upon previous training,
 we will now embed this more strongly in our everyday activities.

 We will increase opportunities to present and be exposed to colleagues’ research (internal,
 external or industry) through group, school/department, faculty and theme seminars. We will
 encourage more national and international presentations and networking visits (academic and
 industry-related) through our internal travel budget/policy that was revised following COVID-19
 and will be monitored/adjusted to maximise benefits.

 To grow our postgraduate community, we will support and incentivise staff to access UKRI PGR
 funding via Doctoral Training Partnerships and Centres for Doctoral Training.

 Our staff engage in school and media outreach, and we will build on this with more training,
 increasing end user engagement. We will strongly support individual initiatives aligned with our
 strategy. Our staff conduct a wide range of activity contributing to the research base, economy
 and society (see section 4) which will continue to receive strong support.

 1.6.2   Strategic aims 2021-2026

 Aim 1: Funding: To continue to grow and diversify external research and knowledge
 transfer income (REF5aPara18-20)

 We will achieve this by:

 Focusing on staff support and development. To win more high-quality funding, we must
 develop everyone's capability and commitment to excellent research. We will provide resources
 to enable staff to become more highly research-active within the school and across disciplines.
 For example, we will accelerate the interdisciplinary careers of promising ECRs (early career
 researchers) by encouraging and supporting them to gain fellowships (REF5aPara32) that fund
 them to visit/embed with non-academic partners.



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Supporting collaborative and interdisciplinary research aligned with our priority areas.
 We will build on recent success to maximize links between computer science and other
 disciplines internally, nationally and internationally. To achieve this, we will boost staff
 confidence in working with external organisations through training and maximise the number of
 staff eligible for “pump-priming” funding (at university, faculty and department levels)
 (REF5aPara12) for interdisciplinary research.

 Encouraging knowledge exchange activity. Our expertise in knowledge exchange has grown
 since 2014 (Section 4 describes some of our KTPs during the last assessment period) and we
 aim to grow this area further. Our next steps are to identify priority areas in each research group
 and to up-skill staff through training, coaching and mentoring (REF5aPara33-37). We will target
 industry partnerships that enhance our public sector work, increase participation in relevant fora
 and host events.

 Capitalising on opportunities to increase PGR recruitment. Additional PGRs require
 generation of additional funding. We will exploit our academic collaborations to jointly develop
 new Centres for Doctoral Training. This will be coupled with a drive to engage our
 undergraduate and masters students in research, building an internal pipeline of potential
 students. We have a track record of developing PGRs into high-quality candidates for internal
 and external positions (see Section 2).

 Aim 2: Research Coherence: To continue to build a coherent research portfolio through
 collaborative and sustainable interdisciplinary groups (REF5aPara4&9)

 We will achieve this by:

 Ensuring sustainable, coherent research groups. Each group’s focus area is determined
 strategically, based on emerging research and staff specialisms. To ensure longevity, each
 group is developing and implementing a leadership succession plan. We will ensure senior
 researchers are upskilled in various ways, including a new training program for Readers to
 progress to Professor (REF5aPara34). Groups provide subject-specific support and
 development opportunities, and will expand their leadership teams. Where expertise is lacking,
 we will appoint externally, bringing in research leadership (as done successfully for CS). Within
 existing areas of expertise, we will develop current staff in their leadership capability and appoint
 new staff (typically at lecturer level) to reinforce established strengths and build synergies within
 groups.

 Increasing focus on key priorities. We will prioritise applied work in health, security and
 education that is relevant to the public sector rather than purely commercial. We will identify
 research challenges relevant to the local community, in line with our commitment to the Civic
 University Agreement (REF5aPara16). We will track new outputs and partnerships against
 priority areas at unit and group level.

 We developed the following action plans for each group as part of ongoing work developed
 following the 2016 review (see 1.3.2) overseen by the SoC Research and Innovation Committee
 (RIC). The aims are:



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 CI group

 Grow the volume, coherence and quality of research activity and establish a sustainable
 research environment that will endure beyond current personnel.

 The group saw significant growth during the REF period and is positioned to further increase
 research-active staff through support including workload policies, mentoring, access to internal
 funding and promotion opportunities. Specifically, we will:

         Grow and diversify funding by supporting staff to identify sources, with
          training/feedback on writing, coaching staff on networking skills and providing more bid
          development time in workloads.

         Provide mentoring, sharing of established networks and inclusion of junior- and mid-
          career staff as co-investigators on bids.

         Develop specialised training for its PGRs.

 CS group

 Narrow down the direction and scope of research to ensure all research addresses at least one
 of our three priorities (see 1.3.1), to maximise impact.

 We have secured research leadership during this REF period by prioritising significant research
 expertise over the subject fit of new staff. The group is now poised to capitalise on this in the
 priority research areas (public sector, education and commercialisation). Ashenden’s research
 leadership, including her role at CREST and work with the University of Adelaide (and the
 connections being made there), will provide focused research opportunities for the group. Early
 successes in education, including funding from IBM, and strong links with companies with
 vendor certification, will also be exploited (see Section 4).

 CHMI group

 Grow research capacity and capability to exploit our excellent partnerships to ensure our work
 addresses real-world problems and produces impact.

 Since 2014, the number of CHMI staff winning external funding has grown from 1 to 6. Early
 seed-corn funding allowed us to appoint new staff (at research fellow level) who were able to
 support the writing of good quality bids. We also encouraged existing staff to become more
 research active through mentoring and support. We are poised to capitalise on this performance
 and turn our success at winning small/medium funding into success at winning larger amounts.
 During this REF period, ~£1.5M in grants was won through seven awards (over 5 times more
 than during the previous assessment period). Most work is already done in collaboration with
 NHS organisations and/or companies. We need to nurture existing partnerships and establish
 new relationships. We will also work within the University to help other disciplines replicate our
 relationship with relevant departments of Portsmouth Hospitals University NHS Trust
 (REF5aPara16).



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Aim 3: Impact: Ensure that all our research promotes impact (REF5aPara11-19)

 We will achieve this by:

 Generating, documenting and disseminating research with impact. So much of our
 research is already applied and interdisciplinary, and aims to make a difference to individuals,
 society and the economy. Routes to impact, therefore, tend to be direct. This is the case with our
 REF3 Impact Case Studies on clinical outcome modelling (UoA11-NEWS), autism (UoA11-
 DREAM) and powered wheelchairs (UoA11-Wheelchairs). Future impact will be generated
 through two broad approaches, used together where possible:

          technology as a tool to benefit individuals, society and the economy; and

          user and stakeholder involvement in research.

 We have identified a need for:

          internal funding allocated for staff to integrate, collect and evidence impact throughout
           the life of their research projects;

          identifying impact pathways in research plans through Performance and Development
           Review (PDR) and at group level;

          raising the importance of impact as a route to successful career development and
           promotion;

          nurturing existing stakeholder relationships and developing new relationships with a
           variety of partners (facilitated by the University research themes);

          providing training and mentoring to build expertise in: identifying relevant stakeholders;
           working with them effectively; articulating impact effectively; collecting evidence of
           impact from end users; and costing impact activities and time to deliver within budgets.


 2        People

 The Unit’s research leadership is provided by the SoC Associate Head (Research and
 Innovation) (Khusainov), who is Chair of the School Research and Innovation Committee (RIC).
 He works closely with the previous research lead (Briggs), now Associate Dean (Research) for
 the Faculty. The RIC also involves the Head of School, group leaders, professors and readers,
 the REF Unit Coordinator, the PGR Coordinator, the ethics lead, plus ECR and student
 representatives. Other appointments were made to maintain equality and diversity aims. The
 Associate Head (Research and Innovation) collaborates with other faculty research leads via a
 forum led by the Associate Dean (Research), facilitating cross-departmental work and sharing
 best practice.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.1    Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 The number of research-active staff has increased by 136%, supported by strategic
 appointments (REF5aPara29), the systematic allocation of research time (REF5aPara2),
 mentoring (REF5aPara37), staff development opportunities (REF5aPara33-35) and internal
 funding (REF5aPara12&36).

 The staffing strategy has been, and continues to be, focused on building areas of strength, as
 well as alignment with national and international research agendas. The recruitment strategy
 over the REF period combined two elements: (a) increasing research leadership by promoting
 from within in areas of strength (CHMI and CI) and by appointing external senior researchers in
 growth areas (CS); (b) new appointments, particularly at ECR stage, to increase research
 dynamism.

 Key external appointments were three professors (Ashenden, Hopgood and Prytherch), three
 senior lecturers (Ossont, Shiaeles and Williams) and four lecturers (Iacob, Dennis, Owenson
 and Li). Our success in developing ECRs has led to the appointment of two research staff and
 one teaching fellow to permanent lectureships (Arabikhan, Mohasseb and Zhou D.). In
 recognition of research leadership, two colleagues were promoted to professor (Briggs and Yu),
 three to reader (Jordanov, Ju and Scott), and four to senior lecturer (Iacob, Dennis, Owenson
 and Li) within this period. We actively encourage staff in their efforts to gain research
 recognition; evidence of success includes our high rate of journal reviewing and editorship
 (Section 4).

 This approach has brought substantial expertise and contacts that support others’ development.
 For example, leadership in the CS group has developed through three strategic appointments
 (Ashenden, Williams and Shiaeles). Ashenden is PI on the EPSRC project Cyber Security
 Across the Life Span (cSaLSA) and shares this experience through mentoring junior colleagues.
 Her substantial national and international profile provides expertise for ECRs to draw on.
 Williams (appointed 2019) brought a growing research profile in partnership with industry, also
 acting as a role model. Aziz, Mohasseb, Owenson and others received external recognition
 (Section 4).

 Staff support and development is delivered through internal funding, sabbaticals, PhD
 studentships, mentorship and targeted training for research leadership skills (e.g. networking,
 grant writing, generating and documenting impact, PhD supervision). We also facilitate
 collaborative, interdisciplinary and applied research, one-to-one, in team meetings and via
 annual PDRs. This complements staff participation in the central Research and Innovation Staff
 Development Programme (REF5aPara33), which is positively encouraged.

 Our allocation of research time supports staff at all career stages. All staff with significant
 research responsibility receive a baseline research workload allocation of 20%. This is reviewed
 annually and updated periodically according to planned/completed research activities. ECRs
 have a reduced teaching workload in their first year to facilitate development of their research
 (REF5aPara41). Research and innovation plans are discussed at PDRs, including resourcing
 the necessary support to fulfil them (REF5aPara53).



                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 All staff are encouraged to participate in mentoring, as mentors or mentees. Mentors meet
 mentees regularly and discuss their research, priorities and career prospects. Mentoring is
 acknowledged in the workload and PDRs. ECRs are typically paired with mentors that can help
 them with research-related processes and general research skills. An institution-wide mentoring
 scheme (REF5aPara34-37) provides the opportunity to learn from other disciplines.

 ECRs and recently appointed lecturers are encouraged to attend "Chair in 10 years" workshops
 developed by the UK Council of Professors and Heads of Computing (CPHC) and currently
 organised by our Head of School. Four sessions were attended by 50 UK academics (3 from
 UoP).

 Ten members of staff have benefited from internal funding, totalling £160k, for pump-priming,
 building research consortia and documenting impact (Adda, Ashenden, Aziz, Bader, Zhou D.,
 Gegov, Haig, Ju, Liu, Scott).

 The support mechanisms above, in conjunction with promotion workshops, are intended to help
 staff get promoted to reader or professor roles. This support contributed to, for example, the
 promotions of Ju and Scott to Reader. Much of the above supports the implementation of the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (see also postdoctoral
 researchers in 2.2.8).

 2.2     Research Students

 We aim to produce fully-fledged independent researchers who exceed the expectations of the
 hallmarks of a UoP graduate.

 2.2.1   Increase in PGR numbers

 Since 2014, PGR recruitment has grown and PhD completions have more than doubled (63 vs.
 31 in 2014) - an indicator of the increase in quality of support for PGRs, as well as our research
 reputation.

 Despite rising completions, the ratio of PhD students to staff has recently gone down. This is due
 to staffing increases, the balancing of work allocations for ECRs, the focus on quality supervision
 and a rigorous student selection process. In the long term, our strategy is to further increase
 supervisory capacity and select high-quality applicants to facilitate a steady growth in high-
 quality students.

 Recognising the importance of students to the research culture, the Faculty and University fund
 several studentships every year. We have seen a diversification of funding sources for PGR,
 including sponsored students (by industry or foreign government schemes), funding from UoP
 and self-funding. Of funded students, 12% are funded by University bursaries, 23% by Faculty
 bursaries, 38% by departments (SoC and SCT) and 27% externally (of which 12% by industry,
 8% by external research funding and 8% by foreign government schemes). Our reputation
 enabled us to recruit high-quality students supported by the China Scholarship Council.
 Increasing externally-funded PGR is an important aim for the next strategy (Section 1.6.2 and
 REF5aPara21).


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.2.2   Increase in PGR supervision capacity

 The development of existing staff, strategic appointments since 2014 and increased grant
 income enabled us to supervise and support more PGRs. Supervision teams routinely include
 ECRs, allowing them to participate in supervision and acquire supervisory skills.

 2.2.3   Quality of PGR

 As a result, the quality of the research produced by PGRs has increased, as indicated by the
 increase in completion rates, external recognition of the work through best paper awards, best
 presentation awards and other prizes (see 2.2.7 below) and career progression. Recent
 successes include Zhou, D. and Mohasseb, who obtained highly-competitive lectureship
 positions within SoC.

 2.2.4   Recruitment, induction and training

 We attract high-quality international and home/EU applicants across all research areas. Our
 PGR admissions processes rely on the expertise and experience of our staff. Applications
 meeting general University admissions criteria are circulated within the Unit to seek feedback
 from subject experts, with selection panels formed (gender balanced, where possible) to ensure
 rigorous evaluation of candidates based on academic abilities plus the merits of their research
 proposals.

 As well as participating fully in University-wide common training and support (REF5aPara38), we
 expect all PhD students to take at least 10 days of research training per year, monitored by
 supervisors, and to attend their departmental seminar series (postdocs and staff, including from
 other schools, are also encouraged to participate). Students also attend external training
 sessions (e.g. those offered by the Data Intensive Science Centre in the South East Physics
 Network, DISCnet).

 2.2.5   Major Review and Annual Appraisal

 Significant effort is made to prepare PhD students for their end of first year major review. For
 example, students are expected to present their research at the departmental seminars for
 constructive feedback. Students are also encouraged to present at the annual Faculty Research
 Conference and SoC Student Conference.

 2.2.6   PGR support

 Several support systems exist for students. For example, we prepare and encourage students to
 participate in the University’s student employment scheme, and our PGRs frequently take up
 posts in IT support and laboratory demonstration. Typically, at any one time, several are
 employed as short-term research staff on funded projects, or as teaching assistants/part-time
 lecturers (details in 2.2.8 on career paths).

 2.2.7   Immersion in research culture and achievements




                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Students are an important part of the research culture. All take active (and often organising)
 parts in the school and faculty research activities, such as student conferences, research
 seminars and research group activities, and these are generally well attended. Students access
 funding (via their supervisor) for presenting at international conferences, attendance at which
 helps them in developing external/international research networks and increases employment
 prospects. They are also incentivised to apply to external funding sources to gain experience
 and broaden their participation in a variety of academic and non-academic activities.

 As a result, PGRs make a significant contribution to the School’s research output: 39% of
 published papers within the REF period had at least one PGR co-author.

 Examples of recent PGR achievements include:

             Best Paper Award, 2018 IEEE 17th International Symposium on Network Computing
              and Applications (a student supervised by Owenson and Haig)

             Winning external funding to attend summer schools or international conferences (two
              students supervised by Haig; one student supervised by Gegov)

             Selection for competitive internships/placements (e.g. Data Science Campus, UK Office
              for National Statistics) (a student supervised by Gegov, a student supervised by Haig,
              two students supervised by Jordanov)

             Winning start-up funding: Small Business Research Initiatives healthcare scheme
              (https://sbrihealthcare.co.uk) (two awards) (a student supervised by Bader and Briggs)

             Presentation prizes at conferences (e.g. Research Spotlight competition prize, London
              Hopper Colloquium) (a student supervised by Bader and Haig)

 Our expertise with PGRs is exploited centrally to help deliver the university's Graduate School
 Development Programme (REF5aPara38), including sessions led by Briggs, Gegov and Good.

 2.2.8       Career paths including as postdoctoral researchers

 Of students who completed their PhD within the current REF period, 16% entered an academic
 career as postdocs, teaching fellows and/or lecturers. Four are lecturers at UoP, of which three
 (Arabikhan, Zhou D., Mohasseb) are included in this submission; five have academic positions
 elsewhere (Senior Bioinformatician, King's College London; postdoc, Shenzhen University;
 lecturer, Winchester University; lecturer, Central Lancashire University; and lecturer,
 Mustansiriyah University, Iraq) or are in industry. For example, we supported one PGR to
 undertake internships at Expedia and Hotels.com who is now a Senior Data Scientist at Expedia.

 Several have become postdocs within the Unit. With the addition of externally recruited
 postdocs, postdoc numbers have more than doubled since 2014. In addition to promoting
 talented postdocs to permanent lectureship, we equip our postdocs to pursue leadership roles
 and careers at prestigious and dynamic organisations – one is Chair of the University Research




                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Staff Forum; others took up roles at Oxford University, A*Star (Singapore), and as Technical
 Director for a tech start-up.

 2.3    Equality and diversity (E&D)

 In this submission, staff are (by FTE): 20% female, 0% on fixed-term contracts; 44% non-UK,
 42% BAME, 5% disabled; 6% part-time and 13% ECR.

 SoC and SCT are both proud to have achieved the Athena Swan Bronze Award in 2016,
 recognising our commitment to supporting gender equality. Within the action plan that arose
 from this, increasing female staff participation in research is a priority and there has been an
 encouraging increase in the proportion of female staff submitted to this REF (22% by headcount)
 compared with 2014 (15%).

 Our data analysis revealed a factor with significant impact on research activity and,
 consequently, submission to REF, this being the lack of a PhD for several female staff. Although
 not a requirement, it is an important milestone. To address this, female staff have been
 supported to undertake PhDs, with one completion within this REF assessment period. Our
 progress has been slower than planned; however, one of our three professorial appointments
 was female.

 We are working towards our Athena Swan submission in autumn 2021 and are striving to
 improve our performance and consolidate our Bronze award (REF5aPara44). This aim does not
 indicate any lack of ambition but recognises the reality of the steady national decrease in women
 in computer science over the last 10 years.

 Comparing this submission with 2014, we have fewer staff aged under 36 and fewer over 55.
 Although many staff joined us in this REF period, we observed an increase in the age of
 lecturers. This results from appointments being made for strong research leaders at professorial
 level for strategic reasons outlined in Section 1, reducing the number of opportunities open to
 ECRs. This also contributes to the relatively low number of ECRs in this submission.

 All staff must take E&D and related training (REF5aPara47); managers undertake additional
 training and encourage consideration of E&D through team meetings, one to ones and PDRs.
 Diverse representation is carefully considered for interview panels (including for PhD students)
 and committee memberships, while ensuring that staff with protected characteristics are not
 overburdened. For this REF submission, all REF team members participated in bespoke E&D
 training (REF5aPara50).

 To facilitate participation of staff and students with caring responsibilities, our weekly research
 seminars have moved from 3pm to 2pm. Staff can request timetabling constraints to
 accommodate caring responsibilities, and all staff with over 20% research allocation have one
 non-teaching day per week, minimum, to facilitate research.

 In addition to this, staff can work flexibly, including remotely (REF5aPara46). All requests for
 flexible working have been granted. Female and male staff returning from maternity/paternity
 leave can and do so part-time.


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3         Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1       Research income

 Income has more than tripled since 2014, growing from £930k to £3.3M and, in 2019/20, the
 university income target was exceeded in all three research groups. This funding comes from
 increasingly diverse sources, including research councils (EPSRC, ESRC), Innovate UK, the
 Royal Society, the Royal Academy of Engineering, the National Institute for Health Research,
 charities (e.g. Wellcome Trust), industry (see examples below) and the European Commission.

 This funding has been achieved by delivering the strategic plan for this area, including to: make
 strategic appointments of experienced grant-funded researchers in key areas; cascade this
 expertise throughout the Unit via mentoring, research group activities and faculty events; use
 this expertise and the contacts developed to target funding sources, matched to research
 interests; support the promotion of staff to reader and professor; grow external partnerships; and
 develop ECRs through a variety of activities (as detailed in Sections 1 and 2).

 Key examples of grant awards spanning all 3 research groups include (dates are year funding
 started):

           DREAM, 2013 (Development of Robot-Enhanced therapy for children with Autism
            spectrum disorders) funded by the European Commission – €6.7M consortium (£695k
            for UoP), Co-Investigators (Co-I) Liu, Yu and Ju; founded on Liu’s previous links with
            the lead institution. Impacts include improved support for patients and changes to
            national and international practise guidance (see REF3 UoA11-DREAM).

           HAVEN, 2015 (Hospital Alerting Via Electronic Noticeboard) funded by Health
            Innovation Challenge Fund, a joint venture of the Wellcome Trust and Department of
            Health – £1.8M consortium (£298k UoP) over 4 years (including extension); Principal
            Investigator (PI) Briggs; founded on Briggs’ and Prytherch’s long-standing NHS
            partnerships. Its algorithm for improved prioritisation of patients for intensive care has
            the potential to save lives (through early detection of deteriorating patients). Initially
            involving NHS Trusts in Portsmouth and Oxford, three more hospitals joined the
            collaboration in 2020.

           FOBS, 2018 (Safer and more efficient vital signs monitoring to identify the deteriorating
            patient: An observational study towards deriving evidence-based protocols for patient
            surveillance on the general hospital ward) funded by NIHR – £867k consortium led by
            UoP over 2.5 years; PI Briggs, Co-I Prytherch; follow-on from HAVEN. Ongoing work
            leading to new strategies for prioritising nursing workload.

           CREST, 2015, funded by EPSRC – £7.5M consortium (£263k UoP), Co-I Ashenden;
            initially awarded 2015-2018, extended to 2020 (further £199k to UoP); extended further
            to 2023 (£5.3M, £237k to UoP). Founded on Ashenden’s long-standing partnerships,
            CREST delivers world-class, interdisciplinary activity countering national security




                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

             threats. This international network of excellence involves governments, industry and
             communication specialists.

            Real-Time 4D Facial Sensing and Modelling, 2016, funded by the EPSRC – £100k; PI
             Yu. Computer vision algorithms developed by UoP are an integral part of a smartphone
             app for facial palsy assessment, which Emteq Labs now offer across multiple
             continents. Internal “pump-priming” funds for Yu had consolidated the collaboration with
             Emteq.

            PPADSO, 2018, People Powered Algorithms for Desirable Social Outcomes funded by
             EPSRC – £907k consortium (£24k for UoP); Co-I Ashenden. Focusing on algorithmic
             interactions between individuals and the state, the project will enhance individuals’
             wellbeing and security, protect state security, and increase confidence in digital
             services.

            cSaLSA, 2017 (Cyber-Security Across the Lifespan), funded by EPSRC (£287k to
             UoP); PI Ashenden. By more fully understanding diverse cyber-security experiences
             and behaviours, this project is leading to more effective cyber-security services and
             educational materials. A related PhD project to support this bid was given internal
             funding.

 These awarding bodies and partnerships were prioritised due to synergy with school and group
 research aims. They result from several strategic decisions taken to support and grow existing
 areas of research expertise (Section 1.3). As these align closely to national and international
 priorities and fall within three of the University’s research themes, research facilities are also
 supported by UoP (see 3.2 below).

 A 2018-19 faculty-level review of our internal process for external funding applications resulted
 in a simplification that supports staff and speeds up administration, saving staff time, shortening
 the proposal development timeline and improving success rates. Now, all submitted staff are
 actively applying for funding and approximately 55% have been successful.

 Our strategy is to continue to increase this number while focusing on sources that best align to
 research strategy, plus emerging ones. We will do this by: supporting staff; continuing to
 encourage strong participation, particularly from female, part-time, fixed-term and ECR
 colleagues; and continuing to remove unnecessary bureaucracy from internal processes.

 3.2        Infrastructure and facilities

 We have four specialist labs that facilitate our research:

   1.       CS group utilises the networking and cloud computing lab (e.g. for CREST and
            cSaLSA projects). This houses over 200 Cisco networking devices and a private cloud
            with circa 300 cores, 700 TiB of RAM and 60TiB of attached storage. In 2018, SoC
            secured an official partnership with Cisco Systems to further support research facilities in
            networks and cyber-security. In 2019, the University invested £200k to upgrade the
            laboratory’s networking equipment, match-funded by Cisco.


                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     2.   CI group utilises the robotics lab, containing: a robot-assisted Autism spectrum disorder
          (ASD) Intervention platform, with a diagnosis and intervention system (funded by the
          DREAM EU FP7 project); a computer vision-based sensing platform with eye tracker
          system by Elonxi (funded by UoP as an investment in the DREAM project); an Industrial
          Robotics Platform with a Sawyer robot by Rethink Robotics (funded by UoP); and a
          Motor Function Rehabilitation Platform with i-limb by Touch Bionics (funded by EPSRC).

     3.   Within CHMI, the Clinical Outcomes Group (COG) operates a virtual server for secure
          storage of healthcare data. Currently it does not hold patient-identifiable data, but we
          expect it (and its management) to be certified in 2021 as meeting NHS Digital standards.
          This will facilitate collaboration with NHS and academic partners. In addition, COG staff
          all have high-spec laptops to facilitate health-related data science research where
          specific enhanced data security policies exist.

     4.   The data science lab was established in 2018 for all groups. The most significant
          investment (£42k from UoP) was an IBM AC922 server (with four Tesla V100s) with IBM
          Power AI Vision. As an illustration of its power, a single PhD student working on
          improving recommender systems at scale (those with billions of users e.g. at Facebook,
          Netflix) achieved results with a 10 billion point dataset comparable to that achieved in
          industry by larger teams.

 In addition to the School's computing labs and specialist software, staff and students (particularly
 the CI group) use the University's 3702-core SCIAMA supercomputer (REF5aPara64) for extra
 memory and/or processing power for data mining/machine learning; for example, a current
 student is using it to process textual data with large dimensionality for detecting social media
 behaviours including hate speech, misogyny and suicide ideation. A dedicated technician
 manages the supercomputer’s use and supports staff.


 4        Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Ensuring that our extensive network contributes to the quality, breadth and impact of our mainly
 collaborative research has been and continues to be part of our strategy (see Section 1). These
 collaborations are internal (e.g. Department of Psychology, the Engineering schools and the
 Institute of Criminal Justice Studies), national (e.g. Portsmouth Hospitals University NHS Trust,
 universities of Southampton, Oxford and Cardiff) and international (most notably, organisations
 in Sweden, Belgium, France, China, Romania and South Korea). Our partners enrich, inform
 and fund our research.

 4.1      CHMI collaborations

 CHMI has a long-term relationship with the Portsmouth Hospitals University NHS Trust (PHUT)
 (since 2001), with new UoP/PHUT agreements signed in 2018 (establishing a Technology Trials
 Unit) and 2019 (formalising the strategic partnership). CHMI also has links with the Wessex
 Academic Health Science Network and the South East Health Technologies Alliance. In 2019,
 Scott took a 0.5FTE position as Digital Healthcare Architect with PHUT, a major role in their
 digital transformation, following internal support for Scott’s research through “pump-priming”


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 internal funding. These partnerships have produced impact through, for example, a patient early
 warning system (now NEWS2), which was the only one recommended in the May 2020
 guidance issued by the World Health Organisation (WHO) for the clinical management of
 suspected or confirmed COVID-19 patients (see REF3 UoA11-NEWS).

 Instead of running a small internal seminar series, CHMI builds external engagement through
 event organisation. From 1998 to 2016, it organised the Southern Institute for Health Informatics
 series of conferences, typically attracting 50-100 participants. More recently it has sought to
 engage with communities who share our technical skills and areas of interest through online
 workshops.

 4.2       CS group collaborations

 In the Cybersecurity group, an area of strength is Ashenden’s interest in a socio-technical vision
 of cybersecurity that bridges computer science and social science and sees people as solutions.
 This led to CREST, 2015, and includes the universities of Lancaster and Bath. An outcome is
 her appointment as DST Group-University of Adelaide Joint Chair in Cybersecurity, where she is
 building connections with Australia’s Defence Science and Technology Group.

 The group’s work on The Onion Routing (TOR) network arose through Owenson's interest in
 dark networks. This achieved world-wide media coverage, invited papers to Chatham House and
 CIGI, a reference to his work in a speech by the US Deputy Attorney General and an invited talk
 to the US Department of Homeland Security. The work led to the establishment of Searchlight
 Security Ltd, a world leader in darknet intelligence. A former student in the group established an
 internationally renowned company (TryHackMe), with over 300,000 registered users.

 4.3       CI group collaborations

 The CI group, notably through Gegov and Khusainov, has provided research input into powered
 wheelchair research, funded from a range of sources. This was instrumental in securing the
 recent award from EPSRC (2018, £466k, attributed to UoA12 in this REF). Its impact is
 documented in REF3 UoA11-Wheelchairs. Another group member, Hopgood, is Director of the
 South Coast Centre of Excellence in Satellite Applications hosted at UoP.

 4.4       Industry collaborations – all groups

 This is exemplified by the seven KTPs completed in the REF period (contributing 21% of all UoP
 KTPs – REF5aPara18), providing impact through export and import of expertise, unification of
 the global agenda on cybersecurity and influence at a global level. Two of these were:

           Smart-E Ltd, which developed and embedded the capability to engineer audio-visual
            switching products for network-efficient adaptive digital media streaming over existing
            computer networks. This benefits clients including banks, hotels, and airports and
            potential exists in education and hospital settings.

           Xim Ltd, which supported NHS partners to prevent hospital admission using standard
            smartphones to measure vital signs and provide early warning, potentially saving the



                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

            NHS £2.4bn pa in the future (Healthwatch England). Xim Ltd approached Briggs due to
            his long standing relationship with the NHS/health organisations above.

 Other companies that approached us which led to KTPs were Lane Telecommunications Ltd, the
 Purple Group Ltd and Fresh Relevance Ltd, to develop specialised software, a commercial
 wireless sensor network location system and an intelligent, adaptive and scalable digital
 marketing tool, respectively. Additionally, the KTPs with Emteq Ltd resulted in wearable
 technology to monitor people with Parkinson’s disease and the one with Doye MosSE
 Productions Ltd investigated visitors’ experiences in museums.

 4.5       Wider activities resulting from our collaborations

 During this REF period, four staff – three of whom were appointed/promoted this REF period
 (Hopgood, Ashenden, Yu) – served as advisors to government, public bodies, and/or industry in
 the UK and three outside the UK. Six staff engaged with the media in an expert capacity. One
 served as an expert in a court case, and two have/had prominent roles in professional, statutory
 and regulatory bodies.

 Four female colleagues participate in the national R Ladies Group monthly meeting in London.
 Moreover, Kovacs, a senior research associate in CHMI, established the Portsmouth R User
 Group, with over 170 members and 20-30 attendees at quarterly meetings. This enhances our
 status and industry connections with, for example, the Office of National Statistics (ONS),
 Ministry of Defence (MOD), Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (DSTL), local SMEs,
 academics and independent researchers. During the COVID era, it has attracted attendance
 internationally.

 Below are selected examples illustrating the wealth and diversity of activities, achievements and
 influence resulting from our collaborations:

           Hopgood advises BCS on future professional training in AI; he is a committee member
            for SGAI, the BCS specialist group for AI since 2000.

           Ashenden sits on the UK MoD's Defence Science Expert Committee; she is also Co-I
            and Programme Manager for Protective Security at CREST (www.crestresearch.ac.uk),
            funded via ESRC and an academic fellow at the UK’s National Cyber Security Centre
            (www.ncsc.gov.uk).

           Williams’s research related to passenger engagement for rail safety, including
            passengers with restricted mobility, involved live trackside trials of technology with
            Chiltern Railways and stakeholder engagement with Rail Delivery Group and Train
            Operating Companies, including Chiltern, Virgin and Govia Thameslink Railway.

           Williams’s collaboration with Visa, Natural History Museum, Goodbox and Streeva, and,
            in consultation with HMRC, on the Swiftaid pilot, a platform to automate Gift Aid
            processing.




                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

             Aziz and Williams’ involvement in the EPSRC CryptoForma network (until 1 November
              2015), to increase security and confidence of cryptographic protocols and their
              applications.

             Yu won an Industrial Fellowship from the Royal Academy of Engineering working with
              Emteq Ltd on Dynamic Facial Expression Reconstruction from Upper Half-Face Data;
              he is also a member of Connected Everything: Industrial Systems in the Digital Age
              Network Plus (EPSRC).

             Eight researchers, some ECRs, have been awarded prizes or other recognition. For
              example, alongside training, mentoring and internal funding for conferences, Mohasseb
              progressed from PhD student to research assistant to lecturer. She received (with Aziz)
              the Bronze Prize in the Korean Industrial Technology Security Hub annual international
              competition for best project in cybersecurity. This research had been supported by
              Aziz’s “pump-priming” funding.

             Good engaged with the media about fake news and social media during the pandemic,
              managing screen time during social isolation, and technology and mental health.

             Briggs and Chlebikova have Research Visiting Fellowships at the universities of Oxford
              and Dauphine, Paris, respectively.

             Haig is Technical and Academic Advisor for Deary, a UK tech company using AI.

 4.6         Wider activities providing connections and expertise, and leading to funding

 4.6.1       Journals

 100% of submitted staff are involved with academic service activities such as journal reviewing
 and conference programme committees. 55% are involved in editorial activities, of which, in this
 REF period, 71% are/were on the Advisory Board of at least one journal and 59% serve/served
 as a Guest Editor for at least one journal. Examples include Gegov (editorial board of IEEE
 Transactions on Fuzzy Systems), Liu (Co Editor in Chief for International Journal of Intelligent
 Robotics and Applications; Associate Editor for IEEE Transactions Industrial Electronics, IEEE
 Transactions Cybernetics, IEEE Transactions Industrial Information) and Yu (Associate Editor
 for IEEE Transactions on Human-Machine Systems, IEEE Transactions on Computational
 Social Systems).

 4.6.2       Reviewing grants

 45% of staff review funding bids (both UK and worldwide). The UoA makes a substantial
 contribution to the EPSRC review process, with 4 members of the EPSRC full peer-review
 college (Briggs, Haig, Hopgood and Yu) and 3 members of the EPSRC associate peer-review
 college (Ashenden, Ju and Liu). Two (Liu and Haig) received letters of recognition from EPSRC
 for their high level of contribution (top 6%) to reviewing during the 2017-2018 academic year.
 Although not part of the peer-review college, other staff have peer-reviewed for EPSRC (Aziz,




                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Chlebikova, Gegov, Jordanov, Krokos, Shiaeles). Briggs is a member of the NIHR Artificial
 Intelligence Health and Care Award Panel and regularly reviews for other NIHR programmes.

 Staff served as reviewers for other funding bodies including the American Mathematical Society
 (Chlebikova), the Australian Research Council (Gegov), the Austrian Research Council (Gegov),
 the British Council (Aziz), Cyprus Research Promotion Foundation (Briggs), EU-Horizon2020
 (Haig, Shiaeles), National Natural Science Foundation of China (Ju), National Science Centre
 Poland (Chlebikova, Haig, Ju, Yu), the Newton Fund (Yu), The Royal Society (Jordanov),
 Science Foundation Ireland (Briggs), South Africa National Research Foundation (Shiaeles) and
 Swiss National Science Foundation (Ju).

 4.6.3   Conference organisation

 Involvement in conference organisation is also high, with 81% of staff involved, of which 32%
 served as a General Chair, 48% as a Programme Chair, 36% as a Track Chair, 88% as a
 workshop/tutorial/special session organiser/chair and 30% as a keynote/plenary speaker. The
 SoC has hosted six national and international conferences since 2014, the most significant being
 the major European Conference on Information Systems (ECIS), the leading conference in
 Europe of its type, in 2018.

 4.6.4   Student development

 We also contribute to sustainability of the discipline through PhD supervision and examination.
 Within the REF period, 67% of staff served as external examiners for PhD students at other
 institutions. All but one staff member was involved in PhD supervision. Specifically, 80% served
 as a 1st PhD supervisor, 83% as 2nd PhD supervisor and 80% as 3rd PhD supervisor, with 60%
 supervising at least one student to completion as 1st supervisor.




                                                                                          Page 22
