Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Sheffield Hallam University
 Unit of Assessment:
 UOA11 - Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure
 Research in this Unit addresses the University’s Transforming Lives strategy through the
 development and application of computer science and informatics approaches to solve real world
 issues and societal challenges. Research is undertaken in partnership with businesses, health
 organisations and security organisations across the region, nationally and internationally, and falls
 broadly within the ACM classification of Applied Computing.

 This is Sheffield Hallam University’s first submission to Unit 11, with a staff base comprised of 27
 (25.6 FTE) which has been developed through this period. In REF 2014, three staff in this
 submission were submitted to Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and
 Information Management (Andrews, Dearden, Rodrigues) and one to Electrical and Electronic
 Engineering, Metallurgy and Materials (Alboul). From this small research base, with targeted
 investment and a strategy for growth through recruitment and staff development, the University’s
 capacity and capability in computing research has grown significantly to underpin this new Unit.
 Submitting to UoA11 has meant that a number of staff outside the core Department of Computing
 have also found a more appropriate Unit for their research, with the inclusion of six staff from the
 Department of Engineering and Mathematics (Faust, Pranggono, Rodrigues, Saatchi,
 Shenfield, Sherkat), two from the Materials and Engineering Research Institute (Alboul, Conti),
 and one from the Centre for Excellence in Terrorism, Resilience, Intelligence and Organised Crime
 (Gibson).

 Research Strategy
 The strategy over the assessment period has been to establish, develop and grow the Unit as a
 focus of support for staff across the University whose research specialisms coalesce around the
 broad theme of Applied Computing.

 Support for Computing researchers, and the development of a standalone Unit 11 was, for most
 of the census period, located in the interdisciplinary Cultural, Communication and Computing
 Research Institute (C3RI). 2020 saw a major restructuring at Sheffield Hallam, with the formation
 of four new research institutes, including the Industry and Innovation Research Institute (I2RI), to
 which the Department of Computing and Unit 11 is aligned.

 Since 2014, the University has been committed to growing research in computer science as a
 strategic priority. Investment has been targeted at developing staff and infrastructure through the
 allocation of research time, new staff recruitment, funding of specialist facilities, pump-priming
 project funding, and support for dissemination activities. This investment has advanced outputs,
 external grant capture and the impact of our work.

 As part of this strategy, a Computing Research Committee (CRC) was created in the Department
 of Computing in 2016 and Andrews was appointed as a dedicated Department Research Lead.
 The CRC initiated a process of supporting the development of individual staff research plans as
 part of the annual work-planning and professional development process, and making
 recommendations for the allocation of additional research time for each member of staff. Through
 this approach, the CRC was able to identify and support core areas of excellence, such as:
 conceptual structures, semantic technologies, pattern recognition, robotics and AI, sensors and
 ad-hoc networks, IoT and VR games. Based on the strategic planning of the CRC, the Department
 supported the formation and expansion of research groups in these areas to underpin the growth
 of research across the broad theme of Applied Computing. The Department also targeted
 additional research time to specifically support high impact research (Andrews, Dearden, Roast),
 support the development of ECRs (Ajao, Davies, Enamamu, Otebolaku, Wang), and support

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff to undertake PhDs. Over the period this resulted in the equivalent of 6 FTEs of additional
 research time being allocated to staff in the in 2019/20 compared to less than 1 FTE in 2014/15.
 During the period, the staff recruitment strategy of the Department also changed, with a much
 greater emphasis being put on recruiting staff with strong research track-records aligned to the
 research specialisms (e.g. Di Nuovo, Da Costa, and Marchang).

 Engagement and Impact
 Oversight of the strategy and its implementation to grow research with impact is predominantly
 delivered the through the Departmental Research Lead and CRC, and via the dedicated research
 groups and areas of specialism, as detailed below.

 Research Groups
 The Conceptual Structures Research Group (CSRG), led by Andrews and Polovina, is
 innovating in semantic technologies and knowledge representation and reasoning. Andrews’
 interest is in Formal Concept Analysis and new ways of computing formal concepts faster,
 demonstrated in 10.1016/j.ins.2014.10.011 and 10.1007/978-3-319-59271-8_4. `In-Close’ was
 adapted in the €3.5m EU ePOOLICE project (Grant ID: 312651, returned under UoA34) to provide
 corroborated evidence of organised crime and in the €2.6m EU ATHENA project (313220, UoA34)
 to cluster reports of incidents for crisis management. Polovina investigates how Conceptual
 Graphs and ontologies can provide richer models of enterprise architecture to improve business
 processes: 10.3233/ao-180198. Hirsch explores how genetic algorithms can be used for
 document analysis to provide results that are semantically richer than existing approaches:
 10.1109/CEC.2017.7969447. Roast is interested in how visualisations can be used to assist users
 in creating spreadsheet formulae, and Gibson has been exploring how adjacency matrices can
 be used to visualise larger ‘small-world’ networks: 10.1016/j.asoc.2016.01.036.

 Interdisciplinary research involving the CSRG increased significantly with the creation of the
 Centre of Excellence for Terrorism, Resilience, Intelligence and Organised Crime Research
 (CENTRIC). The Centre was founded in 2011 by Akhgar (Director of CENTRIC, UoA34), with
 Andrews, and has provided a rich forum for combining research in social media, smart devices,
 semantic technologies, visualisation and communication. This interdisciplinary activity has led to
 two of the Unit’s Impact Case Studies (ICS1 and ICS2) and is evidenced in two key papers:
 10.1186/s13388-018-0032-8 and 10.1007/s10844-016-0404-9. These works had a significant
 contribution in securing the €5.0m European TENSOR project (700024, returned against PI
 Akhgar in UoA34), identifying and analysing terrorist generated content on the Internet and Dark
 Web.

 The Smart Interactive Technologies Research Group (SITRG), led by Di Nuovo, focuses on
 identifying and applying novel computational models of systems that socially interact with and
 empower human beings. Di Nuovo has explored theories of number learning in children and
 developing a new mental neurorobotics model of number understanding, and Conti is interested
 in improving the human acceptance of robots in education and social care settings. Their
 pioneering work involves multidisciplinary teams with expertise in cognitive science, robotics and
 neural systems, education and psychology, and has been supported by the EU H2020 MSCA-IF
 CARER-AID project (€183k, 703489) and the EPSRC project NUMBERS (£101k, EP/P030033/1).
 The work influenced the definition of the research priorities for the EU H2020 MSCA-ITN PERSEO
 project (2021-24, €4.0m, 955778), which is coordinated by the PRISCA Lab, University of Naples,
 and involves Sheffield Hallam as beneficiary. Also, within the SITRG, Davies has been exploring
 behavioural learning in cognitive neuromorphic robots. His work in 10.1109/tnnls.2018.2816518 is
 the key output of an EPSRC £1.2m project BABEL (EP/J004561/1) and presents the world-first
 attempt to use the SpiNNaker neuromorphic system to control the iCub humanoid robot, solving
 the real-world task of object-specific attention. Alboul has been combining virtual reality, robots
 and social networks to create novel immersive experiences in Cultural Heritage. Her work in
 10.3390/su12020645 resulted in an invitation onto the Advisory Board of the CybSpeed project
 (EU MSCA-RISE-2017 -21).



                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Geometric Modelling and Pattern Recognition Group (GMPR), led by Rodrigues,
 explores novel image processing and data compression methods and AI-based pattern
 recognition, which has been awarded patents deriving from International Patent Application
 PCT/GB2016/050512, leading to internal innovation funding of £150K to commercially exploit the
 technologies. Shenfield specialises in AI-based pattern recognition methods, applying them to
 fault-finding in industrial processes. His work in 10.3390/s20185112 was a result of his role in the
 £544k BBSRC-funded “Next generation rice milling” project (BB/S020993/1, submitted under PI
 in UoA12), where a novel method was proposed for detecting maintenance issues using vibration
 data. This approach is now being used for condition monitoring of rice mill grinding plates.
 Pranggono’s area of research as part of the group is pattern recognition techniques for security
 and network applications 10.1109/TPWRD.2014.2300099.

 The Games Software Development Research Group (GSDRG), led by Habgood, has been
 exploring the possibilities afforded by Virtual Reality in serious games, including novel VR
 locomotion techniques to reduce side effects of VR use (10.1109/VR.2018.8446130), and creating
 a new type of narrative-driven, immersive experience for exploring Cultural Heritage sites, as the
 co-ordinating partner of the €1m EU H2020 REVEAL project (732599).

 The Medical Diagnostics Research Group (MDRG), led by Saatchi, has been investigating the
 effectiveness of applying AI to high-resolution thermal imaging in evaluating respiratory rate,
 vertebral fractures and juvenile idiopathic arthritis: 10.1159/000490546 and 10.1007/s11517-018-
 1806-3. The work, supported by MRC funding (£39k, SCH2397), in collaboration with Sheffield
 Children's Hospital and Sheffield University, developed a non-contact method of monitoring
 respiratory air flow and respiration rate. Faust and Enamamu specialise in the automated
 detection of atrial fibrillation and heart rate variability, using nonlinear methods, long short-term
 memory networks and wavelet transforms. Funded by Grow-MedTech with a proof of market grant,
 the findings of the paper 10.1016/j.cmpb.2019.04.018 led to a successful application for a Grow-
 MedTech proof of feasibility grant (£20k).

 The Networks Research Group (NRG) is led by Marchang who is interested in protecting
 interconnected devices and network systems from cyber-threats, through innovative security and
 privacy solutions. The team, including Otebelaku, Wang and Zargari, explore the challenges of
 overcoming the limited power, bandwidth and connectively of ad-hoc and sensor networks. Wang
 specialises in applying fuzzy neural networks to large scale computations, e.g. 10.1007/s11633-
 018-1120-4, in collaboration with the University of Huddersfield.

 Additional areas of research across applied computing are supported directly through the
 Department and CRC, e.g.: Dearden’s work investigating sustainable and ethical ICT
 development for rural economies in third world countries (which underpins ICS3); Ajao’s work on
 how to harness social media for the dissemination of public health messages and novel methods
 of detecting miss-information in social media; Bazli’s research investigating how bio-molecular
 information can be used for data encryption; Da Costa’s use of evolutionary algorithms for letter
 identification in tremulous medieval handwriting; Da Silva’s application of novel self-adaptive role-
 based access controls to improve the security of business processes; Ho’s interest in the analysis
 of timed automata and in proving solutions to the problems of cyclic routing of Unmanned Arial
 Vehicles; and Samreen’s work on the use of transferable knowledge for low-cost decision making
 in cloud environments, supported by an Amazon Web Services research grant.

 Impact
 The impact strategy of the Unit is consistent with the wider university's Transforming Lives
 strategy, committing us to making positive contributions to the cultural, economic, social and
 health challenges facing society. The annual round of individual research plans is used to identify
 activities and projects that are specifically targeted at promoting impact from research, and which
 receive QR funding support. Over the period, Andrews, Polovina, Roast, Dearden, Rodrigues,
 Habgood and Saatchi were supported in this way.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Through targeted support, and the oversight of Roast as the KT Champion, staff in the Unit have
 proactively engaged in institutional innovation and knowledge exchange activities, funded through
 ERDF awards and HEIF investment. This includes the Innovation Futures 2 scheme and the
 Sheffield Innovation Programme (1 and 2), through which Unit staff have undertaken innovation
 projects with 47 regional SMEs.

 This has underpinned further developments and partnerships, leading to the funding of five
 Knowledge Transfer Projects (KTPs) during the period (Guildhawk, Infraglo, Bloor & Co.,
 Highlander IT, and Balmoral Tanks), with a total KTP award value of £851,552.

 The emphasis on end-user engagement and collaboration in the Unit’s approach to research has
 underpinned growth in the impact activity throughout the period, with major impact arising from
 our more established work on security and humanitarian issues (CENTRIC) and digital innovations
 for use in education and cultural heritage (Habgood). Impact is also arising from new data
 compression methods (Rodrigues), novel approaches to HCI for working with spreadsheets
 (Roast) and new methods for diagnosing medical conditions (osteogenesis imperfecta and
 idiopathic arthritis) in children (Saatchi).

 Open Research
 University provision for open access (OA) for outputs and research data are detailed in the
 Institutional Environment Statement; initiatives have led to good awareness of open research and
 a high level of staff engagement. Staff and students are introduced to the principles of open
 research, including the University’s Research archive (SHURA) and Research Data Archive
 (SHURDA) as the principal means through which publications and data sets are stored and
 shared. In line with policy, doctoral theses are available electronically via SHURA and made
 available to the public under a Creative Commons licence (CC BY-NC-ND). The University
 supports gold OA automatically when required by funders. It also funds gold OA of other papers,
 assessed on the basis of research excellence, with priority also given to researchers returning
 from parental leave and ECRs as a “career kick-start”. Staff are encouraged to share OA
 publications through ResearchGate, Academia.edu and other academic networking sites, as well
 as via our professional networks and social media.

 Research Integrity
 Research undertaken within the Unit is underpinned by a strong ethical framework and
 commitment to research integrity, underpinned by the University’s commitment to the Concordat
 to Support Research Integrity, as set out in the Institutional Statement. Collegiality is the central
 pillar of these processes, with a peer review college providing a conduit for the ethical review of
 research proposals. This system not only allows reviews to take place, but also strengthens links
 between academics in terms of awareness and understanding of each other’s research activities.
 The majority of staff in the Unit serve as ethics reviewers. University training is provided and new
 reviewers are supervised by more experienced staff.

 Interdisciplinary Research
 Research in computer science and informatics has grown from its origins as part of the
 interdisciplinary C3RI, which supported and developed the interfaces between computing, human
 interaction, art and design and communications research. These links, co-location, and the wider,
 external networks and collaborations continue through the new research institute environment at
 Sheffield Hallam, with computer science and informatics now established as a Unit. This has
 engendered an environment that provides a robust disciplinary and scholarly home, from which
 contributions and collaborations are built that drive borderless research through interdisciplinarity.
 Examples include work with social sciences and communications specialists across security and
 law enforcement processes, and research with clinicians and practitioners in health and wellbeing.
 Specific examples include:

 (i) The Conceptual Structures Research Group - Andrews, Polovina and UoA34 researchers in
 CENTRIC engaged with international collaborators in major interdisciplinary projects on
 combatting organised crime (ePOOLICE) and safeguarding the public in crisis situations

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (ATHENA). Working with practitioners, the CSRG used conceptual graphs and taxonomies to
 model organised crime and crisis situations, innovated in novel sentiment analysis and natural
 language processing technologies to identify relevant online information, and used formal concept
 analysis to cluster and analyse the information. The research involved multiple collaborations with
 project partners across industry, academia, law enforcement agencies and the United Nations
 Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute. The interdisciplinary nature and collaboration
 of the research resulted in outputs that have had significant impact in combatting crime and
 safeguarding humanitarian personnel (as detailed in ICS1 and ICS2).

 (ii) The Smart Interactive Technologies Research Group has been involved in major
 multidisciplinary research projects with their research investigating the learning of numbers in
 children with special educational needs and the acceptance of robots to assist learning. As part
 of the EU-H2020-MSCA-IF-CARER-AID project (703489), this involved collaboration with the
 Department of Electrical Engineering and Information Technologies and the Department of
 Physics at the University of Naples Federico II, and the Department of Psychology at the University
 of Campania.

 (iii) The Medical Diagnostics Research Group conducted interdisciplinary research through
 Saatchi with Sheffield Children’s NHS Foundation Trust, supported by the Medical Research
 Council, to develop a device for diagnosing breathing disorders. Faust’s research into nonlinear
 methods to discriminate fractionated electrograms in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation has involved
 collaboration with clinical researchers and mathematicians at the National Heart Centre of
 Singapore; the Department of Medicine, Columbia University, New York; and the Faculty of
 Medicine, University of Malaya.

 Future Research Strategy
 The future strategic orientation of the Unit builds on its establishment and growth during the
 REF2021 period and will reflect a commitment to the wider University objectives, as outlined in
 the Institutional Environment Statement. The Unit strategy is designed to ensure a strong research
 and innovation culture that delivers excellent performance, sustainable growth of research income
 and investment in research with economic, social and cultural impact.

 Fundamental to the ambitions of the Unit from 2021 onwards is the plan to create a Computer
 Science and Informatics Research Centre (CSIRC) as the university-wide home for Unit 11
 research. The new centre will be aligned to I2RI, along with CENTRIC and engineering related
 research centres.

 The primary objectives of the CSIRC strategy will be to:

 A. Consolidate and expand research and innovation culture and capacity. Widening the
 inclusion of staff university-wide via the operation of the new centre, and through continued staff
 recruitment that has an emphasis on proven track record of research and funding.

 B. Continue development of ECRs. The Departments linked to the Unit will continue to invest
 significantly in staff development and mentoring of new staff and ECRs. The Unit will participate
 in the planned I2RI ECR forum, which will have an annual funded mechanism and a new ECR-led
 online publishing strand. I2RI also plans to host the BAME ECR national conference with a
 computer science strand.

 C. Develop research excellence across the discipline by maintaining the vitality of research
 groups through regular group meetings, and meetings between research group leaders and the
 Head of the CSIRC; engaging with the I2RI strategic plan to build critical mass in fewer areas of
 focus, with targeted funds to leverage industry and public involvement. As the Unit expands, a
 focus will thus be to bring the groups together under broader thematic areas, aligned to critical
 mass and areas of strength.



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 D. Promote financial sustainability by expanding the primary sources of income generation
 beyond the current mainstay areas. The Unit will participate in the plans of I2RI to develop a
 framework for large scale funding schemes and the CSIRC will support proposal development and
 mentoring for proposal writing.

 E. Enrich student learning and maintain an exceptional experience for our doctoral
 students by feeding PhD research into UG and PG taught teaching and projects, growing the
 cohort of PGR students and studentships, and building a bigger pool of PhD supervisors by
 supporting - through mentoring - the development of new staff and ECRs as PhD supervisors.

 F. Enhance the current emphasis on undertaking applied research with economic, social
 and cultural impact. The CSIRC will run a series of focus events designed to identify research
 with high impact potential. Support via QR and local funding will be targeted at supporting impact
 development activities in areas identified as having high potential.

 G. Foster greater collaboration with external academic and KE partners, with a view to
 securing greater income levels and research impact, by engaging with existing and new KE
 funding opportunities, such as InnovateUK and SIP2. Creating a new role of KE Lead within the
 CSIRC, thus expanding the current Computing Department activities in the Unit.

 H. Enhance interdisciplinary research links with internal partners (notably CENTRIC) while
 establishing greater collaboration with other university centres of excellence, such as the Materials
 Engineering Research Institute, the National Centre for Excellence in Food Engineering, and the
 Advanced Wellbeing Research Centre. Interdisciplinary research will be supported by engaging
 with a series of Interdisciplinary Challenge events planned by I2RI.

 The research strategy of the Unit aims to achieve the following outcomes in the next five years
 (each aim references the relevant objectives, A-H, above):

    •   Increase in staff profile of the Unit by 40% (A, B, C, H).
    •   Increase in staff PhDs by 30% and increase in PhD completions by 50% (A, E).
    •   Increase in external funding by 60% (A, D, G, H).
    •   Maintain at least six vibrant and successful Research Groups within the Unit and further
        develop areas of excellence, e.g. AI & robotics (Di Nuovo) and pattern recognition
        (Pranggono, Shenfield), whilst fostering potential new areas with high potential, e.g.
        detecting miss-information and ‘fake news’ (Ajao), and cybersecurity and edge system
        protection (Marchang, Otebelaku, Wang, Zargari) (A, B, C).
    •   Develop at least six areas of high impact, e.g. data compression (Rodrigues), AI for
        medical diagnostics (Saatchi), EQUS spreadsheet visualisation (Roast) (A, C, D, F, G, H).
    •   Increase interdisciplinary research activity, as evidenced by joint projects and co-
        authorships (E, H).


 2. People

 Staffing Strategy
 Research capacity has been promoted through the increase of additional research time for staff
 in the Department of Computing during the period, along with the strategic recruitment of research-
 active staff. This strategy has resulted in the external recruitment of candidates into strategically
 identified research areas, such as Marchang for his work in ad-hoc and sensor networks, Da
 Costa for her work with evolutionary algorithms and Ajao for his work in analysis of information in
 social media. Recruitment is undertaken in accordance with the University policies for equality,
 diversity and inclusion, with all staff involved in the recruitment and selection process required to
 have undertaken training, including on equal opportunities legislation and gender and diversity.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Career Development and Early-Career Researchers (ECR)
 Our strategy is to build an inclusive and collaborative research environment, providing the requisite
 support and structures for researchers who are at different stages of their careers, as defined in
 the University’s Academic Careers Framework (ACF) and Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework. It has three central objectives:
    • To support research active staff to grow in a manner that is demonstrable via indicators
        such as high-quality outputs, external research income, research impact and career
        progression.
    • To support ECRs by fostering a culture of research excellence that values quality research
        with impact and provides researchers with the resources, training and mentorship needed
        to become independent researchers.
    • To support staff who wish to re-engage with research or engage with research in addition
        to professional practice.

 These objectives are aligned with wider University objectives for researcher development and
 underpinned by the Concordat to Support the Development of Researchers.

 New academics receive a research induction and are invited to discuss their research plans with
 the Department Research Lead. The University-wide Early-Career Researcher Network, launched
 in 2018, promotes mentoring, collaboration and offers training opportunities. These approaches
 help develop a critical mass of active ECRs in the Unit, promoting interdisciplinary collaboration
 at an early career stage, as evidenced by inclusion of six ECRs in our submission (Ajao, Conti,
 Davies, Enamamu, Otebolaku and Wang).

 Unit researchers are signposted to research development activities offered by the Sheffield Hallam
 Researcher Development (SHaRD) programme and the Library Research Support Team. These
 programmes offer training on topics such as leadership and management skills, research
 intelligence, grant writing, getting published, open access, research integrity and ethics,
 commercialisation and Intellectual Property.

 Careful mentoring and sensitivity to the career aspirations of the individuals concerned saw the
 progression of Domdouzis, previously a Research Assistant, into a Senior Lectureship; Zargari
 into a Senior Lectureship; and Gibson, formerly Research Assistant, to a Senior Lectureship in
 the Department of Computing, then to Senior Research Fellow and more recently to Principal
 Research Fellow in CENTRIC.

 Growing research profiles and leadership at higher levels, stimulated by mentorship and
 investment by the Unit, have contributed to the promotions of Andrews to Professor of Conceptual
 Structures in Computer Science, Di Nuovo promoted to Reader and then to Professor of Machine
 Intelligence, Saatchi to Professor of Medical Engineering, Habgood to Reader in Games Software
 Development, and Polovina to Reader.

 The awarding of Professorships at Sheffield Hallam is managed by a diverse professoriate and
 individual mentoring is provided to aspiring applicants. The professoriate panel encourages draft
 applications for individual face-to-face and written feedback. Female staff have automatic access
 to the Aurora scheme, administered by AdvanceHE, and the internal Aspire scheme, developed
 by the Women Professors' Group - with a view to redressing the gender imbalance in senior roles.
 These structures have been beneficial in the case of Da Costa, who was recruited on the strength
 of impressive research credentials from external institutions, was soon appointed to Postgraduate
 Research Tutor for Computing, and is now being supported towards progression to Associate
 Professorship.

 Research Time Allocation
 Since its formation in 2016, the Computing Research Committee has been responsible for
 reviewing research plans and agreeing research time allocations for Computing staff. The CRC
 recommends the allocation of research time in addition to standard time allocations from role
 allowances, funded projects, and the universal Research and Scholarly Activity (RSA) allocation.

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Committee convenes annually to review individual research and innovation plans and
 consider developmental needs. The CRC has driven the strategy of growth with the annual
 investment in research time for the Unit ensuring that research active staff have between 20% and
 40+% time allocations to implement their research plans.

 The University REF Code of Practice (from spring 2019) applied best practice from the CRC to
 identify staff with Significant Responsibility for Research (SRfR). Hence, the identification of SRfR
 is now an institution-wide process based on the allocation of research time against specific, agreed
 research objectives.

 Research Students
 Postgraduate Research students are an integral part of our research community and environment,
 and are supported through a coordinated programme of recruitment, training, supervision,
 progression and support. From 2017, Sheffield Hallam has achieved sector-leading student
 satisfaction scores in the national Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) for
 computing students. The PRES results include high scores for satisfaction with supervision,
 resources, research culture, understanding of progress and attainment, rights and responsibilities,
 and opportunities for professional development.

 In 2019, 94% of students said that overall, they are satisfied with their experience on the
 programme, in comparison to a sector average of 81%. This outcome reflects the Unit’s strong
 commitment to enhancing student experience, and the excellence of the PGR environment.

 Management, Recruitment and Progression
 The PhD programme is coordinated by a Head of Research Degrees, who leads a team of three
 academic Postgraduate Research Tutors (PGRTs), working in partnership with professional
 services staff and the central Doctoral School. UoA11 has a dedicated PGRT (Da Costa). The
 University Research Degrees Committee has overall responsibility for establishing regulations,
 policies and procedures, and includes representation from each institute and PGR team.
 Research degree provision meets quality thresholds as stipulated by the QAA UK Quality Code
 Advice and Guidance for Research Degrees and UKRI.

 Recruitment
 Policies and protocols are in place to ensure that admissions decisions are fair, consistent and
 reliable. PGRTs have overall responsibility for ensuring that applicants are appropriately qualified
 and ready to commence study at level 8. A standard PhD interview is used that covers subject
 knowledge, previous research training, motivation for PhD, career plans and any potential barriers
 or challenges in starting and completing a research degree. Applicants are advised by a PGRT
 and a prospective supervisor about how to strengthen a research proposal, and unsuccessful
 applicants following interview always receive constructive feedback to support any subsequent
 applications.

 Studentships
 A Graduate Teaching Assistant (GTA) PhD Studentship scheme was launched in 2014 that places
 independent, highly motivated researchers into the heart of academic departments, bringing with
 them a fresh research-informed approach to LTA practice and a visible ECR presence. Since the
 launch of the scheme, eight GTA studentships have been awarded to PGRs in UoA11, with a
 further student awarded the prestigious Vice Chancellor’s Scholarship for her project with
 Rodriguez and Shenfield on a Visual Early Warning System, in collaboration with North
 Middlesex University Hospital (MRC funded project).

 Progression and Support
 PhD registration is formally completed at the Application for Approval of Research Programme
 stage at 3 months (6 months PT). Academic progress is assessed at Application for Confirmation
 of PhD stage at 15 months (27 months PT), when candidates submit a 6000-word report outlining
 research aims, the context for the work, methodological framework, initial findings/conclusions and


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 potential contribution to knowledge in their field. Candidates also present and defend their
 emerging thesis at a Research Institute Symposium, before submission of their report.

 Supervisors and students are required to record supervision discussions and targets as a basis
 for monitoring progress against the agreed work plan and to support timely completion. Records
 are collected and logged to provide assurance that regular supervision is occurring and so we can
 intervene to offer support where there are concerns. The Head of Research Degrees employs
 evidence-based approaches to define excellence in student and supervisor support and to lead
 change. A key aspect of this is conducting a robust annual review of research degrees activity
 and improvement action planning - deploying evidence from the University's Annual Feedback
 and Monitoring Survey, the PRES, Staff Student Committee minutes, and sector indicators of
 quality in doctoral provision. We ensure that the constituency of our PGR Staff/Student Committee
 is representative of the diverse range of students on the programme, including differences in
 modes of study, gender, ethnicity, disability and neurodiversity.

 Completions over the Period
 There were 40 completions over the period. Notable is an increase from eight completions in
 2013/14, to 15 completions in 2018/19, another testament to the ‘sea-change’ in research strategy
 for the Unit over the period.

 Research Training and Supervision
 Sheffield Hallam uses the Vitae Researcher Development Framework Planner and PGRs receive
 guidance on how to use this for Personal Development Planning and to identify training needs.
 Generic training as indicated by the Vitae Researcher Development Framework is co-ordinated
 by the central Doctoral School, whilst discipline-specific training is co-ordinated by the local
 Institute PGR team.

 Each student is allocated at least two supervisors, with a minimum of two completions amongst
 the supervisory team. Regulations set a recommended minimum frequency for supervision
 meetings at every three weeks (six-to-eight weeks for PT students). All supervisors are required
 to attend regular update sessions organised by the Institute team and central Doctoral School.
 Topics are selected in response to student feedback, changes in research degrees procedure and
 with reference to the UKCGE Recognised Supervisor scheme.

 In terms of the scholarly environment, the PGR team devised an alternating annual themed
 conference format as part of an innovative and interdisciplinary approach to staging PGR/ECR
 conferences. Our 'METHOD' themed conference provides a platform for discussions that focus
 on research process, practice, decisions and ethical challenges (rather than results); and the
 'IMPACT' conference explores questions of research contribution, application, audience, value
 and impact. These themes enable students from different disciplines to come together to discuss
 their work and develop research culture skills, including practical experience of what a
 conversation across disciplines is like. They also provide an opportunity to orient to wider debates
 in the HE-sector and to rehearse arguments that are central to a thesis defence.

 Equality and Diversity
 The Unit is committed to embedding a culture of equality, diversity and inclusion for all staff and
 students, in line with University policies and equality objectives, that enable all our colleagues to
 contribute effectively to our research environment. Our approach to promoting inclusivity and the
 development of all staff is evidenced by this submission of 26.6 FTE, of whom 20% are female
 and 41% are of BAME backgrounds.

 Working toward increased female and BAME representation among our staff is part of our action
 plan. This includes measures to explicitly state in job advertisements that applicants from BAME
 backgrounds and other underrepresented groups are encouraged, HR screening of
 advertisements to ensure inclusive language, and encouraging staff to promote opportunities
 through social media to increase the diversity of applicants.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Flexibility in relation to hours and location of work is strongly supported. Home-based working has
 been encouraged and supported, where appropriate, and colleagues can access University
 laptops to facilitate remote working. Online meetings were common practice pre-pandemic and
 are now widespread. Events are timed to ensure that a wide range of colleagues, including
 fractional staff and those with caring responsibilities, can participate fully.

 The institution is accredited by the Athena SWAN Charter and has a Bronze Award, recognising
 its commitment to advancing and promoting women's careers in science, technology, engineering,
 maths and medicine (STEMM). Da Costa was invited to deliver the 2020 Athena Swan Lecture
 discussing the gender gap in science and has been invited to take part in the University’s Athena
 Swan Team, where she is guiding department level initiatives, as well as organising and writing
 the next University submission for the Athena SWAN awards.

 The Unit supports staff and PGRs to participate in research and research communities via funding
 for conferences, training, project expenses, open access, indexing, journal editing and other
 research activities. These are equally available to all staff, including those on fractional contracts
 and PhD students, regardless of mode of study. We are sensitive and supportive when staff and
 student’s circumstances change and have a structured approach to returning to research or study
 after absence. PhD students are able to take a Break in Study if they are unable to engage with
 their studies. Staff and students are invited to a return to work or study meeting, to ensure the
 necessary support is in place for a return to the research environment.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Funding Strategy and Income
 Following the implementation of the strategy to support and grow UoA11 research, income has
 risen from £1,072,000 in the first half of the assessment period to £2,030,000 in the second half
 of the period, with a total of £3,102,000 income over the period. There has been a total of 42
 funded projects with 16 different PIs.

 Funding Strategies (Including Pathway to Outputs and Impact)
 The funding strategy has sought to deliver collaborative relationships with partners inside and
 outside of academia, generate high quality research outputs, and create pathways to the
 achievement of high-level impact. This has been achieved by a combination of: (i) seed funding
 of research projects leading to the generation of larger research grants, (ii) support to develop
 relationships with academic and non-academic partners, and (iii) investment of QR and other
 internal funding to support research time, and provide administrative and scholastic support and
 mentoring for research projects.

 This overall approach has borne fruit as detailed below:

 Research Funding
 Habgood secured internal investment to develop his collaboration in serious games and
 education with the University of Nottingham, investigating the use of eye-tracking in attention
 training games (£22.5k). He was subsequently supported in work planned time and mentorship
 (by Andrews) to secure the EU H2020 REVEAL project (€1m, 732599), investigating the use of
 VR and novel locomotion techniques for immersive, interactive games for cultural heritage.
 Investment for Rodrigues and the GMPR Group has resulted in several successful externally
 funded project proposals, including the Medical Research Council funded AFRICCA project
 (Automatic Face Recognition in Critical Care) (£56k). Saatchi and the AI in Medical Diagnostics
 Group have been supported through QR funding in the development of medical applications of AI
 and thermal imaging, generating external support through the Medical Research Council funded
 project Sleep Apnoea Diagnosis in Children (£48k) and the Research England funded project,
 FractureScreen: Bone Fracture Screening Tool Utilising Artificial Intelligence and Thermal Imaging
 (£19k).


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Di Nuovo, who was appointed in 2015 under the new research-oriented recruitment strategy, was
 supported in forming The Smart Interactive Technologies Research Group and subsequently
 securing several prestigious grants, including: the EU funded project Controlled Autonomous
 Robot for Early Detection and Rehabilitation of Autism (CARER-AID) in 2016 (€183k, 703489);
 the EPSRC funded Intellectual Disability Number Understanding Modelling in Behavioural
 Embodied Robotic Systems project (NUMBERS) in 2017 (£101k, EP/P030033/1); and, most
 recently, the EU funded Personalized Robotics as Service Oriented Applications (PERSEO)
 project (€4.0m, 955778).

 Dearden has secured five grants through this period for his research in ICTD. His work includes
 improving the livelihoods and conditions of craft producers and farmers in developing economies
 (e.g. the £24k AHRC funded project: Creating, Connecting and Sustaining Links with the
 Indonesian Craft Economy) and embedding user centred design methodology into the informatics
 design process (e.g. the £40k EMI User Centred Design project funded by the Sheffield Teaching
 Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust).

 Roast, as the KE Lead for Computing, has had continued success throughout the period, co-
 ordinating the securing of 11 Innovate UK, industry and KTP projects with a total award value of
 £1.49M.

 Organisational and Scholarly Infrastructure
 Developed from the interdisciplinary origins in C3RI, UoA11 has a core role in the new Industry
 and Innovation Research Institute (I2RI), which facilitates enhanced disciplinary collaboration;
 support for horizon scanning, pump-priming, collaboration and developing funding; and has a
 focus on enhancing research quality through staff development and mentoring. The institute
 coordinates scholarly activities such that researchers have access to regular interdisciplinary
 events and dialogues, with panels which are inclusive of gender, race and research career stage.
 Unit focused scholarly activities include workshops and a computing research seminar series,
 offering talks from invited external speakers, UoA11 researchers and doctoral students.

 Research activity within the Unit is supported by the University’s Research and Innovation
 Services (RIS) via a hub and spoke model. The central team provides governance, policy, funding
 KE and commercialisation support - with a dedicated operations team within the I2RI including
 new investment posts (2020) to drive research income and operations (Institute Manager) and
 knowledge exchange and innovation (Innovation Manager). The University’s Library integrates
 high quality academic information resources with excellent IT facilities, enabling staff and student
 access to a wide range of journals and other scholarly materials.

 Supporting Funding Applications
 All external funding bids go through a rigorous preparation and authorisation process, including a
 triage and feedback stage overseen by I2RI. Staff are supported by research group leads early in
 the conceptualisation and writing processes, and by the I2RI peer review college in later stages
 of proposal development. RIS support the submission and approvals process, including costings
 and compliance with funder rules. RIS has specialist advisors for EU and regulated funding, along
 with innovation funding advisors. Successful proposals are supported by the institute team through
 initial start-up and project monitoring meetings to establish administrative, financial, technical and
 management assistance, and ensure project leaders are supported with project delivery.

 Research Facilities
 Dedicated research facilities available to the Unit include specialist facilities and workspaces
 across the research groups. Two user laboratories are dedicated to the study of human interaction
 regarding different technologies, media and environments. These include professional motion-
 capture equipment, eye-tracking technology and data analysis tools. External collaborators (e.g.
 SAS and Sony) have provided additional infrastructure, including data mining tools and
 professional games development stations, as part of our strategic commitments to expanding the
 presence and scope of the Steel Minions Games Studio and CENTRIC.


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Steel Minions Games Studio is located within the Department of Computing and contains a
 full suite of commercial-level games development stations on PC, Sony PlayStation and Sony
 PlayStation VR platforms. Several games have been developed and published by the studio,
 which is staffed by both academics and students, and directed by Habgood.

 CENTRIC's office space contains a secure research working area to facilitate the security sensitive
 research. The CENTRIC VR Lab is configured to support the development and testing of virtual
 reality and augmented reality experiences for research and training, while the CENTRIC Open
 Source Intelligence Hub (OSINT Hub) is a dedicated resource that provides a secure and safe
 environment to explore the potential of OSINT.

 The GMPR Group has a dedicated mini supercomputer used for research on data compression-
 encryption and Artificial Intelligence deep learning, and a number of high-quality 3D and 2D
 imaging cameras and associated specialist software.

 For AI in medical diagnostics research there is a close collaboration with Sheffield Children's
 Hospital, where Saatchi is a member of their Research Board. Facilities at the hospital have been
 used extensively, including a dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry machine (to measure bone
 density), an MRI scanner (for skeletal examination), a Computerised Tomography machine (also
 for skeletal examination), an ultrasound machine and an X-ray radiograph machine (for bone
 fracture examination). The team also have two highly accurate infrared thermal cameras, used for
 thermography and a portable ultrasound machine.

 The Centre for Automation and Robotics Research (CARR), where The Smart Interactive
 Technologies Research Group is situated, has a wide range of state-of-the-art robotics equipment
 including the Care-o-bot 4 (£190k), the Fetch Mobile Manipulator (£110k), various humanoid
 robots (Softbank Pepper, several NAOs), and indoor and outdoor mobile robotic platforms
 (Pioneer). The centre also manages a suite of advanced high-performance workstations for
 accelerated artificial intelligence computation, also including donations (value £16k) from
 semiconductor corporations like NVIDIA. Via the Sheffield Robotics collaboration, CARR also has
 access to extensive robotics facilities at Sheffield University.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 Robotics research at the University is part of the EPSRC-funded UK Robotics and Autonomous
 Systems (UK-RAS) Network, and the University is a founding partner of Sheffield Robotics, a
 collaboration between the University of Sheffield and Sheffield Hallam to share each other’s
 facilities and equipment, as well as run joint research projects. In addition, Di Nuovo has been
 appointed as Digital Technology Theme Lead for the new Advanced Wellbeing Research Centre
 (AWRC), which was launched at Sheffield Hallam in 2019, supported by £14m funding from the
 Department of Health and Social Care and European Regional Development Fund. The AWRC
 focuses on interdisciplinary research linked to physical activity to improve health outcomes for
 long term conditions.

 The Games Software Development Group, led by Habgood, have collaborated in interdisciplinary
 research with education researchers and schools in their work in serious games. The group has
 worked with the Department of Education investigating the role of visual programming tools in the
 development of young children’s computational thinking, and with researchers in education at the
 University of Utrecht and the Sheffield UTC Academy Trust in investigating the educational
 effectiveness of immersive, narrative-driven VR games.

 The Medical Diagnostics Research Group is partnered with Sheffield Children's Hospital (where
 Saatchi is a member of their Research Board). The team is now one of the leaders internationally
 in developing infrared imaging for paediatric healthcare.


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In 2016 and 2017 Rodrigues was awarded two Research Mobility Grants (£28k) by The Royal
 Society, Royal Academy of Engineering and The UK Academy of Medical Sciences, in
 collaboration with the Brazilian National Council for State Research, to allow technology transfer
 of the high-performance computing of the GMPR Group’s compression-encryption algorithms.

 Contributions to the Economy and Society
 The contribution to the economy and society is exemplified by our three impact case studies,
 summarised below:

 ICS1 Building Technical Capability and Capacity in Law Enforcement Agencies for Combatting
 Crime and Terrorism: CENTRIC’s open-source intelligence hub has improved access to digital
 intelligence for police forces across the UK, leading to successful outcomes for a number of law
 enforcement operations in counterterrorism, serious crime and child sexual exploitation. The
 cryptocurrency-based training, developed jointly by Europol and CENTRIC, was made available
 by Europol to law enforcement investigators across the world.

 ICS2 Protecting Citizens in Crisis Situations and Safeguarding Humanitarian Personnel in High-
 Risk Environments: Research from CENTRIC in the application of formal concept analysis, data
 visualisation and user centred co-design has led to the development of the Security
 Communications and Analysis Network (SCAAN), launched in June 2017 by the United Nations
 International Organization for Migration (UN-IOM). SCAAN provides a security lifeline for frontline
 United Nations staff at risk of kidnapping, violence, bombing and natural disasters. It has been
 deployed by five UN agencies for its staff around the globe, in countries including Nigeria,
 Colombia, Greece, Turkey and South Sudan. SCAAN has enabled UN-IOM to rapidly
 communicate with and respond to staff in danger, increase security awareness within its
 personnel, and monitor their staff in real-time across the globe. Over 13,000 IOM staff are using
 SCAAN, operating in 158 different countries.

 ICS3 People at the Heart of ICT for Socio-Economic Development: Research by Dearden has
 generated new software engineering methods and approaches in ICT for Development (ICTD)
 and ethical standards for research in ICTD. Collaborating with SAP, Dearden’s research has
 informed the software engineering methodology, DRAMATICS. This methodology has been used
 to develop SAP’s Rural Sourcing product, which has reached 500,000 small scale farmers across
 Africa, increasing incomes and improving sustainability, and led to the adoption of new ICT
 practices by an NGO working with marginal farmers in West Bengal.

 Habgood’s REVEAL project has led to two VR games being published on the Sony PlayStation
 Store, with profits going to the consortium partners. In particular, Dr Jenner’s House, Museum and
 Garden (the location of the first game) was able to benefit, with the income playing an important
 part in keeping the museum viable. The income is also assisting the National Research Council
 of Italy to fund archaeology at the Imperial Forum of Augusta (the location of the second game).

 Roast’s EQUS visualisation tool is licenced to VeryViz Ltd. for commercialisation. The company
 has made a core version of the tool (EQUS V) available for user trialling and has a functionality
 richer version (EQUS X) for professional use. Commercialisation plans are directed at the
 education and training sectors.

 The Geometric Modelling and Pattern Recognition Research Group under Rodrigues has
 patented its data compression methods and the software is currently undergoing final trials before
 being commercially published.

 Engaging Research Users, Diverse Communities and Publics
 Di Nuovo and Conti have engaged a variety of audiences with their robotics research with talks
 as part of the British Computer Society lecture series, at an NVIDIA GPU Technology Conference,
 an IBM Watson Partner Day and a HealthXL Global Gathering. At the national government level,
 Andrews was invited to brief the UK Government on security innovations arising from the work of
 CENTRIC, and Marchang was asked to inform the Indian Government about applications of

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Blockchain technology. In the media, notable examples of public engagement include Di Nuovo’s
 article for BSA Today’s Healthcare & Lifestyle Magazine, exploring the possibilities afforded by
 robots in social care, an interview on “Robots for Old People” for the BBC World Service, and a
 piece on robot carers for the Independent Newspaper. The Unit has also been active in promoting
 equality and diversity in its discipline, with Da Costa highlighting the gender gap and providing
 inspiration for girls and women via a number of outlets, including a Tech Week Keynote, an
 appearance on the Brazilian Philosophy Coffee TV show, an interview on the Brazilian Talk Show
 of COSERN, and an interview for the Brazilian Our Science show; while Conti gave an invited talk
 on autism at the Italian Computer Science Without Borders Festival.

 Indicators of Wider Influence, Contributions to and Recognition by the Research Base
     A. Journal Editorship
 Di Nuovo: Associate Editor: 2019-current, Applied Sciences (MDPI); 2018-current, Robotics
 (MDPI); 2017-2020, Cognitive System Research (Elsevier). Guest Editor: 2017 IEEE Transactions
 on Cognitive and Developmental Systems, Special Issue on "Cognitive Agents and Robots for
 Human-Centred Systems" (IEEE); 2016 International Journal of Social Robotics, Special Issue on
 “New Frontiers of Assistive Robotics for Elderly” (Springer). Andrews and Polovina were Editors-
 in-Chief of the International Journal of Smart Applications and Conceptual Structures. Da Costa
 is Associate Editor of IET Biometrics. Marchang was guest editor for a special issue of the
 International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health on the topic "Secure IoT
 Adoption and Its Challenges in Health and Wellbeing Applications". Faust is on the Editorial Board
 of MDPI Signals, MDPI IJERPH and the CTACT Journal on Communication Technology; and was
 a special issue guest editor for Pattern Recognition Letters: Smart Pattern Recognition for Medical
 Informatics, 2018, and Artificial Intelligence in Medicine: Deep Learning for Medical Applications,
 2019. Shenfield was guest editor for a Sustainability special issue on “Green ICT, Artificial
 Intelligence and Smart Cities”. Conti is Topic Co-Editor for Frontiers in Psychology on "The impact
 of COVID-19 pandemic on school, university, and education: Psychological experiences,
 interventions, prevention, and future perspectives". Saatchi is a Topic Editor for Healthcare,
 MPDI, and was a guest editor for The Mediterranean Journal of Computers and Networks special
 issue on 'Wireless Networks'.

     B. Participation on Grants Committees
 Dearden was a UKRI panel member for GCRF proposals in 2018. He also reviewed grant
 proposals for the Velux Foundation (Netherlands) in 2017, reviewed grant proposals and
 promotion applications for the South African National Research Foundation, 2014-2020, and
 reviewed a fellowship proposal for the Rockerfeller Foundation in 2016. Di Nuovo is an evaluator
 for seven funding bodies: the European Commission H2020 - FET/MSCA programmes, the
 National Council of Science and Technology of Chile, the Flanders Research Foundation, the
 Czech Science Foundation, EPSRC (UK) and EU Public End-User Driven Technological
 Innovation, ECHORD++. Rodrigues was a grant reviewer in 2015 for The Leverhulme Trust. Da
 Costa is a Newton Fund reviewer. Conti was an evaluator for the European Commission for the
 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowships call 2020. Da Silva is a reviewer for the Brazilian
 Society for the Advancement of Science.

     C. Prizes
 Notable prizes awarded in the Unit include Best Application Paper 2018 awarded to Di Nuovo by
 the International Federation for the Promotion of Mechanism and Machine Interaction, and the
 Best Paper Award won by Di Nuovo at SISTEMI INTELLIGENTI 2015. Da Costa was awarded
 the Best Paper Prize at the Computer Forensic Workshop at SBSeg, 2019. Dearden won the ACM
 Special Interest Group on Computer-Human Interaction: Social Impact Award in 2021 (see ICS3),
 and in 2019 Shenfield won the ICT Express Best Paper Award.

    D. Membership of Research Council Committees/Evaluator
 Dearden is a member of the EPSRC Peer Review College. Wang is a member of the British
 Machine Vision Association. Rodrigues is a member of the Bulgarian committee on “Creation and
 Development of Centres of Excellence”. Faust is an Advisor to the Estonian Research Council.
 Da Silva is Member of the Technical Committee on Digital Identity Management of the Brazilian

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 National Research and Education Network. Di Nuovo is an evaluator for the European
 Commission, EPSRC (UK), the National Council of Science and Technology of Chile, the Czech
 Science Foundation, and the Kazakhstan National Centre of Science and Technology Evaluation.

     E. Conference Chair Roles
 Staff in the Unit have played significant roles in the academic discourse of the discipline over the
 period. Notable examples include Da Costa Chair of the 2018 Congress of the Brazilian Computer
 Society, Di Nuovo Chair of the 2019 IEEE RO-MAN BioRobotics Workshop and General Chair of
 the 2016 International Workshop on Hybrid Metaheuristics, Andrews Chair of the 5th Conceptual
 Structures: Tools and Interoperability Workshop at ICCS 2016, and Dearden Co-Chair for AfriCHI
 2016.

     F. Visiting Positions, Invited Keynotes and Lectures
 Staff in the Unit have been recognised for their research and expertise throughout the period and
 have been invited by more than 50 institutions, organisations and conferences to give keynotes
 and lectures. Notable examples include Dearden in 2015 as Visiting Professor for the University
 of Cape Town and for the International Institute for Information Technology, Bangalore. Conti is
 Visiting Professor at the University of Catania, Italy. In 2015, Andrews was invited speaker on the
 use of social media in crisis management at the European Commission Research Executive
 Agency and has given invited talks at the National Research University, Moscow and at Sheffield
 University. Di Nuovo has given 12 keynotes and eight invited lectures, including talks for the Alan
 Turing Institute Workshop on Robotics and AI for Health and Social Care, the International
 Psychogeriatric Association: Robots and Technology Symposium, and the British Computer
 Society Lecture series. Rodrigues gave keynotes at the 2016 Kelaniya International Conference
 on Advances in Computing and Technology and at the 2016 Brazilian Symposium on Information
 Systems. Da Costa gave an invited lecture at Trinity College Dublin in 2018, and Faust gave a
 keynote in 2019 at the University of South Florida Colleges of Business and Medicine. Shenfield
 gave an invited lecture at De Montfort University, and Ho gave an invited talk at the Research
 Institute of the Free State of Bavaria. Alboul was an invited plenary speaker at the 2018
 International Conference on Robotics & Mechatronics and Social Implementations, and Conti
 gave an invited talk at the 2018 Conference on Technologies for Learning and Communication in
 Autism.

     G. Journal Reviewing
 Staff in the Unit are reviewers for over 80 international journals and conferences, including:
 Information Sciences, IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, IEEE Transactions on
 Cybernetics, IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, ACM Computing Surveys, IEEE Robotics and
 Automation Letters, Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence, Pattern Recognition Letters,
 and Sensors (MDPI).




                                                                                              Page 15
