Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Bradford

 Unit of Assessment: B8 Chemistry

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure

 Chemistry at Bradford has a long history with roots in the industrial revolution as a founding
 department (Department of Chemistry and Dyeing) of the Bradford Technical College (1882).
 Chemical research at Bradford has historically focused on technology and modern applications.
 Following a period of mainly teaching activity in the 1990s and 2000s, Chemistry was re-
 constructed during the REF2021 period resulting in the first submission to the Chemistry UoA
 since the first RAE in 1996. From RAE1996 up to and including REF2014, individual chemists
 were submitted as part of UoA3.

 The University sits within a significant and dynamic hub of the UK chemicals industry and, from
 2014 onwards, the University has invested significantly in Chemistry. The aim was to build all
 aspects of chemical and biochemical activity (research, innovation and teaching) to maximise
 the University’s contribution to the success of the region on the national and international stages.
 Within this context our research aims were set after REF2014 and the School has taken this
 opportunity to craft its research to address the key issues/priorities of the 21st century. Following
 appointment of a new Head of School (HoS, Rimmer) in 2015, all recruitment activities have
 focused on high-potential early career staff (which has led to a complement of 19 staff with
 significant responsibility for research mainly recruited between 2015 and 2020). The School
 aims to be one of the UK’s sources of the next generation of academic leaders in Chemistry and
 Biosciences. Rimmer’s term of office has recently finished and a new HoS is being recruited
 (details in Section 2).

 Chemistry at Bradford is positioned within a larger School of Chemistry and Biosciences (49 FTE
 academic staff). The combined School was established in 2016 by merging the School of
 Biomedical Sciences and the School of Chemistry and Forensic Sciences. The Chemistry (i.e.
 UoA B8) staff operate within this combined School and are integrated into two clusters,
 established in 2017: Materials Chemistry (MC, led by Hickey; 10 staff) and Chemical & Structural
 Biology (CSB, led by Barry, nine staff).

 The two clusters include the key chemical expertise sets in modern chemical research activity:
 synthesis, analysis, theory and computation. Our underpinning ethos is to provide the breadth of
 expertise required to deliver academic excellence, as well as impact outside academia, in these
 two key interdisciplinary focus areas. This is supported by building and maintaining strong
 interactions between the two units and other activities at Bradford and beyond. The Chemistry
 clusters make substantial contributions to each of the University of Bradford overarching
 research themes: Advanced Healthcare, Innovative Engineering, and Sustainable Societies (see
 Institutional Environment Statement). Our clusters are broad-based units that will grow and
 adapt over the coming years. Currently MC enjoys strengths in the synthesis and properties of
 functional polymers and biomaterials, nanomaterials, supramolecular materials, crystal
 engineering, and materials computation. Much of the work is directed towards medical
 applications but we also aim to develop our current work around materials for clean energy. CSB
 has major strengths in bio-inorganic chemistry, protein/peptide structure and function,
 biotransformations/biosources of chemicals, biomimetics and computational methodology.
 Recently this cluster has been strengthened by two appointments in bio-organic chemistry,
 which completes a broad-based unit covering all aspects of the interface of chemistry with the
 life sciences.

 The juxtaposition of the biosciences with chemistry naturally drives a large proportion of the
 research agenda within chemistry towards the life sciences. The development of such a
 significant strength in chemistry is not only influencing biosciences at Bradford but is also closely
 aligned to newly formed clusters in Physiology and Metabolism and Microbiology within the
                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 combined School (for example, much of the work carried out by Rimmer is directed at the
 synthesis and properties of new polymers targeted at detecting bacteria).

 The research activity of the School is guided by the School Research Committee (SRC). The
 SRC is chaired by the Director of Research (Hickey) and identifies strategic opportunities and
 initiatives including pathways to impact for the School’s research, oversees their implementation,
 monitors the progression of postgraduate researchers (PGRs) and continually evaluates key
 performance indicators including grant successes and outputs. The SRC includes a
 representative from each of the clusters, the Postgraduate Research Tutor, and a representative
 from the School’s Impact Strategy Group for knowledge translation strategy. It meets monthly
 and reports to the School Executive. The School Executive is chaired by the HoS and includes
 the Director of Research and the Director of Board of Studies; amongst other things it manages
 the division of time for staff between research, teaching and administration. The research
 activities of the School are reported to the Faculty by the Director of Research through the
 Faculty Research Committee, which then reports to the University Research and Knowledge
 Transfer Strategy Committee and serves as a conduit for exchange of information and for
 development and implementation of University’s research strategy.

 Chemical research at Bradford is supported by excellent facilities for analytical sciences (the
 Analytical Centre (AC); see Section 3 “Infrastructure and facilities” for details). Chemistry also
 benefits greatly from opportunities provided by The Polymer Interdisciplinary Research Centre
 (Polymer IRC) shared with the Faculty of Engineering and Informatics; The Institute of Cancer
 Therapeutics (ICT) and the Centre for Skin Sciences, both in the Faculty of Life Sciences. The
 Polymer IRC is one of the UK’s largest single-university networks of polymer science and
 engineering research groups, with the subject having a long history at Bradford dating back to
 the granting of the University's charter in the 1960s. The ICT is a significant facility, which is a
 nationally important institution within the UK cancer technologies sphere and is one of only a few
 centres nationally with the facilities and research expertise to take anti-cancer medicines and
 biomarkers from concept to clinic. Aspects of strategy have already been formulated to
 maximise synergies with these centres of excellence (for example, preclinical evaluations of
 inorganic drug candidates have been published by Barry in collaboration with the ICT, with
 financial support from the University).

 The period since REF2014 has been a period of very substantial success with significant
 publication and impact profiles, which gives us great confidence for sustainability in the 2020s
 and which will act as a springboard for the next decade.

 Research and impact strategy

 The city of Bradford and its surrounding area have a strong chemical industry fabric and our
 ambition is to combine the very best in chemical research with industrial partnerships to address
 some of our biggest global issues (for example treatment of cancer and antimicrobial
 resistance). Our two research clusters enjoy close interactions with translational teams in Health
 (e.g., in the area of antimicrobial resistance with staff in Pharmacy, Nursing and Midwifery), with
 the ICT (as exemplified by Barry’s work) and with Polymer IRC. Therefore, delivering impact via
 translation is an integral part of our research activity. For example, GrowMedTech recently
 awarded Katsikogianni, Rimmer and Swift funds to scale up the production of polymers for
 detecting infection and to initiate engagement with patients in collaboration with the School of
 Nursing and Midwifery (Faculty of Health Studies). In our health-focused work, we are keen to
 innovate, encourage, and produce impact using the University’s strong interactions with the NHS
 (see institutional-level statement) in a ‘bench-to-bedside-to-community’ approach to research.
 Good examples of this approach include the use of functional materials to detect pathogens and
 treat wounds, which are being translated into clinical use in strong collaboration with teams from
 nursing and midwifery, see section 3 for grant details.




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The primary strategic aims are:

 1. To further the progress of core and fundamental knowledge in synthetic chemistry,
    computational chemistry and structural chemistry in the contexts of Materials and the
    Biosciences.

 2. To actively promote multi-disciplinarity and overlaps between core disciplines (e.g.,
    Chemistry with Biology, Materials, Engineering) to address major global issues (e.g., cancer,
    antimicrobial resistance, plastic waste).

 3. To use these advances to deliver impact in healthcare, energy and the environment

 4. To ensure research sustainability.

 Specific objectives for 2021-2027

 1. To consolidate our research teams through the recruitment of outstanding PhD candidates,
    post-doctoral research assistants and highly qualified technical staff. The University is highly
    supportive of Chemistry and we have already achieved substantial success in securing fully
    funded PhD scholarships via the Research and Development Fund (two successful
    applications from Chemistry in May 2019 out of the four offered). In the last round of faculty
    PGR Scholarships for Early Career Researchers 2020, three of five PhD scholarships were
    awarded to the School, two within Chemistry. We will also aim to establish a Centre for
    Doctoral Training at the interface of Chemistry, Materials, and the Biosciences.

    Applications to individual fellowships such as UKRI Future Leader Fellowships and Royal
    Society University Research Fellowships are strongly encouraged by the School in order to
    consolidate and expand research teams (see Section 4 for previous successes).

 2. To recruit new academic staff in line with the requirements of our two clusters, either to fill
    gaps in emerging and innovative areas (e.g., recent employment of Crawford in
    mechanochemistry) or to strengthen one of our existing areas of expertise (e.g., recent
    employment of Pitto-Barry in bio-inorganic chemistry). Our staffing strategy is detailed in
    Section 2.

 3. To achieve a strong portfolio of research funding, building on our strengths, via writing
    retreats, research away-days focusing on interdisciplinary research and brainstorming of
    ideas between our two clusters, internal one-day thematic symposia and internal
    communication. Our strategy is to ensure that every member of the Chemistry staff is aware
    of the skills and expertise of the others, as well as the research conducted in every research
    group. Section 3 “Strategy to increase funding income in 2021-2027” contains specifics on
    this strategy. Our multidisciplinary approach to both fundamental and impact-focused work
    allows us to apply for funding from a range of potential funders: research councils, overseas
    aid, industry and charities.

 4. To strengthen our partnerships with centres of excellence hosted at Bradford. One objective
    is to maximise our existing collaborations with the ICT, in order to support the preclinical
    development of the most promising molecules designed as anticancer drug candidates in
    Chemistry. We aim to make such progress easier and more accessible for all our staff
    involved in health research, by organising joint seminars and thematic symposia, with the
    aim of developing a "bench-to-bedside" translational approach.

 5. To develop and maintain research partnerships with institutions in India and in China. The
    School of Chemistry and Biosciences has established several international collaborations
    particularly with Asia and the Middle East. For example, Rimmer’s collaboration with LV
    Prasad on antimicrobial resistance has led to novel functional polymers being progressed to
    animal trials. This work is currently being extended by several Indian colleagues (mainly into
    the detection of infection in dairy settings) led by Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi
                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    and funded by ESRC/Newton. It is one of our objectives to further develop these links and
    create impact outside the UK. During the REF period, and funded by MRC, we ran a series
    of workshops with UK and Indian scientists and clinicians aimed at promoting further
    interactions. We will build on this work to develop new consortia in the field of anti-microbial
    resistance, potentially extending into viral epidemics as well.

 An evaluation of our current research position

 Grant income: Research sustainability is supported by recent successes in individual
 fellowships, grants, and by partnerships with industry. Details are provided in Section 3.

 Research outputs: Following the appointments of Rimmer (2015) and Hickey (2014), the school
 has focused on recruiting early career staff; these staff have proved an excellent asset,
 producing significant numbers of outputs submitted to REF. As an example, Barry joined
 Bradford in 2016, and since then, has published 15 papers as corresponding author in journals
 such as Angewandte Chemie and Chemical Communications, from his results obtained in
 Bradford. The achievements already made by our newly appointed early-career academics
 suggest exceptional vitality, sustainability and a thriving research environment.

 Impact: We are actively developing a multi-disciplinary and progressive approach to chemistry,
 in house and with external collaborators, exemplified by the recent patent between Bradford and
 Aston University on the development of novel metal-based antibiotics. Although in a phase of re-
 construction, with most of the academic staff recruited in the second half of the REF period, we
 can already evidence impact in the development of a range of potential high-value compounds,
 such as novel sensor elements for bacterial pathogens, new anticancer drug candidates, new
 and sustainable materials. We are developing broad impact that reaches international and UK
 audiences (e.g., industrial partners, teachers and A-level students) by developing new products
 with industrial partners and by offering novel teaching methodologies to schools. Swift’s Case
 study (ICS B8-1) on better utilising functional polymer chemistry in the marketplace illustrates
 our collaborations with local businesses within the chemical (White Sea and Baltic), medical
 device (Trio Healthcare) and cosmetics (John Drury) sectors (see Section 4 for wider
 contributions with industry). The case study (ICS B8-2) put forward by Barry, Martin, Pitto-Barry
 and Comerford-Boyes (the latter from the University’s Psychology Division) on the Molecular
 Music project exemplifies how the UoA can offer novel teaching methodologies to A-level
 students which facilitate learning and engagement with Chemistry for future generations.

 Open science

 Our open science strategy is to make use of both social media platforms and far-reaching local
 actors (e.g., Bradford National Science and Media Museum, Bradford Science Festival, Bradford
 Community Broadcasting (BCB) radio). Chemistry staff are very aware of the crucial role the
 University plays within the Bradford area community (see details in the institutional environment
 statement) and proactively engage with local schools (illustrated by our ICS on Molecular
 Music), and the general public. Please see Section 4 “engagement with the community”).

 The School actively makes the scientific outputs of its staff accessible to all levels of an inquiring
 society: for example, the full text of our publications is deposited in Bradford Scholars, the
 University of Bradford open access repository. Our quarterly School Newsletter also contributes
 to the open dissemination of our research outputs via short lay descriptions of published articles.
 This Newsletter is accessible to anyone through the University website
 (https://www.bradford.ac.uk/chemistry-and-biosciences/newsletter/past-newsletters/) and directly
 sent to the School’s staff, students and alumni.

 Research integrity

 The University is a signatory to the Universities UK (UUK)’s concordat to support research
 integrity and to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) - see
 institutional environment statement. Our Chemistry research is underpinned by adherence to the
                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 University’s ethical framework and ethical code and upholding the Committee on Standards in
 Public Life’s principles of Selflessness, Integrity, Objectivity, Accountability, Openness, Honesty,
 and Leadership. Ethical practice in authorship is monitored by our School Executive, which
 advises on best practice and is responsible for dispute resolution. New staff are also inducted
 into the University’s ethics policy which commits to maintaining high ethical standards in
 research. Ethical compliance and research involving human participants, tissues or databases of
 personal information requires advance approval by the Research Ethics Committee. All projects
 involving the use of animals (in collaboration with the ICT) have passed University scrutiny
 through the ethics process.

 2. People

 Chemistry has grown significantly since 2014; one professor in 2015; four lecturers and one
 Reader were appointed in 2014, six lecturers were appointed in 2016, four in 2018, one in 2019
 and three in 2020. Chemistry research is currently undertaken by 13 lecturers, three senior
 lecturers, one reader and two professors.

 Leadership: The previous HoS of Chemistry and Biosciences (Rimmer) was appointed in 2015
 (Chair in Chemistry) with the aim of rejuvenating Chemistry at Bradford, for example by
 recruiting a team of research-active academics, organising the refurbishment of the research
 facilities, securing Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) accreditation for our teaching programmes
 (awarded in December 2020), and restructuring the School. Having completed his period of
 tenure as HoS, Rimmer’s duties as Professor of Chemistry include leading a cross-Faculty
 research grouping promoting research work at the interface of chemistry, materials and the
 biosciences. We are currently recruiting a new HoS to drive forward the ambitious trajectory
 forged in this REF period.

 Academic Staff: Since 2015, a strong emphasis has been placed on recruiting, developing, and
 retaining exceptional early career research (ECR) staff, who we consider essential to achieving
 sustained excellence in research in the long term and who have joined Bradford in their first
 permanent academic position. High-calibre ECRs display ambition and drive coupled with fresh
 ideas and creativity, and boldness to try out new directions, giving the School agility and
 responsiveness. We have been successful in attracting some of the best early career academics
 from around the world to create a dynamic and forward-looking research environment with staff
 hungry for success. This strategy proved to be very successful, as exemplified by our grant
 successes (Section 3).

 Following the strategic formation of the two research clusters in 2015, synthetic chemistry was
 identified as suffering from clear gaps and required attention. The appointment of SR began to
 fill this gap and new appointments have continued to expand the core set of capabilities and
 skills. For example, in inorganic synthesis led by Barry (recruited in 2016) and Pitto-Barry
 (recruited in 2019) there is considerable synergy with the exceptionally strong organic synthetic
 activities led by Crawford and Hamed (recruited in 2020 and in 2018). The Polymer and
 Biomaterials Chemistry Group led by Rimmer is juxta positioned alongside leading work in
 Polymer Engineering. Computational chemistry can offer much needed answers to fundamental
 questions. To meet this need, an important recruiting effort has been focused on this area, with
 the appointment of four lecturers between 2014 and 2018 (Seaton, Pike, Hughes, Stewart).

 Career development support for researchers: The Unit provides strong career development
 support for its researchers. ECRs benefit from being part of a significant cohort of other early-
 career staff within the Faculty. Support and training for career development are provided through
 mentoring by a senior colleague within the faculty, whilst working through a personal
 development plan designed to develop competencies and skills. Skills and competences for all
 staff are developed via workshops in best practices (e.g., grant writing) and training courses
 delivered by Research and Innovation services (RaIS).



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Training: All School members (established and new) fulfil statutory learning requirements and
 ensure compliance with key legislative areas by engaging with courses and e-learning modules
 developed by the University for all staff in the following areas: health and safety; diversity in the
 workplace and unconscious bias; data protection, freedom of information and information
 security. Line managers and staff involved in staff recruitment also complete modules on
 recruitment and selection. A range of optional e-courses focused on leadership capabilities and
 personal development are also available with new resources developed in response to the
 current pandemic. Across the School, 69% of staff attended some form of non-mandatory
 training from 2014 to 2019.

 The School supports staff after a selection process to join leadership programmes. Two
 academics (one female, one male) and two professional support staff (one female, one male)
 enrolled in and completed the Bradford:Leader programme, and have been promoted.
 Bradford:Leader is a leadership training course offered by UoB for academics and professional
 support staff. Three female academics joined the Aurora programme (see Institutional
 Statement) in 2020, and three more will join in 2021.

 Appraisal/development review: Performance and development review (PDR) takes place
 annually using the University’s approved procedures. All new staff (including postdoctoral
 researchers) are assigned a mentor as part of the induction process. The mentoring process is
 set out in the institutional guidelines, “The Bradford Academic” (see Institutional Statement).

 Support given to academic staff for career progression: We provide a highly supportive
 environment where success is valued and we offer fast-tracked career progression for our
 outstanding ECRs (e.g. Barry was recruited as Lecturer in 2016, promoted to Senior Lecturer in
 2018, and to Professor in 2020). Promotions follow strict guidelines within “The Bradford
 Academic”.

 Research opportunity: To ensure and maintain vitality, the School is committed to creating
 opportunities for staff. Thus, ECRs have a restricted teaching load for the first two years to
 enable them to develop and establish their research. However, staff at all career stages are
 expected to teach and research. Chemistry staff have been successful in applying to the
 University Research Development Fund Research and Innovation Pump Priming Grant Scheme
 (e.g., GBP80,000 each for Barry and Hickey/Swift for PhD studentships, GBP12,000 for Barry to
 carry out preclinical evaluation of organometallics with the ICT).

 The School facilitates sabbaticals as a way of infusing vitality into an individual’s research.
 Examples of opportunities include three months spent in Ghent by Swift (funded by RSC) and an
 invited professorship (2017) in University of Lyon by Nayak. Opportunity is also created by
 means of an incentive fund, which is allocated by the School to all staff to enable them to
 present results at conferences, develop collaborations, and/or purchase consumables or
 software. This support is particularly useful to ECRs as they attempt to secure grants and other
 colleagues seeking pump-priming support.

 The Faculty and School seminar programmes expose staff to exciting research being carried out
 by leading researchers (both internal to Bradford and external) and provide opportunities to build
 collaborations. The School provides opportunities for all staff, particularly ECRs, to take up
 positions of responsibility (e.g., in School committees) and be involved in strategic decision-
 making, demonstrating trust in their abilities and encouraging personal development.

 Research students: Our PGR numbers are increasing fuelled by our growing reputation for
 research excellence and internationalisation. Currently (2019-20), our cohort of 19 academics in
 the UoA supervises 17.1 equivalent (i.e., sum of all partial supervisory duties) PGRs. Our aim for
 the next period is to secure an average of two PGRs per FTE (an increase from the current 0.9
 per FTE) by developing multi-disciplinary graduate training centres at the chemistry/biology and
 chemistry/materials interfaces.


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research in the Faculty of Life Sciences provides a highly supportive environment for PGRs and
 facilitates exchange of ideas, expertise and skills. We fully subscribe to UKRI’s Statement of
 Expectations for Doctoral Training, the principles and precepts of the QAA Code of Practice for
 Postgraduate Research Programmes, and the Researcher Development Programme (RDP)
 endorsed by UKRI. Students are given generic and specific training to enable them to be more
 effective in their research, manage their careers, and be more competitive in the career
 marketplace. During induction, all doctoral students complete a training needs analysis exercise
 with their supervisory team to identify a schedule of training throughout their research
 programme. This forms part of the student’s Personal and Professional Development Plan and
 maps to The Researcher Development Framework from Vitae to ensure that our doctoral
 training aligns with the principles set out in the concordat to support the career development of
 researchers. To this end, the University takes a collaborative, whole-institution approach to
 training and development for PGRs. All faculties and professional services come together to
 provide PGRs with access to a range of opportunities aimed at extending their personal
 transferable skills to enhance their research experience and employment prospects. In addition
 to generalised training in research design, ethics, writing skills and literature/data management,
 specialised content and training is available in a range of areas aligned to Medical Research
 Council skill priorities, including mathematics, statistics, bioinformatics, digital healthcare,
 imaging and business innovation in the life sciences. PGRs also attend and contribute to
 research seminar series, journal clubs and an annual Faculty Research Open Day and PGR
 conference as part of their training and development.

 The School’s PGRs have at least two supervisors providing academic guidance. In 2019, a
 mentoring scheme was introduced to provide pastoral and academic support independent of
 supervisors. To measure the effectiveness of this new scheme questions will be included in the
 next postgraduate survey. Students at all levels can obtain career advice and support from
 supervisors/mentors as well as from the UoB careers service. The 2019 survey found that PGRs
 thought the level of training and support was adequate and we are seeking to improve on this. In
 response to feedback given in the same survey, we now ensure that Knowledge Exchange (KE)
 activities are better advertised.

 Equality and Diversity: Reflecting the University’s strong position on equality, diversity and
 inclusion issues, the UoA has a strong ethos of diversity. Thirty-seven percent of the 19
 Chemistry FTEs are women. Our academic staff also come from a range of countries and
 continents with 11 (58%) British academics, four (21%) EU nationals, and four (21%) from
 outside the EU. Our ethnicity data (as defined by the Office for National Statistics) is as follows:
 15 White (10 White English/Welsh/Scottish/Northern Irish/British; one White Irish; one Irish
 Traveller; three Any other White background); three Asian/Asian British (one Pakistani, one
 Indian, one Chinese); one Other ethnic group (Arab).

 The School of Chemistry and Biosciences holds Athena SWAN Bronze status (2018) and has a
 designated Equality, Diversity and Opportunities Committee (EDOC) to oversee, promote, and
 encourage equality and diversity in all areas of School activity, including research. The EDOC
 committee consists of nine women (F) and eight men (M) representing the School’s diversity in
 sexuality and gender identities, grades, full (FT) and part-time (PT) working and caring
 responsibilities. The committee is formed of academics from all levels (junior three F, four M;
 senior three F, three M), professional support staff (two F, one M) and a research assistant (F).
 The EDOC lead sits within the School Executive.

 The EDOC committee ensures all action points from our Bronze Athena SWAN application are
 implemented and leads on all Athena SWAN-related issues. The School has now begun to
 expand our thinking beyond gender balance to other issues such as ethnicity, a sector-wide
 issue in Science, Technologies, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) also identified in our
 data. The EDOC meets monthly, and membership is reviewed regularly to ensure a full
 representation of gender and ethnicity. Time spent on the EDOC is recognised in the workload
 model. The EDOC communicates with staff and students at the bimonthly school staff meetings
 or via e-mail, as appropriate. One of the EDOC objectives is to promote equality within the
                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 research environment. Several actions have been taken, for example regarding the enhanced
 support provided to academic female staff taking maternity leave, with contact days and
 available nursery places, and enhanced research support when returning to work. The EDOC
 also feeds into the recently launched Faculty Equality and Diversity forum.

 All staff are required to undergo online diversity and equality training. Statistics are regularly
 reviewed to ensure that policies are being adhered to both in terms of equality/diversity as well
 as harassment. Self-assessment activities include:

 •   staff survey (May/June, yearly) with ca. 80% response rate (25 F, 31 M, one non-binary)

 •   postgraduate student (postgrad) survey (August) with >85% response rate (11 F, eight M)

 •   interviews with staff recently on maternity/paternity leave

 •   interviews with former School staff on leaver-related issues

 Following the success of the School’s policy on accessing career breaks, it has been
 implemented University-wide. Clearer processes regarding flexible working and other issues are
 currently developed with HR. Building on the Athena SWAN Bronze application analysis, we
 continue to track achievement of our SMART goals through annual staff/student surveys and
 continuous improvement of policies and procedures. The honest reflections of our staff
 regardless of gender, ethnicity, disability and other protected characteristics will enable
 progress. We particularly endeavour to ensure:

 •   Protected characteristics have no impact on opportunities for career progression.

 •   The School is open and transparent, producing excellence with procedures in place to
     support the diverse set of needs and circumstances of all staff.

 As the School grows, we will ensure that we enhance our equality and diversity and our
 commitment to equal opportunities is expressed in our strategy that the department should strive
 for Athena SWAN Silver.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income: The development of Chemistry at Bradford is a strategic aim and this has been led by a
 University investment in staff and the beginnings of investment in infrastructure for synthesis (for
 example GBP400,000 invested in synthetic laboratories for polymer and biomaterials chemistry
 in 2020), alongside the long-standing support for analytical instrumentation and infrastructure.
 Our interdisciplinary research focus at the interface between Chemistry, Biology, and Materials
 broadens our funding opportunities and allows us to target most major funding research councils
 and foundations in the UK as well as European sources and including UK overseas aid (GCRF).
 In the international setting the MC grouping enjoys substantial collaborative and funded
 (Wellcome Trust, MRC/DBT, ESRC/Newton) projects with colleagues in India (LV Prasad Eye
 institute, IIT Delhi, IIT Kharagpur) around the area of materials for combating anti-microbial
 resistance. Recent examples of our industry-focused work include project CAYMAN (see
 Section 4).

 Our research portfolio, over the REF period, totalled £1,823 million. The major part of our
 income was derived from research councils and Royal Society (40%), UK-based charities (13%),
 UK central bodies (22%) and from industrial partnerships, and UK Industry (18%). The rest was
 derived from a mixture of tax credits, EU, non-UK industry and charities.

 This track record gives us confidence that we have the potential to secure the level of grant
 income required to underpin our research ambition. The aspirational research funding portfolio
 (based on our track record and plans) in broad terms is about 40% EPSRC, 10% BBSRC, 20%
 other (NERC, British Heart Foundation, Wellcome Trust), 15% EU, and 15% Industry. The target
                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 for grant income is at least GBP150,000 per FTE on average per year compared to an average
 of approximately £96,000 per FTE per year during the current REF cycle.

 Strategy to increase funding income in 2021-2027: All academic staff are encouraged to
 submit grant applications every year. The quality of the research outputs published by our
 academic staff gives us confidence that our research is sustainable, robust, exciting and vibrant.
 We have put in place a number of strategies in order to encourage the production of high-quality
 grant applications, as follows.

 There is University-wide training to all academic staff in grant writing, resource planning and
 costing, research ethics and meeting the requirements of specific funding calls. The workload
 model includes time allocation for grant writing.

 Writing retreats are offered twice-yearly to academic staff who need to have focused time in
 order to complete their applications. These retreats are attended by senior staff members and
 Research Development Managers to help complete the financial details, rework of some specific
 aspects of the proposals. They are designed to leave enough time for each academic (or group
 of academics) to work on their proposals (usually, half a day) and also to offer talks and advice
 on specific grants or themes (the other half day). Catering and accommodation are offered in
 situ to enable more informal discussions in the evenings. During the 2020 pandemic, online
 retreats took place. The Faculty also has a Business Development team (1.3 FTEs) which is
 highly effective in linking individual academics to industrial partners. As a result, Chemistry
 recently received a GBP24,000 ICURe grant SETsquared and Innovate UK to conduct a market
 validation study. Industrial partners include EQ Limited and 5D Ltd. The School aims to increase
 engagement with industry across all aspects of our work and in 2020 has inaugurated an
 industrial strategy board that will advise on both research opportunities and training/teaching in
 the context of the UK Industrial strategy.

 At a School level, biannual research away-days are organised to promote informal discussions
 between academics, to plan collaborative research, or to plan future grant applications. An
 excellent example of the value of the research away days is the January 2020 event, which
 featured the use of the School’s computational expertise in both Chemistry and the Biosciences
 and which has initiated new projects in photoinitiation and the use of bioinformatics to assess
 biodegradation of polymers in the environment. Additional bespoke seminars from researchers
 who recently had awarded and/or rejected grant applications with a view to sharing learning
 among all staff are also organised. With strategies combining incentive, encouragement,
 support, feedback, and dedicated time, as well as our outstanding research outputs, we are sure
 that our strategy will lead to an increase in funding income in 2021-2027. We have already seen
 early successes with a recent Leverhulme Award (Barry, GBP111,549, awarded June 2020)
 and, since the end of the current REF period, an Academy of Medical Sciences Springboard
 Award to Yorke (the fourth consecutive AMS Springboard Award for the School over the last 4
 years).

 Use of major national and international facilities: Our top-flight research is supported by the
 use of major facilities such as Diamond Light Source. Barry was Principal Investigator of the
 project SP11314 “Microfocus XAS studies of novel osmium nanocrystals on TEM grids”, which
 took place at beamline I18 in April 2015 for two days (six shifts). This work resulted in a
 Chemical Communications publication. Stewart secured beamtime for SANS in 2020 (120
 hours) and SAXS (72 hours) work on polymers and other materials within the Central European
 Research Infrastructure consortium (Grätz and Budapest).

 Infrastructure and facilities: Facilities for chemical analysis are a strong feature of research at
 Bradford and the significant facilities of the AC, led by Telford, cover all the modern techniques
 applicable to MC and CBS research, including capabilities for proteomics, metabolomics and
 polymer mass spectrometry. The AC provides a centralised analytical facility for all researchers
 and is the hub of analytical science for Chemistry. Telford has led the development of significant
 and impactful networks since its inception, continuing to maximise coverage in the period since

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2014. One of the key enablers in this context is the multi-disciplinarity approach that the Centre
 fosters, providing support for all the researchers linked to the chemistry group in some form and
 the ongoing and significant work undertaken with industry through Knowledge Exchange (KE)
 activities (see Section 4). The AC provides all the usual NMR, mass spectrometry,
 chromatography, adsorption and vibration spectroscopy, particle characterisation, and imaging
 instrumentation of a modern chemistry department. The AC has strengths in mass spectrometry
 and NMR and features state-of-the-art high-resolution mass spectrometry (Orbitrap) for accurate
 mass and proteomics and 600 MHz NMR for solution based 1D, 2D and 3D experiments as well
 as the highest field dedicated diffusion probe in the UK. The University provides the Chemistry
 staff with unlimited access to the extensive analytical facilities within the AC. The University
 invested in updating the 400 MHz NMR with a new console (GBP220,000) in 2017 and, in 2020,
 upgraded the 600 MHz NMR via a successful matched bid to EU infrastructure funding (ERDF,
 CAYMAN project, see Section 4). Matched funding from the University has established the
 Polymer and Biomaterials Chemistry Laboratories, which sit alongside the Polymer IRC and
 features modern facilities for polymer analysis and synthesis. The University has also invested in
 new techniques such as fluorescence spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy, and new thermal
 analysis equipment.

 The computational needs of the team are provided by a newly installed high-performance
 computing facility comprising 2200 CPU cores, which is supported at University level.
 Computational expertise now resides within both of the research clusters and includes expertise
 in quantum mechanical methods, molecular dynamics and coarse grain methodologies.

 Materials Chemistry research benefits from close working within the Polymer IRC, who enjoy
 extensive facilities for polymer processing and characterisation (e.g., GBP3,419,000 funding
 received from EPSRC EP/L027011/1; 01/2014 to 01/2024). A significant benefit of the combined
 School structure (School of Chemistry and Biosciences) is that Chemistry staff also benefit from
 biological facilities and both Rimmer and Barry run cell culture facilities whilst Rimmer,
 Katsikogianni and Swift enjoy access to microbiology facilities. Hamed has also established a
 large-scale protein and small molecule fermentation and purification/chromatography facility
 within the school.

 Facilities for synthesis are presently adequate to carry out world-leading research but will require
 updating and renewal in the coming years. We aim to establish new synthetic laboratories in the
 medium term and in 2020 we have invested in new, improved air handling capacity. Part of this
 renewal has started with the new synthetic facilities mentioned above.

 Support for impact generation is enabled by our facilities in the AC, with examples detailed in
 Section 4, “Examples of research collaborations”.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Industry collaborations: West Yorkshire has a longstanding history as one of UK chemicals
 sector hubs. This originates in the first Industrial Revolution with the need to supply dyes to the
 textile industry. Although some of the former mills, and their accompanying industries, are now
 world-famous tourist sites (e.g., Saltaire World Heritage Site), the chemical industry is still
 vibrant in the Bradford area with a large concentration of chemical manufacturers (for example
 paper and water chemicals businesses Solenis and Kemira based in Bradford, Lubrizol located
 in Huddersfield, Solvay in Halifax, and Nufarm in Bradford). The School of Chemistry and
 Biosciences has an industrial board, which helps to guide the direction of the School research in
 aspects that can be relevant to commerce. This helps to keep a good balance between blue
 skies fundamental research and translation of chemical technologies.

 KE projects enabled by the AC facilities have delivered over GBP2,000,000 in commercial value
 (Telford) since the Centre’s inception to more than 100 companies ranging from spinouts and
 start-ups to international scientific leaders across all chemical sectors including AstraZeneca,
 Novartis, Syngenta, BASF, Solenis, Nufarm, Dr Reddys, Leon Pharma, Envigo, Dechra,
 Ashland, RB, Unilever, Ra Pharma, Verona, Smith & Nephew and Systagenix. Many of the KE
                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 studies have contributed to highly impactful projects, including analytical and formulation work
 for Curapel™ in development of their eczema treatment creams and multiple projects
 undertaken recently with a biotechnology drug discovery company to support paediatric clinical
 trials of a potent antiviral compound in the late stages of development for the treatment of
 respiratory syncytial virus (an infection which claims up to 160,000 global deaths per year).

 Telford capitalised on this long-term demonstratable KE success and was awarded a European
 Regional Development Fund (ERDF) project in conjunction with Rimmer under the ‘Promoting
 Research and Innovation (Priority Axis 1b)’ programme supported by European Structural and
 Investment Funds totalling GBP1,600,000 in 2019 (GBP796,147 funding awarded for 07/2019 to
 09/2022). The project, entitled Chemistry Assets for Yorkshire Manufacturing (CAYMAN), covers
 a three-year programme of work to establish the UK’s highest field NMR with a dedicated
 diffusion probe (Bruker DiffBB installed on 600 MHz superconducting magnet) and engage with
 Leeds City Region small-to-medium-sized enterprises (SME) under discrete research and
 innovation projects to help them improve their new and existing processes and products using
 UoB infrastructure and expertise. The true impact of this project will be measured at mid- and
 end-of-term by an independent consultant through our summative assessment, though after a
 year and despite Covid-19, we are overperforming on contracted outputs (for example specific
 ongoing SME interactions, new to company processes, new to market processes) both in
 number and quality compared to initial predictions made at the bid stage.

 Newly recruited academic staff are all aware of this exceptional concentration of potential
 partners with whom to work and deliver impact, and part of the strategy for chemical research is
 modelled on the highly successful Singapore A* Institute in Chemical Science and Engineering,
 which is also geographically positioned within a very large Asian hub of the chemicals industry.
 Several partnership agreements have already been signed between academics and companies
 (e.g. 5D Ltd) for the further development of technologies developed in the School. Five patents
 have been granted for our academic staff since 2015 (three for Barry/Pitto-Barry, two
 Rimmer/Swift).

 Since 2019, Telford has been an official member of the scientific team on the European Space
 Agency’s (ESA) Search for Life Signatures ‘ExoMars’ project in conjunction with Emeritus
 Professor Howell Edwards to provide interpretation of Raman spectroscopic data obtained by
 the Mars Rover when it lands on the planet (launch delayed from 2020). Prior to the
 interpretative side of the project, Telford has been involved in experimentation in collaboration
 with the University of Leicester to establish Raman Spectroscopy as part of the suite of
 analytical equipment that has been miniaturised for inclusion on the Rover. The project is
 eagerly followed by national and international press and scientific commentators alike. It has a
 total cost approaching EUR1,000,000,000 from the member states of the ESA and Roscosmos,
 which include Canada and Russia as well as European states.

 Work in collaboration with groups at University College London have led to several high-impact
 publications in the area of 3D-printed pharmaceuticals, with Telford underpinning these outputs
 with bespoke analytical approaches to studying the formulations. This is a developing area and
 is picked up routinely in the national press. In 2015, the group published a paper examining the
 engineering of novel oral dosage forms to tailor drug release characteristics (subsequently cited
 234 times).

 Rimmer and Swift work extensively with colleagues in India aiming to find solutions to the global
 issues of antimicrobial resistance and polymer science. The general aim of these programmes is
 to develop novel polymers for cost-effective, mass-produced diagnostic devices to inform
 improved stewardship of antibiotics and involves collaborations with L.V. Prasad, Hyderabad
 (Development of a rapid system for diagnosing corneal infections using pathogen-responsive
 polymers (0998800/B/12/Z) and UK-India Centre for Advanced Technology-Minimising Anti-
 Microbial Resistance (MR/N501888/2)) and IIT Delhi/University of Edinburgh and other partners
 (DOSAH-Diagnostics for One Health and User Driven Solutions for AMR”(ES/S000208/1)). The


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 work on infections in eyes has progressed to successful in vivo safety and efficacy pre-clinical
 animal trials.

 Hamed won a three-year industrial partnership award (BBSRC) with Lucite International and
 Ingenza Limited (GBP430,000). Hamed is also actively collaborating with universities in the
 Middle East (e.g., Assiut and Minia Universities, Egypt) and Europe (e.g., with Dr Jasmin
 Mecinovic, University of Southern Denmark). Hamed’s group is currently hosting three PhD
 students and two PDRAs working as assistant lecturers to Egyptian Universities (on study
 leave).

 Collaboration on publications: We have an extensive range of national and international
 collaborators. Institutions represented include Université de Neuchâtel (Switzerland),
 Universities of Strasbourg and Lyon (France), Yancheng Teachers University (China), the IIT
 Karagpur and LV Prasad in India; the Universities of Bath, Birmingham, Bristol, Warwick and
 UCL (UK), Diamond Light Source (UK), Advanced Light Source (Berkeley, US), CNRS Grenoble
 (France).

 Examples of interdisciplinary research and collaborations: Interdisciplinary research is a
 central part of our vision (see Section 1), so support for it is embedded in our strategy. Examples
 include Crawford, who joined UoB in 2020 and is a core group member and work group leader of
 an e-COST Action (Mechanochemistry for Sustainable Industry). It has resulted in a paper
 published in 2020, and to the setup of several collaborations in Europe. Martin has publications
 with archaeology and psychology; nine staff have publications with microbiology, toxicology,
 cancer, immunology and skin specific biomedical researchers. Telford and Swift have
 collaborations with polymer engineering and an industrial focus on analytical science and
 materials chemistry coming from analytical centre. A significant number of our outputs are
 interdisciplinary, with applications in the domains of energy, sustainability & environment, life
 sciences and health care, and materials. The submitted impact case study ‘Molecular Music’
 (ICS B8-2) resulted from interdisciplinary research between chemistry and psychology. Together
 with Lucite and Ingenza, Hamed is currently engineering a bacterial strain for bioproduction of a
 commodity chemical from renewable resources.

 Examples of leadership in academic community and esteem:

 Learned societies: All our Chemistry staff are either members of the RSC or the ACS, with six
 CChem, and three FRSC.

 Invited/plenary lectures: Rimmer is a regular contributor to scientific meetings and since 2014
 has given 10 invited and keynote lectures at international meetings. The success of our strategy
 to support the growth of Chemistry at Bradford via mainly new early stage appointments is
 indicated by several invited lectures: (i) Barry, Invited Lecture at the 9th International Symposium
 on Bioorganometallic Chemistry (ISBOMC’19); Invited Lecture at the TopNotch Meeting in
 Cambridge in 2019; Keynote Lecture at the UK/Russia Biomaterials workshop in Lancaster in
 October 2019; (ii) Stewart, invited international lecture at The Indian Polymer Group International
 meeting (Dec 2018, Pune); (iii) Pitto-Barry delivered an invited seminar at Institut Galien, Paris in
 2019; (iv) Crawford delivered the plenary lecture at the "New Year Symposium" at RWTH
 Aachen University, Germany; (v) Nayak delivered an invited talk at Researcher Links Workshop
 (organised by British Council) on Hydrogen Storage, 2015, in Pretoria, South Africa. In the
 summer (June-Aug) of 2017, Nayak was appointed as an invited professor in University of Lyon
 where he delivered an invited seminar.

 Journal editorship/editorial boards: Hamed on the editorial board of Scientific Reports.

 Grant review panels: Rimmer reviews for the EPSRC as well as international funders (SFI-Eire
 and Finnish Academy); Nayak for RSC Research Fund and EU HORIZON-2020, and Stewart for
 the Royal Society; Pitto-Barry for NERC and the ANR (Agence Nationale pour la Recherche -
 France).

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Organisation of conferences: RSC Biomaterials Annual Meeting 2018 (Barry, Javid), RAPS 2018
 (Kastikogianni, Javid) and RAMS 2020 (Nayak).

 Awards: Hamed won the Assiut University Encouragement Award in 2016 (Egypt) and Seal of
 Excellence Award from the European Commission in 2017.

 Fellowships: Barry holds a Royal Society University Research Fellowship and Pike won a UKRI
 Future Leaders Fellowship while in Bradford.




                                                                                      Page 13
