Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Worcester

 Unit of Assessment: 28 History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure

 Historical research at the University of Worcester spans early modern Britain, pre-colonial West
 Africa, and modern Britain, Ireland, and the USA. Areas of thematic strength in research include
 gender, imperialism, slavery, political culture, and religious history.

 History is located in the Department of History & Sociology, part of the School of Humanities
 within the College of Arts, Humanities and Education (CAHE). There are five members of the
 History unit (Dr Neil Fleming, Dr Paddy McNally, Professor Darren Oldridge, Professor Suzanne
 Schwarz and Dr Wendy Toon) of whom four have Significant Responsibility for Research.
 Professor Maggie Andrews, who retired during the assessment period and is now Professor
 Emerita, continues to play a key role in the unit, not least through the supervision of research
 students.

 The introduction of the University’s new College structure in 2018/2019 has benefited research
 in History through the enhancement of strategic research leadership at School and College
 levels (REF5a 1.1.5). The appointment of a Head of the School of Humanities (Humanities was
 previously part of a broader unit incorporating Arts) and a College Director of Research and
 Knowledge Exchange have enhanced the research environment by providing more specialist
 leadership and administrative structures to support research. These new leadership structures
 have enabled History to extend the scope of its multi- and inter-disciplinary research within the
 humanities, and more widely across the College and the University.

 Historians foster multi- and inter-disciplinary research within the School and across the
 University through three research clusters:
     • The Early Modern Research Group (EMRG) was established during the REF 2014
         assessment period and continues to coordinate research activity in all aspects of early
         modern European culture, history, and literature. The current membership comprises
         colleagues from English alongside McNally and Oldridge from this unit as well as
         research students in the School.
     • International Studies Research Group (ISRG), led by Fleming, brings together colleagues
         from across Humanities and Social Sciences. It provides a similarly cooperative structure
         which facilitates and promotes innovative and distinctive research and practice in
         international studies and seeks to develop scholarship beyond traditional categories of
         analysis towards greater understanding of international, transnational and trans-cultural
         interactions and movements.
     • Religion and Society Research Group (RSRG) is a cross-University, interdisciplinary, and
         external collaboration established by a colleague in Education (Professor Stephen
         Parker), Oldridge and the Reverend Canon Dr Georgina Byrne (Worcester Cathedral).
         Colleagues and research students across the University are affiliated with the group but
         also external members from Exeter, Tubingen and Humboldt universities.

 Research and Impact Strategy

 Unit’s strategic research objectives during the assessment period

 The key strategic research objectives identified in the unit’s REF2014 submission were: (i) to
 increase research income; (ii) to grow further the PGR community, with a strong focus on
 recruiting excellent students; (iii) to participate in national and international collaborations; (iv) to
 develop research groups; (v) to extend the impact of the unit’s research, with a focus on public


                                                                                                    Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement, particularly within the region, and the role of the University and Public Library, the
 Hive, in this.

 The unit has been largely successful in meeting these objectives, as will be elaborated
 throughout this narrative, but some key points follow:
     • The unit has increased its income from research. Total income in REF2014 was £51,386
        (an average of £10,277 per annum); in REF2021, total income is £102,594 (average
        £14,656 per annum).
     • The unit has expanded its PGR community. There are currently 14 students on PGR
        programmes with 11 completions. It has achieved this by focusing its recruitment in key
        areas of strength (in particular gender history and the history of slavery), by winning
        university funding for PhD studentships and through expanding its PGR programmes to
        include an MRes. The quality of its students is reflected in two recent graduates, one of
        whom has progressed first to a postdoctoral fellowship at the Harriet Tubman Institute for
        Research on Africa and Its Disaporas at York University, Ontario then to a Leverhulme
        Early Career Fellowship at Kings College London, and another who has taken up a
        lectureship at Liverpool Hope. A current student was invited to present at a major
        symposium at the Harriet Tubman Institute in 2018 and to form part of a panel of three
        postgraduate students and early career researchers at the British Library focusing on the
        use of endangered archives in Sierra Leone.
     • The unit has established significant collaborations, national and international, through
        major funded projects which have benefited the researchers directly involved in the
        projects but which have also opened up opportunities for other colleagues in the unit.
     • The Research Groups articulated above have functioned as a focus for staff and
        students, have created interdisciplinary opportunities for research and development, and
        have complimented the major external networks that staff are engaged in.

 Impact strategy

 At the core of the unit’s impact strategy has been the imperative to engage the public with its
 research and through this engagement to increase public understanding of local, national and
 international heritage, enhance community knowledge of key historical events and phenomena
 and their impacts on the contemporary world, and enable public participation in research. To
 achieve this, staff in the unit have collaborated with a diverse range of local, national and
 international organisations, including Worcestershire County Council, the National Trust, the
 Women’s Institute and UNESCO. They have worked with heritage organisations such as
 museums (e.g. the Black Country Museum, Museu Vivo do São Bento in Rio de Janeiro, the
 Commandery, Worcester), public archives (e.g. the Royal Archives at Windsor, the Sierra Leone
 Public Archives in Freetown) and libraries (e.g. the Library of Congress). They have engaged
 with community groups, local history societies and schools.

 Staff in the unit have also disseminated their research and expertise through various media and
 have been proactive in doing so. Staff have acted as historical consultants for TV (e.g. Schwarz
 was Historical Consultant for the UNESCO film series Les Routes de L’Esclavage) and radio
 (e.g. Andrews was Historical Consultant to the BBC Radio 4 drama series Home Front),
 appeared on TV and radio to talk about their research and engage in contemporary debates
 about gender, race and Brexit (e.g. Andrews was a panellist on a BBC Radio 4’s Woman’s Hour
 special dedicated to Women and World War One in 2014), published in popular magazines such
 as History Magazine and on popular blogs.

 The Hive, the University and Public Library, is a key component of the unit’s impact strategy.
 The Hive offers an opportunity for the integration of academic and public life in the city of
 Worcester, providing both an ideal physical location, with its exhibition and conference facilities
 and extensive local archives, and a philosophical space for the meeting of two “worlds”. It has
 then been a focal point for public engagement activity since its opening in 2012 and staff in the
 unit have been involved in a wide range of exhibitions, public lectures, conferences and other
 events held at the Hive.

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The two impact case studies that form part of the unit’s submission demonstrate clearly many of
 these strategies in action:
    • ICS1: Home Fronts: Expanding the focus of the First World War Centenary
        The case study articulates how Andrew’s research has directed public conceptualisation
        of World War I away from the battlefield and towards women’s experience on the ‘home
        front’. She has achieved this through collaboration with Worcestershire County Council
        and heritage partners on a HLF-funded 6-year community project, Worcestershire World
        War One 100, her activities with an AHRC-funded engagement centre, proactive
        engagement with community groups in the region but also nationally, as well as
        significant media presence based on her work. The Hive played a key role in her public
        engagement, functioning as a prime location for many key activities in Worcestershire
        World War One 100 but also for her research on the Women’s Institute.
    • ICS 2: Revealing the identities of enslaved Africans through the preservation of rare and
        endangered manuscripts
        Schwarz has enhanced international understanding of the identities of individuals
        uprooted by the Atlantic slave trade and thus contributed to wider debates on race. She
        has achieved this through a systematic drive to preserve and make available to the
        global public, as well as the people of Sierra Leone, archives and databases which
        reveal these identities. She has also been prominent in raising public awareness through
        dissemination of her research through public lectures and media engagement.

 Open Research

 The University is committed to developing and maintaining an Open Research environment. It
 fundamentally recognises the value of open access publication to the HE sector, to the public, to
 the University and its researchers but most vitally to the integrity and value of the research.

 All staff are required to upload outputs from research onto WRaP, the University’s research
 repository. The College is provided with monthly reports on Open Access (OA) compliance from
 a central Open Access Team based in Library Services (see REF5a 2.6). Information about
 WRaP and OA features in staff induction; training workshops are offered through the staff
 development programme; and 1-1 support is available on request from the Open Access and
 Advocacy Support officer.

 The unit has benefited from the University’s promotion and support of an open research
 environment. Fleming and Oldridge applied successfully for University funding to publish articles
 through the “gold” route in Open Access format in academic journals. As a result, Fleming
 published two Open Access articles, the first on the Imperial Maritime League in War and History
 and the second on appeasement in History. The Open Access article that the University funded
 for Oldridge is now the most read and cited article in the journal The Seventeenth Century, with
 over 14,000 readers.

 The unit itself has contributed to Open Research through its activities. For example, Schwarz is
 a contributor to several digital humanities initiatives, which enable recent research findings on
 the lives of enslaved Africans to be made widely available to other academics and the public.
 She is a contributor to several international research databases ‘Equiano’s World’
 (www.equianosworld.org), the SHADD (Studies in the History of the African Diaspora -
 Documents) Biographies Project, www.liberatedafricans.org and ‘Freedom Narratives’
 (https://freedomnarratives.org/). Her research on slavery and abolition at the Royal Archives in
 2016 informed entries in the development of the Georgian Papers Programme catalogue
 (www.gpp.rct.uk). This new catalogue is central to the aims of the Georgian Papers Programme
 to ‘provide a unique digital resource that is both readily accessible to members of the public and
 capable of sophisticated manipulation by researchers in any discipline, and to offer academic
 and public programming representing fresh research and interpretation’.

 Research integrity

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 At University level, the University’s Research Integrity & Governance Committee has oversight
 of policies and procedures to support research integrity and its Chair is the University’s
 Research Integrity Champion. The Champion is expected to embed a culture of integrity across
 University through developing training and support for staff but also raising its profile.

 At College level, Research Ethics Panels are responsible for review of all staff and research
 student projects to ensure they are conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and
 professional frameworks, obligations and standards. Panel Chairs and Vice Chairs are
 experienced researchers, whilst panel reviewers are drawn from across the College including
 staff in the unit; lay reviewers are also recruited to the panel. Training is provided to all reviewers
 before they engage in the role. There is an annual audit of reviews to ensure the Panels are
 fulfilling their role.

 The University’s Research Integrity champion works closely with the Chairs of Ethics Panels at
 College level to ensure a culture of research integrity is embedded in the wider research culture
 of the College, offering support and guidance to research students and staff and maintaining a
 high profile for the research integrity agenda.

 Future strategic aims

 The University’s new RKE Strategy 2020-25 was approved in summer 2020 (REF5a 2.3). The
 expectation is that Schools’ strategic objectives will flow from the University strategy but will also
 reflect disciplinary priorities, with Schools required to develop a strategy implementation plan
 accordingly. Inevitably, the Covid-19 pandemic has impacted on the development of this plan
 and aims set out here are consequently preliminary.

 The new strategy identifies five “Areas of Challenge”, which flow from local, national and global
 research priorities, within which Schools/units are expected to focus their research. One of these
 areas in particular, Culture, Identity & Social Exclusion, speaks to the unit’s strengths and focus
 will be placed on intensifying and expanding achievements in gender, slavery, imperialism,
 political culture, and religious history. There is also opportunity in the Area, Digital Innovation,
 particularly in relation to Schwarz’s work on developing databases of enslaved Africans. There is
 opportunity also in a third Area of Challenge, Human Health and Wellbeing, to ignite focus on
 medical humanities in the wider School.

 The central vision of the University strategy is to deliver excellent research which extends the
 boundaries of human knowledge but which also improves people’s lives. The unit will thus seek
 to continue to produce high quality research, as reflected in this submission, which has
 outstanding impact. To achieve this, it will retain key objectives from the current assessment
 period. Thus, it will look to: build on and extend its collaborations; continue to increase its
 income, utilising its collaborations as a driver for this; and maintain a vibrant, sustainable PGR
 community. Its impact strategy will remain focused around public engagement; again, the
 success of this strategy signals the way forward and the strong regional focus will be retained.

 It is recognised that the success of the forward-looking strategy is dependent on the people and
 a key objective is focused on developing staff in the unit to ensure there is continuity of
 leadership as senior staff retire. A further key objective is to recruit excellent researchers to the
 unit at early career stages both through new academic posts and through funded postdoctoral
 fellowships.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 Since REF2014, one member of staff (Bowersox) left early in the assessment period; another
 (Andrews) retired in 2019, although she remains an active member of the unit as Professor

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Emeritus. Table 1 below shows the current balance between contract levels in the unit for both
 Category A Eligible and Submitted staff (see REF5a 3.1.5 for institutional comparison).


                                              % Category A           % Category A
                                              Eligible               Submitted
  Lecturer/Research Fellow (K0)               0                      0
  Senior Lecturer/Senior Research             20                     0
  Fellow (J0)
  Principal Lecturer/Principal Research 40                           50
  Fellow/Head of School (I0)
  Professor (F1)                                40                   50
 Table 1: Proportion of staff by contract level

 There are two professors in the unit with Oldridge being promoted to professor in 2016. Two
 staff are Principal Lecturers, with Fleming being promoted to this level in 2015. Fleming is
 currently being mentored to make a professorial application in 2021. The unit then is well-placed
 to maintain strong research leadership. A priority going forward, as noted above, is the
 recruitment of Early Career Researchers to the unit who align with the unit’s current priorities
 and who can benefit from the strong culture of mentoring but who will also bring further vitality.

 Staff development

 The University was granted the HR Excellence in Research award in 2016 and is a signatory to
 the new Researcher Development Concordat, reflecting its commitment to researcher
 development.

 All research-active staff complete an individual research plan as part of the annual Appraisal
 process, with short- and long-term objectives: progress against these objectives is monitored
 with line managers. Each member of staff has an opportunity to discuss the support for their
 research, including the resources required, and to agree their personal development needs and
 objectives.

 Development needs can often be met through the University’s Researcher Development
 Programme which is designed to support staff at all career stages (REF5a 3.2). Staff in the unit
 have consistently engaged with the University’s Research Leadership Programme, its Research
 Supervisor Development Programme, Bid Development training and Impact and Engagement
 training. Staff in the unit have also been active contributors to this programme (e.g. Andrews has
 played a key role in the public engagement strand, whilst Schwarz provides expert training on
 archival research). This is complemented by development events run by the School, including
 research away days at departmental level and writing retreats.

 Staff can also access the University’s Research Mentoring Programme (REF5a 3.2.4). The
 development of this programme was led by Schwarz and drew on the success of mentoring
 approaches in History. The programme links researchers with either a subject-based mentor or a
 needs-based mentor, i.e. someone who can provide support related to a specific area for
 development such as publication, bid writing, impact.

 Staff in the unit can access the University’s research leave programme (see REF5a 3.2.3). Five
 staff have been awarded leave in the assessment period (Andrews, Fleming, Oldridge, Schwarz,
 Toon). These periods of leave led directly to the publication of three monographs as well as
 several articles: Oldridge published The Supernatural in Tudor and Stuart England (Routledge,
 2016) after his leave in 2013/14; Fleming’s leave in 2016-17 allowed research towards the
 publication of Britannia’s Zealots, Volume I (Bloomsbury, 2019); Andrew’s leave in 2017/18 gave
 her time to complete Women and Evacuation in the Second World War: Femininity, Domesticity
 and Motherhood (Bloomsbury, 2019).


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Staff in the unit have also benefited from funding for conference attendance. For example:
 Fleming was funded to give papers at conferences at Newcastle and Portsmouth (2014), Oxford,
 Canterbury and London (2015), Oxford (2016), Cardiff (2018), and Vancouver, Canada (2019);
 Schwarz was funded to speak at the Annual Meeting of the African Studies Association every
 year from 2014 to 2018, as well as the Association’s UK conference at Cambridge in 2016.

 Research students

 The School of Humanities offers both a PhD programme and, since 2015, a Masters by
 Research (MRes) programme in History and an interdisciplinary programme in Early Modern
 Studies. There is a vibrant PGR community in the School and in the unit building on the
 University support for research degree students, as will be outlined below.

 There are currently 9 history students on the PhD programme, two of whom are funded by
 University studentships, and 5 on the MRes in History. Of the PhD students, a significant
 proportion are undertaking research on aspects of 20th century gender history, particularly in the
 West Midlands, with focuses on the Home Front, suffrage campaigns and women’s politicisation.
 Other students are focused on slavery and abolition in Sierra Leone and on media history. 11
 PGR students (4 PhD, 7 MRes) successfully completed their research degrees over the
 assessment period. Two of these students were funded by University doctoral studentships: one
 focused on the impact of imperialism on the elementary curriculum in the early 20 th century; the
 other on children and slavery in Sierra Leone.

 The unit seeks to recruit high quality PGRs, locally, nationally and internationally. Recruitment to
 doctoral programmes is overseen by School-level Course Leaders (PhD and MRes) who work
 closely with the central Research School (REF5a 3.3.2-3). McNally acts as Course Leader for
 Humanities. Course Leaders also play a core role in oversight of research student progress.
 They sit on the University’s Research Degree Board and are responsible for annual monitoring
 of student progress within the School.

 The University has a well-established graduate school (branded as the Research School) that is
 responsible for the management of all Research Degree Programmes from recruitment to
 examination, in partnership with the academic schools (REF5a 3.3.2-3). The Research School is
 also responsible for research student life, i.e. for the wider development and wellbeing of
 research students.

 The University has expanded the Research School team to reflect the University’s growth in
 student numbers over the REF period. It provides a dedicated work and social space for
 students. The Research School team, co-located in the student space, provides advice and
 guidance for students on their programmes, and, working closely with other student-facing
 departments such as the Disability & Dyslexia Service, the student mental health team, careers
 service, also offers pastoral and wider support. A comprehensive programme of support and
 guidance has been developed for PGR students and supervisors around mental health and
 wellbeing.

 All students on research degree programmes are required to undertake an associated training
 programme run by the Research School (REF5a 3.3.4-5). The programme has been mapped
 against Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework. The programme offers a suite of modules,
 short courses and workshops, delivered face-to-face or online, some of which are compulsory
 for all doctoral students, focused on the following core areas: planning and managing research;
 academic writing; research methods; data analysis; research integrity and ethics; dissemination,
 engagement and impact; careers and employability. This is complimented by the School with
 PGRs able to access subject-level methodology modules, studying alongside PGT students. The
 University also supports students to engage with external training where this is specialist and not
 available through the University’s programmes. Students are also able to access training offered
 through the GuildHE Research network.

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Beyond the programme, the Research School offers additional development opportunities.
 Research Students have opportunities to teach and can access modules and workshops to
 develop their skills in this area, with the opportunity to gain associate or full fellowship of the
 Higher Education Academy. The University offers research student-specific dissemination
 opportunities including an annual “Images of Research” exhibition and student-led PGR
 Conference. The University also provides funding opportunities for students to attend and speak
 at external conference and events. Students in the unit have been supported to present
 internationally, e.g. at the Harriet Tubman Institute at York University, Ontario.

 The University provides separate funds to support students to develop inter- and cross-
 disciplinary networks, seminar series, conferences and events. The University is a member of
 the Brilliant Club, a charity focused on improving access to University, which provides
 opportunities for doctoral students to go into schools and deliver tutorials in their area of
 expertise.

 The School and the unit have provided complimentary opportunities. PGR and PGT students
 across the School have been supported to organise interdisciplinary symposia: For example,
 students focused on Early Modern studies ran a one-day event in 2017 entitled “Deviance,
 Degradation and Malfeasance”; and in 2020 an online event “Natural Bodies”. Andrews’ students
 have been significantly involved in her work around Worcestershire World War One 100,
 contributing to public engagement events across the county. They have also worked with
 Andrews and History West Midlands to produce a series of open access films and podcasts
 exploring the “Hidden Home Front”. Students are also supported to engage in teaching within
 the School.

 All staff in the unit are active supervisors. Supervisors are supported in their role through the
 Research Supervisor Development programme. This programme has been in place for 20 years
 but was redesigned and relaunched in 2018/19. The programme offers a wide range of support
 for supervisors at various career stages on themes such as: introduction to supervision,
 supervisory styles, regulations and processes, supervising international students, PGR mental
 health and wellbeing, supporting student progress. New supervisors must complete the whole
 programme but more experienced supervisors must also engage with core elements and all
 supervisors are required to engage in regular refresher training (every 3 years). The programme
 is complemented by supervisor lunches that bring together supervisors to discuss key topics and
 challenges in supervision. Staff in the School have also benefitted from the experience of
 supervising MRes students before moving to doctoral supervision.

 Equality and diversity

 The University has a fundamental commitment to equality and diversity (REF5a 3.4). It seeks to
 consider and apply equality and diversity principles in all that it does. Its policies and processes
 are designed to disadvantage no-one and are subject to ongoing equality impact assessment to
 ensure this is the case.

 The unit’s approach flows from this with the Head of School ensuring that the University’s
 principles and policies are fully enacted. Line managers are sure staff are aware of and are
 supported to engage with, for example, the University’s flexible working policy, its parental leave
 policies, its policies which support carers (such as its Critical Illness Policy) and its staff
 wellbeing initiatives (see REF5a 3.1.8).

 Staff in the unit have benefitted from the University’s flexible working policy (REF5a 3.1.8) with a
 move to part-time hours. There is no evidence that this has impacted on research productivity,
 access to funding or progression. It is notable that at institutional (REF5a table 2), part time staff
 are as well-represented in the Category A submitted as eligible category. The School has a fair
 and flexible approach to working, particularly during the current lockdown period in recognition of
 the challenges of home schooling.

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Staff in the unit are committed to equality and diversity. Andrews was the academic lead for the
 University’s Athena SWAN self-assessment team with the University receiving its institutional
 Bronze Award in April 2018. Schwarz’s research has been actively fed into contemporary
 debates about race and is contributing to the University’s approach to the Black Lives Matter
 campaign.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 As noted in section 1, the unit has had significant success in growing its research income since
 the last assessment period, although there is still opportunity to increase this further. The unit is
 supported in its income generation by the central Research Office and primarily, since the
 academic restructure, by the College Director and an associated RKE Facilitator. The Director’s
 role is to provide leadership and guidance for Schools and units in developing their strategy,
 whilst the Facilitator works with research groups and individuals to develop a bespoke funding
 opportunities service.

 There have been several significant successes in the period. Andrews was co-investigator for
 “Voices of War and Peace”, an AHRC-funded World War I Engagement Centre with the lead for
 “Gender and the Home Front” (Jan 2014 – Dec 2019). In addition to the initial funding (£38k),
 Andrews also received funding through the Centre for two projects, “Patriotism or Pragmatism”
 with Fleming (£12k) and “Voters and Volunteers” (£10k). Schwarz received a British Library
 Endangered Archives Major Awards, as Principal Investigator (£25k), to work on nineteenth
 century documents in the Sierra Leone Public Archives (Jan 2016 – Dec 2018). Further, she is
 an investigator on an international collaborative project which began in Jan 2020, “Documenting
 Africans in Trans-Atlantic Slavery (DATAS)”, funded through the Trans-Atlantic Platform Social
 Innovation Call (£34k). The international review panel that considered this proposal stated it was
 “the highest priority band for funding in a highly competitive scheme”. She also received funding
 to deliver an international conference on Liberated Africans at York University Toronto in 2017
 through a Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (SSHRC) Connections
 grant (C$23,000).

 Staff in the unit have also been successful in winning small grants from a variety of sources to
 advance their research. Schwarz was awarded £4,291 from the Economic History Society and
 £2,068 from the University of Illinois to support her work on the investors in the Sierra Leone
 Company from 1791 to 1815. She also received funding (£2,746) from the Omohundro Institute,
 Georgian Papers Fellowship Programme to progress her work on colonization in West Africa.
 Schwarz, Oldridge and Toon each received small awards from the Scouloudi Foundation to
 support archival work. The Leicestershire Archeological and Historical Society supported
 Fleming with his research on Conservatism in the East Midlands. Funding has also been gained
 from the National Trust, the British Society of Sports History, the School of Advanced Study and
 History West Midlands.

 Infrastructure and facilities

 The University has significantly expanded its institutional infrastructure for supporting research
 and impact over the assessment period, establishing a RKE Directorate consisting of a
 Research Office, Research School and College RKE infrastructure (REF5a 4.1). It has also
 expanded support for researchers offered by Library Services.

 Its RKE Directorate provides wide-ranging support and guidance for researchers around
 identifying funding (including access to funding databases, such as Research Professional), bid
 development, KE and impact generation (including use of Vertigo Ventures Impact Tracker),
 project delivery (including contract negotiation, liaison with partners, financial and other


                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reporting) and research governance (including data management, data sharing, protecting and
 exploiting IP).

 The University has established robust Pre- and Post-Award processes for externally funded
 projects (approved in 2018/19 and subject to evaluation and review in 2020/21). These
 processes scaffold the Research Office support systems set out above and ensure good
 governance for bids and for projects.

 The University also provides access for researchers to a current research information system
 (PURE) and a publication repository (WRAP – Worcester Research and Publications). Unit
 members have consistently benefitted from the help given by the dedicated manager of WRaP
 and also from the work of the Open Access Advocacy and Support Officer. The functionality of
 the repository has been developed to boost the profile of researchers. Recently WRaP was fully
 integrated with ORCID API, which facilitates cross-platform sharing and ensures that UW
 authors can easily maintain an up-to-date publications profile.

 Staff have access to major citation databases (Scopus and Web of Science), and subject-
 specific databases, for example: Project Muse Humanities, ProQuest, and JSTOR. Relatively
 speaking, Worcester’s library is ‘young’, without the extensive print materials accumulated in
 longer-established universities, so investment in digital publications has been an obvious boom.

 The research environment for Worcester historians at all levels is enriched by The Hive, a joint
 University and Public Library which houses an extensive collection of archives. Archives include
 the diocesan and city records, the archives of local families such as the Earls of Coventry and of
 Croome, and the Stuart Collection of early printed books related to the English Civil Wars. The
 Hive also provides a natural venue for public engagement events that contribute to the impact of
 our research (See section 4).

 The University offers a range of research support schemes designed to support researchers at
 all career stages and, variously, to pump prime projects, develop international collaborations,
 advance existing areas of work (REF5a 4.1.6).

 Staff in the unit have been successful in gaining funding from these schemes:
 • PhD studentships: three staff have been awarded fully-funded PhD studentships (Andrews,
     Fleming, Schwarz).
 • Vacation Research Assistantships (VRAs): Andrews (twice) and Schwarz have been
     awarded VRAs. One VRA supported the publication Andrews, How the Pershore Plum Won
     the Great War (History Press, 2016).

 The School also supports staff through its Research Investment Fund (RIF). The RIF awards
 sums of up to £1,000 for the development and realisation of specific projects, and does not fund
 remission from teaching, aiming for agility and responsiveness to need. It is open to all research-
 active colleagues in the School of Humanities and accepts applications on a rolling basis
 throughout the financial year. Applications are evaluated by two professors in the School, who
 make a recommendation to the Head of School for approval. The RIF advertises criteria which
 are explicitly aligned with School and UW research strategy, especially the development of
 public-facing projects and evidence of Impact beyond the academy.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations

 The unit has actively supported collaboration through funding for conferences, through enabling
 staff to engage in short term fellowships at other institutions, e.g. through the reorganisation of
 teaching loads, and through support for periods of leave as outlined above. This has enabled
 staff to engage in significant national and international collaborations with other universities.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Andrews collaborated with Birmingham, Birmingham City, Cardiff, Durham, Manchester
 Metropolitan, Newcastle and Wolverhampton on the AHRC “Voice of War and Peace”
 Engagement Centre. She has also co-published with colleagues from Brighton, Portsmouth and
 Leeds. Schwarz has research networks in the UK, Canada, the USA, Brazil and West Africa.
 She has a longstanding collaboration with the Wilberforce Institute for the Study of Slavery and
 Emancipation, University of Hull. She works closely with Professor Paul Lovejoy, York
 University, Toronto, having co-led funded projects and co-published with him. The DATAS
 project brings Schwarz together scholars from France, Britain, Brazil, Africa and the Caribbean
 with the goal of creating an online database of biographical information about men and women
 sold into slavery. She is also a contributor to the Freedom Narratives Project, an interdisciplinary
 project which draws together a network of scholars from four continents to reconstruct
 biographical information on Africans from the era of the slave trade between the sixteenth and
 nineteenth centuries. Schwarz is also part of an international group of scholars involved in
 contributing their research findings to the UNESCO General History of Africa, volumes 9-11. The
 volumes are being translated into 14 languages and will be made freely available online.
 Fleming is currently developing a project with colleagues at Abo University, Finland, examining
 racism in British ports.

 Contribution to the research base

 Staff in the unit have made a range of significant contributions to history’s research base:

 Keynote and invited lectures

 Historians at Worcester have received invitations to give keynote lectures or other invited
 lectures in a variety of international, national and regional contexts. Schwarz was an invited
 speaker at a symposium at York University, Ontario in 2018 entitled ‘Freedom Narratives
 Symposium – Assessing the Global Impact of the Slave Trade and Slavery’. In 2017, she gave
 an invited lecture on ‘Fugitive Slaves in Sierra Leone, c. 1790-1812’, at a conference on
 ‘Marronnage in the Atlantic World in the Age of Digital Humanities’ at the Universidad de Costa
 Rica. In 2015, she also gave an invited lecture on ‘Abolitionist intervention and
 African Lives/Biography in Sierra Leone, 1791-1815', to the conference on ‘Testimonies of West
 Africans from the Era of the Slave Trade’, at a museum in Duque de Caxias in Rio de Janeiro. In
 2014, she gave an Invited Lecture on ‘Gender and Age: Liberated Africans in Sierra Leone’, at a
 conference on the SHADD Biography Project at York University, Ontario. Later the same year,
 she gave an invited lecture on ‘Ransoming Practices and Barbary Coast Slavery’ at a
 conference on Perspectives on Historical and Contemporary Ransoming Practices at York
 University, Ontario. Schwarz was also an invited speaker for the Georgian Papers Programme
 Fellows Symposium held at the Royal Archives at Windsor Castle in September 2017. In the UK,
 she was invited to speak to the Annual Meeting of the Historical Association on royal attitudes to
 the Atlantic slave trade and slavery in May 2018. Oldridge gave the keynote lecture at the
 conference on ‘Magic and the Supernatural’ at Cardiff University in 2015.

 Conference organisation

 Schwarz was co-applicant with a number of international partners for a conference on Liberated
 Africans at York University, Ontario, in 2017. In 2015, she organised two linked panels of seven
 speakers, comprised mainly of postgraduate students and early career researchers, for the
 Annual Meeting of the African Studies Association in San Diego. These panels focused on
 ‘Trade and Settlement on the Upper Guinea Coast of West Africa’, and included contributors
 from the USA, Canada and Brazil. In the UK, she organised a Hakluyt Society conference on
 ‘Maritime Trade, Travel and Cultural Encounter in the Eighteenth and Nineteenth Centuries’ at
 the Wilberforce Institute for the study of Slavery and Emancipation, University of Hull in 2015. In
 2019 Fleming organized a one-day conference on ‘Partitioning Ireland’ at Boston College,
 Massachusetts. Fleming secured $10,000 from Boston College for this event. Toon organized
 the British Society of Sports History Annual Conference in 2017. Oldridge helped to organize a
 conference on ‘Enchanted Environments’ at the University of Worcester in 2020. Schwarz

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborated with the University of Birmingham in the organisation of the Midland History
 conference in 2017. Held at the University of Worcester, this postgraduate conference gave the
 opportunity for PGR students from the University of Worcester and other regional universities to
 present the results of their research.

 Editorial and review work

 Andrews has sat on the Editorial Board for Women’s History Review since 2015, and the
 Editorial Board for Midland History since 2018, From 2015 onwards, Schwarz has been a
 member of the Editorial Advisory Board of History in Africa. In 2014, Toon edited a special
 edition of Women’s History: The Journal of the Women’s History Network.

 Contributions to Learned societies

 Schwarz and Fleming have also played prominent roles in learned associations promoting
 research. Schwarz has served as a Vice-President of the Hakluyt Society since 2016, and as a
 member of Council between 2013 and 2016. She is chair of the Hakluyt Society Membership
 Working Group, which led the introduction of student memberships and essay prizes. She has
 served on judging panels for the Hakluyt Society essay prizes and research grants and
 fellowships (2015-2016). These initiatives have played an important role in supporting the
 research of postgraduate students and early career researchers nationally and internationally.
 She is also a committee member of Fontes Historiae Africanae (a British Academy project) and
 served as Committee Secretary between 2013 and 2016. She was also a member of Council on
 the Worcestershire Historical Society (2014-2018), and a member of the editorial board of
 Midland History until 2018. She was also a member of the judging panel for the Paul Hair text
 prize by the African Studies Association of America in 2015. Fleming sat on the Executive
 Committee of the British International History Group between 2015 and 2017; he was also a
 member of the Steering Committee of History UK from 2015 and served as its Research Officer
 from 2017 to 2019. Schwarz, McNally and Fleming are fellows of the Royal Historical Society.

 Doctoral examinations

 Andrews has examined PhDs at Chichester, Glasgow and Sheffield (x2); Schwarz at York
 University, Ontario (x2), Akrofi-Christaller Institute, Ghana, and Trinity College, Dublin; and
 Fleming at Ulster (x2).

 Prizes, awards and fellowships

 Schwarz was appointed an Honorary Fellow of the Wilberforce Institute for the study of Slavery
 and Emancipation at the University of Hull. She was awarded a Special Collections Travel
 Fellowship at the University of Illinois at Chicago in 2016, and a Chawton House Library
 Fellowship from the University of Southampton in 2016. She was one of the first recipients of a
 Georgian Papers Programme Fellowship at the Royal Archives at Windsor Castle in 2016. Toon
 received a Scouloudi Historical Award, Institute of Historical Research in 2015. Fleming has
 been Associate Fellow, Institute of Commonwealth Studies, 2013-present, and Honorary
 Research Fellow, School of History, Archaeology and Religion, Cardiff University, 2008-present.
 Andrews is a Senior Honorary Research Fellow at University of Birmingham.

 Reviewer for funding bodies, journals, and publishers

 Fleming has reviewed: grants for the AHRC; book manuscripts for Bloomsbury and Brill
 Research Perspectives in Religion and Education; and journal articles for Historical Journal,
 History of Education, Irish Historical Studies, Parliamentary History, Contemporary British
 History, Women’s History Review, and Journal of Imperial and Commonwealth History. Oldridge
 has reviewed for Routledge, Palgrave Macmillan, and the journals Preternature, Journal of
 British Studies, Isis, Aestimatio, and Renaissance Quarterly. Schwarz has undertaken peer
 review for the Leverhulme Trust. She has also been a reviewer for Social Science History,

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 English Historical Review, African Economic History, Liverpool University Press, and University
 of North Carolina Press. Toon has been a reviewer/referee for Ashgate Publishing.

 Contribution to economy and society

 Beyond the academic community, the unit team have been prominent in organizing conferences
 and other events to disseminate research to general audiences as well as giving public lectures.
 For example:
     • Toon and Andrews have organized the annual Women’s History Network Midlands
        Region Conference at the University since 2010, reflecting their focus on gender history.
        Since 2016 they have organized two conferences ever year, attracting national and
        international speakers. Andrews also chaired the convening panel of the WHN National
        Conference in 2014.
     • Oldridge co-organised the “Faith and Freedom” conference that was scheduled to take
        place over two days in Worcester Cathedral in April 2020, marking the 400th anniversary
        of the sailing of the Mayflower. This event was sadly cancelled because of the
        coronavirus pandemic.
     • Between 2014 and 2016 Toon organized events to raise awareness and understanding
        of the Holocaust, drawing on her research focus on the second world war. These events
        were presented in collaboration with the Holocaust Educational Trust. In November 2014
        the Holocaust survivor Hannah Lewis spoke at the University. To mark Holocaust
        Memorial Day in 2015, Professor Lydia Kokkola, from Luleå University of Technology,
        Sweden, spoke at Worcester on anti-Romani sentiment in Europe. Oldridge and Fleming
        also gave public lectures on the “banality of evil” and British anti-Semitism respectively.
        These presentations were accompanied by an exhibition in the Hive. On Holocaust
        Memorial Day 2016 Fleming gave a public lecture on the concept of political extremism,
        and Oldridge presented a screening of the film Conspiracy (2001).
     • In collaboration with Prof Stephen Parker in the School of Education, Oldridge has
        organized public events at Worcester Cathedral with the theme “Religion and Society”.
        The first series of lectures ran from March to November 2019 and included contributions
        from members of the Cathedral clergy (Canons Georgina Byrne and Michael Brierley),
        and visiting speakers such as Profs Christopher Southgate and Morwenna Ludlow from
        the University of Exeter.
     • Oldridge has also developed a series of public presentations based on early printed
        books held in regional collections, including Worcester Cathedral Library, The Hive, and
        the library of Harvington Hall, Worcestershire kept at St Mary’s College, Oscott, raising
        the profile of these important collections but also giving the general public opportunity to
        see and handle these artefacts.
     • Schwarz presented research on Scottish surgeons at a public conference funded by the
        ESRC, held at the Mitchell Library, Glasgow in 2014, subsequently published in
        Recovering Scotland’s Slavery Past (ed. T.M. Devine) and mentioned in debate in the
        Scottish Parliament. Schwarz has also presented other public lectures on the slave trade
        at slavery at the Hive, at Worcester Cathedral and to the Stanford History Group.

 Staff in the unit have also engaged in publication for general audiences. Andrews has authored
 a number of books with a “popular” focus: How the Pershore Plum Won the Great War (2016); A
 History of Women in 100 Objects (2018), Bovril, Whisky and Gravediggers. The Spanish Flu
 Pandemic comes to the West Midlands 1918-1920 (2019). Two of these books have a strong
 regional focus and reflect an imperative in the unit, also demonstrated in Andrews’ work on
 Worcestershire World War I 100 (see section 1), to increase understanding of the city’s, the
 county’s and wider region’s cultural heritage.

 This is further reflected in the unit’s engagement with local history societies. Oldridge has
 spoken twice to the Stanford History Group, Worcestershire, in 2015 and November 2016; the
 Linton Historical Society, Herefordshire, in November 2016; the Worcestershire Archaeological
 Society in November 2017; and the Weobley History Society, Herefordshire, in October 2018.
 Fleming has spoken twice to the Stanford History Group, in October and November 2018; and to

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Hereford Branch of the Historical Association in January 2019. He was also invited to give
 the Christmas Lecture to the History Society at Hereford Cathedral School in December 2017.
 McNally spoke to the Bromyard Local History Society, Herefordshire, in 2015; he also gave two
 presentations to the Stanford History Group in October 2018.




                                                                                         Page 13
