Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Leeds Beckett University
 Unit of Assessment 20 – Social Work and Social Policy
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview and context
 The mission of Social Work and Social Work (SWSP) is to do ‘research that improves the lives
 of those on the margins of society locally and internationally, through changing policy and
 practice for the better’. SWSP research at Leeds Beckett University (LBU) is located in the
 Leeds School of Social Sciences (LSSS) and in the School of Health and Community Studies
 (SHCS) and is made up of 48 staff (headcount), of whom 25 are Category A in the Code of
 Practice.

 SWSP research is co-ordinated by the Director of Research (DoR), Professor Karl Spracklen.
 This is a professorial appointment which reports to the DVC Research and Enterprise. SWSP
 research is also supported through the Centre for Applied Social Research (CeASR) and Centre
 for Health Promotion. SWSP includes researchers from the following five groups:
     • Children, Young, People and Communities (SHCS)
     • Criminology (LSSS)
     • Health Promotion (SHCS)
     • Social Work (SHCS)
     • Sociology (LSSS)

 In the period since REF 2014, SWSP research at LBU has made significant advances in-line
 with its research strategy, supported by corresponding enhancements in the research
 environment. Since 2014 we have increased the quality and quantity of our research outputs,
 producing 658 outputs as of 31 July 2020: including 52 research monographs and books, 277
 journal articles, and 102 chapters.

 Significant areas of enhanced research strength include Criminology, Health Promotion,
 Playwork, Sociology, and Social Work. Our research is critical, underpinned by a shared
 sociological foundation. We have an impact strategy designed to engage with policy-makers and
 practitioners so that our research can make a difference and have positive societal impact. One
 unifying element of SWSP is its shared research aim to ‘give voice to young people, the
 vulnerable, the excluded and ignored’. This constitutes the underwriting mission of our Research
 Strategy.

 SWSP research aligns closely with other research units in LSSS: Psychology (with a cross-over
 in Criminology); and Politics and International Studies (PAIS). SWSP research also aligns
 closely with the other research unit in SHCS: Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and
 Pharmacy (AHP). The Centre for Health Promotion within SHCS is split between SWSP and
 AHP. The DoR for SWSP sits on the school committees for LSSS and SHCS, as well as all
 research-related working groups.

 Research strategy
 The overarching aim of our research strategy in SWSP, directly aligned with the LSSS and
 CeASR research strategies, is to have a positive impact on the social and economic well-being
 of the communities that we serve at regional, national and international levels. In 2016, SWSP
 adopted the LSSS Research Strategy, which has its objectives:
 (1)     Producing high quality research that is critically engaged with current societal issues and
 concerns;
 (2)     Engaging with the wider community, of academics, policy makers, practitioners, and the
 public, to ensure that our research has positive social impacts;
 (3)     Building research capacity through developing our own colleagues and providing high
 quality doctoral and research training;
 (4)     Ensuring that we operate on a sustainable basis, with regards to resources, environment
 and the well-being of staff.


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This SWSP Strategy also aligns with the SHCS Strategic Plan and its KPIs on research, and has
 informed the approved SHCS Research Strategy. The SWSP vision for 2029 is for ‘all staff
 across these subject groups to be research active, and for research to be making an impact
 locally, nationally and internationally in line with the LSSS and SHCS research strategy’. Our
 future ambition is to foster increased research, impact and funding over the next five years to
 ensure we grow sustainably by the time of the next REF in 2027.

 Progress
 We have made significant strides since 2014, when our SWSP REF submission was relatively
 small scale (14 people) operating within a newly emerging research environment. Initial work in
 2014 and 2015, focused on increasing the number of academic colleagues who were engaged
 in research activity. The primary vehicle for this was CeASR (approved as a university-wide
 research centre and launched in June 2013), with a remit covering both research in SWSP,
 PAIS and Psychology. CeASR established a range of activities, including research programmes,
 writing retreats and seminar series. These were successful in increasing the number of
 colleagues engaged in research and supporting those already involved in research to further
 develop the quality of their outputs. In SHCS, the Centre for Health Promotion was re-structured
 alongside the creation of the Centre for Dementia Research which operate under a new School
 Lead for Research. South was the Director of the Centre for Health Promotion until she was
 seconded to Public Health England, then she was replaced by Bagnall. The Centre for Health
 Promotion works closely with the other centres in SHCS, the Research Lead in HCS and the two
 DoRs with units in SHCS, and provides research mentoring, research leadership and funding
 support. This governance structure allows SHCS to deliver its Research Strategy. The Centre for
 Health Promotion Research also works closely with CeASR, as some SWSP staff sit in the
 Centre for Health Promotion.

 In recognition of the growing strength of SWSP, PAIS and Psychology research, CeASR was
 restructured and re-focused in 2016. A new Centre for Psychology research was established
 and CeASR is now primarily focused on SWSP and PAIS research across the two schools. The
 research programmes are inter-disciplinary across PAIS and SWSP, with programme leads
 being drawn from both. The programmes are organised around five research themes:
     • Child Welfare (led by Frost);
     • Crime, Justice & Society (led by Cockcroft);
     • Global Inequalities (led by Ibrahim and Price in PAIS);
     • Peace (led by Julian and O’Reilly in PAIS); and
     • Social Change (led by Gerodetti and Davies).

 There is also an Early Career Research Network (led by Asquith) which provides training and
 support for colleagues. The Director of CeASR (Julian) is a professor and a research leader in
 LSSS (who resides in PAIS). All research leaders in the University are Professors or Readers.

 In 2016, LBU put in place twelve DoRs, to provide leadership at the level of each UoA. DoRs are
 strategic senior Professorial Appointments, and work closely with relevant Deans of School to
 set targets for research activity, evaluate performance, and manage resources. The SWSP DoR
 took three steps to further develop a supportive research environment for colleagues. The first
 was to transfer all research funding to CeASR so that funding decisions could be made
 transparently and collaboratively. The second step was establishing a system for academic
 research planning, which supports all colleagues to develop a research plan with DoR feedback
 and support. The third was formally aligning the Centre for Health Promotion with SWSP.
 CeASR and the Centre for Health Promotion are the two key mechanisms through which SWSP
 has delivered against the research strategies of both schools, led by the DoR, who is
 responsible to the Deans. The DoR convenes a Professors and Readers group which advises
 on the development of the research strategy and management of the unit. There is one DoR for
 Social Policy, Spracklen, who leads SWSP and PAIS across LSSS and SHCS.

 As a result of the research strategy, we have:


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (1)    Significantly increased the number of academic colleagues submitted in this UoA (from
 14 in REF 2014 to 25in REF 2021) and improved the quality of their outputs.
 (2)    Increased the number of research students. The 2014 REF submission reported 6
 completions. For the current assessment period, there have been 22 completions, with 26 PhDs
 enrolled at 31 July 2020.
 (3)    Increased research income from £446,874 in 2015 to £708,545 in this REF submission.
 (4)    Generated impact. Our submitted case studies (Brown and playwork; Frost in
 safeguarding young people; Laredo/Hill on street work) demonstrate significant and sustained
 impact in a range of fields that reflect the reach and diversity of SWSP research at LBU. Yet our
 research sustains impact in other areas beyond case studies, such as in Criminology (for
 example, our practical impact on the criminal justice system), Leisure Policy and Health
 Promotion, which demonstrates our commitment ‘to have a positive impact on the social and
 economic well-being of the communities that we serve’.

 Delivering on our research strategy in the Schools
 The subject groups are at the heart of our strategy to build a research and impact environment
 that fosters the creation of high-quality research which can influence policies to improve the lives
 of those on the margins. Research in social work, youth and community studies is a key area of
 development. As reflected in the 2014 REF, Brown and Frost have significant international
 reputations in the fields of playwork and social work. Over this REF period, we have invested
 significant resources in developing the research skills of the wider group of colleagues working
 in these areas, many of whom are from practitioner backgrounds. At the current time, 33 are
 undertaking funded doctorates in SHCS, which is building the foundation for us to emerge as the
 major site of playwork and social work research in the next 5 to 7 years. Moreover, significant
 work has already been undertaken by colleagues to solidify our reputation in these areas. For
 example: Long is researching the impact of the commissioning of play services for children on
 service delivery, while Wragg is exploring the role of workplace play in the high growth sector of
 creative industries. Tawil has recently completed a play intervention programme which
 influenced two primary school communities through a realistic evaluation. Laredo and Hill are
 leading the global roll-out of the significant social work policy intervention the Street Work
 Network. Within the Centre for Health Promotion, Gamsu, Cross, Southby and Warwick-Booth
 are working with and for health policy-makers to ensure that vulnerable people and communities
 are given a voice in the NHS.

 Research relating to high security prison environments is a further emerging area of SWSP
 research strength. Building on a partnership with Her Majesty’s Prison at Full Sutton, Davies,
 Nichols and Young are undertaking research relating to the well-being of inmates and prison
 staff. They are also working in collaboration with colleagues in other units to undertake
 interdisciplinary research, focusing on areas including suicide. We expect this area of work to
 develop significantly in the coming period, reflected our investments made to develop this area
 in an inter-disciplinary way with colleagues in Psychology. Cockcroft is research lead on
 exploring police cultures locally and internationally. Long is using Critical Race Theory to explore
 the instrumentality of whiteness and blackness in UK policing, while Tufail has been working on
 radical critiques of the Prevent Duty.

 Sociologists in LSSS and in SWSP are developing research projects that are applied and
 interdisciplinary. This work aligns with the CeASR programme theme of social change,
 identifying social injustices and challenging it. Spracklen is a prolific sociologist of leisure doing
 work on deviance, social identity, whiteness, gender and intersections of inequality in leisure,
 music scenes and culture. Gerodetti and Davies work on foodbanks in Leeds. Pechurina works
 on the construction of home in the context of the sharing economy (e.g. Air BnB); Till explores
 digital health, particularly the use of self-tracking devices in workplace wellness initiatives; Nixon
 explores the relationship between work, gender, class and identity in the new economy; while
 Taylor explores transpersonal psychology.

 We strongly believe in promoting interdisciplinarity internally. For example, Spracklen, Till and
 Gerodetti have strong research relationships with colleagues in the School of Sport and the

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 School of Events, Tourism and Hospitality (SETH). Spracklen has co-authored outputs with
 Lamond in SETH, and Till has been co-I on a Sport funded research project. Cockcroft works
 closely with colleagues in Computing on funded research projects on Cybercrime. We have one
 member of SWSP, Bryant, who is also in Computing. CeASR has invited scholars from Cultural
 Studies and Humanities, Law and the Business School to attend and present research in our
 regular seminars. We also work externally on interdisciplinary collaborations, as can be seen for
 example the work of Fisher and Warwick-Booth in the Centre of Health Promotion, and with
 Davies in Criminology.

 Summary
 After 2014 we redesigned our research strategy to meet specific aims. To reach those aims we
 reinvigorated CeASR and the Centre for Health Promotion and increased the number of
 research-active staff. The DoR was appointed and ensured funds were available in LSSS and
 SHCS (see below) to support research-active staff and new researchers. The good work already
 undertaken has been nurtured and supported to effectively deliver impact against the objectives
 of the strategy. These strategies align with broader aims of LBU, and are designed in a way to
 facilitate interdisciplinarity as well as consistency between all submitting units. By doing so, we
 have fostered a research environment through CeASR and the Centre for Health Promotion that
 has underwritten our world leading research as outlined above and which has laid a solid
 foundation for continued success. This will allow us to continue to grow sustainably in the future.


 2. People

 Staffing strategy and equality and diversity

 A key aim for the 2014-2020 period has been to build community: to support research culture in
 SWSP, so that we increase the number of academic colleagues who are producing high quality
 research, with the aim that all staff who have a significant responsibility for research should
 produce work of at least international standing. All staff are supported to produce a Research
 Action Plan in their annual Performance Development Review (PDR) with their line managers.
 These are co-produced and realistic. These plans have to be provided in order to receive any
 funding from School staff development or from either research centre. Line managers work with
 the DoR to monitor outputs and to revise these plans. Line managers, senior researchers and
 the DoR work together in SWSP to encourage inclusivity in research: we believe all staff should
 be encouraged to do research in ways that work for them. That means encouraging staff who
 are coming to research from different backgrounds (from teaching, from practice, or both) to
 target entry level academic publications and to work with experienced co-authors. For
 experienced researchers, the aim is to target the best journals (which may have the best impact
 factors, though this is not the only way we assess journals in the subject fields), but we
 recognise that not everybody will have success. We also encourage people to publish research
 monographs as we believe this long form output is still important as it provides space for
 sustained theoretical critique, rigour and which better allows us to influence policy debates.
 CeASR and the Centre for Health Promotion provide writing retreats for established researchers,
 as well as ECRs, to give people time to craft high-quality work. The development strategy
 provides the funds (see below) for people to do research that will be publishable in reputable
 journals and in monograph form.

 The DoR sits on the panel for all new academic appointments to ensure that their research is
 commensurate with key strategic research aims. During the period, five Senior Lecturer
 appointments have been made, which has refreshed and expanded the staffing base and
 strengthened our strategic research areas (see above). We have also re-introduced
 appointments at lectureship level. This is providing additional opportunities to appoint early
 career researchers and develop innovative research. All SWSP staff appointed in LSSS and
 SHCS in this assessment period are on permanent contracts, demonstrating the commitment of
 both Deans to nurture and support the professional development of our staff.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to the annual round of promotions to Professor and Reader (see below), Craig joined
 LBU at Professorial rank as the Dean of LSSS, and Spracklen – already a Professor at the
 University – was appointed DoR and Professor in the Sociology Subject Group. This was a
 deliberate strategy by LBU to place key staff into leadership roles to invigorate and promote a
 strong research culture. As a result of promoting key staff into leadership positions, the UoA
 currently includes six professors: five across the five different subject groups (Brown, Frost,
 Gamsu, Spracklen and Webster), and another (Bryant) in the School of Built Environment,
 Engineering and Computing. Chairs that have become vacant have been or are being replaced.

 SWSP is committed to delivering the University’s commitments on Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion (EDI). LBU has strong institution-wide EDI policies: we are a member of the Race
 Equality Charter, we hold an Athena SWAN Bronze award and we have been a Stonewall Top
 100 employer three-years running. 40% of Category A staff in SWSP are female, and only one
 person is from a BAME background, which we know is a long-standing structural weakness. We
 have gender balance at the level of the Deans, and in senior research roles. An action plan on
 equality has been produced by both LSSS and SHCS. These plans enhance our support for all
 colleagues and further foster an environment that facilitates their development as researchers. In
 LSSS and SHCS female senior leaders have acted as mentors for women earlier in their
 careers. We have appointed an external HR consultant to encourage suitably qualified BAME
 academics to apply for vacancies across SWSP including for Chair of Social Work.

 Staff development
 Funding is provided to support research activity through five channels aimed to meet the
 objectives of the research strategy. First, at the start of this REF period, funding was made
 available through a number of university-wide schemes, which pump primed developments
 through funding allocated on the basis of competitive bidding. These included Early and Mid-
 career research prizes and Research Cluster Awards for multi-disciplinary teams working across
 schools on specific research problems. In addition, a university-wide sabbatical scheme was put
 in place to provide time for developing significant research projects.

 Second, with the creation of the DoR role, LBU has delegated more funding for management at
 UoA level. The DoR is provided with a proportion of university funding from Research England
 (QR moneys) to support research activity within PAIS and SWSP, around £60,000 per annum.
 This has been allocated on a competitive basis to fund research, dissemination, and
 engagement activity. SWSP has won just over half of that money. QR funding is also available in
 SHCS, approximately £100,000 per annum, and the DoR of SWSP sits on the group that
 determines distribution.

 Third, staff development funding for individuals can be accessed through their respective School
 budgets and this has supported conference attendance, research training, and other
 developmental activities. In LSSS, staff development has been £20,000 per annum, and in
 SHCS £45,000 per annum. Staff have been supported in presenting their research at a range of
 prestigious international conferences, including: International Sociological Association
 (Spracklen); American Society of Criminology (Cockcroft; Webster); European Sociological
 Association (Pechurina; Till); Association for the Study of Play (Brown, Long, Tawil); European
 Society of Criminology (Asquith; Cockcroft); British Sociological Association (Pechurina, Till,
 Davies); British Society of Criminology (Cockcroft, Webster).

 Fourth, staff development has also been supported through group-based activities appropriate to
 different levels of research experience. To meet our aim of nurturing new researchers and
 supporting development, CeASR provides peer support through the Early Career Research
 Network, encouraging and giving opportunities for writing days, communicating research, ethics
 and mentoring. For those developing their research into funding bids and publications, specialist
 training sessions, appropriate to social science are provided. For those looking to establish
 partnerships in line with research objective 2 to have real engagement and impact, there are
 sessions that help people learn to develop such non-academic links. Specialist sessions are
 offered as well to programme leads to help them develop researcher development strategies

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and focus their programme areas. CeASR also manages a research mentor scheme, with 24
 involved as mentors and mentees.

 Finally, staff development investments in SHCS has been targeted specifically at converting full-
 time staff members with a background in teaching and practice into PhD students. These are
 fully funded by SHCS and demonstrate our commitment to promoting the next generation of
 researchers as well bolstering our research community. All subject groups in SHCS have seen
 staff become PhD students, and as they have completed, others have replaced them as PGRs.
 In Children, Young People and Communities, for example, one member of staff is about to
 submit; and in Social Work, one has submitted. In total, five full-time members of staff in the
 SWSP part of SHCS have followed this route. In addition, one member of staff from LSSS in
 Criminology also successfully followed the route of practice to teacher to PhD student.

 Since 2016, an annual round for promotion to Professor and Readers has been in place, which
 uses an independent review panel to make decisions. The DoR has spoken to individuals and
 encouraged them to apply where they meet the criteria: in this period, we have gained two
 readerships in SWSP (Cockcroft and Hill).

 Research students
 Our community of research students has grown since 2014 from 21 to 26 enrolled at 31 July
 2020, further reflecting the growth of our research culture and investments to support the next
 generation of scholars. To promote our aim of increasing our community of post-graduate
 scholars, we have: converted staff into PhD students; recruited staff with international research
 profiles who are able to attract self-funded students; and we have used our professional links to
 find organisations who are able to support a potential PhD project. We have supported our PhD
 students to become fully aligned to SWSP and our research culture, and have ensured that their
 research projects make a difference.

 PhD completions
         2013/14       2014/15     2015/16    2016/17     2017/18    2018/19 2019/20      Total
  SWSP 0               1           3          5           5          3       5            22

 This is a story of success and a steady increase in the rate of completions.

 Doctoral students are provided with access to a dedicated postgraduate research community
 office space on the tenth floor of Calverley building and a dedicated office space for SHCS
 students on the fifth floor of Portland. All students get a dedicated laptop computer (with all
 software including any dedicated apps for students with specific learning needs) and an £3000
 allowance to support their research and professional development. Research training is in place
 to develop students’ research skills, with the Graduate School running seminars on topics such
 as statistics, ethnography, interviewing, preparing for conferences, publishing, writing a PhD,
 and preparing for a viva. Students have access to the LBU Library, which is open 24/7, access
 to extensive on-line resources, and easy access to the British Library at nearby Boston Spa, to
 further support their research.

 A clear university framework of processes and procedures is in place to ensure that students
 receive high quality supervision and that their progress and performance is monitored and
 assessed. All meetings are recorded online. Students meet with their supervisors at least once a
 month, and all students have to pass a Confirmation of Registration. Every year there are robust
 processes for progression, which support student completions. Progression panels involve the
 student submitting a progress report and facing two appropriate researchers approved by the
 Graduate School. All student research projects must receive approval through the research
 ethics process and procedure, which include risk assessment, data management and training on
 research ethics. In LSSS and SHCS, all supervisors and Directors of Studies are trained and are
 all experienced researchers themselves. This meets our aim to train staff and increase the
 number of PhD students as articulated in the LSSS Research Strategy.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The launch of the Graduate School in 2018 has provided further opportunities to develop support
 for students. It is the Graduate School that has reviewed and improved quality assurance
 matters (admissions, progressions, training, conformations of registration, and exams). The
 Graduate School provides the online software for monitoring all student supervision, and the
 University Research Degree Sub-committee (URDSC) audits for compliance. LSSS has a Post-
 Graduate Research Co-ordinator for Social Policy, which includes PAIS. This Co-ordinator sits
 on URDSC and works with the DoR and Subject Heads to ensure we are compliant. In SHCS
 there is one Post-Graduate Research Co-ordinator for the whole school.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income
 We have increased our successful bids to a range of local government, NHS, and UK charities,
 which have resulted in research income of £708,545 in this assessment period.

 Research income and research income-in-kind (£)
  Source /    13-14   14-15    15-16   16-17     17-18               18-19    19-20       Total
  Year

  BIS          0          0         0         0          1,428       1,806    0           3,234
  Research
  Councils,
  Royal
  Society,
  British
  Academy
  and Royal
  Society of
  Edinburgh
  UK central   17,282     37,412    84,615    207,244    152,515     67,236   139,007     705,311
  government
  bodies,
  local
  authorities,
  health and
  hospital
  authorities
  Total        17,282     37,412    84,615    207,244    153,943     69,042   139,007     708,545

 This is an increase on the £446,874 income reported in 2014, but the income in 2014 included
 additional staff now submitted in the Politics and International Studies UoA. Most of the
 successful bids have come from staff in SHCS. After 2014, SHCS recruited new members of
 staff with a successful bidding record (Fisher, Southby) and appointed a senior academic as a
 research lead. These strategic hires resulted in successful bids especially in the Centre for
 Health Promotion. LSSS used CeASR to help SWSP staff prepare bids by offering large pump-
 priming grants to secure partnerships. The DoR has also used his £20,000 per annum
 development funding to pay for staff to attend meetings with possible partners and training for
 grant preparation. Moreover, SWSP is using CeASR funding and Centre for Health Promotion
 funding to further target active researchers and ECRs to support income generation through the
 nurturing and development of external partnerships, and knowledge-exchange, which will in turn
 lead to funding bids in the next REF cycle. Within SHCS and LSSS there is a shared agreement
 that we seek funding to do research that makes a difference for the better, that influences policy-
 makers and gives voice to the excluded. We also have an ethical duty to make sure we do not
 get funding from organisations or sectors that may bring the university into disrepute. That
 means, for example, that in the Centre for Health Promotion we are interested in working with
 charities, trusts and the public sector. In each School, there is a mechanism for reviewing and
 assessing bids. In LSSS, the first step is informal discussions by potential applicants and their

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 line manager or CeASR programme leads. Then the DoR is approached, and formal approval is
 given to start preparing the bid. In SHCS, potential applicants discuss it first with the academic
 lead for research. Then the relevant DoR formally gives approval to go ahead. The DoR and the
 relevant Dean then formally sign off the finished applications before formal submission.

 Colleagues based in the Centre for Heath Promotion in SHCS (Cross, Gamsu, Southby,
 Warwick-Booth) have been a huge part of our success and provide evidence of the effectiveness
 of our support structures. For example, staff have bid for and won money to evaluate local
 healthy living projects such as Calderdale Young Women, Well Women in Wakefield, Eatwell
 and Livewell, The Sheffield Alliance of the Willing, Women’s Lives Leeds, Leeds Gypsy and
 Traveller Health Improvement, The Key, and Respite Care in Leeds. Southby has also earned a
 British Academy, Small Grants Scheme, worth £5,151, Befriending as a Route to Leisure
 Participation for Adults with a Learning Disability. In Nursing in SHCS, Fisher brought in two
 small grants exploring socially oriented ways to recovery. In Social Work in SHCS, Frost brought
 in research income to evaluate the Independent Travel Training programme. Brown, also in
 SHCS, has continued to secure research income around playwork. Till was Co-Investigator in a
 2017 successful ESRC funded Consumer Data Research Centre (CDRC) Innovation Call, Data
 driven, social, economic and spatial profiles: Obesity– D-SESP-Obesity, £53,000 (9 month
 project) with colleagues in the School of Sport (Griffiths and Zwolinsky) as well as University of
 Leeds colleagues Mark Gilthorpe and Wendy Harrison. Till was also a co-investigator for a 2014
 Foundation for Sociology of Health and Illness Research Development Award, Disabilities,
 Technologies, Medicine and Childhood, £5898 with colleagues at University of Glasgow (Sonali
 Shah) and Newcastle University (Janice McLaughlin).

 Research and engagement within SWSP is supported by Research and Enterprise Services and
 research support is given through Libraries and Learning Innovation. This includes support for
 Units from a Research and Impact Officer, Research Services Advisor, and Business
 Development Manager. They provide specialist support on areas including open access and
 open data, knowledge exchange and Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, and effective impact
 and dissemination strategies. In addition, support is provided at school and university levels to
 bid for research funds. This includes activity to support the development of bids such as time
 allocation (either through winning CeASR development funding or through negotiation with line
 managers) and a supportive, but rigorous, peer-review process to ensure that bids are of high
 quality and aligned to our strategy. In SWSP, the DoR works with the University Research Office
 to find suitable peer reviewers internally. All bids are scrutinised and approved by the DoR and
 the respective Dean before they are formally submitted.

 LBU has in place a robust set of processes to ensure that research is planned and conducted in
 an ethical manner. Each School has a Research Ethics Sub-Committee, with Local Research
 Ethics Co-ordinators within each subject group. The School Sub-Committee deals with risky
 projects that cannot be signed off locally. In LSSS and HCS, each subject group has at least two
 Local Research Ethics Co-ordinators, and there is a School Research Ethics Co-ordinator in
 each one. SWSP works on the principle of our research giving voice to marginalised groups, and
 in the process of ethical approval our Local Research Ethics Co-ordinators encourage
 researchers to move beyond the standard practice of informed consent to giving participants a
 sense of ownership of the process. For example, we have researchers working with survivors of
 human trafficking to tell their stories artistically. Complex issues or high-risk areas are referred to
 the University Ethics Sub-Committee if they cannot be resolved at School level.

 Open access
 SWSP has a strong commitment to open access. Researchers are required to deposit their
 accepted manuscript for journal articles/conference proceedings with an ISSN, and encouraged
 to deposit, where copyright allows, book chapters, as per the University Open Research Policy.
 We also encourage gold open access, and researchers can apply for funding through CeASR to
 cover the cost of publication if necessary.



                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Facilities
 SWSP staff work in Portland and Calverley buildings, at the heart of the University’s City
 Campus, in offices shared by subject group. These are ideally placed for staff to make
 connections with local partners (for example, Leeds City Council, NHS), and for staff to meet
 with post-graduate students in dedicated meeting spaces.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Contributions to the research base
 Our work is truly inter-disciplinary. Colleagues are involved in a range of activities that support
 the development of the work of professional bodies and learned societies in developing their
 research base and supporting the discipline. Spracklen is Executive Secretary of Research
 Committee 13 (Sociology of Leisure) of the International Sociological Association, and was the
 Chair of the Leisure Studies and Secretary of the International Society for Metal Music Studies.
 He is also a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences, and has been an invited key note
 speaker at the Leisure Studies Association (Liverpool John Moores, 2016) and three music
 conferences (University of Puerto Rico, 2014; University of Southern Denmark, 2015; UCL,
 2018). Tufail is a Board Member of the International Sociological Association Research
 Committee on Racism, Nationalism, Indigeneity and Ethnicity. Till is co-convenor of the British
 Sociological Association Yorkshire Medical Sociology Group and co-convenor of the British
 Sociological Association Digital Sociology Group. Hill also works collectively with the national
 Joint Universities Council, Social Work Education Committee - Research Committee and
 regionally with the Leeds and Wakefield Social Work Teaching Partnership - Research
 Committee. Asquith is the Secretary of the European Society of Criminology – Victimology
 Working Group. Cockcroft is the Chair of the Policing Working Group of the European Society of
 Criminology and is also a member of the Steering Group for the British Society of Criminology
 Policing Network. Davies is Advisor to the British Society of Criminology’s Prison Research
 Network and a founding member of British Convict Criminology. Smith was a keynote to
 Congrés Internacional XXIX Seminari Interuniversitari de Pedagogia Social, Girona, Spain, 14-
 16 September 2016. Taylor has been Chair of Transpersonal Psychology Section of the British
 Psychological Society since 2018, and has delivered keynotes at the Portuguese Transpersonal
 Association in Lisbon, and at three conferences in the UK. Tufail delivered an invited keynote at
 the ‘Media Representations of Islam and Muslims: An international and interdisciplinary
 conference at the Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines, France, 19-20 June 2018.

 Sixteen staff within the unit also contribute to the discipline and research base through
 leadership roles in journals and scholarly publishing. Spracklen was co-founder and Principal
 Editor until 2020 of Metal Music Studies. He was co-founder and still is the Editor-in-Chief of the
 International Journal of the Sociology of Leisure. He was on the Editorial Board of Leisure
 Studies and remains on the Editorial Advisory Board of Annals of Leisure Research and Metal
 Music Studies. Brown is Editor of the International Journal of Play. Cross is the Editor of
 International Journal of Health Promotion and Education. Webster is a member of the Editorial
 Board of the British Journal of Criminology. Cockcroft is on the Editorial Board of Policing: A
 Journal of Policy and Practice, Cogent Social Sciences, and Journal of Criminological Research,
 Policy and Practice. Tufail is on the Editorial Board of Sociology of Race and Ethnicity. Taylor is
 on the Editorial Board of the journal Consciousness, Spirituality and Transpersonal Psychology.
 Nixon was a Member of the Editorial Board for the British Sociological Association journal Work
 Employment Society. Davies is a member of the Associate Editorial Board of Sociological
 Research Online. Frost is on the Editorial Board of Child and Family Social Work and Social
 Work and Social Sciences. Till is Co-Editor for Health: An Interdisciplinary Journal for the Social
 Study of Health, an Associate Board member for Sociological Research Online. Hill is a member
 of the Editorial Advisory Board for INQUIRY: The Journal of Health Care Organization,
 Provision, and Financing. Salem is a member of the Editorial Board of Sociologija. Gerodetti is a
 member of the Editorial Board of NQF (Nouvelle Questions Femininstes). Wragg is a member of
 the Editorial Board of Playwork and Practice. Davies is on the Editorial Board of Journal of
 Criminal Psychology and Prison Service Journal. Further, Spracklen is editor for two book
 series: Leisure Studies in a Global Era for Palgrave; and Alternativity and Marginalisation for

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Emerald. Cockcroft is series editor for a new book series Routledge Advances in Police Practice
 and Knowledge.

 Contributions are also made to a range of other academic bodies and networks who support the
 research environment. For example, Cockcroft reviews bids for ESRC and British Academy and
 is Visiting Senior Research Fellow at Canterbury Christ Church University. Tufail is a member of
 the ESRC-funded Commission on Diversity in the North hosted at the University of Leeds. Tufail
 was awarded a Visiting Fellowship by the University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia in
 Spring 2018. Gerodetti is a member of the International Advisory Committee Nouvelles
 Questions Féministes (NQF), and member of the International Advisory Board for New
 Formations. Hill has been made an honorary Research Fellow at the Department of Theory and
 History of Education (Faculty of Education - University of Barcelona).

 Public engagement and society
 The UoA’s impact strategy has enabled a wide range of public engagement that helps make a
 difference to those on the margins of society locally and internationally, through changing policy
 and practice for the better. This aligns with our Strategic Research aim to create meaningful
 public engagement and impact, and represents how we are committed to making a difference
 locally, nationally and internationally.

 SWSP is an active partner in the Leeds and Wakefield Social Work Teaching Partnership and
 has received £573,510 in funding for 2017/18 from the Department for Education and
 Department of Health, a proportion of which is supporting ‘Academics in Practice’. A further
 £500,000 has been awarded for 2018/19. Within the partnership, LBU has used this opportunity
 for academics to establish direct relationships with practitioners, service users and managers
 within social work services. This direct relationship has allowed us to develop new research
 streams for publication, while also enhancing and developing contemporary teaching and
 learning within BA, MA and CPD Social Work provision.

 The Street Work Network is a partnership between LBU and the University of Barcelona: it
 provides an interdisciplinary international platform for research that informs teaching and
 learning within higher education and professional practice (youth, community and social work
 practice). The partnership provides a platform for higher education, non-governmental
 organisations and local, regional and national government to exchange best practice and
 promote new research methodologies that improve the lives of service users. The platform has
 received historical Erasmus funding and support from the Catalan Regional Government. Hill
 has spoken as a keynote at several events organised by Leeds & Wakefield Social Work
 Teaching Partnership, including World Social Work Day Conference. Homeless, Rootless &
 Excluded: Exploring and Working with Homelessness, Global Issues in Social Work – New
 Challenges and Perspectives, Leeds March 2018.

 Cockcroft has been leading on the development of formal links with the police in West Yorkshire
 and nationally. His work has been enabled by strategic investment of CeASR grants. In 2015, he
 was selected as an expert criminologist in a research project team led by computing colleagues
 here at LBU: An Evidence-Based Approach to Fighting Cyber Crime from the Frontline:
 Improving the Effectiveness and Efficiency of Investigating Cyber Enabled Crime, LBU and West
 Yorkshire Police, College of Policing Police Knowledge Fund 2015, (£643,290.13 in total). In
 2019, he joined the National Police L & D Transformation Working Group, a multi-agency group
 dedicated to developing effective strategy to guide the direction of police learning and
 development nationally. In our prisons work, a memorandum of understanding has been signed
 with Full Sutton high security prison, which will facilitate the development of further research.
 Tufail contributed to two policy reports by the Runnymede Trust: Justice, Resistance and
 Solidarity: Race and Policing in England and Wales (2015); and Islamophobia: Still a Challenge
 for Us All (2017). Tufail was also a co-author on a report in Collaboration with human rights
 organisations for the Transnational Institute (TNI) based in Amsterdam, Netherlands published
 and launched in Parliament by Shadow Home Secretary Diane Abbott in September 2019.


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bradley has written two evaluation reports for two distinctive qualitative evaluation projects
 funded by The Nelson Trust.

 Work is also undertaken to support public engagement and knowledge transfer activities through
 the following roles. Gamsu is Fellow of the Faculty of Public Health, a lay member sitting on the
 governing body of Sheffield Clinical Commissioning Group focusing on Patient and Public
 Involvement, and Chair of Sheffield Citizens Advice Bureau. Frost is Chair of Calderdale
 Safeguarding Children Board (2017- present); North Yorkshire Safeguarding Children Board
 (2014- present); and Frost is a founding member of the European Family Support Network –
 where he leads on theory. Frost is also an Expert Advisor to the National Society for the
 Prevention of Cruelty to Children and has acted as an advisor to the governments of the
 Republic of Ireland, Denmark and the Basque Regional government, Spain. Brown is a member
 of the All-Party Parliamentary Group on a Fit and Healthy Childhood, and has contributed to
 three of their reports: on Play; The National Obesity Framework; Social and Economic
 Inequalities. South has been seconded to Public Health England as National Advisor for
 Communities. Wragg is a member of the APPG on a Fit & Healthy Childhood. He was more than
 a mere contributor, being the lead author and editor of his sub-group's contribution to the
 'Economic' section of the report on Play. Brown is a Member on the Executive Board of the
 Association for the Study of Play (TASP) - the World's premier research organisation in the field
 of children's play, and the International Advisory Board of the Romanian Association of Play
 Therapy and Drama Therapy and an advisor to the Academy of Play and Child Psychotherapy.
 Southby produced Befriending for Adults with a Learning Disability: Some Key Issues and
 Considerations with Anne-Marie Zaritsky, Head of Volunteering at Mencap, for the Association of
 Volunteer Managers, August 2019. Wragg also contributed to the APPG on a Fit and Healthy
 Childhood report on Play. Spracklen has been a regular commentator on leisure and subcultures
 in the national media, appearing on Radio 4’s Thinking Allowed on Boxing Day 2018 to discuss
 goths. He then spoke about his research at Bradford Literature Festival. Smith is Chair of the
 Education & Training Committee of the National Youth Association. Hill also works within the
 European -International Street Work Network. Aplin is critical friend to 'Operation Liberal', the
 national coordination centre for travelling criminality. Cockcroft was invited by Norwegian Police
 University College, Oslo to advise on their submission to the Norwegian Parliamentary Standing
 Committee on Justice, in 2015. Asquith is the science communications manager for COST
 Action 18121 – Cultures of Victimology. Long submitted evidence to the Home Affairs
 Committee: The Macpherson Report: Twenty Years On Inquiry. Sherwin, Dean of SHCS, is a
 member of the Health Education England Deans Quality Network. De Angelis has worked with
 refugees and migrants fleeing abuse to co-produce a photographic collection, funded by CeASR.

 CeASR has an active Twitter feed that has 172 followers, mainly individuals but also including
 The Leeds Salon, Leeds Survivor Led Crisis Centre, and the Edith Cowan Centre for Global
 Issues based at ECU, Australia. In addition, CeASR’s newsletter and invitations to events are
 emailed to 100 external individuals and organisations such as our partners West Yorkshire
 Police and Leeds NHS Teaching Trust.

 Summary of progress and the future
 We are proud of our research achievements to date. We are plugged into wider networks that
 create real, critical knowledge exchange and public engagement. The growth in research culture
 and performance since REF 2014 has been phenomenal, reflected not only by the significant
 improvement in the number of staff who have been submitted, the quality of the outputs, funding
 and PhD completions – but also in the commitment of all staff in producing applied sociological
 and policy research that changes lives for the better. Our success to date, aligned with an
 ambitious research strategy and impact strategy beyond this REF, gives us confidence in our
 potential to deliver more internationally excellent and world-leading, impactful research in the
 future.




                                                                                                  Page 11
