Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Institution: King’s College London

    Unit of Assessment: 30 Philosophy

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

The core of UoA30 is the Department of Philosophy, one of 14 departments in the Faculty of Arts
and Humanities at King’s College London. Among the largest in the country, with 29.5FTE Category
A staff and 46 current PGRs, the Department’s research profile combines comprehensive coverage
of the discipline with unique areas of specialisation.

The Department lies within a web of philosophical and inter-disciplinary relationships. UoA30
includes dual-appointment philosophers working across Philosophy and Classics, Law, Medicine,
Neuroscience, Political Economy and Psychology. These links support research, impact, and PGR
training. Additionally, the Department is complemented by two research centres: the Centre for
Philosophy and Visual Art (CPVA), a collaboration between King’s and a range of galleries, artists
and charities, and the Sowerby Philosophy and Medicine Project, a joint venture between the
Department of Philosophy, the Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine and the Florence Nightingale
Faculty of Nursing. These serve as conceptual and institutional hubs for inter-disciplinary research
and impact.

Beyond King’s, there is a rich set of institutional relationships, with partners in the University of
London, the public sector, from the Home Office to the NHS, and third sector bodies, from museums
to community charities. Beyond the UK, there are longstanding international links, including joint PhD
programmes in Europe and Asia.

(1.1) Research and Impact Goals During the Assessment Period
During the assessment period, UoA30 had four principal research and impact goals:

        To support world-leading research across the full breadth of Philosophy and its history. Our
         REF2014 strategy committed to particular growth in History of Philosophy, Philosophy of
         Medicine, Philosophy of Mind and Political Philosophy.
        To support and further develop a distinctive profile of agenda-setting research cutting across
         disciplines and sub-disciplines.
        To foster a sustainable impact programme, delivering ongoing benefits beyond one-off
         events or projects.
        To create a culture in which links between research and impact are mutually reinforcing and
         Department-wide rather than confined to individual case studies.

(1.2) Strategy to Achieve these Goals
Our strategy for achieving these goals is multi-dimensional, determining the Department’s research
culture, architecture and its relationships within and beyond King’s.

(I) Research architecture – ‘vertical’ and ‘horizontal’
Following REF2014, the Department introduced a distinctive research architecture embodying its
intellectual culture. This is based around two forms of collaborative grouping. The first, ‘vertical’, is
our specialised Research Clusters, focused on particular sub-disciplines and reflecting UoA30’s
unique strengths. All staff and PGRs register annually with at least one Cluster; many register with
multiple Clusters. The Clusters are:

    1.     Formal Methods
    2.     History of Philosophy Without Any Gaps
    3.     Metaphysical Foundations of the Sciences
    4.     Moral, Legal and Political Philosophy

Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    5.      Rationality, Action, Mind.

The second form of grouping is ‘horizontal’: there is a weekly seminar for all 1st year PGRs, another
for all advanced PGRs and a third for all staff.

The principle underlying the ‘vertical/horizontal’ combination is that the Clusters are highly beneficial
in refining expertise and allowing PGRs to engage with academics in their sub-field. However, such
specialisation carries a danger of ‘siloing’, where groups become disconnected from each other’s
interests and literatures. The horizontal groupings exist to combat this. The weekly staff seminar, for
example, where all staff engage with all areas of the subject, is the heart of the Department’s
research activities.

Each Cluster has dedicated funding: since REF2014, Cluster members have voted on how to spend
over £50,000 for events and training. The Clusters are designed to:

        Map areas of demonstrated excellence, whether measured by grant capture, REF output
         scores, ability to attract PGRs, or number and quality of publications. For example, History of
         Philosophy Without Any Gaps reflects the Department’s decades-long commitment to a uniquely
         comprehensive vision of the History of Philosophy. There are UoA publications in the
         assessment period addressing almost every century since the pre-Socratics. The Department
         is one of the global centres for the History of Philosophy, housing the British Society for the
         History of Philosophy (BSHP) and, since 2016, the British Journal for the History of Philosophy
         (BJHP). At the heart of our ‘No Gaps’ approach is a desire to expand the canon to include
         underrepresented authors and to move beyond the ‘analytic-continental’ divide. The Cluster has
         supported major events on African and Islamic Philosophy of Religion (2017), Analytic Readings
         of Heidegger (2016) and Philosophy as a Way of Life in the History of Philosophy (2019), as
         well as hosting the main BSHP conference with over 100 presentations (2019). Institutionally,
         the Cluster supports the BSHP–OUP ‘New Texts’ series, intended to radically broaden the texts
         available in English, and the BJHP has played a leading role in expanding the canon: fewer than
         40% of papers published in the last decade were on the traditionally dominant dozen or so
         figures. A new annual BJHP £1,000 Prize for the best paper on an underrepresented author
         launched in 2020.
        Cut across standard disciplinary boundaries in order to support new approaches. For
         example, in place of the familiar Logic and Language grouping, Formal Methods combines
         formal semantics, formal epistemology, decision theory and Philosophy of Physics to explore
         the issues raised by the foundational use of formal apparatus (staff members include Dutant,
         Franklin, Knox, Michaelson, Nicolai, Nowak and Papineau). This has led to multiple co-authored
         papers, often pairing ECRs and established authors, including Franklin and Knox (2018) and
         Michaelson and Nowak (2020).
        Provide a platform for inter-disciplinary work. For example, our links with the Institute of
         Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, where Parrott, Fridland and Stazicker held or hold
         co-appointments, support the Foundations of the Sciences Cluster as well as our strength in
         empirically informed Philosophy of Mind. This filters through to collaborative grant bids: for
         example, Stazicker is the CI on a £1,500,000 Psychiatry bid currently at Stage 2 of a Medical
         Research Council call.
        Provide a forum in which impact can develop from, and feed back into, research.
         Adamson’s History of Philosophy Without Any Gaps podcast, for example, draws centrally on
         Cluster research by Woolf, Pink and Antognazza. Similarly, Dutant’s 2018 Home Office
         consultancy on decision-making under conditions of uncertainty has served as a case study for
         Rationality Cluster events, whilst Fine’s work with migrant groups informed Cluster events on
         methodology in Political Philosophy, culminating in her recent Aristotelian Society paper.

(II) Two autonomous research centres
UoA30’s Research Centres serve as conceptual and organisational hubs linking research, impact
and training. Both have the scale to support connections with major partners, from the Tate to the
NHS, generating ongoing, sustainable impact in line with our goals.

Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   Sowerby Philosophy and Medicine Project. Founded in 2015 through a £1,430,000 grant
    from the Sowerby Foundation, the Project and associated Chair drive research and teaching at
    the intersection of medicine and philosophy. The first Sowerby Professor, Sherrilyn Roush, was
    appointed in 2015, Alexander Bird in 2018 and Elselijn Kingma in 2020. The Project provides
    one of the world’s most sophisticated programmes of philosophical training for medics:
    philosophy is compulsory for all first-year students in the GKT School of Medical Education, and
    optional thereafter. More than 1,800 medical students have taken UoA modules. This good
    practice is disseminated through conferences such as 2020’s Philosophy in Medical Education.
    The Project also stresses close engagement with clinicians, for example through a multi-year
    CPD partnership with Health Education, England. It runs a bi-monthly colloquium series, an
    annual lecture, a graduate essay competition and multiple conferences, including major events
    on the Replication Crisis (2018) and Conceptual Issues in Biological Psychiatry (2019).
   The Centre for Philosophy and Visual Art. CPVA is a multi-disciplinary initiative exploring
    connections between philosophy and visual art. It has collaborated on research and impact with
    most of London’s major galleries, including Tate Britain (lectures on Bacon, Freud and a Century
    of Painting, 2018), Tate Modern (seminars on Franz West, 2019), the National Gallery (lectures
    on Gauguin Portraits, 2019; Titian, 2020; and Sin, 2020), and the Photographers’ Gallery
    (workshops on the Ethics of Photography, 2019). Drawing on multiple staff – Callanan, Fine,
    Golob and Soteriou have all led collaborations – CPVA serves as a long-term partner for multi-
    event, multi-media projects, supporting our goal of sustainable impact. As Tate Modern Curator
    of Public Programmes, Annie Bicknell says, “this type of collaboration transforms the tools we
    have for presenting work like West’s” (Testimonial, 2019).

(III) A network of inter-disciplinary relationships
In addition to the inter-disciplinary Centres, we place enormous emphasis on collaborations with
researchers in other departments. Our relationship with the Yeoh Tiong Lay (YTL) Centre illustrates
this dimension of the strategy.

   The Yeoh Tiong Lay Centre for Politics, Philosophy and Law. In REF2014, we committed
    to strengthening in legal and political philosophy and the collaboration with the YTL Centre,
    based in the Faculty of Law and supported by a £7,000,000 donation, is one of the central
    vehicles for that. Our appointment of Owens to a Philosophy Chair (2015) mirrors their inter-
    disciplinary appointments of Philosophers of Law, including Tasioulas (2014), Renzo (2015) and
    Gingerich (2019). This provides a critical mass of expertise supporting the bi-monthly cross-
    Faculty KJuris seminar, the cross-Faculty supervision of 4 current UoA PGR students and
    regular speakers, including Miranda Fricker (City University of New York), Timothy Scanlon
    (Harvard) and Jay Wallace (Berkeley). Our Moral, Legal and Political Cluster co-organises
    events with YTL, including a work-in-progress seminar, public panels on the ‘migration crisis’
    (2018), a major conference on Joseph Raz (2019) and an annual student-led graduate
    conference.

This work at the intersections of philosophy, politics and law is further supported by cross-
appointments of philosophers to Political Economy, including Fumagalli (2017), and Valentini as
Professor of Philosophy, Politics and Economics (2019).

(IV) A culture of engagement: from impact to open access
In line with our goals, UoA30 seeks to support engagement from the ground up: both impact in the
technical sense and a broader culture of commitment and accessibility. This is well illustrated by the
charity, Philosophy in Prison (PiP).

   Philosophy in Prison. Launched in 2018 by UoA members Brewer, McCabe and UoA PGRs,
    PiP provides in-person courses and remote resources through the Prisoners’ Learning Alliance,
    reaching almost 50 UK prisons. 40 volunteers have taken training sessions led by UoA staff
    (Callanan, Coxhead, Golob and Littlejohn).

Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Similar ventures include Papineau’s work on Philosophy of Sport, averaging more than 10,000 views
per month via his blog from 2014–2017, as well as appearances on BBC, US and Australian radio.

We place particular emphasis on research accessibility and have a dedicated Lead for Open
Research. To illustrate, Bird, a founder member of the UK Reproducibility Network, was central to
King’s as an institution joining and hosting its inaugural national conference in February 2019. The
UoA also exceeds the REF’s accessibility requirements by making research for all staff available
through its institutional repository and at least one other channel – PhilPapers or Academia or
personal websites.

To support these goals, UoA30 provides extensive administrative and financial assistance,
facilitating everything from the record checks required for prison work to video editing: the aim is to
reduce the organisational burden of impact. Since 2014, the Department has awarded more than
£25,000 on a competitive basis for individual projects (in addition to the Research Centres’ funding
and the Clusters’ £50,000).

(1.3) Design, Implementation and Management of Research and Impact Strategy
The design, implementation and management of the research and impact strategy is overseen by
the Research and Impact Committee. This is chaired by the Research and Impact Leads and
includes the Head of Department, the PGR Lead, an elected ECR representative, a professorial
‘ECR Champion’, the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Lead, the Department’s Research and
Business Support Manager and the Research Administrator. The Research and Impact Leads meet
monthly, and the Committee once a semester, to review progress and strategy. The Research and
Impact Leads sit on the corresponding Faculty Committees, meeting twice a semester.

With respect to Research Integrity specifically, the Research Lead has UoA-wide responsibility for
training and guidance, working with the University’s Research Governance, Integrity and Ethics
Department (see REF5a). There are clear permission procedures for research involving human
participants.

(1.4) Research and Impact Goals over the Next Five Years
We believe our current strategy is ambitious and sustainable, and it has proved fruitful to date. We
intend to pursue it further over the next five years. But we will introduce specific developments and
improvements.

First, we will further strengthen Political Philosophy and the Global History of Philosophy, particularly
the Chinese and Indian traditions. In each case, there are clear synergies. An expansion in Political
Philosophy will allow extended collaborations in research and PGR training with the Faculties of Law
and Social Science and Public Policy. Strengthening expertise on the Chinese or Indian traditions,
in line with our commitment to the widest version of the History of Philosophy, would extend research
by Adamson, Beaney and Rasmussen, the Matilal Lecturer in Indian philosophy, and facilitate new
links with the Department of Theology and King’s prominent Lau China and India Institutes.

Second, we will make changes to further strengthen the Clusters, introducing paid PGR Cluster
Organisers, working alongside each Cluster’s Academic Lead: this will increase efficiency and
student involvement in designing the Clusters’ programmes.

Third, we will examine how to better support impact involving multi-authored research: this cycle, we
focused on projects involving UoA members and non-academics, such as teachers or artists, and
on impact drawing on single author research by multiple UoA members. The use of multi-authored
research as an impact base is more common in other Humanities disciplines and we will work with
KCL’s Arts and Humanities Research Institute to capitalise on their experience.




Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2. People

UoA30 is one of the country’s leading centres for Philosophy, as evidenced by its size, range of
expertise and the honours received by its staff. These include:

     Cushing Memorial Prize in the History and Philosophy of Physics (Knox, 2015), Fellowship of
      the British Academy (McCabe, 2017), Philip Leverhulme Prizes (Tor, 2018; Kingma, 2020),
      Leibniz Professorship (Antognazza, 2016), Young Epistemologist of the Year (Littlejohn, 2015).
     Editorships of Philosophy (Alvarez and Brewer 2019–) and the British Journal for the History of
      Philosophy (Beaney 2016–20, Golob 2020–).
     Presidencies/Chairs of the British Society for the History of Philosophy, the British Society for
      the Philosophy of Religion, the British Society for the Philosophy of Science and the Aristotelian
      Society (Antognazza 2018–, Antognazza 2019–, Bird 2019–20, Brewer 2021–).

With respect to PGRs, UoA30 is again one of the key national centres with 91 PGRs completing
during the assessment period. This comprises 61.5 PhDs, including 2 joint PhDs with Humboldt
University, Berlin, and the National University of Singapore, and 30 Research Masters in
Philosophical Studies (MPhilSt), a two-year degree in preparation for doctoral study. 46 PGRs are
currently enrolled.

(2.1) Staffing – Appointment Strategy
Since REF2014, our appointment strategy has had three aims:

     To appoint and develop leading researchers across the full breadth of the discipline, including
      areas neglected nationally.
     To reinforce UoA30’s unique strengths by placing particular emphasis on History of
      Philosophy, Philosophy of Medicine, Philosophy of Mind and Political Philosophy.
      Additionally, Formal Methods was added as an area of priority growth in 2015 due to the
      Cluster’s success.
     To increase the FTE of the Department to balance the first two aims.

Overall, we have appointed 6 Professors (Beaney, Bird, Kingma, Owens, Roush, Soteriou), 11
Permanent Lecturers (Cristy, Dutant, Franklin, Fridland, Fumagalli, Leech, Michaelson, Nicolai,
Parrott, Stazicker, Wolff), 1 Senior Research Fellow (Gold) and 6 Post-Doctoral Researchers (Alford-
Duguid, Chevarie-Cossette, Farina, Herdova, Thom, Nowak). The FTE increased from 24 in
REF2014 to 29.5.

In line with these goals, appointments have focused on five areas, listed by the corresponding
Cluster.

(I) Three permanent appointments in Formal Methods
UoA30 appointed three researchers at the intersection of language, logic and formal epistemology:
Michaelson (2014), Dutant (2015) and Nicolai (2018). The aim is to bolster synergies between these
sub-disciplines, particularly regarding the relationship between natural and formal languages. The
Department also won a Leverhulme ECF in the area (Nowak, 2019–20).

(II) Three permanent appointments in History of Philosophy Without Any Gaps
We recruited Leech (2016), a specialist in Kant’s Metaphysics, supplementing strengths in Kantian
Philosophy of Mind (Golob) and Kantian Ethics (Callanan). Beaney joined in 2016, bringing expertise
on early Analytic Philosophy and Chinese Philosophy. We strengthened 19th-Century Philosophy
and American Pragmatism by hiring Cristy in 2019. Carlisle, winner of the Journal of the History of
Philosophy’s prize for the best 2018 article for a Spinoza paper, became an affiliated member of the
Department: she supervises PGRs and co-convenes the History Cluster.


Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(III) Five permanent appointments in Metaphysical Foundations of the Sciences and the
Sowerby Philosophy and Medicine Project
UoA30 has appointed five researchers in the Philosophy of Science and Medicine, including the
Sowerby Chairs, Roush (2015), Bird (2018) and Kingma (2020). Franklin joined in 2019, bringing
expertise at the intersection of metaphysics and the Philosophy of Science. Leech has also published
extensively on modality.

(IV) Three permanent appointments in Moral, Legal and Political Philosophy
In line with the inter-disciplinary approach in Section 1.1, we appointed at senior and junior levels in
Philosophy and Law, and Philosophy and Politics. Owens joined in 2015 at professorial level,
Fumagalli in 2017, working across Philosophy and Political Economy, and Valentini in 2019 as
Professor of Philosophy, Politics and Economics.

(V) Four permanent appointments in Rationality, Action, Mind
Here we aimed to develop two areas of expertise: in Mind and Metaphysics, and at the intersection
of Mind, Psychology and Neuroscience. To support the first, we appointed Parrott (2014) and
Soteriou (2016). To support the second, we moved Fridland from a time-limited contract to a
permanent post co-held with Neuroscience (2016) and appointed Stazicker to an inter-disciplinary
post with the Department of Psychology (2018). The Department also hosted a British Academy
Post-Doctoral Fellowship (Farina, 2016–19), a European Research Council Starting Grant (Gold,
2011–17) and two Post-Doctoral Researchers (Thom and Herdova), and two Canadian Research
Council Fellows (Alford-Duguid, 2016–18; Chevarie-Cossette, 2019–21).

(VI) Balancing targeted growth and disciplinary breadth
In addition to our areas of focus, these appointments allow us to support PGRs across the full breadth
of the discipline. This is particularly important in sub-disciplines with few posts nationally: the
appointments include researchers with AoS in Formal Logic (Nicolai), in Philosophy of the Social
Sciences (Franklin) and in Chinese Philosophy (Beaney).

(2.2) Staffing – Career Development and Support
The UoA has a robust framework for staff development and support. This draws on Department,
Faculty and University resources, and supports, funds and incentivises research and impact for all
staff, including teaching fellows. There is specialised provision for Early Career Researchers with
respect to funding, mentoring and representation.

(I) Contractual profile among Category A staff
All Category A staff are on permanent contracts with the exception of those holding prestigious post-
doctoral awards and one lecturer, Sheaf, covering for Antognazza’s Mind award. The staff profile is
balanced: roughly one third Professors, one third Readers/Senior Lecturers and one third Lecturers.
We discuss equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) issues specifically in Section 2.4 below.

(II) Peer support and training
Staff development is based on an extensive framework of peer support, both one-to-one and in
groups. All staff are assigned a mentor, distinct from their line manager, to serve as an ongoing point
of advice. All staff have a formal annual Performance Development Review with Department
Professors. These one-to-one mechanisms are supplemented by an annual Away Day, peer
observation of teaching in the case of probationers and peer-support days to share best practice:
recent events treated diversifying syllabi (2018), small group teaching techniques (2019) and
teaching online (2020).

Specialist Faculty staff provide mandatory training for all new staff on research practices and
integrity, impact, and national and international grant applications. College staff provide mandatory

Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
training on PGR supervision and EDI. The College’s Centre for Research Staff Development offers
one-to-one professional development sessions.

(III) Research and impact funding
All staff, including non-Category A, receive £1,000 annually in research expenses. There is a wide
range of funding opportunities at Department and Faculty level (see Section 3).

(IV) Sabbatical leave
All permanent staff, including ECRs and those on part-time contracts, are entitled to a 6-month
sabbatical after 3 years’ service. Parental, compassionate and sickness leave count towards the
entitlement, as does probation: staff can thus take leave immediately on completion of probation. Up
to one year of externally funded leave also counts, incentivising grant applications. Longer periods
of sabbatical can be accrued over time.

(V) ECR support
There is dedicated ECR support. An elected ECR representative sits on the Department and Faculty
Research and Impact Committees. There is also a professorial-level ECR Champion who handles
cohort-wide issues that might be beyond the vision of individual mentors. 10% of the Department’s
research and impact budget is reserved for ECR led-projects. Recent funding awards allowed, for
example, Franklin to travel to the 2018 Philosophy of Science Biennial and the Irvine-Munich-PoliMi-
Salzburg Conference in Philosophy and Physics, both vital to his development and early
publications.

(VI) Career progression within King’s
UoA30 recognises the importance of transparency around promotion and progression. The College’s
Academic Performance Framework provides guidance on research, teaching, leadership and impact
at all levels. Promotion applications are assessed by two external reviewers of international standing;
for Reader and Professor, three are required, two of whom must be outside the UK.

Colleagues are invited annually to discuss their plans for promotion with the Head of Department
and receive extensive Department and Faculty guidance on applications. Since REF2014, 93% of
promotion applications have been successful. 100% of ECR staff have successfully completed
probation or are on track to do so.

(2.3) Postgraduate Research Students – Admissions, Support and Placement
UoA30 has 46 PGRs enrolled and a completion percentage during the assessment period of 93%
(5 withdrawals).

(I) Postgraduate recruitment and funding
All applicants passing initial assessment are interviewed by two members of staff, either remotely or
in person. All offer holders are invited to spend a day on campus (during COVID-19, done virtually).

The UoA has an excellent record in securing PGR funding: since REF2014, there have been 24 full
fees and costs awards from UK Research Councils or Consortia such as the London Arts and
Humanities Partnership. There have also been 11 full fees and costs awards from overseas
Research Councils: most recently to Rodrigues from the Portuguese Research Council (2021). This
is supplemented by awards from departmental funds. In 2020–21, the Department offered £23,000
in PGR bursaries and two further PhDs were fully supported by KCL International Scholarships or
Chinese Council grants.




Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(II) PGR training and development
The Department has specified Leads for MPhilSt and PhD training and support. New PGRs receive
Department and Faculty inductions, including an overview of the degree trajectory, an introduction
to postgraduate research and discussion of research integrity. Within the Department, training is
provided using the vertical/horizontal framework (Section 1). Since Cluster spending is decided by
the members, this is aligned directly to PGR needs: the Formal Methods Cluster, for example,
organised masterclasses with Pettigrew (Bristol, 2017), Moss (Michigan, 2018) and Bacon
(University of Southern California, 2019) targeted at specific PGR projects. There is also an annual
and heavily subsidised residential trip to Cumberland Lodge where slots are reserved for PGRs to
present before the whole Department. PGRs further benefit from longstanding inter-institutional
programmes, including annual workshops with Birkbeck, Humboldt, LSE, UC Berkeley, UCL,
University of North Carolina and Warwick.

Additionally, there is a Graduate Training Seminar addressing funding, viva preparation and the job
market. At University level, there is a vast range of free training programmes from languages to
bibliographic software.

Further PGR support is provided through UoA30’s Research Centres (Section 1.2). One seat on the
CPVA Board, for example, is reserved for PGRs, and its programme typically meshes with their
theses: Brassey’s 2020 PhD thesis on expressive properties was supported by both a CPVA/British
Society of Aesthetics conference on cross-modal perception (Sound Pictures, 2020) and an
upcoming seminar series with the Royal Academy (2021). Similarly, Fagerberg’s research on mental
disorders was supported by a Sowerby workshop with clinicians and students on clinical psychiatry
placements (2020).

Broader training needs are met in collaboration with internal partners, such as King’s Arts and
Humanities Research Institute, which focuses on impact, and external partners, such as the London
Arts and Humanities Partnership. UoA members have also been key in developing new training
partnerships where needed: for example, King’s hosted the 2020 inaugural meeting of the London
Post-Kantian Seminar. Similarly, King’s is a founder member of the London Mind Group, which
fosters cross-London research by hosting read-ahead discussions for PGRs and Faculty.

All PGRs receive £250 annually for conference travel, frequently supplemented for those presenting.
There are additional funds for the annual PGR conferences.

(III) PGR support and supervision
All new PGRs have a tutor distinct from the primary supervisor. They are also paired with a current
PGR for informal support. All PGRs are introduced to their elected PGR representative, the PGR
Leads and the Leads for Research, Impact and EDI. All primary supervisors and students sign a
document setting out responsibilities, expectations and supervisory frequency.

The UoA uses a Committee supervision system, closer to the US model than the traditional UK one.
This aims at breadth of vision: for example, all PGRs are required to spend one Semester working
with a historian of philosophy on the thesis topic. It also supports sub-disciplinary expertise: for
example, a student working on emotions in music would be supervised by specialists in Mind as well
as Aesthetics.

Supervisions are fortnightly during term and monthly outside term (when they may be by videocall).
PhD supervisors continue as such when on leave, unless the student has already been allocated to
an alternative supervisor under the Committee system. All PGRs and supervisors complete progress
reports twice annually. On this basis, the PGR Leads meet with each student to review progress,
supervision and training or funding needs.




Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(IV) PGR placement
We are proud of the record of our PGRs in publishing and employment in the sector and beyond. All
PGRs are supported by our Placement Lead, typically chosen from staff with experience of both the
US and UK job markets.

Since REF2014, PGRs published nearly 30 articles in journals including the British Journal for the
History of Philosophy, Journal of the American Philosophical Association, Studies in History and
Philosophy of Science, Synthese and Thought, and in collections by OUP and de Gruyter. UoA
PGRs have won numerous external Prizes, including the prestigious Jacobsen Prize in 2015
(Kimpton-Nye), 2016 (Dyrstad) and 2019 (Wojtowicz and Stradis), and the Association for Political
Theory’s Graduate Essay Prize (Lim, 2016).

Of the 61.5 PhDs who completed during the assessment period, 69.9% (43) have gone on to
academic posts/positions. These include:

   Permanent lectureships or above: KCL, Alex Franklin, 2020; TU Berlin, Katja Krause, 2019;
    Graz, Sarah Tropper, 2019; Adolfo Ibáñez University, Chile, Gaston Robert, 2019;
    Southampton, Giulia Felappi, 2015.
   Tenure track: Torcuato di Tella, Ezequiel Monti, 2019; Witwatersrand, Mary Carman, 2018;
    Chubu, Taichi Miura, 2018; Ardahan, Tonguc Seferoglu, 2018; Beijing, Chen Long, 2017;
    Leipzig, Martin Wallage, 2017.
   Multi-year post-docs: Barcelona, Daniel Vazquez, 2020; Bristol, Sam Kimpton-Nye, 2020;
    Hamburg, Costanza Porro, 2019; Trinity Dublin, Clare Moriarty, 2019; Rio de Janeiro, Sergio
    Souza, 2019; Tel Aviv, David Jenkins, 2018; Berlin, Dimitri Mollo, 2017; Bern, Jorge Torres,
    2017; Tampere, Pasi Valtonen, 2017; Birmingham, Sophie Stammers, 2016.

(2.4) Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
The UoA believes that recognition and promotion of EDI are integral to its strengths at staff and PGR
levels. We have a strong record and are committed to meeting or exceeding the British Philosophical
Association/Society for Women in Philosophy (BPA/SWIP) code of good practice from hiring to
flexible working to promotion. We also recognise that, like the discipline nationally, there are areas
where we need to improve and we are acutely conscious of the need to support female and BAME
staff and students.

At the census date, just over 25% of staff were women and two of the last three Heads of Department
have been women (Antognazza, Alvarez). One current staff member identifies as BAME. More than
a third of staff are foreign nationals. With respect to PGRs, HESA data from student self-identification
shows that 25% identified as women, 10% as BAME; 15% declared a disability.

(I) EDI support framework
EDI is overseen by a specified Lead, a member of the Department’s Research and Impact
Committee. There are anonymous reporting systems, by letter and email, for students and staff in
case of concerns.

UoA30 funds a highly active Minorities and Philosophy Chapter, the first in the UK, which organises
an annual conference and numerous student- and staff-facing events. Recent examples include
2020’s ‘Women in Philosophy’ and ‘BAME Philosophers: Postgraduate Study and Beyond’. There is
also a regular Women in Philosophy Lunch, organised by Knox and Leech (held remotely during
COVID-19), and a monthly reading group. We have also held two mandatory EDI training sessions
delivered by external diversity specialists.

Staff are supported in applying for flexible and remote working due to caring or personal needs. In
2019–20, just under 50% of staff had timetabled flexible working arrangements. Individuals returning
from parental or medical leave are likewise supported through formal flexible working and a reduced
teaching and administrative load at departmental level. Due to confidentiality, we cannot source

Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
precise figures for staff who used the University’s Occupational Health Department – we can confirm
that 100% of requested modifications to offices and teaching patterns were granted.

In addition to these UoA-level measures, there is extensive College-level support. For example, the
College Parents’ and Carers’ Fund provides up to £10,000 of research funding on return from
parental or adoption leave. Knox and Mameli have benefitted from this. Brewer and Fine belong to
the College Parents and Carers Network.

The Academic Performance Framework for staff and the PGR Progression Requirements explicitly
recognise part-time working and the impact of parental leave, caring responsibilities, disabilities and
ill health.

(II) Staff appointments and PGR admissions
We have taken steps to ensure staff appointments and PGR admissions are sensitive to EDI issues.

With respect to staff, all appointment panels undergo EDI training. Writing samples are anonymised
by Professional Services prior to circulation. We seek gender balance in panels, while recognising
the burden this places on women colleagues and weighting it in the Department Workload model.
We also have mechanisms, for example with respect to scheduling and breaks, to accommodate
interviewee caring responsibilities and special needs.

With respect to PGR admissions, we are particularly concerned with supporting applicants from
under-represented groups. We hold regular targeted events, including 2020 talks by Das (UCL) and
2019 Gomes (Oxford), and invite all offer holders to spend a day on campus, meeting staff and
current PGRs. We also focus PGR funds at the MPhilSt level, since our data suggests that EDI
problems occur in the transition from diverse UG or PGT cohorts to narrower PGR ones. In 2019–
20 and 2020–21 we awarded four MPhilSt bursaries covering all fees and one covering both fees
and maintenance.

(III) EDI and REF2021
To ensure a transparent and fair submission, UoA30 has taken the following steps.

Throughout the assessment period, UoA30 organised calibration demonstrations led by external
reviewers to give staff a better understanding of the REF criteria. Output and case study selection
was managed by a gender balanced Committee ranging from Senior Lecturer to Professor. Across
six review rounds, each output was assessed anonymously by two staff chosen by the Research
Lead, whose own work was allocated anonymously by the Head of Department. All staff eligible for
submission, including ECRs, participated in reviewing. In the small number of cases where there
was wide divergence of views, a third internal or external reviewer was used. Statistical audits were
undertaken by staff external to UoA30 to check the reviewing process for systematic bias: none was
detected. Finally, all individuals with REF Lead roles have undergone additional College EDI training.

(2.5) Strategy for Staffing and PGR Students over the Next Five Years
We are delighted that, even during COVID-19, we have completed searches to replace departing
staff in post on the census date. Alsmith, specialising in Philosophy of Mind and Cognitive Science,
replaces Fridland with a cross-appointment to Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience; Kingma
replaces Bird as Sowerby Chair.

In the medium term, our staffing strategy will be driven by the goals in Section 1.4: to strengthen in
Political Philosophy and global History of Philosophy, with likely emphasis on Chinese or Indian
Philosophy.

With respect to PGRs, our medium-term focus is a complete overhaul of the MPhilSt programme.
This will create a modularised ‘for credit’ structure in year 1, allowing broader training and more
systematic use of co-taught seminars with other University of London departments. This will ease

Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the transition to independent research, increase the teaching expertise on which students can draw
and solidify their place in a London-wide PGR community.

We are also committed to further expanding MPhilSt funding: as noted, our data suggests that EDI
problems manifest themselves in the transition from relatively diverse UG/PGT cohorts to narrower
PGR ones. In addition to Department funds, we particularly support MPhilSt students in making
Research Consortium applications: we are delighted that two of our four three-year London Arts and
Humanities Partnership 2020 awards were for women MPhilSt students.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

UoA30’s vitality and sustainability, as well as its international reputation, are evidenced by the
volume and range of external funding, and the manner in which this is seeded and supported by a
rigorous internal infrastructure.

During the assessment period, UoA30 had REF4B/HESA grant income of over £1.7 million, up more
than 10% on REF2014. In addition, it will benefit from multiple grants awarded and starting shortly:
since these speak to the strength of our research environment, we give details below.

UoA30 also benefits from donations including the £1,430,000 of the Sowerby project, the £7 million
foundation of the YTL Centre and numerous smaller bequests, such as for the annual Sainsbury and
Peace Lectures.

(3.1) Overview of Research and Funding Infrastructure
(I) Infrastructure within the Department and Faculty
Research infrastructure is overseen by the Departmental Research and Impact Committee (Section
1.3). This is supported by a full-time Research and Business Support Manager and Research
Administrator.

The Committee has two funding roles. First, as a source of seed money. In addition to annual £1,000
allowances for all staff, the Committee runs four annual funding competitions, with 10% ring-fenced
for ECRs. Since REF2014, the Committee has awarded more than £60,000: this is in addition to the
direct grant of £50,000 to the Research Clusters. Second, it organises peer review and support for
external bids: for example, in 2019–20, it allocated over £3,000 for teaching buyouts to support
AHRC bids on Experimental Education by Golob and on Wakeful Consciousness and Dreams by
Soteriou, with a combined value of over £1.6 million.

The Committee works closely with the Research Clusters, the starting point for the majority of
UoA30’s awards. The Clusters host termly grant proposal workshops, supplying the collaborative
input to translate ideas into applications.

Beyond the Department, there is extensive Faculty support.

First, there are competitions open to staff and PGRs, with categories for innovative research
methods and seed funding. The UoA has been highly successful, winning more than £26,000 for
staff and £5,900 for PGRs in 2014-20. Recent awards include £4,600 for Fine to work with Surrey’s
Centre for Performance Philosophy and £1,100 for Golob to travel to Moscow to launch CPVA’s new
Russian gallery partnerships (delayed due to COVID-19). The Faculty also runs a Post-Doctoral
Researcher Fellowship, allowing a PDR to work with a PI on a grant application. Nicolai benefited
from this, producing a published co-authored paper with the PDR that paved the way for a 2020
AHRC Research Grant bid.

Second, there is extensive specialist support: a Research Development Manager guides bid design,
with a specific Office for EU applications and a Research Support Coordinator for costings. The Post-
Award Bureau aids PIs with financial management and King’s Digital Lab supports digital work:


Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
beneficiaries include Fine’s use of virtual reality in the Migration Museum’s Room to Breathe
exhibition (2019).

Third, the Faculty incentivises bids by awarding 10% of earned overheads as a research allowance
to the PI. Additionally, externally supported leave of up to one year counts towards sabbatical
entitlement (see Section 2.2).

(II) Infrastructure across London
A crucial way in which we implement our research strategy is by building on the distinctive
opportunities of London. This is visible in the many inter-London conferences and programmes,
particularly those with a strong PGR focus such as the London Group of Formal Philosophy and the
London Centre for Ancient Philosophy. It is also visible in training and funding where UoA30’s major
partner is LAHP, the AHRC consortium. As in Section 2.3, UoA staff have been at the forefront of
developing new London-wide research and training infrastructure as needed.

More broadly, as well as KCL’s own library services, all staff and students have access to Senate
House Libraries and benefit from nearby national resources such as the British Library.

We also seek to build on London’s unique cultural status, particularly via our relationships with King’s
Cultural Community, directed by Baroness Bull. This has been important in connecting researchers
and cultural organisations, offering new paths to impact. We have benefited from their advice on
large partner-funded projects as with The Place, a leading contemporary dance school (Fine, 2019)
and Tate Britain (Golob, 2018).

(3.2) Income from External Grants
During the assessment period, King’s philosophers held 17 external research grants with a value of
over £1.7 million (REF4B/HESA data), up more than 10% on REF2014.

This alone does not capture the Department’s strength. As noted, there are several upcoming
awards that speak to the strength of our environment. There were also substantial bids supported
by our research infrastructure and won at King’s but not held here due to subsequent staff
departures: these include an ERC Consolidator grant to Shea of €1,955,270. Finally, there are
significant grants held by UoA members not captured in REF4B/HESA due to grant administration
arrangements, notably Adamson’s ERC Advanced Grant on Islamic Philosophy (€2,343,661, 2018–
23).

We provide representative examples below: space prohibits detailing each award.

(I) Major multi-year project grants
Solidarity in the European Union. PI – Sangiovanni, ERC Consolidator, £500,995.00, Upcoming
2020–23.
This ERC Consolidator Grant illustrates the linkage of moral, legal and political questions embodied
in our Cluster framework. It radically develops the understanding of solidarity as a virtue and its
implications for EU debates on self-determination. The project will deliver two special journal issues
in the European Journal of Philosophy and the Review of Social Economy; an OUP edited collection,
Solidarity, to appear in its Virtues series; a Manchester University Press monograph, Solidarity: Its
Nature, Value, and Grounds; and multiple research articles.

New Frontiers of Speech: CI – Michaelson, Norwegian Research Council, £83,665 and Swedish
Research Council, £69,138, Upcoming 2020–23.

Metacognition of Concepts. PI – Shea, ERC Consolidator, €1,995,270, 2016–21.

Culture and Cognition: A New Theory of Cultural Learning. PI – Papineau, British Academy,
£225,970, 2016–19.

Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Intelligence: Up, Down, and All Around. PI – Fridland, Templeton, £173,786, 2018–20.

Self-Control and the Person. PI – Gold, ERC Starting Grant, £878,853, 2011–17.

Meaning for the Brain and Meaning for the Person. PI – Shea, AHRC, £165,815, 2015–16.

Word Meaning. PI – Textor, AHRC, £314,827, 2011–14.
This award illustrates UoA30’s inter-disciplinary and inter-collegiate connections, operating across
Philosophy of Language and Linguistics in collaboration with Robyn Carston (Language Sciences,
UCL). Any account of word meaning needs to respect intuitions. On the one hand, that words have
a fixed linguistic meaning; on the other, that we interpret them differently in different contexts. This
project examined the reasons for this tension and inter-disciplinary ways to overcome it. It yielded
nine research papers and a special issue of Dialectica (71, 2017).

The Probabilistic Representation of Linguistic Knowledge. PI – Lappin, ESRC, £548,110, 2011–16.

(II) Individual single or multi-year research fellowship grants
The Philosophy of Pregnancy, Birth and Early Motherhood, Philip Leverhulme Prize, PI – Kingma,
£100,000, 2020–21.

Thinking with Assent: Renewing a Traditional Account of Knowledge and Belief. PI – Antognazza,
Mind Association, £52,618.35, 2019–20 (Declined Leverhulme Research Fellowship).
The project outlines an original account of cognition by reframing the debate in the light of insights
from its full history. The main output is a monograph under contract with OUP; in addition, the project
has already yielded four research papers and a co-authored chapter in another Oxford monograph.
It will culminate in a special issue of the British Journal for the History of Philosophy, co-edited by
Antognazza.

Knowledge and Boundaries in Ancient Greek Philosophy, Philip Leverhulme Prize, PI – Tor,
£100,000, 2019–21.

Silencing and Solidarity: A Defence of the Value of Linguistic Diversity, Leverhulme ECF, PI –
Nowak, £75,000, 2019–22.

Obligation and Convention. PI – Owens, Leverhulme Trust, £50,598, 2020–21.

Austrian Philosophy 1874–1918. PI – Textor, Leverhulme Trust, £35,919.00, 2018–19.
The project explored the philosophical transformation that resulted in Austrian and early analytic
philosophy. It yielded the monograph The Disappearance of the Soul and the Turn Against
Metaphysics (OUP, 2021), several papers, including in the Journal of the History of Philosophy, and
workshops at Liège (2018) and Goettingen (2019).

Choice in Action. PI – Alvarez, Leverhulme Trust, £88,370, 2015–17.

Emergent Spacetimes. PI – Papineau, Leverhulme Trust, £74,500, 2011–14.

(III) Selected smaller grants
Francis Bacon and Philosophy. PI – Golob, Estate of Francis Bacon, £3,000, 2021.
The Bacon Estate selected CPVA for the first UK conference on Bacon’s philosophical legacy,
illustrating the Centre’s ability to link the Department with a new range of arts institutions.

Ancient Commentators on Aristotle: Transmission from Greek to Syriac. PI – Woolf, British Academy,
£7,200, 2017–20.
This grant is linked to the Ancient Commentators project, hosted in the UoA since 1987 with the aim
of making ancient commentaries on Aristotle available in English.

Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Knowledge First Philosophy of Mind. PI – Parrott, Templeton Foundation, £3,500, 2017.

Non-Physicalism, Evolution and the Naturalisation of Consciousness. PI – Papineau, Templeton
Foundation, £1,158, 2016–17.

In addition, staff and PGRs have received numerous conference awards from external funders,
including the British Academy, the British Society of Aesthetics, the Mind Association, the Aristotelian
Society, and others.

(3.3) Strategy for Infrastructure and Income over the Next Five Years
We believe that our infrastructure is robust and we aim to make targeted improvements, rather than
overhaul it.

First, we want to develop a larger number of cross-Humanities co-research and co-supervision
projects. As well as bringing inter-disciplinary benefits, this opens new sources of PGR funding and
training. Fine’s work with the Performance@King’s network, including co-supervision of an English
Literature LAHP PhD application in 2021, illustrates the plan. To realise this, UoA30 will work closely
with the Arts and Humanities Research Institute, where Golob is a Board Member. This offers
mentorship, seed funding, a dedicated inter-disciplinary event space and total support of £43,000
per annum for cross-Humanities work.

Second, we want PGRs to be better integrated into impact and grant bids via paid work on their
development or delivery. The aim is to do this in novel and sophisticated ways, rather than simply
asking PGRs to gather data. Many of CPVA’s gallery collaborations, for example, include externally
funded roles for PGRs in delivering and designing content for partner institutions, typically large
galleries. With government funding increasingly scarce, such collaborations may supplement the
classic AHRC funded PhD.

Third, we aim to further increase funding for the Sowerby Philosophy and Medicine project,
capitalising on the recent appointment of Kingma: we will put a proposal to the Sowerby Foundation
as well as other external funders to reach a broader range of clinicians.

Fourth, we will intensify UoA support for ECR’s collaborative and inter-disciplinary bids: Stazicker
and Alsmith are CIs on current bids with the Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre
at King’s and the University of Stirling respectively and we aim to increase such applications.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

King’s is the hub of a huge network of collaborations within and outside academia, nationally and
internationally. In addition to its key role in the disciplinary research base, UoA30 works with the
public sector, charities, broadcasters and others in response to political and social challenges.

(4.1) An International Hub for Philosophical Research and Training
UoA30 is a major centre for philosophical research and training at institutional and individual levels.

As discussed in Section 3, UoA30 is a natural locus for collaboration within London and nationally.
Examples range from large one-off events, such as the major conference on Joseph Raz in
collaboration with the KCL and UCL Law Faculties (2018) or the annual British Society for the History
of Philosophy conference (2019), to new pieces of infrastructure such as the cross-institution London
Centre for Ancient Philosophy where Aufderheide, Tor and Woolf play central roles.

The UoA plays a similarly central role in the international research environment, with long-standing
links with Europe, Asia and North America. At the core are joint doctoral programmes with Humboldt
Berlin, built around a rotating PGR annual conference, with NUS Singapore and an annual staff/PGR

Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
exchange with UNC Chapel Hill. Dutant, Golob, Littlejohn and Woolf have spent time at UNC in the
assessment period, as have five PGRs funded by the Malcolm Fellowship.

The Department places particular emphasis on training links with China. Alvarez is a co-organiser of
the UK/China Graduate Philosophy Programme, which brings PGRs to the UK as ‘non-award’
students at KCL, Oxford and Reading, providing a foundation year for those likely to shape
development of analytic philosophy in China. The Kaifeng Foundation covers fees up to £39,000 p.a.
UoA30 is also the base for the UK Philosophy China Summer School, an annual three-week themed
summer school for Chinese PGRs funded by the Chinese Academy of the Social Sciences and
taught by distinguished UK and US philosophers.

At an individual level, the UoA hosts academic visitors from around the world keen to take advantage
of the research environment. During the assessment period, there have been 76 registered visitors,
staying at least one Semester with full access to facilities. These range from prominent academics
to lawyers to artists in residence. We are particularly proud of attracting holders of prestigious
portable Post-Doctoral funds who chose to base themselves at King’s for the whole or part of their
awards precisely due to the quality of its research environment. Examples include Hamid Taieb,
Humboldt Foundation Fellow, 2018–19; Dominic Alford-Duguid, SSHRC Fellowship 2016–18; and
Simon-Pierre Chevarie-Cossette, FRQSC Fellowship 2019–21.

(4.2) An International Hub for Research and Training beyond Academia
UoA30 is committed to a Department-wide culture of engagement and service (Section 1). This is
reflected in numerous projects well beyond the Impact Case Studies, such as the Philosophy in
Prison programme led by Brewer and McCabe (Section 1.2). In some instances, the partner is an
existing service or charity group: for example, Golob is working with the Bertrand Russell Peace
Foundation on a new statement on activism and education. In others, the aim is to encourage a more
sophisticated public discourse on key social issues: for example, Michaelson’s work on Philosophy
of Language has been introduced to the public by YouTube videos with the actor James Franco,
receiving more than 900,000 views. One particular area of focus is schooling. Emma and Peter
Worley, the founders of the Philosophy Foundation, the second largest provider of Philosophy
classes in UK schools, are Department Research Associates; we have funded training for 29 UoA
PGR students in its programmes.

The UoA is also a key point for collaboration between artists and academics. CPVA runs an
internationally recognised Residency programme in conjunction with the Netherlands’ Kunsthuis
SYB. Artists apply to work alongside a specific philosopher, detailing how the collaboration could
impact their practice. Each residency, for which there have been 197 applicants so far, lasts 6 months
and includes access to lectures, supervisions, funding, accommodation where necessary, gallery
space and curatorial support. As 2019 Resident Ben Cain, whose recent shows include the Venice
Biennale, put it: “I applied to CPVA because, perhaps uniquely among residencies, their programme
allowed me to develop through close collaboration with philosophy specialists … great care was
taken to provide ideal conditions for merging theoretical and practical work” (Testimonial, 2019).

More broadly, UoA30 has links with cultural institutions throughout London, addressing the
conceptual, social and pedagogical issues raised by their work. Recent examples include Fine’s
Fellowship at the Forum for Philosophy, organising 20 events with more than 4,000 average online
views each in 2020, and Knox and Callanan’s multiple appearances on the BBC World Service and
BBC Radio 4’s In Our Time to discuss physics and Kant respectively.

(4.3) Contribution to the National and International Research Base
UoA30 contributes to the national and international research environment across multiple
dimensions.




Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(I) Journal host and editorial roles
We host two major journals:

   Philosophy, edited by Alvarez and Brewer since 2019, is the journal of the Royal Institute: it
    publishes four issues a year, receiving more than 300 submissions in 2020.
   The British Journal for the History of Philosophy is one of the two top ranked generalist History
    of Philosophy journals. It publishes six issues a year, receiving more than 350 submissions in
    2020. The journal and its editorial office have been at King’s since 2016, first under Beaney and
    since 2020 under Golob. As noted in Section 1, King’s is a key hub for the History of Philosophy
    with the British Society for the History of Philosophy also based here, under Antognazza.

Many UoA members serve as Associate Editors, including Golob for the Routledge Encyclopaedia,
Leech for the European Journal of Philosophy and Analysis, and Textor for the Journal of the History
of Analytic Philosophy. Staff also serve on Editorial Boards for many of the discipline’s flagship
publications, including Antognazza for Journal of the History of Philosophy, Owens for Ethics, and
Papineau for Philosophy of Science and the British Journal for the Philosophy of Science.

(II) External assessment and quality assurance
UoA members play key assessment roles for many of the world’s leading institutions. They
conducted PGR examinations during the REF period for Cambridge (Golob, Textor, Owens, Pink,
Soteriou), Columbia (Woolf), CUNY (Papineau), LSE (Alvarez, Fine, Papineau), Milan (Soteriou),
Paris-Sorbonne (Papineau), Oslo (Brewer), Oxford (Leech, Owens, Papineau, Pink), Sydney (Fine,
Owens), Texas (Alvarez), UCL (Alvarez, Antognazza, Aufderheide, Fine, Golob, Papineau, Soteriou,
Woolf), Vienna (Bird), the Warburg Institute (Antognazza) and Yale (Woolf) amongst others.

They have also served on tenure and search committees, including for professorships at Cambridge
(Owens), CUNY (Papineau), St Andrews (Owens), Rice (Textor), Notre Dame (Antognazza, Textor),
Oxford (Antognazza, Alvarez) and UC Berkeley (Brewer), amongst others.

UoA members serve on the AHRC Peer Review College, the Irish Research Council and National
Research Councils for Austria, Canada, Switzerland and the Netherlands. They have served as
External Examiners for Cambridge (Owens, Soteriou), St Andrews (Alvarez), Southampton, Essex
and Royal Holloway (Golob), and UCL (Callanan), amongst others.

(III) Leadership of learned societies
UoA members lead some of the discipline’s most important bodies. Antognazza is the Chair of the
British Society for the History of Philosophy (2017–) and the President of the British Society for the
Philosophy of Religion (2019–). Brewer is the President of the Aristotelian Society (2021–). At the
census date, Bird was the President of the British Society for the Philosophy of Science. Staff have
also served on the Executive Committees of the Aristotelian Society, the Society for European
Philosophy, the Forum for Philosophy, the Mind Association, the Royal Institute of Philosophy and
the Jacobsen Fund, amongst others.

(4.4) Strategy for Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society
over the Next Five Years
As in the previous sections, our focus is on development and improvement, rather than a
fundamental change in strategy.

First, we will make greater use of the many Visiting Researchers and Visiting Artists attracted by the
Department’s research culture. As of 2021, our policy will change so that all visitors will lead at least
one public-facing event, such as a lecture or an artist’s talk, or one PGR-facing session, for example
a masterclass in collaboration with the relevant Cluster.




Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Second, we want to improve links between our ‘real life’ events and infrastructure and our web
presence. In the simplest terms, this involves greater filming of events and a remodelled website,
giving better visibility to our PGR community, work currently done by our Department blog. But it will
also involve more sophisticated ‘digital-first’ collaborations: for example, Golob is working with the
National Gallery to create an artificial reality app accompanied by philosophical commentary.

Third, we will extend collaborations that support philosophical reflection outside standard contexts.
Building on successes such as Fine’s collaboration with performing arts organisations, the
Philosophy in Schools and the Philosophy in Prison project, the aim will be to reach a broader range
of audiences and new forms of co-research and impact.




Page 17
