Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Newman University, Birmingham
 Unit of Assessment:
 UoA 4 Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The vision for research in the Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience UoA is underpinned by
 the University’s core values and its mission to make a positive difference to individuals and
 communities through the contribution of its staff, students, and graduates (outlined in the
 accompanying Institutional environment statement). The University’s Research Strategy has
 focused investment funds on Units submitting to the Research Excellence Framework, whilst
 enabling early-career researchers to develop their capacity and potential. The University
 advocates research-informed professional practice across all subject areas, enhancing the
 volume and quality of international research and encouraging knowledge transfer into the
 regional community. Hence much of the research output from this UoA is applied in nature.

 The University expects all academic staff to engage in advanced scholarship. At Newman, this
 means that research and scholarship is purposeful, well-founded and appropriately conducted,
 producing meaningful results which are appropriately communicated in a clear manner and, as
 can be seen below for this UoA, involves looking at practice and working with stakeholders.

 The University’s Research Committee takes a strategic role in developing and sustaining a
 successful research culture and research performance. The Committee’s major function is to
 ensure that the University’s areas of research strength and comparative advantage are
 protected and enhanced, that research potential is nurtured and that resources are strategically
 targeted to build an externally recognised research presence in line with our strategic aim to
 become ‘recognised nationally and internationally for the integrity and quality of our research
 and scholarship. To this end there have been regular meetings held for staff involved in the
 REF to discuss impact of research.

 For the coming five-year period 2021-2025, Newman’s institutional research strategy, and in
 turn this UoA’s, will build on the current research plan while focusing on specific areas of
 implementation: an attainment of Research degree awarding powers (currently validated by
 Liverpool Hope University), research integrity, Open Research compliance, and the equal
 promotion of disciplinary, cross-disciplinary, and interdisciplinary research.

 The implementation of the UoA’s and the University’s research strategy is underpinned by the
 support provided by the Research Office and Graduate School, including: the maintenance of a
 University-wide repository and research data base where staff outputs are stored; the
 preparation and provision for the Research Committee of up-to-date information on research
 performance in the University; coordination of all matters relating to postgraduate research
 students; oversight of the establishment and operation of the University’s research centres;
 organization of a seminar programme bringing together researchers with internal and external
 speakers to debate research findings, discuss methodologies, and share academic insights;
 coordination of the University’s links with relevant research networks; support for the
 administration of the University’s forthcoming submission for Research Degree Awarding
 Powers.

 The Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience UoA sits in the Faculty of Arts, Society and
 Professional Studies. The staff team includes members of the Psychology and Counselling
 Subject Areas, of whom most are returned to REF 2021 with a significant responsibility for
 research, marking a substantial increase since the last UoA, when just 3 staff were entered in
 REF 2014. During this period due to the substantial growth within the UoA the Psychology and
 Counselling Subject Area has split to become two separate Subject Areas. The two subject
 areas work closely but, given their size, are better supported by distinct structures and
 leadership. In addition to this change there has been turnover in staff members with some
 retiring and some moving on to other roles. There have also been a number of maternity leave

                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 periods taken – 4 within Psychology (involving 3 members of staff) and 1 from Counselling, all
 supported by the UoA and by interim staffing. Furthermore, the growth of the two subject areas
 has resulted in the appointment of additional staff.

 The UoA’s focus is wide and varied, however most research continues to align with the theme of
 wellbeing (as was the case for REF2014). This includes the research in Applied Psychology
 (such as research on risky health-related behaviours, eating behaviours and employability), and
 research in counselling and psychotherapy which has practical applications (including research
 on Trainee counselling and psychotherapists’ experiences of spirituality in therapy, and How
 counsellors having menopausal symptoms experience their client work).

 This is the second submission to the REF by this UoA. In addition to the submitted members of
 the unit with a current significant responsibility for research, there are additional members of
 staff within the department who are research active with most of them regularly presenting at
 conferences and/or undertaking research degrees. Research seminars are held throughout the
 year, some organized centrally or by Research Centres and some within subject areas and
 Faculties. Contributors to these seminars are a mix of University staff, research students, and
 invited speakers from other institutions. During the last census period the UoA has held regular
 research seminars for staff and PGR students wherein current research projects are shared and
 discussed.

 REF funds are allocated for conference attendance and to provide resources to enable research
 production e.g. payment of participants and service provider of online survey host, as well as
 paying for the transcription of interviews. The subject area is given autonomy to spend money
 delegated from QR funds based on their specific priorities.

 The UoA’s strategic plan for development follows the University’s four strategic aims for
 research: increased postgraduate research, securing a critical mass of academic staff who are
 engaged in research, securing a research culture that can support an application for RDAP, and
 expanding income streams and continue to demonstrate the impact of our research and practice
 on the wider community. The Unit has continued to contribute to these goals by increasing
 numbers of research active staff, adding MPhil/PhD students to the number of postgraduate
 researchers at the University, and enhancing the research culture and environment of the
 subject areas.

 During the assessment period, researchers in the UoA contributed to supervisory teams that
 saw the successful completion of 3 PhDs (Williams, Tanton, and Al Nuaim). In 2018 two
 students registered for PhDs and one for an MPhil with supervisors within the Psychology
 Subject Area. Going forward, the MPhil student is in the process of moving the MPhil to a PhD.
 Also, with another member of Psychology recently being approved as a PhD supervisor the aim
 is to increase numbers of PhD students within the Subject Area. Furthermore, with a new MSc
 Psychology conversion course currently being developed, it is hoped that this will encourage
 more of the current undergraduate students to continue on to this higher degree and even on to
 PhDs.

 All members of the Subject area are encouraged to form research collaborations within the UoA
 in order to increase research output and adopt a more collaborative and inclusive culture of
 research. As a small University, Newman’s structures are more often centralised than localised,
 with local research strategy and environment sitting within and complementing the institutional
 approach.

 In terms of impacting the community there is a move towards building relationships and working
 with stakeholders in the real world where research can involve and benefit those who need it.
 For example, Dr Hogan and Dr West conducted an evaluation of a dementia drop-in service run
 by Age UK, Telford, Wrekin and Shropshire and are currently in the process of beginning
 another project looking at the impact of COVID on their service users. Furthermore, Dr Hogan
 has been asked to evaluate an NHS therapy service and was an invited guest on a BBC

                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Coventry and Warwickshire radio programme, answering questions about bereavement support
 for men who have lost a child. Dr West is collaborating with colleagues at the University of
 Chester to evaluate a service which aims to rebuild confidence, self-esteem and motivation in
 people who have been through mental or physical trauma (‘Climbing Out’). In addition, Newman
 Health and Wellbeing clinic, which offers counselling and psychotherapy services for the local
 community, is part of the national consortium of counselling and mental health clinics which
 evaluates outcomes of counselling in a community-facing clinic, delivered by students.
 https://newmanhealthwellbeing.org/

 Lastly, for several years in the middle of the REF period, interdisciplinary research across the
 social sciences and humanities into the perception of religion and science among the public was
 expanded at the University. As detailed in the Institutional Environment Statement, the Centre
 for Science, Knowledge and Belief in Society (CSKBS) was a multidisciplinary Research Centre
 located at Newman from early 2015 to summer 2018. The Centre’s work spanned a diverse
 range of disciplines including social sciences, humanities, and social psychology, with an aim of
 fostering open-minded social science and humanities-based research on the public
 understanding and communication of the relationship between science and religion, religion in
 society, and the role of science in diverse societies. Their research predominantly focused on
 how non-religious, religious, and spiritual groups perceive both the life sciences and how this
 might impact on their trust or engagement with science more broadly. The interdisciplinary work
 of members of the Centre fell within scope of several UoAs, and its core members worked
 across the humanities and social sciences. These included a colleague with whom researchers
 in the UoA collaborated, Dr Carissa Sharp, a social psychologist of religion. Members of the
 Centre largely relocated in 2018/19 to the University of Birmingham, where their impactful
 research continues.


 2. People

 Since 2014, the Subject area has seen a substantial change in staff with 5 senior members of
 staff having departed from the Psychology Subject area and 6 from the Counselling Subject
 area. Of the 5 from Psychology, two members of staff retired, one went on to work at De
 Montfort University and the other 2 opted for career changes. Of the 6 members of staff who left
 from Counselling, 3 retired, 1 went to work at Birmingham City University and the other 2 opted
 for career changes. Therefore, since REF2014 Psychology have recruited 5 new permanent
 lecturers – one of which is now a Senior lecturer (Dr West). In addition, there is 1 lecturer on
 fixed term contract to cover maternity leave and one permanent post and one fixed term post are
 in the process of being filled. In the Counselling Subject area one part-time member of staff has
 become full-time and there are a number of posts which are in the process of being filled. As
 mentioned above Psychology and Counselling were previously one Subject area but due to
 expansion, are now two separate Subject areas -- thus there are two heads of Subject. Dr Alison
 Rolfe who was head of the joint Subject area is now head of the Counselling Subject area, while
 Dr Lorna Dodd is now Subject head of Psychology. Both Dr Alison Rolfe and Dr Lorna Dodd
 continued from the previous assessment period. The third member of staff who formed the UoA
 for REF2014 has now left Newman University to pursue a different career. Thus the UoA has
 some continuation from REF2014 in senior roles but the Unit overall has undergone
 considerable change and expansion. The Unit is diverse in terms of ethnicity and notable in its
 gender balance, comprising 3 men and 8 women.

 Fundamental to the University’s Strategic Plan as a University with a Catholic Foundation is its
 commitment to the formation of staff and students. Newman’s commitment to human flourishing
 is expressed in its People Strategy 2015-20, which states the University’s values and principles
 of organizational development: ‘The University is committed to advancing equality of opportunity
 and eliminating unlawful discrimination, harassment and victimisation, to foster good relations
 between people from different groups which embraces and celebrates diversity in line with our
 values and principles’. All staff recruitment is inspired by this policy and staff are given support
 for periods of illness and care responsibilities and are provided with essential training such as

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 university induction, health and safety, and disability and diversity. Staff also participate in an
 annual appraisal process with the Head of subject where research, writing and grant
 applications are discussed. Furthermore, research time is protected under the University’s Work
 Allocation Model (WAM).

 The University’s research environment, community, and culture is supported by the Graduate
 School which has the primary responsibility for postgraduate research student training and
 social and intellectual integration while playing a key role alongside Faculties, Subject Areas,
 and Programmes in developing career pathways for successful research students. Institutional
 development and support for research students is provided by the Graduate School, while
 pastoral support and mentoring is provided by the Postgraduate Research Co-ordinators. Staff
 are provided with the opportunity to contribute to the PGR training programme and within this
 UoA Dr Hogan has taken the opportunity to be involved in this.

 In addition to attracting self-funding students, the University occasionally offers research
 studentships through a competitive bidding process, funded at the level of Research Council
 stipends. The University offers training to PGR students preparing for a career in teaching in
 Higher Education and opportunity is available wherever possible for students to gain in-class
 teaching experience which the current MPhil student in Psychology has taken advantage of
 thus gaining experience of delivering lectures and seminars in research methods.

 Our commitment to formation and to human flourishing includes the community of our research
 students and our approach to supervision is characterised by individual support as well as high-
 quality supervisory teams. We aim to create an environment that develops our supervisory
 capacity and enables our doctoral and MPhil students to reach their goals and realise their
 potential as early career researchers. Working with partners, as individuals or external
 supervisors, we aim to work within the Researcher Development Framework to enable our
 researchers successfully to make their own significant contribution to knowledge and to
 advance their own professional and career opportunities. For example, within this UoA the PGR
 students within Psychology have presented at various conferences and as mentioned above
 have been provided with the opportunity to teach undergraduates.

 In 2014, the University entered into a new arrangement with Liverpool Hope University as the
 validating partner for all of its research degrees. This has resulted in a more sophisticated
 support structure for PGR students. PGR supervision teams have increased in sophistication,
 now including a Director of Studies, a Primary Supervisor and a Second Supervisor, allowing
 students access to subject specialists as well as senior colleagues in the Faculty. The
 University Graduate School runs a regular programme of training and skills workshops,
 equipping PGRs with skills needed for their doctoral work and after they graduate. Since their
 introduction in March 2015, the Graduate School has run 74 doctoral workshop sessions.

 Research student training is provided locally and centrally. The central programme is overseen
 by the Graduate School and the postgraduate research coordinators. All research students have
 access to a dedicated PGR room for on-campus study and socialising, which helps to foster
 community cohesion and build relationships across disciplines. Printing and photocopying
 facilities are available free of charge to all research students, and they have an annual
 allowance of up to 20 free inter-library loans. In addition, each student is eligible to apply for
 financial support of up to £150p.a. for research activities, including conference attendance, travel
 to libraries/archives, books and equipment. Supervision talks place in teams to ensure a range
 of expertise and continuity (which proved to be advantageous within Psychology when a PhD
 supervising member of staff left Newman). Through our partnership, research students also
 have access to the facilities, virtual and physical, available at Liverpool Hope University.
 Institutional membership of CREST also provides further opportunities for collaboration and
 networking with a wider PGR community, and for bidding for funding to support training and
 conference attendance.



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Newman University is a member of the GuildHE Research Consortium, previously the
 Consortium of Research Excellence, Support, and Training (CREST), and thus works in a
 network of over two dozen small and specialist institutions who collaborate in the provision of
 postgraduate resources, including an annual summer school, a shared repository, and close
 collaboration over a shared agenda with respect to research policy and practice.

 Through the partnership with Liverpool Hope University, staff have access to training for
 postgraduate supervision, and 3 members of staff in the UoA are approved as PhD supervisors
 with 2 of those also being approved Directors of Studies. In addition, there are 4 approved
 research advisors in the UoA.

 Dr West is currently leading on revalidating the existing MSc in Clinical Applications of
 Psychology. In addition, Dr Dodd is currently leading on validation of a MSc Psychology
 conversion course which aims to serve as a pipeline for students within the institution to continue
 in higher education, a particularly important priority for Newman for whom one in five students
 are from low-participation areas in Birmingham. This includes one student from Psychology who
 has completed their BSc, MRes, and been admitted as an MPhil student.

 The demographic profile of the Department within which this Unit of Assessment is situated
 shows that, of the Category A staff, there are more female than male members of staff. While
 the majority of staff are White British or White European the Unit has a growing profile of ethnic
 diversity and all but one member of staff works on a full-time basis. In terms of grade, there are
 two heads of Subject, with the majority of other staff having reached Senior Lecturer grade.

 The University Research Ethics Committee addresses issues of gender and racial bias within
 research projects at both design stage and in their execution. In 2018, the University established
 a LGBT+ discussion group.

 Newman is also a member of the Cathedrals Group association of fifteen universities, nearly all
 ex-teacher training colleges, who share a common mission of service that includes a
 commitment to research which is of societal benefit and contributes to the public good.


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The Research Office and Graduate School provides research administration and postgraduate
 coordination within this remit the Research office organises and runs the central Research
 Committee, research degrees committee and research ethics subcommittee. Researchers
 across the Faculties and UoAs are representatives on the committees which provide an
 infrastructure for disbursement and delegation of funds, research strategy and policy
 coordination, oversight of the PGR environment, as well as policies for, among other aspects,
 ethics, open access, and research integrity.

 Research support activity was also underpinned by a research bid writer funded by the
 University from 2014 to 2018 after which research funding support was outsourced on a
 consultancy basis. This has provided information on grants and support for external funding
 opportunities as well as assistance to academic staff in preparing research applications,
 including advice on costing and pricing, meeting funding eligibility criteria, and submission of
 bids. The university has at times subscribed to Research Professional, Grantfinder, and other
 tools to support bidding and grant acquisition. Bid writing is supported equally by the Finance
 Department and the Graduate School to provide a system for full-economic costing, review and
 quality control, authorization, and submission.

 To seed-fund basic research and impact, the University’s Research Committee has operated
 various grant schemes during the REF period. A good proportion of QR monies has been
 devolved down to Units of Assessment to support research eligible for the REF and this is
 managed by researchers in their individual UoAs and this has been used to provide staff with

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 resources to support research and facilitate conference attendance. Two members of this UoA
 have attended the University-wide Impact working group which meets regularly to discuss
 developing.

 The University has additionally operated a scheme of negotiated sabbatical support for staff,
 who must identify clear and measurable targets to be achieved at the end of the sabbatical
 period. This has been supplemented by a Small Grants scheme; a conference support scheme;
 support for regular research seminars, research training workshops and inaugural-professorial
 lectures, and financial support for staff undertaking research degrees. Within this UoA 4
 Counselling staff have applied for and been granted this sabbatical support which has also
 included central support for writing retreats and early-stage research including supporting staff
 developing towards independent research. Following a sabbatical period Dr Morrey successfully
 completed her PhD thesis, Faisal Mahmood has commenced a PhD, James Sedgwick
 completed a book which has now been published and Dr Hogan intends to use his sabbatical to
 complete various research projects, including the one which has received NHS funding.

 Dr Hogan has been awarded a grant for £2000 to evaluate the success of an NHS
 commissioned mental health service to help reduce winter pressures on local A&E department.
 In addition, Anatoli Karipidou together with Professor Sextou (Applied Theatre) were awarded an
 Academic Development Larger Grants Fund Bid, Newman University (£875.99) for work on
 applied theatre practitioner’s professional skills and competences in healthcare. Also, Dr Rolfe is
 part of a funding bid in respect of a collaboration for a National Consortium of University-based
 Counselling Research and Training Clinics.

 Moving forward staff will be encouraged to build impact into their research prior to
 commencement in order for impact to be evidenced clearly in future projects from the start. To
 this end Dr Hogan and Dr West are currently developing applied projects with stakeholders
 which should be able to demonstrate direct impact for people living with dementia and their
 carers, and for bariatric patients. The University implemented an Impact Working Group in 2019,
 where UOA coordinators and any colleagues working on an Impact Case Study were invited to
 share ideas and best practices.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Dr Dodd is a Chartered Psychologist. Her area of research focuses on health behaviours of
 young adults. She is a member of the British Psychological Society (BPS), and the BPS Division
 of Health Psychology. Dr Dodd is an external examiner for the University of Westminster (MSc
 Health psychology) and the University of Lancaster (BSc Psychology) and an external validation
 panellist for Arden University (BSc Psychology) and is a reviewer for the Frontiers in Psychiatry
 journal. In addition, Dr Dodd is currently director of studies for two PhD students and has
 previous successful PhD completions in this role. Furthermore, Dr Dodd has been an external
 PhD examiner for Bedfordshire University on two separate occasions.

 Dr Rolfe is a senior Accredited member of British Association for Counselling & Psychotherapy,
 as well as a member of a National consortium of counselling and mental health research clinics
 based in Universities. At Newman there is a community-facing counselling service which also
 engages in data collection on a continuous basis and is part of this consortium. This research is
 also supported by the British Association for Counselling & psychotherapy. Dr Rolfe was a
 supervisor for a successfully completed PhD thesis, has reviewed articles for two different
 journals (Counselling and Psychotherapy Research and Feminism and Psychology) and is an
 external examiner for the University of Northampton for their MSc in Counselling. Furthermore,
 Dr Rolfe has a publication which considers ‘race’ in counselling.

 As mentioned above Dr Hogan has been invited to evaluate the success of an NHS
 commissioned mental health service to help reduce winter pressures on local A&E department.
 Furthermore, Dr Hogan and Dr West conducted an evaluation of a dementia drop-in service run

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by Age UK, Telford, Wrekin and Shropshire and are currently in the process of beginning
 another project looking at the impact of COVID on their service users. Also, Dr Hogan was an
 invited guest on a BBC Coventry and Warwickshire radio programme, answering questions
 about bereavement support for men who have lost a child. Dr Hogan is an external examiner for
 Wrexham Glyndŵr University and has acted as an external examiner for 3 PhDs at The
 University of the West of England, University of Malta and Regents University.

 Faisal Mahmood has Co-hosted BACP research conferences webcasts (2017, 2018, 2019,
 2020) – viewed by over thousands of members. He also holds the role of Vice chair of the
 executive board for Aquarius; is an organising committee member for Marianne Fry Lecturers; is
 head of memberships for UPCA. Furthermore, equality and diversity are the focus of Faisal
 Mahmood’s chapter (‘Can I please have White skin too?’) for a BPS published book (Applied
 Psychology and Allied Professions Working with Ethnic Minorities), and he has appeared on Sky
 TV’s Roundtable programme talking about mental health within ethnic minority communities, as
 well as delivering several keynote lectures at conferences on this topic.

 Dr Teixeira is HCPC registered as Health, Clinical and Counselling Practitioner Psychologist and
 is Registered as Practitioner Psychologist at Ordem dos Psicólogos Portugueses (Portuguese
 Psychologists regulatory body). In addition, Dr Teixeira is an external Academic Advisory Board
 Member for the Birmingham and Lewisham African & Caribbean Health Inequalities Review
 (BLACHIR), Public Health England.

 Dr Birdi has work published which focuses on the experience of Black and Asian vs. White
 students in higher education, and has been involved in the equality and inclusion committee
 which was set up at Departmental level at Newman university. Dr Birdi has reviewed articles for
 the International Journal of Dermatology and the Journal of Higher Education.

 James Sedgwick’s monograph on the ways in which environmental disadvantage gives rise to
 distinctive kinds of psychological distress was published in 2020.

 Dr West is a Chartered Psychologist. Her area of research focuses on health psychology in
 terms of eating and physical activity and cognitive psychology in terms of attention and cognitive
 ageing. Her recent research collaborations have been with Dr Birney at the University of Chester
 which involves stakeholders (‘Climbing Out’). As well as with Age UK (Telford, Wrekin and
 Shropshire) as stakeholders. Dr West is also working with Join Dementia Research (JDR) to
 investigate the impact of cognitive training and physical activity on dementia progression. In
 addition, Dr West is principal investigator on a research project with Shropshire, Telford and
 Wrekin NHS looking at the effects of social support on the long-term outcomes for bariatric
 patients. She is a member of the British Psychological Society (BPS), the BPS Division of Health
 Psychology and the Cognitive Psychology Section. Dr West has reviewed for the Information
 communication and society journal and is supervising an PhD Psychology student at Newman
 University. Dr Morrey is also a researcher advisor for an Applied Theatre PhD student at
 Newman University using Interpretive Phenomenological analysis.




                                                                                             Page 7
