Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Worcester

 Unit of Assessment: 33 Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure

 Since 2014, the strength and vitality of research evidenced in the unit has grown steadily within
 the context of institutional reorganisation which saw the division of the multi-disciplinary Institute
 of Humanities and Creative Arts (IHCA) into the School of Arts (SoA) and the School of Humanities
 (SoH) which were drawn together with the School of Education (SoE) into one of three University
 Colleges, each with a newly created role of College Director of Research and Knowledge
 Exchange.

 While the creative and professional practice orientation of the School of Arts is forging a distinctive
 identity in keeping with the five-year research objective set out in the REF2014 submission to
 develop ‘an increasingly sustainable community of practice-led researchers’ (Dalmasso, Rippel,
 Somerville, Reeves, Bradburn), the research culture continues to benefit from long-established
 strengths generated with Humanities colleagues - most obviously in Cochrane’s work in theatre
 history and Shakespeare in performance as seen through participation in Humanities’ Early
 Modern Research Group (EMRG), the European Shakespeare Research Association (ESRA) and
 collaborative PhD supervision, but also researchers in film history and theory. Film studies is now
 flourishing at all levels in both Schools, which may be traced back to outstanding work in screen
 media recognised in previous RAE exercises which culminated in the 2001 targeted award of
 Capability Funding. This paved the way for successive appointments of researchers in film studies
 (Koven, Elliott) and more recent developments in film production/practice-based research
 (Bradburn, Irving) and screenwriting (Evans, Bovey) which are rapidly expanding in the School of
 Arts.

 With the exceptions of Newland (College Director of Research and Knowledge Exchange), and
 Koven (now leading Film Studies within the School of Humanities), all staff in the unit are located
 within the School of Arts, either in the Department of Theatre and Performance or the Department
 of Film and Media Production. A core group (Cochrane, Elliott, Rippel) together with the leavers
 Dalmasso and Swift were submitted to UoA 35 in 2014. Of 12 Category A eligible members of
 staff (total 10.4 FTE), 9 are being submitted (total 7.8 FTE).

 Throughout the period under review the enabling of a sustainable research culture was always
 grounded in a commitment to the core aims of UW’s 2013-2019 Research Strategy for research
 to be ‘socially and culturally relevant and influential on national agendas’, and towards the
 importance of arts, culture and heritage. However, the institutional changes outlined above mean
 that the record in terms of context divides into two distinct phases. From 2014-18, all research-
 related activity was overseen by the IHCA Research and Knowledge Transfer Committee.
 Representatives from all the key IHCA subject areas (Drama, English, Media and Culture, Film,
 History, Fine Art, Art and Design and Law) attended the committee together with the IHCA
 MPhil/PhD Course Leader, a postgraduate student representative and the internal co-ordinator for
 the IHCA Ethics Committee. Thus, throughout this period activities such as the organisation of a
 regular whole-Institute research seminar series were strongly interdisciplinary, with additional
 highlights such as an event in May 2016 which celebrated the publication of six books from History,
 Sociology, English and Drama, including Cochrane’s co-edited Theatre History and Historiography
 Ethics, Evidence and Truth. The extra-curricular ‘Worcester Weeks’ initiative introduced as a key
 element of the University-wide Curriculum 2013 restructuring which operated until 2017,
 encouraging staff to mount internally funded research and professional practice events open to
 the whole University community. This enabled the embedding of a regular Drama, Performance
 and Film research ‘sharing’ conducted on the model of an academic conference panel, which


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 allowed researchers to test out preliminary work in progress on both practice-based and written
 outputs.

 In September 2015, the hosting of the annual Theatre and Performance Research Association
 (TaPRA) conference brought the (then) highest recorded number of national and international
 delegates to Worcester, and saw the whole Drama and Performance team contribute to the
 organisation and participation in working groups. Rippel and Somerville contributed work to the
 PaR (practice as research) gallery, which benefitted significantly from the spatial and technical
 resources of the Digital Arts Centre (DAC) at the St Johns campus. Immediately prior to TaPRA,
 Worcester hosted the annual ESRA conference (led by Cinpoeş, who is being submitted to UoA
 27), to which Cochrane contributed a keynote lecture. The diverse interdisciplinary remit of the
 EMRG, established by Cinpoeş and leaver Mueller during the REF2014 review period and now
 coordinated by Cinpoeş, not only brings together established research interests in the period
 1550-1800, but has also contributed to a collaborative postgraduate culture which continues to
 span both Schools.

 The increased emphasis on the production of non-text-based models of contemporary
 performance as seen in new curriculum initiatives at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels
 in Drama and Performance and created around themes of gender and sexuality, motherhood,
 family histories and identity, enabled the development and showcasing of key PaR projects by
 Rippel and Somerville, now being submitted as outputs and linked impact case studies.

 In the summer of 2018, and in anticipation of the creation of the new School, an Arts Research
 Group began the process of identifying the key imperatives of a future research culture where
 experienced researchers in Drama, Film and Art and Design would be more closely aligned to
 teaching staff whose academic career routes had been largely tied to professional practice in the
 creative industries. In early 2019, Cochrane and McCannon (as respectively the UoA 33 and 32
 leads) began a series of School of Arts research development sessions which, while reinforcing
 the REF 2021 imperatives of originality, significance and rigour, also aimed to build confidence in
 less-active researchers in the possibilities of a more inclusive and sustainable research
 environment. Sessions on practice-as-research (PaR) saw more ‘sharing’ of practice outputs
 across Drama and Fine Art as well as invited speakers on strategic approaches to PaR and
 funding possibilities. Professor Robin Nelson and Professor Roberta Mock have been among
 external speakers advising on PaR. A School of Arts seminar series launched in early 2020 (and
 latterly conducted online) offered the opportunity for the dissemination of new performance and
 film research projects, and discussion of further work in progress.

 Research and impact strategy

 Unit’s strategic research objectives during the assessment period

 The unit’s research strategy was reviewed following REF 2014, and two broad priorities emerged:
 these were to increase the quality and volume of research outputs, and to develop and deepen
 the research culture of the unit by exercising external networks in selected areas of research
 strength. The School of Humanities and the School of Arts aim to consolidate and grow a rich
 research and impact culture that supports research activity across drama, performance, film and
 creative practice. It also seeks to strengthen the relationship between research activity and the
 quality of teaching to sustain research-informed curricula at all levels. Members of the team are
 expected to be active on a wide range of fronts – to generate peer-reviewed publications in all
 recognised media, to organise and participate in international conferences and cultural events
 such as literary competitions, and other forms of public engagement such as talks at cultural
 venues, radio and television broadcasts. To put this strategy into effect we have reviewed our
 appointments procedure to make sure that research activity (or potential) are high priorities for the
 filling of vacant or new posts.

 A key strategic objective remains to develop national and international networks and projects. For
 example, the foregrounding of ‘Children and Young People’ as a primary area of distinction within

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UW’s 2014-19 research strategy was reflected in the REF2014 Drama and Performance strategic
 aim to develop an international, interdisciplinary project focused on ‘Performing
 Children/Performing Childhood’ proposed by Broster - then Acting Joint Head of IHCA and a
 member of ASSITEJ (International Association for Theatre for Children and Young People) and
 its research wing ITYARN (The International Theatre for Young Audiences Research Network).
 The invited keynote speaker for the 2015 TaPRA conference was Professor Manon van de Water
 from the University of Wisconsin-Madison (former chair of ITYARN). In 2016, Broster was invited
 to deliver a keynote at the international ASSITEJ Festival hosted by the Birmingham Repertory
 Theatre. While the success of the undergraduate module Theatre for Young Audiences fed into
 the specific Children’s Theatre strand of the MA Drama, Broster’s subsequent appointment as
 Head of the School of Arts necessitated a withdrawal from active research engagement. However,
 a consultative relationship developed with Polka Theatre in London which brought the opportunity
 to acquire the archives of what was the UK’s first theatre venue dedicated exclusively for children.
 This is currently being catalogued within the archival holdings of the Hive Library where it can be
 made accessible to researchers in the field and offer the possibility of initiating funded doctoral
 level study.

 Impact strategy

 The creative and performative dimensions of the practice-led research submitted by unit members
 have contributed significantly to the broader, outward-facing impact of the theoretical lenses and
 methodologies adopted. This is seen most clearly in the work of Somerville and Rippel, which is
 presented in the unit’s two impact case studies. These were selected and strategically developed
 not only because of the evidence of effective dissemination and local, national and international
 reach, but also because of the long-term, sustained attention to the theoretical framing aligned to
 practical innovation represented by the underpinning research. Somerville’s focus on the concept
 of the operatic and how it is manifested in terms of movement, performance practice and
 convention continues to enlarge understanding of both the historical and popular significance of
 opera as well as stimulating new models of contemporary performance. In Rippel’s work through
 Zoo Indigo performance, the integration of new technologies combined with audience interaction
 reinforces the kinaesthetic apprehension of dramaturgies of migration, displacement and maternal
 trauma. Although not selected as an impact case study, Bradburn’s interactive film Pandemic,
 commissioned by the Science Museum and shown as part of its Frankenstein Festival in 2018, is
 conceptually and technically innovative, as it seeks to explore how interactivity can envelop the
 bodies of audience in a narrative which requires moral and ethical decisions to be made. After
 more than 600 people participated in the three-day Festival there was a blog post on the Museum
 website and an official British Film Institute podcast. Later screenings occurred at the Bio Medical
 Ethics Conference at Imperial College and at the 2019 Gothic Feminisms Conference at the
 University of Kent.

 Since 2014 the unit has strategically supported impact and knowledge exchange activities. For
 example, Koven’s research on classic horror and cult films, including Italian Giallo murder-
 mysteries, Blaxploitation films and international Zombie films, has reached wider audiences
 through his work as a resident expert for distributors Arrow, 88Film and 101 Film. An extensive
 output through Blu-ray releases and Blu-ray booklets of feature interviews, essays, video essays,
 audio commentary and contributions to documentaries has generated both national and
 international popular impact. As the author of an impact case study for REF2014, Cochrane’s long-
 established work on the history and ongoing record of the Birmingham Repertory Theatre
 continues to stimulate both academic and wider public impact, especially in the understanding of
 the priorities and wider circumstances driving the policies of English regional theatre. This has
 extended to research on other regional building-based theatres, especially in relation to
 engagement with black British and British Asian practitioners and audiences, As the author of a
 major study of the social and economic factors shaping twentieth-century British theatre as a whole
 (submitted for the 2014 REF exercise) the impact of her work has now expanded into the field of
 historiographic enquiry and analysis as seen initially in her co-edited Ethics and Evidence
 collection cited in section 1. This offers the first specific and wide-ranging scrutiny of the


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 imperatives necessary for the ethical practice of theatre history, with the participating contributors
 representing a considerable diversity of standpoints and methodology.

 Interdisciplinary research

 Interdisciplinary approaches to applied theatre in teaching and research have been fundamental
 to the core strategy of Drama and Performance at Worcester for over two decades, foregrounding
 the value of theatre in both primary and secondary school settings (Reeves) and extending
 established theoretical and practical expertise in approaches to disability, now represented by
 Wheeler’s work. Recently Reeves has diversified her practice from a primary level, theatre-in-
 education specialism to interdisciplinary, collaboration with staff (Sue Nielson, Brian Nyatanga)
 from UW’s School of Nursing and Midwifery. This has brought together undergraduate drama
 students with trainee nurses to explore empathetic approaches to end-of-life care with terminally
 ill children. As a short research project now documented and explored in co-authored outputs, the
 collaboration began in Worcester, but with the move of Nielson to the School of Nursing within the
 Institute of Clinical Sciences at the University of Birmingham, anticipated further development in
 e-learning resources and an evaluation tool is now not only interdisciplinary but also inter-
 institutional. Our research in Film Studies is also often interdisciplinary; for example, Newland’s
 work on cultural constructions of spaces, places and landscapes draws on theoretical work in the
 field of geography.

 Open research

 The University is committed to an Open Research Environment evidenced by its resourcing of this
 important area (dedicated Open Access Advocacy and Support Officer; Open Access Funding)
 and its policy development (on Open Access and Open Data) (REF5a 2.6). This commitment is
 further reflected in the new University Research & KE Strategy which identifies developing its
 Open Research environment as one of 5 underpinning principles of the strategy (REF5a 2.3.4).
 The unit echoes this commitment. It has worked closely with the Open Access Advocacy and
 Support Officer to raise awareness of the Open Access agenda, for example, through running
 dedicated training events.

 Research integrity

 At University level, the University’s Research Integrity & Governance Committee has oversight of
 policies and procedures to support research integrity and its Chair is the University’s Research
 Integrity Champion. The Champion is expected to embed a culture of integrity across University
 through developing training and support for staff but also raising its profile.

 At College level, Research Ethics Panels are responsible for review of all staff and research
 student projects to ensure they are conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and
 professional frameworks, obligations and standards. Panel Chairs and Vice Chairs are
 experienced researchers whilst panel reviewers are drawn from across the College; lay reviewers
 are also recruited to the panel. Training is provided to all reviewers before they engage in the role.
 There is an annual audit of reviews to ensure the Panels are fulfilling their role.

 Future strategic aims

 Practice-led research is now flourishing in the unit, and this will be a key element in the strategy
 for the next five years. We aim to build on what has been achieved, to extend into new possibilities
 including within film and new digital technologies, and to develop and thus exploit the creative
 potential represented in the professional practitioners not yet formally incorporated within the unit’s
 research culture.

 As will become clear from the commentary in sections 2 and 3 of this statement, there is a need
 to strengthen and expand the postgraduate student base. In part this is dependent on securing
 more regular access to external funding sources, which will also be a means of confirming

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 confidence in the dynamism and relevance of unit research. While individuals will continue to be
 supported in projects, especially those that will enable them to engage with wider national and
 international research networks, the University’s 2020-25 Research and KE Strategy Area of
 Challenge focused on ‘culture, identity and social exclusion’ offers opportunities for research
 ‘clusters of interest’ which may develop into more formal research groups. Although at an early
 stage of discussion, the concept of the ‘fringe’ as seen in emerging touring performance
 ensembles and in fringe opera companies has suggested an area of research which surveys and
 interrogates the material conditions and mode of operation which determines artistic outcomes
 and efficacy. As highlighted in section 2, however, the recent formation of a group within the unit
 to embark on a grass-roots interrogation of issues of structural racism has brought together four
 researchers with both practice-based and theoretical expertise in the lived experience of
 exclusion, marginalisation and displacement—all linked to constructions of identity. The work of a
 such a group grounded in a coherent research rationale and appropriately aligned with other
 internal and external researchers and stakeholders might go some way to fulfilling the University’s
 core vision of ‘fundamentally’ improving people’s lives.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 Table 1 shows the balance between contract levels in the unit for both Category A Eligible and
 Submitted staff (see REF5a 3.1.5 for institutional comparison).

                                                 % Category A             % Category A
                                                 Eligible                 Submitted
  Lecturer/Research Fellow (K0)                  12                       0
  Senior Lecturer/Senior Research                64                       66
  Fellow (J0)
  Principal Lecturer/Principal Research 18                           22
  Fellow/Head of School (I0)
  Professor (F1)                            6                        11
                          Table 1: Proportion of staff by contract level

 Seven Category A eligible staff have been appointed in the assessment period, four of whom are
 submitted (Bradburn, Newland, Somerville and Wheeler). There remains a single Professor in the
 School (Cochrane), but the appointment of Newland as College Director has strengthened
 research leadership in the unit. His publication record in film history and theory, which aligns with
 Elliott’s, not only positions his outputs within this unit, but also within a growing interest in practice
 as research, which further signals our strategy in this area.

 As highlighted in the REF2014 environment statement, existing (Irving) and new staff (Bovey,
 Bradburn, Evans) in screen writing and film production have been appointed for their outstanding
 track records in professional practice and their strong potential to contribute to future knowledge
 exchange. Furthermore, the introduction in 2015 of the new four-year level 7 integrated taught
 Masters course, MTheatre Touring Theatre, brought a further focus on the skills of professional
 artists appointed as lecturer practitioners: Wheeler, a founder and former artistic director of the
 leading learning disability arts company Mind the Gap; Coleman, with extensive experience in
 directing and dramaturgy and the founder of Dawn State Theatre Company, and Wills-Crisp
 physical theatre practitioner and founder member of Jammy Voo Theatre Company. Wheeler, in
 the light of research-oriented interests and extensive experience in disability arts, was encouraged
 in 2020 to transfer to a standard teaching and research contract with a view to foster his academic
 research potential.

 As section 4 of this statement makes clear in the examples of Irving and Bovey, high-quality
 professional practice and creative expertise mediated through professional networks, community
 engagement and knowledge exchange have considerable potential for capture in more formally

                                                                                                    Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 structured models of research. Bovey, for example, is a writer and director for both short and
 feature films, as well as an established writer for BBC television and radio. Recent short plays are
 attracting increased critical attention, most notably ‘Franklin’, broadcast on BBC Radio 4 in
 November 2020, which focuses on an artistic/moral dilemma which arose for the cartoonist
 Charles Schulz in the aftermath of the assassination of Martin Luther King.

 Staff development

 The University was granted the HR Excellence in Research award in 2016, and is a signatory to
 the new Researcher Development Concordat, reflecting its commitment to researcher
 development.

 All research-active staff complete an individual research plan as part of the annual Appraisal
 process, with short- and long-term objectives: progress against these objectives is monitored with
 line managers. Each member of staff has an opportunity to discuss the support for their research,
 including the resources required, and to agree their personal development needs and objectives.
 There is also a research mentoring database where individuals can search for experienced
 researchers with relevant expertise to help them with their projects and personal development.
 This mentoring is initiated by the researcher and focuses on specific issues related to a research
 project from initial proposal to publication.

 Development needs can often be met through the University’s Researcher Development
 Programme, which is designed to support staff at all career stages (REF5a 3.2). Staff in the unit
 have consistently engaged with the University’s Research Leadership Programme, its Research
 Supervisor Development Programme, Bid Development training and Impact and Engagement
 training. Staff in the unit have also been active contributors to this programme. This is
 complemented by development events run by the School.

 Staff can also access the University’s Research Mentoring Programme (REF5a 3.2.4). They can
 do so at any point from appointment onwards and at any career stage. This programme has also
 offered an opportunity for mentors to develop their skills, with all mentors receiving dedicated
 training for the role. More subject-focused mentoring is provided at School-level. Mentoring is a
 key part of academic career progression at UW.

 Staff in the unit have been supported to undertake doctoral study both through funding for 50% of
 fees and workload management: Somerville and Rippel have completed in the period, whilst
 Bradburn and Evans have embarked on doctoral research based on their creative practice.

 Staff in the unit can access the University’s research leave programme (see REF5a 3.2.3). Two
 members of staff have been awarded leave in the assessment period (Elliott, Koven), enabling
 them to develop their research, publish and extend the impact of their research. Further, all
 Category A staff have 20 days research and scholarly activity leave. This is complemented by
 individualised allocation of workloads, for example: Rippel’s teaching load was balanced to enable
 her to complete her PhD successfully in 2018.

 Research students

 The unit offers both a PhD programme and, since 2015, a Masters by Research (MRes)
 programme. The PGR community in the unit is small. There are currently 5 students on PhD
 programmes in the School of Arts and 2 students in Humanities co-supervised by Cochrane, both
 in receipt of University Studentships, and 4 on the MRes. There has been one PhD completion in
 the period supervised by Elliott, focused on documentary film making. This student was in receipt
 of a University studentship. There has been one MPhil (supervised by Koven). However, the unit
 has increased its supervisory capacity to 10, and is now well-placed to develop this community.

 Recruitment to doctoral programmes is overseen by School-level Course Leaders (PhD and
 MRes) who work closely with the central Research School (REF5a 3.3.2-3). Course Leaders also

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 play a core role in oversight of research student progress. They sit on the University’s Research
 Degree Board and are responsible for annual monitoring of student progress within the School.

 The University has a well-established graduate school (branded as the Research School) which
 is responsible for the management of all Research Degree Programmes (RDPs) from recruitment
 to examination, in partnership with the academic schools (REF5a 3.3.2-3). The Research School
 is also responsible for research student life, i.e., for the wider development and wellbeing of
 research students.

 The University has expanded the Research School team to reflect the growth in student numbers
 over the REF period. It provides a dedicated work and social space for students. The Research
 School team, co-located in the student space, provides advice and guidance for students on their
 programmes, and, working closely with other student-facing departments such as the Disability &
 Dyslexia Service, the student mental health team, careers service, also offers pastoral and wider
 support. A comprehensive programme of support and guidance has been developed for PGR
 students and supervisors around mental health and wellbeing.

 All students on research degree programmes are required to undertake an associated training
 programme, run by the Research School (REF5a 3.3.4-5). The programme has been mapped
 against Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework. The programme offers a suite of modules,
 short courses and workshops, delivered face-to-face or online, some of which are compulsory for
 all doctoral students, focused on the following core areas: planning and managing research;
 academic writing; research methods; data analysis; research integrity and ethics; dissemination,
 engagement and impact; careers and employability. This is complemented by the School with
 PGRs able to access subject-level methodology modules, studying alongside PGT students. The
 University also supports students to engage with external training where this is specialist and not
 available through the University’s programmes. Students are also able to access training offered
 through the GuildHE Research network.

 Beyond the programme, the Research School offers additional development opportunities.
 Research Students have opportunities to teach, and can access modules and workshops to
 develop their skills in this area, with the opportunity to gain associate or full fellowship of the Higher
 Education Academy. The University offers research student-specific dissemination opportunities
 including an annual ‘Images of Research’ exhibition and student-led PGR Conference. The
 University provides funding opportunities for students to attend and speak at external conference
 and events and separate funds to support students to develop inter- and cross-disciplinary
 networks, seminar series, conferences and events. The University is a member of the Brilliant
 Club, a charity focused on improving access to University, which provides opportunities for
 doctoral students to go into schools and deliver tutorials in their area of expertise.

 Supervisors are supported in their roles through the Research Supervisor Development
 programme. This programme has been in place for 20 years but was redesigned and relaunched
 in 2018/19. The programme offers a wide range of support for supervisors at various career stages
 on themes such as: introduction to supervision, supervisory styles, regulations and processes,
 supervising international students, PGR mental health and wellbeing, supporting student progress.
 New supervisors must complete the whole programme, but more experienced supervisors must
 also engage with core elements and all supervisors are required to engage in regular refresher
 training (every 3 years). The programme is complemented by supervisor lunches that bring
 together supervisors to discuss key topics and challenges in supervision. Staff in the School have
 also benefitted from the experience of supervising MRes students before moving to doctoral
 supervision. All supervisors are encouraged to engage with the UKCGE Good Supervisor Practice
 Framework and Accreditation programme, with workshops currently underway to support
 supervisors to apply for recognition.

 Equality and diversity



                                                                                                    Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University has a fundamental commitment to equality and diversity (REF5a 3.4). It seeks to
 consider and apply equality and diversity principles in all that it does. Its policies and processes
 are designed to disadvantage no-one, and are subject to ongoing equality impact assessment to
 ensure this is the case.

 The unit’s approach flows from this with the Head of School ensuring that the University’s
 principles and policies are fully enacted. Line managers ensure staff are aware of and are
 supported to engage with, for example, the University’s flexible working policy, its parental leave
 policies, its policies which support carers (such as its Critical Illness Policy) and its staff wellbeing
 initiatives (see REF5a 3.1.8).

 Several staff in the unit have benefitted from the University’s flexible working policy (REF5a 3.1.8)
 with a move to part-time or compressed hours. There is no evidence that this has impacted on
 research productivity, access to funding or progression. It is notable that both at institutional
 (REF5a table 2) and unit level, part time staff are as well-represented in the Category A submitted
 as eligible category. The School has a fair and flexible approach to working, particularly during the
 current lockdown period in recognition of the challenges of home schooling.

 Staff in the unit are committed to equality and diversity. Staff were members of the University’s
 Athena SWAN self-assessment team; the University received its institutional Bronze Award in April
 2018 and is committed to making departmental applications in the next 2 years. Staff are also
 engaged with various staff networks focused on protected characteristics and with the LGBTQ+
 Allies scheme. It is clear, however, as recent vigorous debates within the Standing Conference of
 University Drama Departments (SCUDD) and TaPRA have reinforced, that significantly more
 needs to be done to achieve fuller inclusivity. Members of this unit are demonstrating direct
 engagement with these issues. Somerville, whose work underpins one of our impact case studies),
 is a founder member of Worcestershire Pride and is chair of UW’s LGBTQ+ staff network.
 Cochrane, as a founder member in 2015 of the SCUDD Diversity Working Group and a member
 of the Diversity Group of the West Midlands, What Next Chapter, has consistently aligned her
 research and teaching interests with undergraduate and postgraduate curriculum content
 reinforced by the introduction of artists of colour to the student experience. Rippel’s teaching and
 performance practice increasingly focuses on questions of cultural heritage, difference and
 displacement (as exemplified by her impact case study). Wheeler’s extensive experience in all
 aspects of disability arts permeates his practice and teaching and is especially relevant in a
 learning and teaching context where there is a high incidence of declared student disability, in
 particular neuro diversity. As the period covered by this Environment Statement ended, staff in the
 unit formed the Drama and Performance Anti-Racism Group with the object of raising awareness
 of the effects of poorly understood structural racism. This work has begun by examining curriculum
 content and the experience of students of colour but is also advocating attention to the
 employment of staff of diverse cultural heritage with the aim of securing permanent appointments
 in both teaching and research. An associated aim is to integrate these practical concerns with a
 strand of whole School research culture which invites challenging perspectives and rigorous
 critical enquiry.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 The unit is supported in its income generation by the central Research Office and primarily, since
 the academic restructure, by a College Director of RKE and a RKE Facilitator. The Director’s role
 is to provide leadership and guidance for Schools in developing their strategy, whilst the Facilitator
 works with groups and individuals to develop a bespoke funding opportunities service for
 members.

 Staff submitted to this unit have not received any external funding such as can be recorded in
 University HESA returns. Remedying this is an essential priority for future research development
 which will be taken forward by the College Director. However, several School of Arts members of

                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff are practising professional artists and have had significant success in attracting income either
 from commission or funding sources outside the academy and this in turn has benefitted PaR
 outputs submitted to this exercise:
     • Rippel, with her Zoo Indigo partner Rosie Garton, received a total of £50,000 project
         funding from Arts Council England for work on the development and tour of No Woman’s
         Land. Their most recent project ‘BRITIZenship’ - in development during the REF period -
         was awarded £1,500 by the Attenborough Arts Centre in Leicester which commissioned
         the work. Further funding from Arts Council England of £15,000 was awarded to which was
         added £4,800 from the European Regional Development Fund.
     • Bradburn’s interactive film Pandemic was commissioned and financed by the Science
         Museum.
     • As a former artistic director of an Arts Council National Portfolio Company with a history of
         substantial fund-raising, including from European sources, Wheeler brings significant skills
         to future income generation. As a consultant he is currently working on a retrospective
         impact study for the British Council’s worldwide Disability Arts Programme from 2012-2020
         which beyond this REF period will permit an independently considered and published
         research output.

 Infrastructure

 The University has significantly expanded its institutional infrastructure for supporting research
 and impact over the assessment period, establishing a RKE Directorate consisting of a Research
 Office, Research School and College RKE infrastructure (REF5a 4.1). It has also expanded
 support for researchers offered by Library Services.

 The University RKE Directorate provides wide-ranging support and guidance for researchers
 around identifying funding (including access to funding databases, such as Research
 Professional), bid development, KE and impact generation (including use of Vertigo Ventures
 Impact Tracker), project delivery (including contract negotiation, liaison with partners, financial and
 other reporting) and research governance (including data management, data sharing, protecting
 and exploiting IP).

 The University has established robust Pre- and Post-Award processes for externally funded
 projects (approved in 2018/19 and subject to evaluation and review in 2020/21). These processes
 scaffold the Research Office support systems set out above and ensure good governance for bids
 and for projects.

 The University also provides access for researchers to a current research information system
 (PURE) and a publication repository (WRAP – Worcester Research and Publications). Unit
 members have consistently benefitted from the help given by the dedicated manager of WRaP
 and from the work of the Open Access Advocacy and Support Officer. This has become especially
 important in the deposit of video records of live performance and research specifically with film.
 The functionality of the repository has been developed to boost the profile of researchers. Recently
 WRaP was fully integrated with ORCID API, which facilitates cross-platform sharing and ensures
 that UW authors can easily maintain an up-to-date publications profile.

 Staff have access to major citation databases (Scopus and Web of Science), and subject-specific
 databases, for example: Project Muse Humanities, ProQuest, JSTOR and International
 Bibliography of Theatre and Dance). There are also subscriptions to Drama Online, in perpetuity,
 Digital Theatre + and Box of Broadcasts. Relatively speaking, Worcester’s library is ‘young’,
 without the extensive print materials accumulated in longer-established universities, so investment
 in digital publications has been an obvious boom.

 The University offers a range of research support schemes designed to support researchers at all
 career stages and, variously, to pump prime projects, develop international collaborations,
 advance existing areas of work (REF5a 4.1.6). Staff in the unit have been successful in gaining
 funding from these schemes:

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   PhD studentships: Elliott was awarded a fully-funded PhD studentship in 2015.
 •   Vacation Research Assistantships (VRAs): Irving was awarded a VRA to work on developing
     a documentary film.

 The School also provides support including workload relief and support for conference attendance
 (£24,000 over the assessment period) and has recently established a Research Development
 Fund. Indirect benefit has also been experienced through the commitment to the showcasing of
 MTheatre student work at the Edinburgh International Festival, which, in the case of Somerville,
 permitted simultaneous access to a performance venue for his research.

 Facilities

 The research environment at all levels is enriched by The Hive, a unique collaboration between
 the University and the City Council which houses the University Library as well as an extensive
 collection of archives. The Hive is the first joint academic/public library in Europe, which has over
 12 miles of archival material, and more than 250,000 books. The Hive has provided a natural
 venue for public engagement events that contribute to the impact of the team’s research (REF5a
 4.2.2).

 Over the past two decades there has been significant and ongoing investment in facilities which
 provides important resources for high-level staff/student PaR exploratory activity leading to
 performance and film outputs. For Drama and Performance there are two flexible studios equipped
 to a high technical specification. The Drama Studio, with an audience seating capacity of 120, has
 adjoining dressing rooms, a green room and storage facilities and regularly hosts visiting theatre
 companies including those led by staff. The Digital Arts Centre (DAC) located close by includes a
 video studio, film studio, individual edit suites, high-spec computer labs with latest image
 manipulation, editing and sound post-production software. The Garage, a recently acquired
 industrial complex, has been repurposed to provide three artists’ studios, workshop facilities and
 lecture/performance spaces. Three full-time technicians serve teaching and research in drama
 and performance, with a further four supporting work in the DAC. All assist in research-related
 filming and editing.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations

 Research collaborations have resulted in both traditional academic publication and practice-based
 research. Cochrane’s work with Professor Jo Robinson (University of Nottingham) in their jointly
 edited collections Theatre History and Historiography Ethics, Evidence and Truth and The
 Methuen Drama Handbook of Theatre History and Historiography drew on their long-term
 relationship with the national and international members of the TaPRA History and Historiography
 Working Group and the IFTR Historiography Working Group. Both collections feature essays by
 international scholars, but the Methuen Drama Handbook includes the work of 19 international
 theatre historians. In 2018, supported by the University of Nottingham’s Research Leaders’
 Programme, Cochrane and Robinson organised an international round-table discussion held in
 the context of the IFTR annual conference hosted at the Belgrade University of Arts in Serbia –
 an edited transcript of which was published in the book. Newland worked with Brian Hoyle
 (University of Dundee) on the co-edited British Art Cinema, commissioning chapters from UK-
 based film scholars including UW’s Elliott. Joint Reeves/Nielson presentations have been given at
 the Performing Care symposium held at Royal Central School of Speech and Drama in 2016, at
 the International Nursing Research Conference at the University of Birmingham in 2018, and the
 Advance HE Conference in 2019. Rippel’s work as a practitioner-researcher is grounded in her
 collaboration with her Zoo Indigo co-artistic director Rosie Garton (De Montfort University) as well
 as project-specific collaboration with media artists and film makers (Barret Hodgson and Tom
 Walsh) and musician Matt Marks. In addition to the touring performances of Under the Covers
 (2015), No Woman’s Land (2016-18), Celluloid Souls (2017-18) and BRITizenship (2019-2020),
 performance lectures have been given at a number of international conferences including ‘Cinema

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in Theatre’ conference at the University of Lyon (2014); Play-Perform-Participate biannual
 conference of the International Society for Intermedial Studies, Utrecht University (2015);
 International Conference on Culture, Communication and Transnational Societies, Chulalongkorn
 University, Bangkok, 2016. Rippel regularly presents her work within the IFTR Performance as
 Research Working Group.

 Contribution to the research base

 Invited talks and lectures

 In November 2014 leaver Dalmasso spoke on ‘Badiou’s Ethics of Play’ at a conference in Prague
 organised by the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Institute of Philosophy, and Charles
 University Faculty of Humanities. In 2015 he gave a paper ‘Stages of Statelessness’ at the
 Institutions, Politics, Performance conference, Green Park Athens. Both Koven and Newland have
 been invited to give keynote or guest lectures outside the UK. In 2017, Koven gave the keynote
 address ‘Return of the Living Slave: Jordan Peele’s Get Out as Zombie Film” at The Zombies are
 Coming 2: Return of the Festival, Albany, NY: University at Albany & Madison Theatre; he
 delivered three guest lectures in the Department of Ethnology, Charles University, Prague. In 2018
 he gave the paper ‘Häxan and the birth of Folk Horror’ for the Perspectives on Contemporary
 Legend, 36th International Conference, held at the Institut des Hautes Ėtudes de Communications
 Sociales (IHECS) Brussels, Belgium. Learned Society conference papers have been given in
 Rome (2015) and Tallin, Estonia in 2016. Newland’s invited papers for an international audience
 include in 2014, ‘The armpit of the world: borders, boundaries and the post-carnivalesque in Last
 Resort (2000)’ for the Society for Cinema and Media Studies conference in Seattle, USA; in 2015
 ‘Rustic Never Sleeps: Sublime, beautiful and picturesque music in YGwyll/Hinterland’ for the Music
 and Moving Image conference held in New York University; in 2016 ‘The architecture of sound in
 the work of Michelangelo Antonioni’ for the Music and Moving Image conference, again in New
 York City. Reeves gave a paper ‘Khattam-Shud – The Story is not completely finished’ at the
 IDIERI 9 conference held at the University of Auckland in 2018. As a long-standing member of the
 IFTR Historiography Working Group Cochrane has given papers and chaired panels at annual
 conferences held in Hyderabad (2015); Stockholm (2016); Sao Paulo (2017); Belgrade (2018);
 Berlin and Shanghai (2019). She also contributed a paper for the Practice as Research in Medieval
 Theatre Working Group at the American Society for Theatre Research annual conference held in
 Minneapolis in 2016. In 2014 as part of an ongoing institutional relationship between UW and the
 University of Minnesota, Duluth, both Irving and Rippel gave guest public lectures. As a member
 of the international Screenwriting Research Network Bovey gave a presentation on ‘Show
 Business: The Development of a Language of Screenplay’ at the annual conference held in Milan
 in 2018.

 Unit members have a consistent record of engagement in conferences organised within the UK
 many of which had a significant international component. In 2015 in addition to the Drama and
 English team work on TaPRA and ESRA, Irving was a founding member of the Radical Film
 Network and steering committee member for the inaugural conference for which he gave a
 keynote, ‘Non-hierarchical self-governing organisational structures’. He was also on the
 conference organising committee for the 2017 conference held in Tolpuddle. Koven organised the
 two-day symposium ‘The Handmaid’s Tale - Gender, Genre, Adaptation’ held at Worcester in
 September 2017, which attracted several international scholars. Cochrane and Elliott both chaired
 panels. George, as part of her growing research interest in aspects of touring theatre was a
 member of the Programme Committee for the National Touring Forum’s showcase conference
 ‘New Directions’ held at Worcester in 2018. Between 2014 and 2017 Newland gave annual invited
 lectures at Syracuse University in London. His presentation ‘Rustic Never Sleeps’ was given at
 the BAFTTS conference in Manchester in 2015. ‘Another kind of pilgrim walks the way: A
 Canterbury Tale, fan pilgrims, and the cultural landscaping of Kent’ was given at both the Screen
 conference held in Glasgow in 2014 and at the ECRF Conference held in Galway in 2015. Elliott
 spoke on ‘Through Class Darkly: British TV Noir’ at the BFI Media Conference in London in 2016.
 Koven’s extensive contributions to film studies conferences include a keynote ‘Return of the Living
 Slave: Jordan Peele’s Get Out as Zombie Film’ for the 2019 Folklore on Screen, Centre for

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contemporary Legend, Sheffield; ‘The Canadian Giallo, or how Italian horror movies influenced
 the Canadian slasher film’ for the Fractured Visions conference held in Cardiff in October 2019; In
 2020 for Miskatonic University of Horror Studies (London) a talk entitled ‘Golems, Dybbuks and
 other Movie Monsters: The Search for the Jewish Horror Film’. Bovey gave presentations at the
 Screenwriting Research Network annual conference in Leeds in 2016 and in 2017 for the
 Association of Adaptation Studies annual conference in Leicester in 2017. Reeves presented at
 the Inspiring Curiosity conference held to celebrate the beginning of TIE at the Belgrade Theatre
 in Coventry in 2015. She spoke on ‘Teaching Empathetic Practice’ at the Advance HE conference
 at Northumbria University in 2019. Somerville’s PaR conference contributions include the
 presentation of the script and supporting practice research contextualisation of ‘Dancing Nessun
 Dorma’ at ‘SALVAGE’ the BCLA XIV Triennial International Conference at Wolverhampton
 University in 2016. In 2020 he presented a performance derived from research on Joshua Sofaer’s
 opera-related work for the launch of the book Joshua Sofaer Performance, Object, Participation
 organised by the Live Art Development Agency and Intellect Books. In addition to Pandemic as a
 film maker Bradburn’s practice-research has been disseminated widely both locally and nationally.
 This includes: The Judas Fire (2016) – an exploration of the landscape around South Birmingham
 looking at the convergence of the rural with the impact of the Industrial Revolution. The Mountain
 of Dead Selves , a group show Constructing the Self: David Bowie, shown at Vivid Gallery (2016);
 A Line Between the Heavens and the Earth – live AV performance at the Vivid Projects Gallery as
 part of the Supersonic Festival under the name Ferric Lux.

 Editorial and review work

 Cochrane is series co-editor with Professor Bruce McConachie (University of Pittsburgh, USA) of
 the Bloomsbury Series of Cultural Histories, and reviews book proposals for other publishers
 including Palgrave Macmillan and the University of Pennsylvania Press and articles in journals
 such as Research in Drama Education. As the longstanding (2008-) Reviews Editor for Theatre
 Notebook she has extended the range and diversity of the pool of reviewers for publications on
 British theatre history and has offered review opportunities to colleagues Reeves, Wheeler and
 Rippel. As the former Secretary of SCUDD, Cochrane was made an Honorary Life Member in
 2015. As part of her professorial role, she is also consulted on senior level promotion applications
 at other universities such as Kingston, Anglia Ruskin and Royal Holloway, University of London,
 the Universities of Vienna and of Haifa in Israel. Newland is on the editorial board of the Journal
 of British Cinema and Television and the International Journal of Creative Media Research. He
 also reviews proposals for Manchester University Press, Routledge, Palgrave, Continuum and the
 journal, Music Sound and the Moving Image. Koven is on the editorial board of Shofar: An
 Interdisciplinary Journal of Jewish Studies, Jewish Film & New Media and Jewish Cultural Studies.
 His peer reviews include work submitted for McFarland & Company, University of Wales Press
 and Colorado & Utah State University Press. Bovey has reviewed for Bloomsbury and Screenplay
 Unlimited Publishing, Reeves for Routledge.

 Research Degree Examination

 Senior unit members have acted as external examiners for PhD theses. Cochrane: Bristol 2014;
 Exeter, 2015; Nottingham, 2018, 2019; Birmingham 2014, 2017, 2018/19; Glasgow 2018;
 Swinburne University of Technology Australia, 2019; Warwick 2020. Newland: Southampton and
 Portsmouth 2014, Exeter 2018. Koven: Bangor 2014, University of South Wales 2019. Elliott:
 Essex 2019.

 Contribution to economy and society

 There is a strong record of public engagement and popular dissemination of subject specialisms.
 In this respect the Hive has proved to be an excellent resource. As the chair of the University
 Professors’ Group, from 2013-15 Cochrane organised a public cross-disciplinary professorial
 lecture series to which professors from across the whole University contributed. A highlight of
 Sarah Evans’ record of bringing guest speakers to Worcester was the 2018 Screenwriting Festival
 which brought screen writers and producers Samantha Doland De Vaux, Elliott Hope, and Mog

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 McIntyre to interact with both students and the public. A continuing relationship has been forged
 with high profile writer and producer Steven Knight in whose name an award has been established
 to benefit level 6 students. Koven’s long-running ‘Splendid Cinema’ series which utilised the Hive
 and Worcester Arts Workshop made a varied selection of both popular and international avant-
 garde films available for public screenings. Again, at a local level Irving has formed a partnership
 with the chair of the Worcester TUC to run Worcester Radical Film Society ( WoRF), a small group
 including campaign and community groups which collaborates in the screening of films with
 challenging political content. Irving was also active in the setting up of AMP Worc, a social
 enterprise project originally funded by HEFCE/ Unitd* as a co-operative to work with students,
 local groups and businesses to provide media production services. Bradburn has also worked with
 local organisations such as Big Brum Theatre in Education Company. In 2017 he made the
 documentary ‘Worlds Apart Together’ about the site-specific project at Highbury Hall in
 Birmingham which introduced school groups to memories of the First World War. Reeves is now
 a Board member of C&T Theatre Company which has a very long-established relationship with
 Drama and Performance at Worcester especially through its artistic director Dr Paul Sutton. Again,
 at a local level Cochrane frequently responds to media enquiries about the history of the
 Birmingham Rep and has acted in an advisory capacity with volunteers currently maintaining the
 theatre’s extensive archives. As a Trustee of the Sir Barry Jackson Trust since 2013 she now
 chairs the grants subcommittee which oversees the distribution of grants to small-scale theatre
 makers and liaises with the Rep’s producers of the annual community tour. In 2020, working with
 other Trustees such as the playwright David Edgar, she assisted in the allocation of emergency
 grants to theatre makers suffering the effects of the Covid crisis. Since 2018 as a consultant,
 Wheeler has been engaged by the British Council Georgia on a programme for government and
 NGOs to support development opportunity for disabled artists; the British Council and The Informal
 European Theatre Meetings (IETM) for a research project mapping the performing arts sector in
 the North of England. From 2015, he has been a steering committee member of Creative Case
 North, a consortium convened by Arts Council England comprising National Portfolio
 Organisations and freelance artists/consultants. The Committee awarded small grants to develop
 exemplar partnership working. He is also an Arts Council England Arts Quality Assessor.




                                                                                             Page 13
