Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of East London

 Unit of Assessment: 13 Architecture, Built Environment and Planning

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview

Located in the historically poorer East End of a global metropolis, our research has, like the East
End itself, dramatic changes in the past few years. While UEL has always reflected and been
part of the multicultural character of the East End, this part of London has in recent years become a
vibrant world-leading centre with a global outlook, and this, too, is reflected in the direction and
development of our research.

The urban regeneration of East London has provided the social and physical canvas that has
inspired and informed many strands of our work, encouraging partnerships that extend from the
immediately local to those that extend internationally. The dynamics of regeneration, innovation and
increasingly global outlook act as a catalyst for convening multidisciplinary research around the
critical question of how change impacts community and environment from local to global, how the
dis-benefits of such change can be minimised or avoided, and how the benefits can be focused and
harnessed. The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) now provide a valuable formal
framework for what have long been our core set of ideals and actions.




             Figure 1. Action Research developed over many years by Jungfer and
             Palmieri with our students and stakeholder groups in Dalston, East
             London developing relationships and opportunities for impact - the
             Tropical Isles Carnival group awarded at the Notting Hill and Hackney
             Carnivals as part of our research engagement and collaboration.



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our collective approach to sustainability and equality generates solutions-based research that is
both appropriately shaped and fundamentally practical for application across multiple partnerships.
At its heart are knowledge-exchange and innovation geared to “making global goals local business”,
as framed by the UN SDGs.

We are increasingly recognised internationally for the way in which our research is driven by the
needs of, and challenges faced by, our many and varied external partners, both large and small. We
are funded by this same broad church of end-users and we are active collaborators in projects
worth at least GBP30 million over the reporting period, of which some GBP15 million have come, or
will come, directly to the university.

Sustain, retain, restore, regenerate, re-use

As impact drives our research, we operate on the basis that traditional boundaries between
disciplines are wholly transparent because genuinely sustainable outcomes require the integration
of social, environmental and resource-based actions in defining environment, place and living space,
as well as maximising social return on research investment, all within the context of a climate
emergency.

“The TURAS project [SRI/Connop] was pioneering on several fronts, including on multi-stakeholder
co-design to co-implementation processes, design and development of multifunctional green spaces
in urban contexts, and innovative governance and community engagement processes, to cite a few.”
(European Commission)

Partnerships are fundamental
The strength of our research thus comes from the fact that we work through partnerships across
disciplines both within UEL (environmental science, materials science, architecture, landscape,
social science, engineering, fine and performing arts) and beyond.

Catalyst for change
Though we are a relatively small research unit compared to many key units in other institutions, the
power of our work arises from the way in which we act as catalyst for change by providing our much
larger partners with solutions to key issues. We do so by empowering and assisting them through
innovative approaches to social and business engagement, sustainable design, novel intervention,
concepts of people and place, nature-based solutions and landscape management.

Alignment with UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
Our approach eschews the traditional ‘research group’ framework, replacing it with a collectivised
skillset which brings together teams around external opportunities that achieve social, environmental
and resource-based sustainability aligned to our commitment to addressing the UN SDGs (Section
3). This enables us within our distinctive research profile to embrace a remarkable variety of ways
in which the built environment interacts with the natural environment – ‘from buildings to bogs’.

An open and inclusive research environment

Our open collaborative structure is based on the principle of removing borders to knowledge-sharing
through our comprehensive ‘open science’ policy. Our default position with funders and partners is
that our outputs will be open-access first and foremost through the university Research Repository
but also through partner or journal open-access outlets. Furthermore, our approach to Open Access
also extends to research data. Our external collaborations adopt a principle that data generated, first

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and foremost, are used to support partners in addressing local and global sustainability challenges,
rather than a default position of seeking IPR for our research outcomes. Our ‘open research’
approach engenders and supports the principle of democratic research. Exceptions to open access
only apply where commercial or other legal embargoes are in place.

Inclusiveness rather than exclusiveness
Challenge-driven research demands inclusion. The challenge drives the configuration of our
research teams based on skills and bringing key people together around a shared purpose.
Organising a ‘challenge-based approach’ is handled through the Sustainability Research Institute
led by Professor Darryl Newport, in close collaboration with the UoA Research Leader Alan Chandler
and the programme leaders of our professionally accredited Architecture, Landscape, Architectural
Technology and Visual Arts courses within our School of Architecture, Computing and Engineering.
Our research teams often include teachers, scholars and students who all contributing to our
research outcomes. In this way we embed research and new knowledge into our pedagogy and give
our students valuable skills, experience and self-worth by participating in, and contributing to, real
world issues.

Making a difference – solutions, support, sustainability

Opportunities to harness scientific research, design skills, live construction, and nature-based
solutions give our work unprecedented breadth of engagement, catalysing change in others from the
scale of inter-governmental bodies (such as the UN Food & Agriculture Organization) or UK
Government departments (such as DEFRA or the Ministry of Justice) to small local communities
(such as the Derrybrien Village Cooperative, Co. Galway).

•   Our commitment to Knowledge Exchange maximises opportunities for multi-disciplinary
    collaboration and knowledge transfer to ensure that our work benefits communities, businesses
    and society at large, across the local, regional and global spectrum. Examples of this include the
    ERDF projects ENE (GBP10.8M) and ARENA (GBP1M), applying our research, knowledge
    and expertise to support regional businesses in relation to energy, product development,
    resource management, green infrastructure and nature-based solutions.
•   Our work on behalf of the small community of Derrybrien in Co. Galway, Ireland, has led to
    rulings in the Irish Supreme Court, rulings from the European Court of Justice and ongoing
    EU fines to the Irish Government of EUR 15,000 per day until the harm to the community
    resulting from catastrophic events arising from poorly planned construction work have been
    addressed.
•   Our research with communities and local government has realised policy and place
    transformations, redefining areas of sustainable regeneration across multiple municipalities
    along the historic River Brenta in Venice, and the reinvention of former industrial infrastructure
    in the Belgian city of Genk.
•   Our global reach enables students to become involved in decision-making and shaping actions
    associated preparing for global inter-governmental treaty events such as the UNFCCC
    COP26, with staff and post-graduate architecture students collaborating with artist Michael
    Pinsky in the design of a ‘Peatlands Pavilion’ in partnership with the UN Environment
    Programme, the Global Peatland Initiative and the IUCN UK Peatland Programme to showcase
    the role of peatlands in sustainable water management and carbon capture at the COP 26 in
    Glasgow 2021.
•   Our most significant research-informed teaching involves ‘Live Construction’ projects for local

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     user groups via collaborations with Local Authorities such as Newham and Waltham Forest,
     NHS Trusts and schools as well as practice collaborations with industry, generating over
     GBP130K over the past 12 years to co-create and complete over 90 projects linked to UN SDG
     11.
Research Strategy – focus on impact

Within this collaborative research environment, we deliver research solutions which act as catalysts
for change through four key research themes and sub-themes (Figure 2).




    Figure 2. Key research themes and sub-themes underpinning our research providing
    strategic groupings for staff, mentoring, research, teaching and investment funding. Refer
    to Section 4 for more details.



Key Research Themes explained:

•    ‘Green infrastructure’ applies both novel and standard development and monitoring processes
     to an understanding of how we conserve and manage man-made, agricultural and managed
     semi-natural greenspace as infrastructure that delivers ecosystem-service benefits in
     sustainable ways.

•    ‘Sustainable living’ focuses on a co-production research process that engages with
     communities and stakeholders to support their voice in policy change, urban regeneration,
     participatory design, risk management, migration and integration.

•    ‘Place-making for living’ applies spatial, cultural, social and environmental research through
     design practice to deliver transformed, culturally and environmentally sustainable urban
     buildings, green spaces and managed landscapes.

•    ‘Resources management’ defines new efficiencies in processes, materials manufacture, and
     social housing retrofit with key industry and community partners.


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




An integrated and active research network
Typically, our research projects are based on clusters of expertise, with all our researchers sharing
the conviction that inter-disciplinary technical knowledge, societal impact and public engagement are
brought together through research-led design, specification and policy.




       Figure 3. Cross-linkages between our research sub-themes to which our research staff
      contribute and cluster according to project requirements.



The strategic research aims that have given rise to a unifying research strategy since REF 2014
are:

Tangible Impact: maximising the deployment of our research capabilities in real-world environments
to bring about tangible change in the UK and internationally – in policy terms and on the ground:

•   Research capability and capacity: monitoring and identifying emerging research topics of
    relevance to our client base to deliver research-based change and grow skills and staff capacity.


We approach these objectives in two distinctive, overlapping and mutually supporting ways:



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•     critical analysis - using rigorous analytical tools and methodologies to advance and re-appraise
      knowledge about, and understanding of, sustainability; and

•     direct action - effecting change with, and on behalf of, particular beneficiaries.


Future strategic research aims

Our core commitments articulated in our REF 2014 submission have not changed:

“The Unit’s strategic plans build upon the most successful facets of our current practice-oriented
collaborations, based on a hands-on and inclusive approach to non-academic engagement”.

Our ongoing priorities include:
•     identifying opportunities for novel collaboration between colleagues to enhance transdisciplinary
      research delivery.
•     increasing our internal capacity and range of multi-disciplinary capability to address more
      comprehensively the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
•     extend our networks to consolidate our local and international reputation.

    2. People

Staffing strategy and staff development

Reflecting the community around us, our research-active community extends beyond our formally
defined researchers to our wider academic colleagues. Contributors to our teaching and community
engaged research include fifteen female colleagues and our staff have origins in twelve different
countries, six of which fall outside the HESA definition of ‘White’.

The number of research-active staff has almost tripled since 2014 from 5.2 FTE to 14.4FTE, with
professionally accredited built-environment practitioners amongst them counting for 70% of the total.
40% of our submitting staff are female, doubling from four in REF 2014 to eight in REF 2021. Of our
eight female researchers, five have full time or 0.8FTE, two on 0.5 FTE, fully embedded in the core
of our research environment.

While this improves on the HESA average distribution, more effort is needed to translate the diversity
of our students into greater diversity of our submitting staff, and to create greater opportunities to
extend research informed practice. Nurturing research within and through teaching benefits
researchers, teachers and students – creating a framework to develop that research exposure and
contribution into research careers and origination is the challenge we set ourselves.

Our ‘pathways to research’ agenda aim to address this proactively, and we are seeing our research
expansion starting to become driven by our own, diverse students reinforcing our skills base. This
has been achieved by:


•     ensuring fairness in the allocation of research support - through the division of internal research
      funding between thematic topics and the promotion of a co-developed approach to strategic
      investment.

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   recruiting talented, outstanding researchers, from both within and external to the university, with
    the Research leader and Innovation and Impact Director using their knowledge of each
    researcher’s work to support colleagues from diverse backgrounds, thereby connecting such
    researchers both professionally and on a personal level in order to feel valued within the team.
•   by providing flexible working environments, impact-driven challenges and blended opportunities
    across teaching and research to nurture internal researcher development and ensuring teaching
    is informed by, and remains up-to-date with, current cutting-edge research;
•   retaining and rewarding staff who are central to our research strengths – through a
    comprehensive Professional Development Review process, mentoring and regular promotion
    application rounds - 12 of the staff within our REF 2021 submission either were also submitted
    in the previous REF submission or were employed as Research Assistants and have now
    progressed in their research career to be included in this submission.
•   Actively supporting female PhD students into project-based doctorates supporting SRI staff in
    funded research – currently four of our six SRI PhD students are women – ensuring our tradition
    of employing and supporting our doctoral students enhances our diversity.

Recruitment

Our researchers have all significantly developed their careers at UEL in the last five years -
Vandergert has progressed from Research Fellow to Senior Research Fellow, Connop, who was an
ECR at the time of the previous REF, has progressed from Research Fellow to Senior Research
Fellow, Chandler and Elsharkawy are now Readers, Newport is now a Professor.

Entering REF 2021 as home-grown Post-Docs are Nash, now a Research Fellow, Ayati and
Molineux (promoted from Research Assistant to Research Fellow). Of the nine doctorates achieved
within our UoA environment since REF 2014, four are submitting their research with us in REF 2021.
Our doctorate students are often working across discipline themes – ‘the architecture of hospitals’
working jointly with a supervisor in Health and Bio Science, ‘sustainable green roof systems’ with
engineering supervisors, the ‘origins of Mycenean citadels’ with Fine Art and Architecture
supervisors.

Beyond our annual Researcher Development Programme, we have a programme of annual
Conferences that ECR’s and practitioners submit proposals for and are taken forward via internal
and external funding support. Mentoring and support enables our staff with strong research ideas to
curate and deliver innovative Conference events focusing on emerging or urgent fields of knowledge,
such as ‘The Housing Crisis’ (Minton 2016), 'Between Data and Senses’ (Karandinou with ARUP
Engineers, 2017), ‘Tangible/Intangible Heritage’ (Segantini, 2018) and ‘Just Landscape?
Diversity, Ethnicity, Representation’ (Snaith, 2019).

Within the School of Architecture, Computing and Engineering, an annual sabbatical scheme funds
staff via targeted support for teaching in order to develop or complete key research projects. For
example, sabbaticals were awarded to Chandler and Minton to complete books published by
Routledge and Penguin respectively.

Mentoring

In addition to the development programme, new staff are mentored by Research Leaders for two
years within the School. This provides wayfinding guidance about collaborative partnerships, grant

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
application support, co-authorship. Attendance at the annual UEL Research Conference is
encouraged for staff in order to be exposed to, and be inspired by, colleagues across the University.
It also furthers fosters and re-enforces development of one of our core principles - namely
interdisciplinary collaboration.

Support and training mechanisms for PGR students

Our postgraduate research is predominantly project-led, offering PGR student opportunities to
contribute to, and gain benefit from, participation in project delivery for external partners. Working
on a doctorate through ‘research practice’ brings greater contact time with supervisors, enhanced
practical experience of research discipline and delivery, facilitates development of the student’s own
external network of partners. This approach has helped to create to an inclusive and integrated
culture which has enabled us to retain some of our best PhD graduates as colleagues capable of
then generating significant research outputs in their own right (Connop, Nash, Ayati and Pace).

In 2015, the University launched a four-year programme of investment in fully funded PhD
studentships and bursaries - Minton, Chandler, Vandergert, Newport and Connop are all supervising
students through this programme.

Our doctoral student community has grown with our UoA. In 2014 we had one completion within
our UoA whereas since 2014 we have had ten completions, with seven more students due to
viva by the close of 2021.

Our sustainability and partnership principles also underpin our programme of research experience
and internships, linked to professional-practice collaborators such as ‘Studio Bark’ (Architects’
Journal ‘Sustainable Architect of the Year’ 2018). An undergraduate internship programme has
supported implementation of nature-based solutions across EU cities, green-wall cooling in
London, as well as enabling undergraduates to be acknowledged as contributors to critically
acclaimed and influential publications.

SRI and Architecture undergraduate students from the programme have been regularly selected as
the two undergraduate students representing UEL at the national Posters in Parliament (PiP)
competition, reflecting engagement of the students with the research team and with real-world
topics. Our GBP0.25 million British Council-funded social housing retrofit project with Newham
Council (Elsharkawy) gave opportunities to three doctoral students and a post-doc to deliver
exemplary, impact-focused research directly benefitting our local communities (http://newton-
sdbe.co.uk/).

Our research graduates are increasingly recognised for their high degree of employability. Several
of our research graduates have entered academia (University of East London SRI, University of
Bath, UCL, University of Cardiff, University of Derby, University of Madison, Wisconsin) and IUAV
Venice, while others have been employed by the construction and engineering industry (Careys
Group, ECD, HKS, PDP, PTE and Mott MacDonald) or by ecological consultancies.

Supporting and promoting equality and diversity

Based in a University with 140 mother languages, we know that diversity is an absolute asset.
Our students and the communities we work with recognise themselves in our staff and know that
partnerships are about mutual respect and benefit. Our non-hierarchical research environment is


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
fundamental to ensuring that hierarchies underpinned by bias, conscious or otherwise, have no place
in our research or practice.

Our work in building community facilities is a vehicle for giving our students tangible understanding
of equality, diversity and sustainability. In Barking Riverside, for example, it ensures the users of
the local school and community centre see our research in action at every level while at the
same time inspiring our current students to act directly on improving the kinds of communities they
come from. It also encourages possible students of the future to realise that such educational
opportunities exist in their own back yard, as it were.

The ‘Relational States of Dalston’ project (Jungfer, 2018-9) drew on GBP12K of funding from
Hackney Council, the Bootstrap Charity as well as support from UEL in order to collaborate with local
inclusive carnival group of Caribbean heritage. The collaboration involved developing their creative
activities in partnership with our architecture undergraduates. It led to mapping and regeneration
proposals presented to Hackney Planning officers and created a ‘Mas-Piece’ (ref. Figure 1) or
procession-leading ‘body architecture’ to head the groups procession at the Notting Hill Carnival and
Hackney Carnival. It was awarded second place overall within the highly competitive Notting Hill
Carnival and was the winner in the Hackney event – and extraordinary, and extraordinarily
important, achievement for those involved.

These cultural events are highly significant for the young people and communities that participate,
and such participation helps develop bespoke engagement strategies, tools for collaboration as well
as fostering a deeper understanding of the need for, and benefits arising from, active engagement
with equality and diversity.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Our geographical environment is our infrastructure:

As evident in the projects we have worked on, the world outside the university is our laboratory
and our engagement with our multiple communities drives much of our research. We focus on
impact, in the form of solutions for identified challenges, using research as a means to achieve this.
Our commitment to social and environmental goals informs the funding streams we utilise to create
positive change. We work with our UEL research development colleagues to identify appropriate
grants, collaborations and partnerships that are ethically based and oriented toward the UN
Sustainable Development Goals, and we accept that this policy inevitably excludes particular –
potentially sometimes large – funding sources.

Sustainable funding strategy

Revenue diversification is one (but by no means the only) important reason for us to maintain
effective local engagement in addition to major grant-funded work. A wide funding base provides a
means of both addressing the increasingly competitive environment for public funding but also
ensures wider societal engagement with our research. Thus, our research project funding portfolio
ranges from GBP500, received from Sustrans for evaluating whether a local greenspace has soil
suitable for use as a community allotment, through to the GBP10.8M ERDF ENE project (run wholly
by UEL).

Income


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research and consultancy income has shown a dramatic increase during the reporting period (see
Figure 4). Our funding sources have been diverse in part because sustainability has been
increasingly acknowledged as a fundamental principle that must ultimately underpin all aspects of
society. Since 2014, we have undertaken projects to the value of GBP1.5 million of which more than
GBP850,000 is research income, the remainder being special awards or consultancy funding to
assist business and other external organisations in their work. In 2019, we secured two additional
projects worth over GBP2 million to UEL and in late 2020 we secured a further project (SENE) worth
GBP6.8 million.

Large projects generate funding cascades
Projects associated with the five larger funding, namely EU FP7, EU Horizon 2020, EU ERDF,
Innovate UK and the People’s Postcode Lottery Dream Fund, are themselves giving rise to further
significant funding opportunities – FP7 TURAS, for example, has led to the Horizon 2020
Connecting project, while success with Innovate UK led to funding success with the People’s
Postcode Lottery and further funding opportunities through the Heritage Lottery.




      Figure 4. Annualised income from all sources and all types already received into UoA13,
     currently under contractual negotiation, or bid for and awaiting decision. Income is
     identified as HESA-classified ‘Research’, ‘Possible’ is anticipated income based on bids
     that have progressed to final short-list and awaiting decision.


Success in obtaining ERDF funding represents a major shift in, and expansion of, funding
capture, with two large projects added to the UoA13 income portfolio – the ERDF ENE project
provides technical research advice to business (a GBP10.8m project led by the SRI and worth
GBP900k to UEL), while ARENA, worth GBP1 million at 50% funding to UEL, is linked to the
community-focused Ecology Centre at Barking Riverside, and represents the world’s first urban
Nature-based Solution business incubator/accelerator. Both projects will link the SRI directly
with local industry through knowledge-transfer of research outputs designed to support business and
product development. This will act as a platform for increasing collaboration with, and income
generation both for and from, the local business community.

A third ERDF project, SENE is a GBP6.8 million project that has recently been approved that will
develop the local energy market and build a stronger local energy economy across the SELEP region
(Essex, Kent, Sussex and Surrey).



                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The SRI is a key player in a GBP1 million partnership project funded by the People’s Post Code
Lottery Dream Fund to establish larger-scale field trials of novel wetland crops (‘paludiculture’).
Partners and collaborators include The Great Fen Project, Cambridge ACRE, and the Centre for
Ecology and Hydrology, and brings GBP68,000 to UEL over a 2-year period. The project builds on
the initial pilot research work in which the SRI was a key partner, and which was funded by Innovate
UK.

Our success with British Council ‘Newton’ funding is notable, the GBP0.25 million Sustainable social
housing retrofit being our largest Newton grant to date.

No request is too small

Smaller funding streams are cumulative and are no less significant in terms of the UoA’s research
strategy of widening its funding base. Some of these have been provided by organisations such as
Thames Water, IUCN UK Peatland Programme, Scottish Natural Heritage, Natural England, Scottish
Wildlife Trust, Essex County Council, Transport for London, Greater London Authority, London
Wildlife Trust, Berkeley Homes, Sustrans, Leverhulme Trust, RIBA, The Tudor Trust, the Newton
Fund, the RSA, Natural Resources Wales and the Canal & Rivers Trust.

The other reason for responding to these smaller requests is that these small groups or
communities too often feel excluded from the national research base. They do not have the
funds to compete with industry or research councils and cannot afford the full economic costs often
cited by academic research institutions but know that they require specialist knowledge to help them
address their particular issue. UEL has been ranked second in the world for SDG 10: Reduced
Inequalities, reflecting, underpinning and highlighting our commitment to addressing
inequality in access to quality research.

Large oaks from small acorns

These smaller funding streams are also a strategic part of our approach to research in part because
some initially small, or pilot, projects may on occasion have the potential to grow into very much
larger areas of work with much larger associated funding streams. We already have several
examples of such expansion, where an initial small ‘acorn’ of a request has led to active international
or global partnerships and actions, as can be seen in Figure 5.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




   Figure 5. Illustrations of small projects which have subsequently led to major partnerships and
   actions at the international or global scale.


Facilities

Equipment and building infrastructure
The SRI is a dedicated research centre with its own administration staff and new laboratories
established at a cost of more than GBP250,000 to support the work of materials testing and biological
sampling and assessment.

Land Surveying equipment mainly supports our fieldwork (green roof monitoring, aggregate testing,
molecular ecology, species ID, field survey and surveying tools, virtual reality technology). This
equipment has recently provided vulnerable users in Barking Riverside with a new community
building which we co-designed with them, enabling them to experience the inner workings of the
project during the Covid lockdown.

Technical Laboratories also support our fieldwork and are shared with professional programmes of
our partners (Geotechnical, Hydraulics, Materials laboratories, Scanning Electron Microscopy, and
a Structures Laboratory incorporating dedicated computers and software). In addition, a green roof
rain simulator has been developed in the Hydraulics Laboratory which is used as a knowledge-
exchange service for green roof aggregate manufacturers.

Overall, more than GBP300,000 worth of equipment and facilities investment has been
brought in since 2014, enhancing our research capabilities and establishing an archive of open
access materials innovation to support our sustainable materials research. In addition, we hosted
the C2C Biz demonstrator at the London Sustainability Industry Park (Fig 6a), worth GBP250,000,
which offered further opportunities for business engagement. We are also co-managing the
Barking Riverside Ecology Centre (Figure 6b) as a community asset to the new residents at the
development. This includes running the ERDF ARENA business support project through the
premises.



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




    Figure 6. Images of SRI infrastructure extending beyond the UEL campuses. (a) C2C Biz
    demonstrator at the Sustainable Industries Park. (b) Barking Riverside Ecology Centre
    through which ARENA business support is being developed.


University infrastructure alignment and opportunity
UEL provides a well-equipped research environment occupying a range of purpose-built buildings
on the University campus, including a series of workshops to enable a hands-on approach to
research delivery. These workshops contain facilities for woodworking, plaster and concrete casting,
metalwork and a new robotic manufacture laboratory in 2016. We see new fabrication technology
as a disruptive phenomenon that can empower local initiative, with self-build housing design
the key focus for our teaching in 2018/9 and enabled sustainability in 2019-20. Workshops are
supervised by full-time technicians and full access to researchers is provided on an ‘open door’
booking basis. The workshops are essential components that underpin the Unit’s commitment to the
research practice revolving around technical innovation.

The University campus itself provides its own research opportunities, with monitoring of innovative
research into renewable energy generation, wildflower meadows, a brownfield nature reserve, herb
garden and twenty-one green roofs. This support is evolving through close collaboration between
the University’s Facilities team, SRI and Landscape Architecture. At a strategic level, the
university is also looking to invest GBP5.5 million in technical solutions designed to bring UEL close
to carbon neutral in its operations, which includes working with Siemens to set up an Urban Living
Lab in green technology.

Research infrastructure opportunity also extends beyond the campus boundaries: SRI and
Architecture staff utilise a network of ‘Living Laboratories’ as research and knowledge
exchange hubs. From brownfield sites to neighbourhoods and entire cities, research infrastructure
is realised across real-world locations and challenges, whether in the Great Fen ‘Water Works’
Project of Cambridgeshire or the green spaces of Poznan in Poland.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Mutual quality control

Collaboration, both internal and external, is essential to the operation of a research grouping focused
on delivering ethical, sustainable impact across a range of sectors and communities. This results in

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
delivery of social and monetary value through being effective, positive influencers of behaviour and
ecology, whether working with Natural England to improve strategies for biodiversity or with the
Ministry of Justice to design prisons as places of effective, humane rehabilitation. Were we to stray
from the principles of ethical and sustainable impact, our partners would be sure to take us to task,
thus providing a form of continuous quality control on everything we do Equally, however, we
assist and enable our partners to recognise when they are straying from these principles, so it is a
mutually beneficial relationship.

The work of Chandler, Charif, Karthaus, Meynell, Minton, Pollak, Segantini, Snaith, Charif, and
Vandergert focus on ways in which design, policy and practice-based processes impact on the
societal and community experience of place, its sustainability and its heritage. Minton’s Leverhulme-
funded collaboration project ‘Regeneration Songs’ worked with UEL Music Technology staff to
develop a series of music compositions with Newham-based bands exploring the neo-liberal
globalised regeneration strategies overlaying one of the most deprived boroughs in the UK - “It’s full
of rage and hope and casts a critical light on those profiting. Most of all, it acts as an archive of
people and place and as a radical form of bottom-up placemaking that is so important in the battle
for the city” (K. Paton, The Sociological Review 24.10.19).

Major infrastructure and policy-level research projects such as the FP7 ‘TURAS’ engage with society
at many levels of decision-making, from EU policy development to community groups engaging
with their local areas of green infrastructure. Large projects also tend to spawn a great many
spin-offs which may include delivering localised social benefit. For example, the EU-wide TURAS
project has led to the co-designing and building facilities for local schools and community groups in
Barking Riverside. This helps to make district-scale sustainable policy mean something to people on
the ground, further emphasising our commitment to ensuring that our work is inclusive and not
merely for high-level decision-makers.

Research collaborations, networks and partnerships




 Figure 7. Examples of external research and knowledge-exchange partners, from local to
 global scales, with whom we have engaged since 2014


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Figure 7 gives a sense of the range of networks, partnerships and groups with whom we work, from
community-based groups to large global networks. The full range is much larger than this but the
types of partners and the types of engagement that we have with these partners should be evident
from this selection.

Taking a few examples from this larger list, it is possible to examine in more detail the nature of
our partnership working. Our increasingly multi-disciplinary collaborative and creative approach
through these partnerships is highlighted within the following three case studies:


Barking Riverside: Our long-term involvement at Barking Riverside optimises the local to global
approach of our research strategy. Beginning as a small-scale action-research project in partnership
between Bellway Homes, the London Borough of Barking and Dagenham, the Environment Agency,
Natural England, and the Green Roof Company, research at the development evolved to include a
focus on urban green infrastructure, invertebrate conservation, community engagement and assets,
adaptive governance, urban regeneration, and landscape architecture research through the EU FP7
project TURAS. Research outputs from TURAS are now underpinning the design of this major urban
development, including support for landscape design and local business incubation, and are being
fed into global nature-based solution delivery support through ICLEI’s UrbanByNature programme.
Ongoing collaboration at Barking Riverside includes architecture and landscape students working
with local partners to improve the environment of school, ecologists working on innovative designs
to marry conservation and amenity use of greenspace, and community engagement around the
benefits of blue spaces, and the development of a wellbeing retreat space for men, young people
and volunteers.




Core SDGs:




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Cities in Transition: A core strand of our research sees the built environment as a social construct
requiring sensitive and multi-disciplinary approaches to understand and uncover what critical
questions need to be asked – research to reveal what requires researching. This approach to ‘Action
Research’ is simultaneously qualitative and quantitative, and the REF 2014 work of Chandler and
Clarke has been significantly strengthened through Charif’s expertise in researching play as a place
making strategy with refugees in Palestine (‘Creative Refuge’) and Pollak’s work with favela
communities in Chile, her PAN project using a unique mobile bakery as a constructed situation to
enable public engagement on social justice issues. Our ‘Newton Fund’ project led by Chandler with
Karandinou, Snaith, Pollak and Charif brought together architecture, urban planning, landscape, art
practice, dance and neuroscience to look at the situation of migrant communities in Ankara, Turkey
with the Middle Eastern Technical University (METU).

Our work in Ankara catalysed the ‘Proverbs’ project, exploring the understandings of shared and
particular proverbs to broker a dialogue across languages and cultures that share geographic space.
The work with local academics at the METU led to joint conference papers in Turkey and London,
presentation of the project and participants contributions at Tate Modern and a series of publicly
engaged research projects within METU mapping the issues of place provision and spatial justice
for refugees in Turkey. Pollak is continuing this work in her current PhD, Charif is collaborating with
the artist Sharone Lifschitz on memory and place.




Core SDG’s:




                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Hammersmith & Fulham - part of an EU Life+ project: Connop, Clough and Nash developed novel
monitoring methodologies to explore the multifunctional benefits of Sustainable Drainage System
(SuDS) retrofit across a social housing estate in West London. This was delivered through a
multidisciplinary approach bringing together research across a number of our research sub-themes.
The award-winning project is now impacting climate adaptation initiatives nationally including
underpinning the work of the Committee on Climate Change and a new Horizon 2020 project
GrowGreen where residents are being twinned with the H&F project.

The monitoring results from the project supported Groundwork to secure funding for a scaled-up
version of the programme retrofitting SuDS on the largest housing estate in London, White City, and
the Greater London Authority in securing a pan-London SuDS initiative. In addition, evaluation
methodologies developed during the project are currently being fed into a European Commission
Guidebook for evaluating nature-based solutions, for which Dr Connop is one of the authors




Core SDG’s:




                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Key research audiences, users and beneficiaries

Communicate, disseminate, integrate
Dissemination has a high priority for us. It ensures that research complements teaching and, through
direct collaboration in the field, ensures that research is tested and shared with external participants
and beneficiaries beyond students and staff. Wider impact beyond projects is delivered though
practitioner-oriented texts, publications in leading environment journals, seminars and conferences,
as well as through development of learning resources and catalogues of research.

“From experience, I know the importance of making complex science accessible to policy- and
decision-makers – as well as a wider interested public. Richard [Lindsay’s] work on communicating
through animation how peatlands are formed, how they function and how they are damaged is an
excellent example. I only wish that such excellent material was available for other complex topics!”
Liam Cashman, Senior Expert, European Commission
Directorate-General for Environment.

Critical to the successful delivery of impact, however, has been a strong focus on applied research
and the active embedding of stakeholders into projects as delivery partners from project
inceptions. Again, this represents, amongst other things, an example of continuous quality
control whereby stakeholders can monitor progress and direction of the research and help
to guide it towards the most effective and implementable outcome for them. TURAS
represented an excellent example of this, with stakeholders embedded in the project as key delivery
partners helping to shape the research, rather than solely being end-users.

Connecting Nature has gone one step further with one project output being a co-developed
learning academy (UrbanByNature) delivered through ICLEI - Local Governments for
Sustainability - to provide knowledge transfer and training to urban policymakers globally. Connop
presented his work to a global audience as part of the TURAS project, both in relation to hosting
international visitors (e.g., Spain, China, Australia) to the Barking Riverside project and through
international workshops and conferences (Ljubljana, Dublin, Yerevan, Stuttgart, Rome, Sao Paolo).

Nash has been invited to present her research at a variety of national and international conferences
while our work with Glasgow City Council on sustainable green infrastructure has been shortlisted
for an RTPI award in 2021.

Impact through network partnerships

Partnerships, from local to global
As is evident from Figure 6, we have collaborated with, or secured co-operation and long-term
collaborative agreements with important partners ranging from local boroughs to government
departments to national NGOs to multi-national companies to inter-governmental bodies and,
perhaps most significantly for our commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals, to the
UN itself.

In order to maximise our research effectiveness, and to reach local as well as international social
contexts in order to fulfil our goal of offering inclusive access to research, we deliberately target
diverse funding sources, maximising our contact with users whilst having the added benefit of
providing a fulfilling working environment for researchers. Our partnership-funding pattern geared
to maximising potential benefit to the end-users of our research is illustrated by the following
examples:

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


•   Working with community groups and local/regional authorities globally to shape the development
    and adoption of urban green infrastructure via FP7- and H2020-funded collaborations.
•   Supporting national and supra-national NGOs, agencies and inter-governmental bodies with
    technical evidence to shape policies around peatland ecosystems – the UK Office for National
    Statistics has stated that GBP22bn investment in peatland management has the potential to
    generate an estimated GBP109bn in carbon benefits, while the UN FAO and IPBES have
    identified peatlands as key components of global climate strategies.
•   Working with the Royal Society of Arts and the Ministry of Justice to develop and adopt humane
    design codes for prison design via Innovate UK funding, winning the RIBA Ethical Research
    award 2018.
•   Investigating with farmers, land managers and government departments through Innovate UK
    and People’s Postcode Lottery funding the agricultural potential for production of novel wetland
    crops and new forms of sustainable agriculture on currently drained wetland soils in order to halt
    major soil-carbon emissions, reduce flood risk and open new markets for agricultural products.
•   Leading a GBP250K Newton Fund programme developing modelling and delivery innovation for
    community engaged social housing retrofit programme partnering with the London Borough of
    Newham 2016-9.
•   Ongoing commercial sponsorship of PhD studentships either entirely funded by industry or
    through CASE studentship agreements with the University, external partners including Augean
    Ltd, Natural England, Buglife, and the Back from the Brink project.
•   Sustainability auditing and policy delivery for festivals and mega-events such as Glastonbury,
    developing best practice around sustainability and waste management, leading directly to the
    plastic bottle ban in Glastonbury 2019.
•   Supporting collaborative, sustainable construction innovation such as the self-build system ‘U-
    Build’ to create award winning housing features on Kevin McCloud’s ‘Grand Designs’
    programme on Channel 4, whilst simultaneously defining a new ‘protest architecture’ which
    underpinned the October 2019 XR rebellion in Trafalgar Square. U-Build is now a partner SME
    in the SRI ARENA framework.

Public voice

We manage active Twitter/Instagram accounts with over 3,500 followers, with some ‘likes’ reaching
40,000. Since establishing the SRI blog in 2017 it has over 3600 reads from 1370 visitors from
across 64 countries.

Connop, Nash and Vandergert are regular invited authors to The Nature of Cities, the international
platform for transdisciplinary dialogue and urban solutions. With over a million visits from over 3,700
cities and 150 countries, the platform has a diverse readership and represents a truly global voice.

Lindsay has created research-based animations for the IUCN UK Peatland Programme YouTube
Channel and these animations have had almost 4,000 views in just 12 months. He has also been a
partner in creating a public exhibition at the Tate Modern in London, highlighting the importance of
peatlands for climate change adaptation and mitigation, and has been interviewed for the ‘99%
Invisible’ California-based radio show, which has a global audience of several million.


                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Minton is a regular Guardian Newspaper columnist and guest editor for City Journal, her book on
gentrification ‘Big Capital’ has sold over 12,000 copies (04.02.21).

Our staff have played major roles in public exhibitions such as curating and exhibiting at the Venice
Architecture Biennale and at the Courtauld Institute (Trapp, Segantini, Cappai and Chandler),
using these events as platforms to discuss our research and spreading the message into the
educational, social and political spheres of public life.

Contributions to the research base, economy and society

Within the disciplines of Architecture and the Built Environment, staff hold strategic roles that allow
for an enhanced two-way dialogue between industry, the economy and research.


Chandler chairs an RIBA committee steering the accreditation of Conservation Architects in the
UK and has acted as an expert witness at a House of Lords Select Committee on HS2.
Connop is an expert reviewer for the European Commission, is a member of the UK Green
Building Council Nature-based Solutions Framework steering group, and has sat on the Brownfields
national expert group, Shrill Carder Bee Recovery Group, and the All of a Buzz National Expert
Group. He is also Editor of the Essex Naturalist journal.
Connop and Lindsay have been members of the European Commission’s Green Infrastructure
Working Group.
Elsharkawy is a membership reviewer for the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists
and has been selected by the Institute with three others to act as role models.
Karthaus, Vandergert and Snaith are Design Council Built Environment Experts. Karthaus is a
High Street Task Force Expert under MHCLG and a RIBA Planning Advisory Group member.
Lindsay is a member of the IUCN Commission for Ecosystem Management, is Senior Research
Advisor to the IUCN UK Peatland Programme and its Commissions of Inquiry and is a member of
Defra’s Lowland Peat Soils Strategy Group. He was responsible for writing the Peatland section of
the UN’s IPBES report on Land Degradation and was also chief science advisor for the award-
winning film ‘The Carbon Farmer’. He is currently working with UNEP and the IUCN UK Peatland
Programme to develop a Virtual Peatland Pavilion for Climate COP26.
Meynell and Chandler working with postgraduate architecture students created ‘protest architecture’
that significantly contributed to the Extinction Rebellion demonstrations in Trafalgar Square in
October 2019.
Minton is an award-winning journalist focused on the issues of the ownership of public space, with
effective links to the Arts Council, The Joseph Rowntree Foundation, CABE, Demos, and the New
Economics Foundation, the Labour Party and the GLA, providing her with substantial platforms to
broaden policy level debate.
Newport is A UK Green Building Council member, Chair of the London and South-East Housing
Expert Panel, Chair of the National Industrial Symbiosis Programme project advisory group and
has contributed to the All-Party Parliamentary Sustainable Resources Group for Waste Policy
Development.
Segantini and Cappai worked on internationally acclaimed projects, their work on innovation and
standards in Italian School building creating policy change for school buildings (Article 1449) and led
to the award of the Agibile e Balla of the Italian Ministry of Education, the Piranesi Award 2014

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and an invitation to present the work at the 2016 Venice Architecture Biennale which itself won
the Italian ‘Architect of the year 2017’ for its design.
Trapp curated the Austrian Pavilion at the 2016 Venice Architecture Biennale and a bicentenary
exhibition on Karl Marx called ‘Capital Architecture – investigations into the production of space’ in
Trier, forming part of a global exhibition beginning in Kreuzberg in 2018, then to the Carnegie Mellon
University, Pittsburg - touring until 2029.
Vandergert contributes to the Highways England Design Review Panel. She is also a Fellow of
the Royal Geographical Society.

Taking forward our strategic research aims

SRI is maturing as a grant-winning centre within UEL, bringing in close to GBP3 million in the
reporting period. It will continue to build on its European, community and commercial-partner
successes. There is significant capacity for growth as increased international recognition and
consequent connectivity with a range of respected institutions allows expertise within the Unit’s small
research groups to find larger-scale partners with whom to develop innovation and enhanced ability
to deliver results.

Looking towards the future

During the space of the past five or six years it is evident that our research has developed an
extraordinary momentum that continues to grow, reflecting the increasing vibrancy of the East
End community around us. Our commitment to engagement – both externally and within our
university – is total, and through our educational innovations we are establishing a Pedagogy
Research Group to integrate our impact research into our curriculum even more effectively. Through
this we share best practice within our communities and share publications that actively use our
experience as one of the most culturally diverse universities in the UK. In doing so we substantially
enhance the potential of our students to become future drivers for sustainable change.

Our work now touches on and helps to shape societal actions ranging from the intensely local
to the urgently global. On the one hand there is our multi-million-pound urban living laboratory
space within the community working at Barking Riverside Ecology Centre as well as The Siemens
ULL at Docklands Campus, while on the other we are helping to shape actions across the European
Union, and, yet wider still, we, our students, and our partners are catalysing actions within the
deliberations of a climate COP which is attempting to address a climate emergency that affects us
all.

Ultimately, our research is driven by the belief that we cannot, indeed we dare not, fail the
societies that we serve.




                                                                                              Page 21
