Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Gloucestershire (UOG)

 Unit of Assessment: 17 Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 UoA17 is based in the University of Gloucestershire Business School, which houses an
 energetic and inclusive research community that works extensively and closely with local and
 national business communities, as well as other key stakeholders. The School also contains the
 University of Gloucestershire’s Growth Hub, which enables impactful research by connecting the
 School with local and national industry. This partnership underpins the creation of applied
 research and significantly contributes to the research environment. The Growth Hub is therefore
 a core conduit to the commercial and social enterprise community, with the mandate and
 expertise to support small and medium sized businesses (SMEs) in Gloucestershire and further
 afield. Also, co-located with the Business School and The Growth Hub, is the Gloucestershire
 Local Enterprise Partnership, GFirst LEP, that works alongside the University to promote
 economic growth in the county, create jobs and provide real opportunity for businesses in the
 region. Collaboration and co-production with these key strategic partners contribute directly to
 the vitality of the Business School and its distinctiveness, enabling it to delve deep into the
 realities of contemporary business. The resulting variety of activity leads to a broad staff-base
 where every individual can engage with research, teaching and knowledge exchange.

 Although the Business School did not submit to REF2014, from a very low base, it has
 developed an inclusive and high impact, applied research capacity and capability strategy that
 has produced year-on-year returns around three overarching research themes:

 1. Developing sector level entrepreneurship initiatives
 2. Enhancing performance
 3. Supporting sustainability

 The Business School is comprised of two academic subject communities, ‘Business,
 Entrepreneurship and Financial Management’ and ‘Marketing, Events and Law’. The subject
 communities have robust links with a wide variety of organisations. This is evidenced through
 relationships with numerous enterprises and industry stakeholders, governments, other policy
 makers, professional bodies, and extra-governmental organisations. There are, for example,
 particularly strong international links with the governments of Indonesian, Moldova and Brunei,
 through major European Commission capacity building projects. Nationally there are many
 relationships with SMEs based in Gloucestershire and further afield, as well as with larger
 businesses and organisations such as The Jockey Club, Waitrose & Partners, Circle-2-Success
 leadership networking group, and the Royal Society of Sculptors. Social, cultural and economic
 impact are central to the Business School’s design, structure and function, as well as to the
 outcomes it generates.

 Research and Impact Strategy
 The University’s strategic plan sets out an inclusive and clear research intensification and
 diversity agenda, ensuring high-impact research, knowledge transfer and the embedding of
 outcomes in the Teaching and Learning Strategy to enhance the student experience. The
 Business School research and impact strategy aligns with that of the University. The School
 strategy is based on a distinctive approach of collaboration and partnership with the Growth

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hub, and other internal and external stakeholders, including GFirst LEP. From a low baseline,
 significant funded collaborative research income of over £3.6m in the last four years of the REF
 period has been generated, worth £150k in 2019/20 to UOG. The strategy has also generated
 robust and diverse intra- and inter-organisational connections, such as Erasmus+ collaborative
 partnerships, KTP funding with local SME Horsebridge, an annual Economic Impact Analyses
 project with Cheltenham Racecourse, and created high performance training programmes and
 bespoke consultancy services with national provider Quolux. Our engagement with
 organisations and businesses either directly, or through funded research projects, has benefited
 curriculum development with insight on contemporary business, and organisational, practice.

 The School research and impact strategy has also delivered an internationally significant
 postgraduate researcher (PGR) community, with over 200 PhD and DBA students. The
 University and Business School continue to invest in the PGR community through training
 resources, academic support and development of supervisory staff and student learning. Both
 PhD and DBA programmes are EDAMBA members, evidencing the quality and appropriateness
 of programme inputs and outputs. Many of the PGRs are senior organisational executives from a
 wide spectrum of industries, undertaking practice-oriented research with clear scholarly and
 economic impact. The development of part-time doctoral provision for such senior executives
 has also cemented the School’s strategy for applied research, shaping current and future action
 in varied organisations across four continents. Applied research across the University has also
 been fostered, for instance, with the Schools of Sport & Exercise and Arts, and with colleagues
 in other UK higher-educational institutions and beyond, such as the European, Moldovan and
 Indonesian partners, with whom we have developed sustainable strategic networks from our
 outreach activities over the last seven years.

 The Business School continues to grow its high-impact strategy through close links with industry
 and end-users and those in policy development roles to deliver research with real local, national,
 and international influence. Future goals will strengthen the research strategy by capitalising on
 current and emerging partnerships and through engagement to develop additional high-quality
 outputs. The applied-research, impact-focused agenda is enabled through University and School
 mechanisms such as the University-wide Early Research Career Network, online (Moodle-
 based) training resources, regular dialogue with line management (Academic Subject
 Community Leads), participation in the University-level research committees and regular
 Business School Research Priority Group meetings. This supportive and transparent approach
 underpins the development of multidisciplinary, internationally acclaimed research and
 knowledge exchange. The outcomes of which also benefit student learning at undergraduate,
 postgraduate, and continuing professional development levels, our external partners, and other
 stakeholders with which we work, such as professional bodies.

 Within each research theme, the core aims of the strategy are to:

 1: create world-class areas of expertise making a significant social, cultural, and economic
    difference to businesses and organisations.

 2: sustain the development of excellent impact-lead research in each of the Business School’s
    academic subject communities.




                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3: develop research to generate small business engagement and prosperity through
    collaborative alliances with the Growth Hub and other stakeholders.

 1: To create world-class areas of expertise making a significant social, cultural, and economic
 difference to businesses and organisations.
 The Business School’s research success is forged through growth in areas of existing strength
 and by targeted investment in emerging domains. In this REF period, the subject communities
 have developed research capacity and capability based on growing expertise and by
 undertaking internationally excellent research. We have built both the quantity and quality of
 research and knowledge exchange through strong, well-focussed research groups attracting
 funding from prestigious sources, such as the European Commission. We have developed
 robust local, national, and international networks to enhance the School’s research reputation,
 knowledge exchange and business collaboration. The work’s impact has been assured through
 energetic, targeted, international engagement with a diverse range of partners (academic
 institutions, governments, industry, the third sector and NGOs, the professions and wider
 interest communities). For example, Dawson has developed higher education leadership
 education with significant impact in Moldova and Romania, Darwish has focussed on improving
 human resource practices in Brazil, Brunei, China, Jordan, Kenya, Pakistan and the UAE, and
 Towers and Sulkowski have significantly contributed to change by implementing a novel
 triangular approach to embedding entrepreneurship in the Indonesian education system.

 2: To sustain the development of excellent impact-lead research in each of the Business School
 academic subject communities.
 The University’s staff development, inclusivity and diversity agenda, which is managed through
 annual staff reviews, is central to meeting this aim. The School has created an inclusive and
 transparent culture and has invested significantly to enable this. The support provided includes
 seed funding, mentoring through a successful buddying system with more experienced
 researchers and providing space in workload plans to enable the development of excellent
 impact-lead research. Targeted training workshops and seminars, together with journal writing
 and funded application development activity, have also increased research capacity and
 capability in this REF period. For instance, Towers lead a team including less-experienced
 colleagues to create a pan-European supply-chain visibility audit tool for the global fashion
 sector. Cooper, from Law and Ryall from the School of Sport & Exercise developed a
 multidisciplinary approach to raise awareness of the ethical considerations involved in the
 governance of modern sport in the UK, Romania, the Czech Republic and Greece. Darwish
 created a training programme for external organisations to operationalise his multidisciplinary
 research detailing the relationship between human resource management, institutional context,
 and organisational performance in emerging markets. This solid foundation will continue into the
 next REF round, building on established international recognition as an impact-led Business
 School, engaged in excellent, innovative research, teaching and knowledge exchange for
 organisational benefit.

 3: To develop research to generate small business engagement and prosperity through
 collaborative alliances with the Growth Hub and other stakeholders.
 The School supports local and national businesses, particularly SMEs, by applying outcomes
 from its international research. The strengthening of the subject communities through business
 engagement is a central plank of the Schools’ strategic development. The UOG Growth Hub
 acts as an important conduit to businesses in the local and national community and facilities


                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 robust, research with impact. For instance, through the Growth Hub, the School’s Law group run
 a Law Clinic that advises individuals and organisations on a variety of legal topics affecting
 businesses. The Clinic not only provides direct assistance to businesses and individuals but also
 provides a basis for subject specific legal research and a source for those in the Law group with
 an interest in researching the benefits of clinical legal education. Dawson’s ‘Applied Innovation
 for Students and Business’ (AISAB) 2-year European project, supports prosperity by enabling
 MBA students and vocational and educational trainers to promote and embed innovation in
 SMEs through the Growth Hub. Further work led by Dawson develops interventions to enable
 SMEs, via the Growth Hub, to use digital technologies to train their employees. Thiam, Afriyie
 and Vincent’s ‘Promoting Financial Literacy in Europe’ (ProFILE) project is strengthening
 financial literacy provision in the curriculum of participating European countries by creating age
 appropriate (7-11 year olds) financial literacy learning outcomes, teaching materials and learning
 tools – helping underpin the skills needed by future entrepreneurs.

 The effects of the Business School research and impact strategy are therefore seen in several
 ways. Firstly, by achieving higher levels of output quality that are focused on making a significant
 social, cultural and economic difference to businesses and organisations, often in association
 with colleagues elsewhere. Secondly, by creating supportive mechanisms for all staff to further
 their research and knowledge aspirations and particularly to foster early career researchers.
 Thirdly, by substantially increasing SME engagement and success through collaboration with the
 Growth Hub and other varied stakeholders.

 The University and School have ambitious plans to further grow internationally excellent
 research from the two academic communities by engaging in both interdisciplinary and
 multidisciplinary research across the institution and with a wider group of external partners.
 Building on the successes during this REF period, future activity focuses on expanding
 collaborations in Indonesia and Moldova and enhancing established European partnerships in
 other locations, fostering further applied research through the Growth Hub, and the distributive
 mechanisms afforded through doctoral activity, particularly the highly successful DBA
 programme. The Business School’s high-quality reputation and continuing investment in staff
 development, facilities and resources provide the platform for this future research and underpin
 its ambitious impact strategy.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 The School is an integrated, research-driven teaching-led community that creates and
 disseminates knowledge by combining novel theoretical understandings with practical and
 policy-oriented insights. The School expanded both the volume and quality of its research
 attainments in preparation for a Business and Management Studies REF2021 submission.
 These also demonstrate increased interdisciplinary endeavour and impact-lead insight.

 The School’s staffing strategy is characterised by:

    •   Establishing an inclusive research environment that addresses quality and diversity
        considerations
    •   Supporting internationally excellent research
    •   Fostering high-quality publication

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Providing a wide variety of opportunities for staff to engage in impact-lead collaborative
        research with key partners and stakeholders
    •   Engaging in doctoral supervision
    •   Making specific provision for the development of early career researchers
    •   Supporting staff to complete doctoral degrees themselves

 The research community in the Business School includes a range of academics at different
 stages of development, including experienced researchers, those either returning to research or
 starting a research profile, and a number of early career researchers. This gives diversity of
 perspective and a clear base for succession planning. Job adverts are checked for gendered
 language and where necessary revised to appeal to a broader audience. More recently the
 University has advertised in the Black History Magazine and placed all jobs on its associated
 jobs board. New academic starters complete the on-line equality and diversity e-learning module
 and staff also complete the iHasco module on Unconscious Bias.

 Both Academic Subject Leads (ASLs) are female, offering gender balance in the School’s senior
 management team. Female colleagues make up 40% of the School, participate in the UOG
 Women’s Network (Aly) and in the Aurora leadership development initiative, which is
 championed by one of the ASLs who has completed the programme. Staff are drawn from
 across 16 nationalities and there is also a mix of full- and part-time staff and those on short term
 contracts. All staff all can follow identical career pathways and have access to the same support
 and staff planning mechanisms. The diverse staffing base is supported through a combination of
 devolved and inclusive management, flexible and remote working practices and welcoming
 physical office and social space in purpose-built accommodation following relocation to the
 Oxstalls Campus in Gloucester in 2018.

 Staff development is facilitated through the Staff Review and Development programme. This
 process allows staff with their manager to set annual objectives, including those attached to
 research and plan the mechanisms needed to attain these agreed goals. This underpins career
 development and ensures that staff time is appropriately planned alongside training and support.
 Staff are also helped to achieve FHEA accreditation and the Post Graduate Certificate in
 Academic Practice. In addition, there is a clear and effective mechanism for supporting staff to
 pursue their own research degrees (either with the University or at other institutions), with
 support for course fees and time allocation on their balance of duties. Within this REF period, six
 staff members have attained doctoral awards and ten are currently enrolled on research
 degrees. Over the current REF period two members of staff have also been promoted to
 ‘Reader’ in recognition of the quality of their research and their contributions to the School and
 the wider community (Dawson and Darwish).

 Our strategy has also been to encourage and progress staff in developing journal outputs and
 funding bid applications through active mentoring from more experienced staff, arranging
 dedicated workshops and through an active reading group that meets twice per term. These
 Academic Reading Group meetings review and critique research work-in-progress. This has
 proved beneficial to all involved, irrespective of experience or topic, improving approaches to
 research communication and better preparing work for submission and the rigours of peer-
 review. As a result, we have submitted 19 papers from 12 staff members (17 outputs from
 current staff and two from leavers) for this REF exercise and continue to build capacity and
 increase capability within the academic subject communities. For those research staff that have

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 left during this REF period, most have moved to take up positions at research-intensive
 institutions (e.g. Hamond-Browning, Pucheta and Zheng). One has pursued consultancy
 opportunities (Checkley) and one has retired (Simpson).

 In 2015 we also introduced a bi-annual call through the Research Priority Group for seed funding
 applications (up to £2,500 per bid) to take ideas into larger scale activities. This has been
 particularly successful in developing, for example, Bown, where it has supported the creation of
 outputs with doctoral supervisees and Copland, who as an ECR is working to create a data set
 to underpin his emerging research interests in the use of digital assistants within marketing. In
 addition, the Early Career Research Network (ECRN), represented by Thiam from the Business
 School, was established by ECRs to provide a University-wide peer support network, bolstering
 development, and contributing to the School and University research environments. It now has
 over 100 members across the University and provides additional support, training and
 opportunities to share research under development.

 Through a process of mentoring and active management, staff development has also
 significantly increased both the number of staff engaged in research supervision (10 - within a
 total number of 28), and the amount of experienced research supervisors (8) and examiners (9).
 The growing breadth of staff involvement has also helped further cement the PGR body into the
 academic subject communities, ensuring the benefit of doctoral activity are reflected in teaching
 and learning, as well as offering doctoral researchers opportunities to engage in a broad range
 of scholarly activities and teaching provision.

 Research management structures
 The research and impact strategy in the Business School is managed by the Lead for Research
 (Towers), together with the Research Priority Group (RPG) – with four male participants, two of
 which are BAME members of staff, and three female colleagues from across the School’s
 subject communities. It is an inclusive and diverse forum for developing and communicating the
 School’s research and impact strategy framework and supporting research activity consistently
 across both academic subject communities. In the research community there are currently two
 professors and four readers. Within RPG an SME based research sector grouping, the
 Enterprise Research Unit (ERU), coordinated by Dawson, was established to promote research
 activity in this key area. ERU also manages the funds for the internal seed funding grants for
 research within the School.

 The University’s research strategy is implemented through six Research Priority Areas (RPAs),
 which are used to manage and report on research activity at the University’s Research
 Committee. The Research Priority Area for the Business School is ‘Applied Business &
 Technology’, led by Towers, with staff line management responsibility for School research
 activity undertaken by the two ASLs. Co-ordination with the ASLs is also key to implementing the
 School’s research and impact strategy within its wider plan for teaching and learning, and staff
 development. The Research Degrees Committee, on which the School Postgraduate Lead,
 research degree course leaders and UoA co-ordinator sit, has responsibility for postgraduate
 research governance and reporting and the management of the 245 strong doctoral students
 studying DBA and PhD awards. Research is promoted to the University’s internal and external
 stakeholders through the Research Repository. This mechanism also facilitates greater
 awareness and transparency of the increasing number of research outputs and activity produced
 in the School. Ward is an integral part of the Research Priority Group and as UoA17 Coordinator

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reports on a three-monthly basis to the University Research Committee. In the earlier part of the
 REF cycle, she had responsibility for the successful DBA and PhD doctoral programmes, which
 combined with the UoA Coordinator role, provided for an effective sharing of practice across the
 School to platform ongoing activity.

 Research students and support mechanisms
 The School has successfully developing its postgraduate portfolio, including the DBA
 programme, to reflect our applied, managerially relevant approach. The DBA programme allows
 doctoral researchers to engage in major projects inside their employing organisations, meeting
 the needs of students and employers in business, social enterprise and public sectors. It
 provides an excellent research student experience, both on- and off-campus, based on an
 interdisciplinary approach to academic endeavour, a student-centred logic to research training
 and a commitment to pastoral and academic support – facilitated increasingly through digital
 mechanisms. All research supervisors undertake mandatory University training for supervision
 and are responsible for encouraging high-quality outputs from postgraduate research.

 There is an active and diverse doctoral community, with participants from 34 countries, ranging
 in age from early twenties to late sixties, and with 24% female researchers. Many of the School’s
 PGRs are part-time and a considerable proportion are based in Germany – recruited through a
 partner academic agency and the Fachhochschule des Mittelstands. Research students have
 the same entitlement as academic staff to resources, many of which are also deployed digitally.
 A programme of research education is also provided – taking place on- and off-campus – this
 includes credit-bearing modules, elective seminars, web-facilitated sessions (both staff and
 student led) and externally facilitated training. Each year there is a well-attended annual doctoral
 colloquium (undertaken with other universities) that enriches the student experience and
 doctoral researcher community. There are currently 98 PhD/MRes students and 147 DBA
 students who receive over five thousand hours of core business school staff supervision. Since
 August 2013, there have been over 160 doctoral completions – of which 57.5 are returned in this
 submission. Doctoral students provide guest lectures, live project briefs for 1st and 2nd cycle
 awards, give research seminars and act as a key conduit for research that shapes managerial
 business decisions and impact-lead research.

 On completion, most doctoral graduates continue in their full-time jobs, predominantly in senior
 management roles. This results in the knowledge and experiences gained being applied directly
 to practice. Research students equally contribute to the School’s research culture by publishing
 work in peer-reviewed journals, participating in internationally respected conferences and
 developing other outputs, such as book chapters. Since 2014, an increasing number of research
 students and staff have co-authored various outputs, with more than 25 articles, including those
 published in ABS 3* rated journals, and six book chapters. Additionally, PGRs have
 demonstrated their association with broader academic and practice-based communities by
 presenting numerous research outputs at international conferences, both in the UK and further
 afield.

 Supporting and promoting equality and diversity
 The School has adopted the Researcher Development Concordat that aims to provide an
 appropriate environment and culture, employment conditions and professional and career
 development. The promotion of equality and diversity is an intrinsic value of the School’s culture
 and addressing issues of race, sexuality and gender have long been fundamental to our

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research and teaching. This is evident in diversity of staff returned – for instance in terms of
 gender, race, age, but also in relation to those on full- and fractional contracts and the balance of
 established and early career researchers.

 Further Thiam, Copland and Afriyie are actively leading in the Black, Asian, Minority Ethnic +
 Network at the University and School level to create spaces and resources for a dialogue among
 all University members on decolonising the curricula and research. Work continues on
 understanding all cultures and knowledge systems, with respect to what is being taught and
 researched, and how this then frames the world of knowledge and interpretation. An example of
 the outcomes of such activity is the work within the ECRN to ensure decolonisation is built into
 research considerations for ECR academics.

 The School also makes adjustments to enable academic staff with various disabilities to use
 workstations effectively, including free provision of standing desks, back-support office chairs,
 and wrist- and footrests. The School initiated safeguarding of identified vulnerable staff during
 initial stages of the coronavirus outbreak, permitting them to work exclusively from home, well
 before national lockdown. It has also more generally provided devices to support online working
 from home, offered training and supported the sharing of good practice, as well as ensuring
 opportunities for social engagement, for staff and PGRs.

 The role of Senior Tutor, formalised through University processes and identified by subject
 group, is also an important additional element in liaising with and supporting students throughout
 their studies, and, in particular, at times of crisis. The significant PGR community includes a
 sizeable proportion of part-time, off-site students – predominantly based in Europe – who are
 often employed in senior-management roles in multinational businesses. Personal pastoral
 support is also part of the PGR supervisory role, where staff routinely address equality and
 diversity issues that are often associated with mental and emotional health, particularly in
 dealing with the challenges of combining work, study and research. In these and other areas
 where issues of equality and diversity affect student well-being, staff work closely with the Senior
 Tutor and the University’s disability, dyslexia and learning support service to offer confidential,
 one-to-one support to prospective and current students with disabilities, autism, learning
 difficulties and medical conditions.

 The University’s Helpzone also provides a portal for students, supporting their mental health and
 wellbeing, directing students, for instance, to our outstanding student services, or to free
 counselling provided by Togetherall, as well as to advice or assistance with childcare, or
 academic writing skills. The Helpzone also provides information on other University services,
 such as sport, music, faith and the Student Union.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The University of Gloucestershire Business School is based at the Gloucester campus, in a
 newly constructed £20m state-of-the art building opened in September 2018. This strategic
 University investment co-located all Business School subject communities aligned to UoA17,
 and affords dedicated doctoral offices, a consumer behaviour lab, body scanning facilities,
 project workspaces (inducing video conferencing), an incubator, board room, trading room, moot
 court and contemporary lecture and seminar spaces. These high-quality and flexible facilities
 underpin the furthering of teaching and research activity within the School and its ongoing

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 aspirations. The Gloucester campus also houses the Business School library collection which
 offers 24/7 access. In addition, there is a significant online collection, bolstered by an annual 50
 item interlibrary loans allocation, that is continually reviewed and enhanced to support off-site
 working and doctoral study. Business School staff and PGRs, therefore, have access to
 generous work and social space, as well as computing and library resources, ensuring support
 for research activity irrespective of location.

 Implementing the Business School’s research and impact strategy has produced a significant
 increase in research capacity and capability. Research income, for example, has grown from an
 extremely low base at the beginning of this REF cycle to a position where there is a substantial
 level of secured income and a healthy pipeline. The University Funding Office has provided
 significant guidance, support and direction to foster funding applications. This corresponds with
 other actions taken to widen staff participation in research across the two academic
 communities, for instance through research allowances within the staff workload allocations, and
 through support for attending conferences. As a result, there is a cultural shift and a focus on
 building research income and developing infrastructure and facilities in the Business School.

 Since REF2014, as a core part of the University’s research strategy, the Research Priority
 Areas, in an annual bidding process, provide a key mechanism for research funding through
 infrastructure and facilities applications. UoA17 is part of the Applied Business & Technology
 RPA, where University funding has been instrumental to develop research capacity and
 capability and to generate further research income. It has resulted in the funding of dedicated
 equipment for research use, such as laptops, digital cameras and voice recorders, specialised
 data analysis support for use across different and diverse academic subject areas, as well as
 providing virtual reality equipment for the consumer behaviour laboratory. It has also enabled
 access to specialised external training and, in particular, supported the provision of regular
 events to develop staff and PGRs analysis skills.

 Over the REF period, the School achieved over £5 million income from nine major funded
 project applications in successful European Union Erasmus+ funding awards, as well as applied
 research income from regional projects. A series of well-attended workshops focused on
 supporting funded bid applications were held in 2015, with recurring annual follow-up events.
 Since the initial training, there has been a sizeable number of substantive funded bid
 applications to the Erasmus+ programme and to Horizon2020 with awards worth a total value of
 €1.63m in 2017, which then doubled in two years to a further €2.21m in 2019.

 Subject community research including sector grouping
 The two academic subject communities undertake research across the School and, reflecting
 the Growth Hub’s core activity, the Enterprise Research Unit (ERU), led by Dawson, promotes
 activity with a specific emphasis on SME based research. There are two competitive funding
 application calls per year for seed funding (up to £2,500 each) designed to support expanding
 research capacity with dedicated support. The Research Priority Group, with representation from
 across the School, reviews the submitted bids and assesses their merits to determine successful
 awards.

 Contribution of activity in each research theme
 Under the theme ‘Developing sector level entrepreneurship initiatives’ the School has gained a
 significant income generation stream from funded project awards to build entrepreneurship

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 capacity in the Moldovan and Indonesian education sectors, together with work to create
 innovation training for doctoral students. The School was a partner contributor, with Simpson as
 UOG coordinator, to an EU project led by Aalborg University in Denmark developing problem-
 based learning in Moldova from 2015 (worth €37k over three years). In 2018, Towers and
 Sulkowski extended this work with a three-year EC award worth €998k that includes four
 European and seven Indonesian higher education institutions (HEIs) partners, as well as the
 Indonesian Ministry of Education. The Growing Indonesia: a triangular approach (GITA) project
 embeds entrepreneurship in Indonesian undergraduate education to support local, national and
 international economic development. In 2019, Sulkowski and Towers continued their work with
 a successful EC award worth €979k over three years developing a disaster resilience framework
 for Indonesian HEIs to imbed in their curricula, using the developed GITA methodology. There
 are eight Indonesian and four European partners, along with the Indonesian Ministry of
 Education and the National Disaster Mitigation Agency. Two other examples are Erasmus+
 projects (SCIENT and ICTENT) with the School of Computing & Engineering, both delivering
 innovation training for doctoral students in STEM subjects but with direct support from other
 disciplines to increase graduates readiness to commercialise and capitalise the impact of their
 innovations for business development.

 Under the ‘Enhancing performance’ theme, the School has developed several areas of research
 income that address leadership and organisational governance initiatives that enhance
 performance. Between 2017 and 2019 Cooper, from the Law group contributed to an EU €150k
 project led by Ryall from the School of Sport & Exercise to create a set of freely accessible
 resources and teaching materials aimed at improving performance in a sports governance
 context through education on contemporary ethical issues in sport. Outputs on the application
 and achievement of good governance practices in athletics, given the imposition of eligibility
 regulations in female athletics based on natural testosterone levels, were disseminated across
 HEIs and sports governance institutions across four European countries. In 2015 Dawson
 developed leadership research, initially working with a major UK retailer, Waitrose & Partners,
 and specifically its 16 branch leadership teams in the Midlands, South-West of England and
 South Wales. Built on this previous project, in 2019 Dawson successful secured a 36-month EC
 structural capacity building award worth €844k. Here, working with four other UOG colleagues
 and through support from the Moldovan Ministry of Education, Dawson created a programme of
 leadership development to enhance managers’ performance in universities across the Republic
 of Moldova. Business School staff also regularly contribute to the delivery of other
 interdisciplinary funded projects from across the University aimed at enhancing performance.

 Within the ‘Supporting sustainability’ theme, the School has developed applied research that
 creates sustainable approaches in a variety of sectors and organisations. In 2017 Towers led a
 successful 24-month EC funding bid worth €246k, involving five European partners, that
 developed a fashion retail supply chain visibility training resource. The resource enables
 organisations’ sustainable development, ensuring they benefit from local agile sourcing business
 models for enterprises and other related stakeholders. As part of a research strategy knowledge
 exchange stream, Towers was also awarded a one-year funded project with a local SME worth
 £46k, based on a KTP methodology with a graduate embedded in the business. The project
 implemented a digital marketing strategy to underpin a sustainable approach to business
 operations.




                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To create small business engagement, sustainability and prosperity, in 2017, Dawson led a
 successful 32-month EC project funding award worth €389K, with three other colleagues, the
 Growth Hub and other stakeholders, to develop an ‘Applied Innovation for Students and
 Business’ (AISAB). The project outcome enables MBA students and vocational and educational
 trainers to promote and embed sustainable innovation in SMEs through the Growth Hub. In
 2019, Dawson and another colleague began to lead a team, again including the Growth Hub,
 that was awarded €357k by the EC for a 32-month project developing interventions through
 digital vocational and educational training competences resources (DigiVET) to empower
 workplace learning for SMEs. In 2020 Dawson and Fleming were successful in securing a
 further funded project over three years, worth €999k to develop sustainable leadership for senior
 managers in the Indonesian higher education sector.

 Work on sustainability also seeks to address individuals and their understanding and choices.
 Thiam, Afriyie and Vincent, in 2019, were awarded a three-year ‘Promoting Financial Literacy
 in Europe’ (ProFILE) project worth €310k to strengthen financial literacy provision in the school
 curriculum of participating countries (Croatia, Italy, Hungary and the UK) for pupils in the target
 age group (7-11 years). Hamner-Lloyd continues his long-standing examination of pro-
 environmental consumer behaviour in the UK and across international contexts, with a team of
 established co-researchers. This stream of research underpins the recently awarded
 Responsibly Enabled Consumers - Planet, Society and Trade; Privacy, Security and Technology
 (RESPECT) project, undertaken by Ward, Barr and Vieira, worth €359k over 34 months.

 The substantial growth in research income over this REF cycle is an enabler and multiplier. It
 has generated enhanced expertise in project bidding, management and delivery, and has
 therefore accelerated funding success. The income affords staff time to undertake research,
 allows the employment of additional staffing resources to facilitate core research tasks, provides
 learning resources for teaching and generates outcomes that can be leveraged in other research
 activity. As such, research income growth has been instrumental in enabling infrastructure and
 facilities development.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The Business School has developed significant contributions to the discipline and research
 community in this REF period and created a solid platform for future impactful collaboration and
 contribution to the research base, economy and society. Members of the School’s two subject
 communities have been engaged in major collaborative research and publication projects with
 colleagues in other national and international HEIs. This contributes to our strategic aim by
 delivering excellent research that has an impact on the economy, culture and society at large.
 Our research activity has built increasing national and international research collaborations.
 These have improved our research reputation and extended our external research funding
 opportunities through new collaborative projects in the current REF period. This more confident
 contribution and more extensive network of collaborations underpin ambitious aspirations to
 create research that instigates radical change.

 Collaboration and contribution to economy and society
 Business School staff are Principal Investigators (PIs) in several significant multinational projects
 that each demonstrate the contribution to the economy and society, as well as significantly
 increasing the research base within the School. Simpson, Dawson and colleagues from the


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Growth Hub are the lead partner in an EC HE VET programme - AISAB (2017-2020), with
 significant collaboration with partners in Hungary, Slovenia, Italy, Spain, Austria and the UK to
 increase the level of innovation and business performance for European SMEs. Further work by
 Dawson and Hepworth in the EC Erasmus+ programme - MHELM (2019-2022), with partners
 in HEIs and government bodies within Romania, Germany and the UK, are developing
 significant contributions to higher education leadership in the senior management of Moldovan
 HEIs. Dawson, as PI in the DigiVet project (2019-2022), with collaborative partners in Austria,
 Slovenia, Romania, Germany, Turkey and Portugal, is developing interventions to enable SMEs’
 use of online learning resources for digital media competences to train their employees.

 Towers, Copland and Reid were lead partners in the Supply Chain Visibility training resource
 project (2017-2019), partnered with universities from France, Italy, Ireland and Greece. Building
 on the trend of local European fashion product sourcing, the resulting tool is used to upskill
 European workers at all organisational levels and within different enterprises engaged in the
 fashion supply chain. Towers and Sulkowski are the leads in the Growing Indonesia: a
 triangular approach (GITA) project (2017-2021), developed in collaboration with colleagues in
 Austria, Ireland and Germany and seven HEIs in Indonesia. With support from the Indonesian
 Ministry of Education and Culture, and the Ministry of Innovation Research and Technology, the
 contribution is seen with over 200 new start-up enterprises creating over £4.5m additional
 turnover to the wider local and national Indonesian economy. There is also significant societal
 impact, with entrepreneurship embedded in students’ learning across an increasing number of
 Indonesian HEIs.

 Darwish and Fleming have been developing work in human resource management practices in
 collaboration with leading national organisations in Brunei and the Ministry of Social
 Development in Jordan. Their research has provided performance-driven solutions in emerging
 markets through organisational practice changes, such as increased board level representation,
 reshaping training, and changing perceptions of the value of experience and promotion from
 within. It has also provided several policy implications to the wider business community in
 Brunei, and other emerging markets including UAE, Saudi Arabia, India and Jordan. The quality
 of the work is evidenced by several high-quality published articles, and more recently an edited
 book published by Routledge.

 In 2019 Dawson and one other colleague began to lead a team, including the Growth Hub,
 which developed interventions through digital vocational and educational training (DigiVET). This
 enables SMEs to use digital technologies to train employees – particularly critical in the current
 context, and likely to be important for many years to come. Also, in 2019, Thiam, Afriyie and
 Vincent began a three-year project aimed at ‘Promoting Financial Literacy in Europe’ (ProFILE),
 collaborating with partners in Croatia, Italy, Hungary and the UK to strengthen financial literacy
 provision in the school curriculum for pupils in the 7-11 year age group. This work aims to
 formatively shape better financial planning and create knowledge to ensure that young adults
 can generate financial stability thought the various stages of their lives. Hanmer-Lloyd’s work
 over the period on youth voting behaviour has also informed various national and international
 lobbying groups and policy institutes seeking to ensure youth engagement in democracy and
 support better education to facilitate this.

 Since 2017 research within the Law group has developed to incorporate a diverse range of
 research agendas that both complement the Business School’s research themes and foster a

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sense of interdisciplinary research. In particular, Cooper has collaborated with colleagues from
 the School of Sport & Exercise (SSE) in research on ethical governance and regulation. In 2019,
 Ryall (from SSE) and Cooper published on the importance of legal norms in sport selection
 processes based on case studies taken from a partner SME - Sports Resolutions UK.
 Hammond-Browning has published on the regulation of cutting edge re-productive
 technologies at the intersection of medical science, law and ethics. Hammond-Browning's
 research centres on informing policy debate and regulatory action to ensure the sustainability
 and control of fast developing, and potentially beneficial, reproductive technologies. Both fields
 of study utilise interesting inductive methodologies that are transferable to the business and
 management studies subject area. Both also contribute to important contemporary debates on
 pressing ethical, legal and governance issues in society. In a more professional practice context,
 the Law Clinic has developed into a valuable resource for the local business community and the
 law community more widely.

 Further, recently awarded projects demonstrate continuing development of the research base, of
 collaboration and partnerships across schools, institutions and disciplines and the realisation of
 benefits to the wider economy and society. In 2019, Sulkowski and Towers continued their
 work from the GITA project as leads for the (2019-2022) Building Universities in Disaster
 Resilience (BUiLD) project with collaborative partners from the UK, Portugal, Denmark and
 Austria, and the Indonesian Ministry of Education, the National Disaster Mitigation Agency and
 eight HEIs across Indonesian. The contribution to Indonesian society and the economy is
 significant with the creation of Centres of Excellence in disaster resilience and disaster
 management education, the establishment of a national network for knowledge exchange
 covering Java, Sumatra, Maluku, Sulawesi and Kalimantan in Indonesia, the development of
 national curriculum benchmarks and delivery of disaster awareness training.

 Collaboration and contribution to research base
 Over the REF period from 2014 to 2021, there have also been several significant collaborations
 through hosting conferences and from international recognition of staff expertise. The School co-
 hosted (Towers and Sulkowski) the multidisciplinary International Conference on Family
 Business and Entrepreneurship (ICFBE 2017) in Bali, Indonesia together with President
 University, Indonesia. There were approximately 100 contributors predominantly from Asia but
 also from US, Europe and Australia. UOG gave the keynote speech and hosted an expert
 plenary panel with representatives from the Ministry of Education, the business community and
 the Erasmus funded GITA project lead.

 The UOG Business School hosted The Centre for International Research in Consumers,
 Locations and Environments (CIRCLE) 2019 conference with Reid and Ward acting as co-
 chairs. CIRCLE is a cross-faculty, pan-university research grouping, with collaborations with
 other faculties within other universities. Around 80 contributors from the UK, Europe, China and
 Africa attended with insights into topical issues around how locations and environments are
 challenged in the diverse digital era that now confronts consumers. The event culminated in a
 public industry panel discussion on ‘digital frontiers’ with senior participants from a major UK
 high-street retailer, local government, cyber security experts and retail technology innovators.

 Ward also co-chaired the jointly held International Conference on Information Management and
 Management Science (IMMS 2020) and World Conference on Management Science and
 Engineering (WCMSE 2021). These conferences were held virtually with participants from four

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 continents coming together to discuss a wide range of issues including data analysis and
 software engineering, intelligent business and enterprise management, product design and
 management, and modern information technology.

 Staff are also involved in the organising committees of a diverse range of conferences such as,
 the International West Asia Congress of Tourism Research and the American Collegiate
 Retailing Association (ACRA), and are actively involved in special interest groups – coordinating
 both standalone sessions and those that are part of major conferences (e.g. Vieira: BAM retail
 SIG, 2014; Marvell: Royal Geographic Society education SIG, 2015-2018). Dawson, Jones,
 Hanmer-Lloyd, Marvell, Sulkowski, Towers, Vieira, Ward and Yourston have been keynote
 speakers at peer-reviewed international academic and professional conferences. Afriyie,
 Towers, Vieira, Ward and Warr work with local and national TV and other media outlets as
 expert contributors.

 To help staff members develop publication strategies and to support writing enhancement, there
 are regular meetings of the Academic Reading Group. This group meets twice a term to review
 and critique ideas, abstracts and papers under development from academics across the
 Business School subject communities. The School has developed a productive pipeline with
 over 73 outputs rated, through external assessment, at 2* or above in the REF period from an
 ever-increasing group of academics across both subject communities and representing all
 disciplines. Significant structured mentoring has taken place to support less experienced
 colleagues with their academic output achievement. This mentoring is provided by those who
 have editorial roles on nationally and internationally recognised journals. For example, Darwish,
 since April 2016, has been a member of the Editorial Advisory Board of The International Journal
 of Human Resource Management [ABS 3*], and since January 2019, joined the Editorial Board
 of Management Decision [ABS 2*]. Jones is a member of the Editorial Board for the
 International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management [ABS 3*/ABDC A], Towers is the
 Editor-in-Chief of the International Journal of Retail & Distribution Management [ABS 2*/ABDC
 A], and, since May 2020, Thiam is a member of the Editorial Board for the International Journal
 of Business Performance Management [ABS 1*]. Hammond-Browning is an Editor of
 Butterworths Medico-Legal Reports and a book Review Editor of the European Journal of Health
 Law.

 Other colleagues have acted as special issue editors (e.g. Marvell: Journal of Geography in
 Hight Education). Staff also regularly act as reviewers for journals (including: Annals of Tourism,
 Journal of Business Research, European Journal of Marketing, European Management Review,
 International Journal of Human Resource Management, Industrial Marketing Management,
 Information and Management, International Journal of Operations & Production Management,
 Service Industries Journal, Technological Forecasting & Social Change) and conferences (e.g.
 British Academy of Management, Academy of Marketing) and for various book publishers (e.g.
 BPP, Elsevier, Routledge and Sage). Whist others are contributors to practitioner journals, for
 example, Darwish has recently published in Transnational Corporation. This is the official
 journal of the United Nations, managed by UNCTAD and has a global reach, a strong
 development policy imprint, and high potential for impact beyond the scholarly community.

 Staff also regularly review grant proposals submitted to the National Science Foundation, and
 the Science of Organisations programme (Unites States of America [USA]). They also regularly
 review grant proposals submitted to the British Academy. Some staff also review grant proposals

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 submitted by academic staff for several institutions based in the Middle East (e.g. American
 University of Sharjah - AUS).

 To support doctoral education, staff undertake examinations in the UK: for instance at Derby,
 Cardiff, Cardiff Metropolitan, Central Lancashire, Huddersfield, Leeds, Leeds Beckett, Liverpool
 John Moores, Manchester, Manchester Metropolitan, Plymouth, Salford, Surrey, Westminster,
 Worcestershire, Wolverhampton, Brunel, University of the Arts London. Doctoral examinations
 undertaken outside the UK include Malaysia, Australia, the USA and the United Arab Emirates.

 Given the diversity and breadth of staff involvement, which has grown significantly over the last
 seven years, there is substantial contribution to the research base at a national and international
 level. This spans contributions to the three overall research themes and demonstrates the extent
 of activity within the two Academic Subject Communities. This is facilitated by collaboration with
 colleagues and stakeholders across a wide range of formal and informal networks to create
 impactful research. The continued success of these relationships form part of the Business
 School research strategy beyond this REF period, afford a platform for future research
 developments, and support the creation of new endeavours to add economic, cultural and social
 value and impact.




                                                                                            Page 15
