Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of East London

 Unit of Assessment: 34 Cultural Studies, Communication and Media Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

  i.   Context and structure: overview

Cultural Studies, Media and Communication at UEL has an extended record of success in research
assessment exercises since 1996, representing an outstanding tradition of socially engaged,
interdisciplinary and conceptually innovative research. In REF 2014 80% of our submission was
graded 3/4 (with 33% graded 4); in RAE 2008 we were rated as 4*, again with 80% of research
graded 3/4*. We continue to develop new and existing areas of research strength, and to bring new
researchers into the area. We place the highest value on maintaining world-class standards of
research excellence while making major contributions to public culture, better equipping ourselves,
our students and our many collaborators and stakeholders to confront the challenges of the twenty-
first century. We highlight the politics of culture, social justice, community cohesion, collective
memory and the cultural impact of technological change, in research with both global and
historical range.

The nineteen researchers in this submission are primarily located in the School of Arts and
Creative Industries, across two departments (Media and Communication; Music, Writing and
Performing Arts). The interdisciplinary structure of the school encourages the development of new
networks and synergies; our submission also includes researchers located elsewhere in the
university (Art and Design, Sociology), and our research centres similarly cross departmental and
disciplinary boundaries. There are many points of commonality and convergence, as well as
distinctiveness and complementarity, in the work of our diverse and dynamic group of scholars.
Across these areas our commitment to public engagement as both an outlet for research and a
practice informing that research has remained a key focus for our activities. We aspire to be a site
of productive exchange between the academy and the wider public sphere.

Recent years have been uniquely challenging for many higher education institutions in the UK, and
UEL is no exception. Our efforts to maintain a distinctive research culture have frequently been
made against a backdrop of funding reductions, institutional restructuring and the loss of key staff.
At the same time, however, new initiatives and priorities in the university (notably Vision 2028)
have increasingly valued work that reaches outside the institution to create collaborations and
interventions in the community, resonating with our long-established commitment to such work. We
have been able to compensate for the loss of high-profile researchers since REF 2014 through our
commitment to staff development and support, which has borne clear results in the promotion of
active researchers to readerships and professorships. More recent appointments in the UoA also
promise well for our ability to continue fostering a rich and distinctive research culture, and to
facilitate collaboration and cross-fertilization while supporting researchers in developing their
individual profiles.

Within the School research and impact activities are led by the Director of Impact and
Innovation and the Impact and Innovation Committee, which includes senior researchers and
research centre directors, representatives from the school’s disciplinary areas, and Directors of
Careers and Enterprise and Education and Experience. Also represented on the Committee ares
the chair of the School Ethics Committee and the Scholarly Communications Manager, who is based
in the library and oversees all issues of compliance and open scholarship. This

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
structure facilitates collaboration between UoAs, and connects our research focus with our
commitment to continuing dialogue between research, impact and teaching; it also ensures that
oversight of research ethics and open scholarship is embedded in our strategic planning process.

 ii.   Research and Impact Strategy

As a School and a unit of assessment, our aim is to build an open, diverse and inclusive research
culture, which promotes public engagement alongside research excellence. We encourage
and facilitate open debate, public education and cultural innovation, demonstrating the value of
scholarly work for wider civic life while contributing to the quality of contemporary culture and public
understanding of social, historical and political issues. We pursue social impact through the
widespread dissemination of research, and through the cultivation of a research culture that is in
permanent dialogue with wider civil society and public life.

Our strategic priorities in REF 2014 focused on growth: we aimed to increase PhD numbers and
grant capture, develop our globalization and cultural diversity agenda, and continue to build research
culture for the future by supporting younger researchers and building capacity. The wider changes
in the sector have made elements of this harder to achieve than we anticipated. Our PhD numbers
and our grant capture have remained at a similar level to 2014. However, we are proud to continue
to highlight cultural diversity in our research and impact activities. We are also pleased to include in
this submission some long-standing colleagues who were not included in REF2014 but have been
enabled to develop as independent researchers during the intervening years, as well as continuing
to focus on the support of new young researchers.

Over the last seven years, our research strategy has encouraged innovative and engaged
approaches to cultural theory and cultural politics, engagement with local and global communities,
and collaboration and interdisciplinarity, to generate excellent and high-profile research outputs, from
academic publications and policy interventions to creative practice. Our impact strategy in the same
period has focused on engagement with non-academic audiences, supporting research centres and
researchers in a range of outreach activities through strategic QR funding and workload allocation.
We encourage researchers and research groups/ centres to build external relationships with local
community groups, councils and third sector organizations and to establish collaborative and co-
producer research projects. We also endeavour to share best practice and ideas around community
engagement and knowledge exchange within the School through regular presentations, research
centre events, and workshops, and to develop knowledge exchange expertise by encouraging and
supporting new research initiatives and groupings to build expertise in KTPs.

The impact case studies in this submission grow out of our commitment to engagement with non-
academic audiences. ‘Reviving progressive politics and culture in the UK’ focuses on the impact of
research into contemporary politics and cultural theory on political debate and movements;
‘Historicising and promoting 1970s and 1980s New York City music, social dance and art culture’
traces the impact of cultural historical analysis on the wider cultural industries in the USA and in
Europe.

In the coming years, building on our long-established research expertise in cultural studies, film
studies, cultural history, and memory, we aim to expand our range of activities and expertise to bring
new areas into focus and to highlight innovative interdisciplinary and creative practice research.
Building on existing local and regional partnerships, we will support projects around regeneration,
community well-being and knowledge exchange, further widening our impact and our public
engagement.

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our key strategic aims 2021-28:

    •   Review and develop research centres as key hubs for collaborative research and public
        outreach

    •   Continue to encourage collaboration, innovation, and interdisciplinary engagement

    •   Build on our success in communicating with multiple audiences and communities to raise the
        profile of the university and to enhance our capacity for impact

    •   Identify and facilitate the growth of new research areas, to maximize potential for high quality
        research and impact

    •   Develop partnerships and pathways to impact across the UoA, building capacity and
        expertise among staff

    •   Build capacity in funding applications to improve quantity and quality

    •   Support colleagues in developing as researchers, with particular attention to the
        representation of BAME staff and others with protected characteristics


 iii.   Research in the UoA: overview of research centres, groups and themes

Two research centres form hubs for much of our scholarly activity: the Centre for Cultural Studies
Research and the Moving Image Research Centre. The more recently established Cultural Engine
Research Group prioritizes work with marginalized communities in the Thames Gateway and Essex.

The Centre for Cultural Studies Research (CCSR, www.culturalstudiesresearch.org), co-directed
by Shaw, Gilbert, and Lawrence, supports research into political and theoretical issues in cultural
studies and cultural practice - themes which unite a wide range of research across the School. UEL
has been a leading force in cultural studies since the 1980s, and researchers continue to produce
ground-breaking and world-class research in cultural politics and cultural theory, with specific
reference to the changing and intersecting landscapes of urban and digital cultures, and the social
and cultural consequences of neoliberalism. CCSR’s core activity is the Culture, Power and Politics
series of public seminars and podcasts, which has an international following inside and outside the
academy, playing a unique role in bridging the gap between innovative research in the field and a
wide range of public debates. Held off-campus in a bar in Dalston, East London, the series has run
for five years, moving online with lockdown in 2020. CCSR also holds regular conferences and
seminars, including most recently a successful joint online conference on cultures of wellness with
colleagues at Curtin University (Australia) in November 2020, demonstrating its ongoing
commitment to collaborative, international and public work despite challenging conditions. The
Centre also hosts a book series, ‘Radical Cultural Studies’.

The Moving Image Research Centre (MIRC, https://www.uel.ac.uk/research/the-moving-image-
research-centre/) was established in 2008 to promote early to mid-career artist filmmakers, and to
facilitate interdisciplinary dialogue between film practitioners, theorists, historians, and sector agents
(funders, distributors, programmers). About twenty UEL scholars and filmmakers are attached to the
Centre, from within the UoA and from other areas (art and design, music, and performance). Co-
directed by Vitali and Maier, MIRC provides a hub for critical, theoretical, and practical work, linking
research culture directly to teaching on undergraduate and graduate programmes, hosting PhD
students, and regularly convening public events (screenings and symposia). It holds work-in-

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
progress workshops for artists and critics, and since 2016 has run a programme of artist residencies,
helping recipients raise production funds and find distribution; former artists-in-residence
include Sebastian Buerkner, Alia Syed, Louis Benassi, and Frances Scott. MIRC has established
successful collaborations with London galleries (e.g., Whitechapel, Bow Arts), British film festivals
(e.g., BFI London Film Festival, East End Film Festival, Tongues on Fire: UK Asian Film Festival),
art centres (e.g., FACT Liverpool, HOME Manchester) and independent cinemas (e.g., Close-Up
Film Centre). It has also extended its activities to include practitioners, historians, and cultural
institutions in Europe, South and East Asia (e.g., Mazefilm, Berlin; Institute of Transcultural Studies,
Vilnius; Foundation for Indian Contemporary Art, New Delhi; Centre for Cultural Studies,
Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala; Centre for Social Science Research, Dhaka; Centre for Cultural
Research and Development, Hong Kong). With a strong record of creative practice in film,
researchers in the UoA have produced prize-winning documentaries and art films (Daniels,
Signorelli), as well as advancing the theorization of creative practice.

The Cultural Engine Research Group (CERG) is run by Branch and Sampson in the UoA, in
partnership with external member Giles Tofield. Sharing CCSR’s commitment to opening academic
debate, and building on UEL’s strong commitment to civic engagement, CERG focuses particularly
on local interventions, working with marginalized communities marked by socio-economic
deprivation in Essex and the Thames Gateway to improve the quality of life for local people. It
promotes a critical and public exploration of the complex economic, social, and cultural factors
framing the everyday practices of people and the places in which they live, through public-facing
seminars and collaborations with local government and third sector organizations. Community
Engagement Initiative (cerg.blog)

Research themes and researchers

Staff research can be broadly mapped against three principal research themes, which also bring
together researchers across these centres:

   •   Cultural Studies: politics and cultural theory

Researchers working in this field share a focus on contemporary culture and cultural politics. The
analysis and critique of neoliberal culture and the challenges it poses for democratic practice and
political organization are central to the research of Hughes and Gilbert; Gilbert is widely known to
both academic and non-academic audiences for his work in this field. Vitali also combines elements
of political economy with criticism and cultural theory in her attention to the relationship between
cinema and capitalism in India and elsewhere. Voela brings a psychoanalytic perspective to
bear on neoliberal culture and austerity. Urban cultures are a focus for Shaw, who explores
intersections between post-humanism, digital culture and contemporary urban experience, and
Lawrence, the leading authority on the cultural politics of the downtown New York music scene
during its most creative period, highlighting the impact on it of incipient neoliberalism. Digital cultures
also shape Sampson’s analysis of the relationships between technoculture and neuroscience.

   •   Cultural history, contemporary history and memory studies

Our long-established interest in these areas, prominent in REF 2014, continues to inform significant
work within the UoA. A focus on memory, subjectivity and autobiography is central to the work of
Hodgkin in her exploration of the histories of subjectivity in early modern culture, and of Daniels, who
explores these themes extensively in her work in and on documentary filmmaking. Vitali’s research
into film and commemoration in India engages with the politics of memory and the creative

                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
representation of recent history. The cultural history of gender, and the making of gendered
identities, from the seventeenth to the twentieth century, is a continuing focus of interest (Hodgkin),
intersecting with more contemporary investigations of gender in neoliberal culture (Garrett, Voela).
Research by Lawrence, Branch and Gilbert also addresses contemporary cultural history,
investigating critical phases in the recent history of music cultures, and the intersections of music
culture with histories of social and political change.

   •    Film and Screen Studies

Research in film draws on cultural theory and politics to offer diverse critical perspectives on cinema.
Hallam and Gormley theorize affect through readings of horror and violence in cinema, drawing on
psychoanalysis and Deleuzian approaches. National and international cinema cultures are
investigated by Vitali, a leading authority on South Asian cinema who has also published on Chinese
and Italian film, and Stott, an expert on cinema of East Germany in relation to the shifting politics of
the GDR. Creative practice is also an important element of our work in film. Documentary film is at
the heart of Daniels’s research, both in her acclaimed experimental documentaries and as theorist
and historian of the genre; Signorelli works with documentary to illuminate the changing meanings
of European culture in the context of migration, while Maier’s widely screened films operate at the
interface between fine art practice and cinema.

 2. People

   I.      Staff overview

Staff in the UoA work across a range of disciplines, as teachers and as researchers, including film,
music, media, communications, art and creative writing - a rich mix which underpins the
interdisciplinarity of our research.
As noted earlier the UoA has seen considerable change in the years since 2014, with the departure
of a number of senior staff through retirement and through career progression; of the nineteen
researchers in this submission, just six were included in REF 2014. Our succession planning has
accordingly focused on developing research capacity, bringing mid-career and more senior staff
into leadership roles, and supporting those at more junior levels to develop as researchers to
ensure continuity in expertise and knowledge base. The last six years have seen a number of
promotions from Reader to Professor, and from senior lecturer to Reader, with the result that the
current submission has a high proportion of senior staff. We have supported existing staff in
developing their research profiles, with six staff members in post but not submitted in REF 2014
now included in this submission, along with four more recently appointed staff including three
ECRs. We have increased our interdisciplinary range, with researchers from Sociology and Art
and Design included in the submission.
In the current submission, the levels and FTE of researchers submitted in the UoA are as follows:

 Name                       Level                  Fraction                 Research
                                                                            specialism

 Gilbert                    Professor              1.0                      Cultural politics

 Hodgkin                    Professor              1.0                      Cultural history

 Lawrence                   Professor              1.0                      Cultural studies




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sampson                 Professor                1.0                     Digital media

 Vitali                  Professor                1.0                     Film

 Daniels                 Reader                   0.7                     Film (practice)

 Shaw                    Reader                   0.8                     Cultural studies

 Voela                   Reader                   1.0                     Cultural studies

 Stott                   Head of Department       0.4                     Film

 Aydin                   SL                       0.6                     Hmm. Media?

 Bailey                  SL                       1.0                     Communications

 Branch                  SL                       1.0                     Media/ culture

 Garrett                 SL                       0.6                     Cultural        studies/
                                                                          literature

 Gormley                 SL                       1.0                     Film

 Hallam                  SL                       1.0                     Film

 Maier                   SL                       1.0                     Film (practice)

 Hughes                  Postdoc (ECR)            1.0                     Cultural politics

 Signorelli              L (ECR)                  1.0                     Media

 Thomas                  L (ECR)                  1.0                     Cultural studies



   II.     Recruitment and Staff Strategy

While the period since REF 2014 has seen some retrenchment, our strategy with recent
appointments has been not only to support the continuity and development of our research
culture but also to identify trajectories for future development. New and early career staff have
reinforced critical and creative film research, and our ESRC-funded postdoc adds to existing
expertise in cultural theory and politics. Another recent appointment represents an investment in
research expertise for the future in computer games and digital technology, connecting with
existing research on digital cultures; several new ECRs appointed since the REF census point will
also contribute to the strategic development of this area. A further strategic priority in the coming
years will be capacity building among mid-career staff; we are keen to see readers moving on to
professorships, and senior lecturers to readerships. A new institutional academic progression
strategy will support this aim. We target staff recruitment to key strategic priorities, among them
equality and diversity (see below).
The School encourages both newly appointed and longer-standing staff to develop as
independent researchers, especially in some of the newer areas where research capacity is
currently low. New staff are assigned mentors and encouraged to engage in research, outreach,
and engagement, including registering for doctoral study where appropriate. In the recently
introduced researcher development framework, staff who identify as developing or re-
engaging researchers participate in research training workshops on topics such as planning

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research projects, impact, ethics, doctoral supervision, and writing grant applications. Mentors
support staff in achieving research targets set in annual personal development reviews, as well
as providing more general advice and feedback. The School allocates research time in the
workload model for all staff identified as having significant responsibility for research, as well as
staff undertaking doctoral research.

    III.    PGR students and supervision

Our PGR students are a vital and growing part of the research culture of the UoA. We have 26
doctoral students and over 20 active supervisors drawn from across the school, reflecting the
innovative and interdisciplinary scope of our doctoral research. Many of our PhD students are
studying part-time while retaining an independent professional practice in the cultural industries, and
their research is central to their practice. Staff members who have come into academia via
professional practice rather than more usual academic routes also register for PhDs, and we are
keen to support this cross-fertilization between creative and academic work. Four doctorates have
been awarded to staff since 2014, and more are in the pipeline.
We take pride in the diversity and unconventionality of our research student body, and they make a
vital contribution to our active and socially engaged research culture. In line with the interdisciplinarity
of the School, our PGR students often work on interdisciplinary and practice-led research, with
supervisory teams drawn from different academic areas across and beyond the School. This
generates unorthodox and creatively rich investigations, mixing cultural theory, film, creative
writing and literature, sociology and cultural history.
There have been 17 PhD completions in the UoA since 2013, including four who were funded by
UEL’s own internal Excellence studentships scheme, and three who received AHRC awards. A
number of these have gone on to hold academic posts in the UK or overseas, carrying UEL’s
distinctive cultural studies tradition into a range of disciplines and institutions: five are in full-
time permanent academic posts, and others are working in temporary and part-time posts in HE.

PGR completion rates 2014-20
Year          Number                       of
              completions
2014          5
2015          4
2016          2
2017          1
2018          2
2019          2
2020          1
              Total 17



Overall completions are comparable to REF 2014 (16 completions in the UoA); however, the annual
average is lower than in REF 2014, which covered five rather than seven years.

Changes to the national funding regime and local market conditions for funding provision continue
to present challenges in recruiting and retaining high quality PGR students. We remain highly
selective as to the candidates that we do accept (and fund). We have worked hard in recent years
to build a strong and inclusive PGR culture, which operates at school rather than at department level.
Students are encouraged to take part in the range of events led by research centres across the


                                                                                                    Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
school, creating opportunities to network and share their research more widely. The student-led
Research Networks Committee is responsible for curating PGR events, supported by
an annual budget of GBP 2,000. Reflecting our collegiate and anti-hierarchical ethos, this committee
aims to bring students and academics together to develop research culture, promote networks and
knowledge exchange, and support employability; events held in recent years include PGR
conferences on ‘Authenticity and the Arts’ (2019) and ‘Speaking from the Margins’ (2020). Individual
students are also supported to give conference papers and achieve research outcomes.

This investment in PGR experience underpins a strongly positive response in the 2018 PRES survey,
where supervision, research skills and professional development were all rated at over 90%, and
overall experience at 83.78%. Research culture, always a challenge in contexts with small student
numbers and a wide disciplinary range, was rated at 68%, representing a sharp rise from 53.6% in
2015, and all categories showed improved ratings. These results demonstrate the success of the
strategies put in place over the last few years, and we are keen to build on this improvement. We
will continue to work on improving postgraduate outcomes and experience, including carefully
monitoring training needs and career advice provision, ensuring that the various stages of the
doctoral degree programme are clearly explained and transparent, and continuing to strengthen the
school PGR research culture and networks.


   IV.      Equality and Diversity


Equality and diversity, in the staff body and in our teaching as well as in our research, are central to
our ethos, as UoA, as School, and as University. Our research engages strongly with questions of
cultural and national identities, with social justice and exclusion, and with global
perspectives; our location in the culturally and ethnically diverse East of London ensures that
community outreach and engagement activities are constantly engaging with these issues.

These principles underpin our efforts within the School and the UoA to promote equality and diversity
across the entire range of our activities. The university was awarded a Bronze level Race Equality
Charter in May 2019.

Objectives identified in the University Action Plan included:

   •     an inclusive research environment

   •     review and development of provision of academic mentorship, allowing for longer term
         career mapping and support; and

   •     an increase in the proportion of BAME academic staff


The School contributes to UEL’s Race Equality Charter by committing to these objectives. In summer
2019 the School formed its own Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee, whose membership
includes the Director of Impact and Innovation as well as the UoA coordinators from the school’s two
UoAs. The Committee has established a staff anti-racism group and developed a School EDI
Action plan mandating an alignment of ACI’s research and enterprise activities, themes,
and priorities with the University’s EDI priorities. We also run EDI training events for staff.



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In relation to gender equality, the School is currently preparing a school-level submission for the
Athena Swan Bronze Award. School staff take part in the Athena Swan Mentoring Scheme as
mentors or mentees. The action plan addresses working culture, the staff base gender balance and
representation at senior level positions, and strategies for supporting parental leave, ill health, mental
health issues, caring responsibilities, and staff with protected characteristics, all of which have
implications for research. We are working on objectives to ensure gender equality for both students
and staff, maintain gender balance for REF submissions and for research leave, and monitor
workload allocation practices. We are also mindful of the impact of the pandemic lockdown
on childcare and caring responsibilities, and the potentially disproportionate impact of this on women
researchers; we will be actively exploring strategies to rectify this in the coming year.

We carry out an institutional Equality Impact Assessment following each REF annual research
review. The University’s Office for Institutional Equity provides a mentoring programme aimed at
staff with protected characteristics.

The current UoA submission has an even gender balance. However, there is more to be done to
build the research base among BAME staff, with only one BAME staff member in the submission.
Among staff currently identifying as developing researchers we have greater diversity, as we also
have among our PGR students, and in collaboration with the School Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
Committee we are developing strategies to offer dedicated support to this group as well as to other
colleagues with protected characteristics in order to improve representation.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

   i.      Income

The UoA has had some success in grant applications, but less than we aimed for in REF 2014. This
is partly attributable to the increasing competitiveness of the sector and diminishing success rates
for applications across the board.

The bulk of our HESA funding for the period came from the ESRC-funded ‘Muslims, Trust & Cultural
Dialogue’, led by Morey. This enabled Morey to run a large-scale and high-profile research project
on representations of Muslims in the public domain, in collaboration with SOAS and involving
academics, media professionals and third sector organizations; other staff in the UoA contributed
papers and attended events, and outcomes (chiefly published after he left UEL) included an edited
collection and a journal special issue. AHRC network funding supported a research network on early
modern memory cultures, led by Hodgkin in collaboration with colleagues from three other UK
universities, involving four symposia and eventually a journal special issue.

HESA Grant income 2013-20
Year           Award                  Funder                 Amount             Total for grant
2013/14        Hodgkin ‘Memory andAHRC                       GBP 6,084.38
               Community in Early
               Modern        Britain’
               network

2013/14           Morey ‘Muslims, TrustESRC                  GBP 99,051.12
                  and Cultural Dialogue’
2013/14           Sosa, ‘Latin America’sBritish              GBP 8,640.31      GBP 8,640.31
                  Southern Cone’         Academy

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2013/14          Butler, Bethnal GreenHeritage            GBP 45,308.77
                 Memorial Project     Lottery Fund
2014/15          Hodgkin (as above)   AHRC                GBP 5,907.95     GBP 11,992.33
                                                                           (final phase of GBP
                                                                           40k network     grant
                                                                           starting 2012)
2014/15          Morey (as above)         ESRC            GBP
                                                          102,617.82
2014/15          Butler (as above)        HLF             GBP 35,986.52 GBP 81,295.29
2015/16          Morey (as above)         ESRC            GBP 67,285.89 GBP 268,954.83
2016/17          Hardy ‘Branded ContentAHRC               GBP 1,067.08
                 Research Network’
2016/17          Butler, Carpenters’ LockCanal        andGBP 9,942.68 GBP 9,942.68
                 evaluation study         River Trust
2016/17          Butler, Groundbreakers: Heritage        GBP     197,863
                 excavating history at QELottery Fund (withdrawn as
                 Olympic Park                            he took VS that
                                                         summer)
2017/18          Hardy (as above)         AHRC           GBP 16,039.08 GBP 17,106.16
2018/19          Gilbert, 3-year postdocESRC             GBP 92,541.14 GBP 92,541.14
                 fellowship        (Carys
                 Hughes)
2019/20          Hardy, Branded ContentESRC/ UBELGBP 2,250               GBP 2,250
                 RKE                      DTP Business
HESA total                                                               GBP 492,722.74

Other funding (consultancy/ education):
Year            Award                Funder          Amount               Category
2017/18         Dorrington,    gamesLTE Group        GBP 60,833.33        Consultancy
                development project
                with young offenders
                at Belmarsh Prison
2019/20         Dixon,       CreativeBritish         GBP 30,000           Education
                Sparks collaborationCouncil
                with
                KAFU, Khazakhstan
Total                                                GBP 90,833.33

An annual average of around 5 funding applications has been submitted since 2013. Institutional
support for funding bids has increased significantly during this time; regular funding workshops and
one to one support are offered through the Research Development Support (ReDs) team, and
applications are reviewed within the school before proceeding to submission. We will continue to
work on both the volume and the quality of our research bids to improve our success rate.

Internal support for research and research-related activities
Funding support throughout the REF period has been available for a range of research-related
activities, to individual researchers and to research centres. Research centres were funded at GBP
2000 per year in the first part of the assessment period, with time allocations for research centre
directors. From 2017 this was replaced by funding on application: research centres requested

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
funding to carry out specific activities, including conferences, seminars and outreach projects, and
centres were encouraged to become more financially self-supporting.
Funding is now allocated under a budget held by the DII to support a range of activities by individuals
and centres: new initiatives, applied research, high profile events, delivering conference papers,
production costs for creative outputs, and so forth. Early career researchers and postgraduate
students are offered funding to help with research development, and all researchers have been able
to apply for funding for sabbatical leave and/or teaching remission. This fund also supports impact
and knowledge exchange projects.
Support is also provided by the University via funds specifically targeting civic engagement and
impact-related projects, including the Civic Engagement Fund, the Impact Fund, and the Student
Internship fund. The Cultural Engine Research Group has been the major recipient of this funding
in the UoA, receiving a total of GBP 15,000 for conferences, events, and internships since 2014.

   ii.      Infrastructure and facilities

Our East London location is a key context for our research, supporting our partnerships and
offering access to a range of institutions and facilities. Significant connections with local and regional
art galleries, archives and independent cinemas, creative hubs, heritage groups and councils,
underpin a participatory and outward-facing approach to research.


The city’s long history of migration also shapes our research projects and our international
partnerships with researchers across Europe and Asia in particular. This hyper-diverse environment
drives research not only in our UoA but across UEL; this in turn creates an intellectual infrastructure
where problems, interests and perspectives mingle productively across disciplinary boundaries. Our
connections with researchers across the university are founded in a shared commitment to
transformative interdisciplinary research that engages with the key problems of our time and place.
There are particularly close connections between our researchers and those in Performing Arts, Art
and Design and Social Sciences. We host events jointly with other centres and participate in shared
research networks, and our researchers collaborate on publications and projects.
Work in film benefits from our connections with local cinemas, galleries, and festivals. Practice-led
research is supported by the facilities at the Moving Image Research Centre, which provides a
vibrant context for filmmaking and debate. Its state-of-the-art production facilities enable it to
provide screenings and work-in-progress workshops with London-based moving image artists, as
well as an annual residency to mid-career artists and filmmakers.
A team of technicians supports practice-based research and teaching across the school, with
eight assigned to the area of Media, Film and Communications, where much of the UoA’s research
is based, including specialists in media, games, and digital production.
In addition to the facilities offered by the many libraries and galleries of London, the university library
holds several archives relevant to researchers in the UoA, including the Refugee Council archive
and other collections relating to refugees; the British Olympic Collection archive; the East London
People’s Archive (an oral history collection); and the Gender, Sexualities and Ethnic Studies
collection.




                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


   i.      Contribution to the research base

The UoA makes an active and sustained contribution to the research base, reflecting our
commitment to research that is collaborative and outward facing as well as excellent. We support
the wider development and dissemination of our research as well as research produced by the wider
research community through editorial and reviewing work, the delivery of national and international
keynotes and invited lectures, our national and international collaborations with researchers based
in other institutions, and the organization of seminars, conferences, and symposia.

We make a significant contribution to the field through our work as journal editors. Gilbert is sole
editor of New Formations, one of the most influential voices in cultural studies and cultural theory.
We work on the editorial boards of cultural studies, media and film journals including Cultural Studies;
History Workshop Journal; Journal of Media Practice; Memory Studies; Sine/Cine: Journal of Cinema
Research; Triple-C: Journal of Communication, Capitalism and Critique. We have edited special
journal issues for BioScope: South Asian Screen Studies (on women and South Asian cinema); and
Memory Studies (on early modern memory). We peer review submissions for publications
including Capital and Class; Continuum; Digital Journalism Distinktion; Journal of British Cinema and
Television; European Journal of Cultural Studies; Memory Studies; New Media and Society; Theory,
Culture & Society; as well as publishers including Continuum; Duke University Press; and Oxford
University Press. We publish book reviews in a wide range of journals, from History of Psychiatry
to Political Studies, and from Textual Practice to Transnational Cinemas.

We are actively involved in book editing and publication. The Radical Cultural Studies series,
edited by the Centre for Cultural Studies and published by Rowman and Littlefield, has published 13
books in the seven years since it was established, including monographs and edited collections by
four researchers and two PhD graduates from the UoA. We edited the book series Routledge Critical
Advertising Studies. We have also edited books, including Affect and Social Media: Emotion,
Mediation, Anxiety and Contagion, Maurizio Lazzarato, Experimental Politics: Work, Welfare and
Creativity in the Neoliberal Age and Radical Space: Exploring Politics and Practice. We review
proposals and manuscripts for a wide range of publishers, including Bloomsbury Academic, Duke
University Press, Edinburgh University Press, Goldsmiths University Press, Hurst, Indiana University
Press, Macmillan, Oxford University Press, Pearson Education, Peter Lang, Polity, Pluto, Routledge
(Taylor and Francis), Sage, University of Westminster Press. We act as research grant reviewers
for a range of grant-awarding bodies, including Austrian Science Fund, ESRC, the Hong Kong
Research Grants Council, the Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research (Council for the
Humanities), Oesterreichische Nationalbank and Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council
of Canada.

Reflecting the significant attention our research attracts, researchers in the UoA deliver invited
talks, keynotes and plenary lectures at universities and other institutions, both nationally and
internationally, including the Beijing Normal University, Berlin Transmediale, Bristol University,
Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburg, Columbia University, Cornell University, the Cultural Studies
Association of Australasia conference, Duke University, Folkwang University, Goldsmiths College,
Graduate Centre CUNY, Massey University, MECCSA, Newcastle University, UMass Boston, New
York University, University of California (Riverside), University of Iowa, University of Sussex,
Warwick University and Yale University. Through these contributions we have developed research

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
connections that have in turn led to further collaborations, including a substantial number of research
conferences and symposia; a notable example is the Affect and Social Media network (see below),
which emerged out of a talk by Sampson at a PhD summer school at Aarhus university in Denmark,
and is associated with affect theory networks in Denmark and the USA.

We collaborate nationally and internationally as researchers, research fellows and thesis
supervisors with other institutions and networks. Two research-council funded networks, ‘Muslims,
Trust and Cultural Dialogue’ and ‘Memory and Community in Early Modern Britain’, noted above,
had UoA members as PIs. Our major art-research project Meanings of Failed Action: Insurrection
1946 (2017-18), commissioned for the 70th anniversary of Indian independence and partition, and
exhibited in Mumbai and New Delhi, involved a collaboration between scholars and artists from the
UK and India. We work closely with the DEFA Film Library and archive at the University of
Massachusetts. We also contribute to the Wellcome Trust-funded research network ‘Pathologies of
Solitude, 18th to 21st century’, based at Queen Mary University. Our research expertise contributes
to teaching programmes internationally, with members of the UoA working as visiting professors,
fellows and lecturers at institutions including Brown University, the Centre for the Study of Culture
and Society (Bangalore), the New School in New York, New York University, the School of Art and
Design in Zurich and Warwick University. We have also supervised and examined PhDs at the
University of Lausanne and the University of North Carolina. Our research is translated into French,
German and Italian, with the translation into German of Gilbert’s work on conjunctural analysis
published alongside a series of responses by international colleagues in the journal Zeitschrift für
Kulturwissenschaften.

We are particularly proud of our contribution to the staging of conferences, seminars, film
screenings and other events, both in terms of the number of events staged and our consistent
success in attracting audiences that include the public as well as researchers, regularly engaging
with diverse communities. The Centre for Cultural Studies Research organizes regular symposia
which explore a wide range of cultural, social, and political themes, including the legacy of 1968,
monster politics, the end of neoliberalism and vinyl culture; internationally, it co-hosted an online
conference on wellness in the pandemic with Curtin University, Australia, and collaborated with NYU
to stage a ‘Life and Death on the New York Dance Floor’ symposium. The Moving Image Research
Centre curated a two-day film festival on the stories of women living in South Asia with FACT,
Liverpool; co-organized a ‘Nation, Gender, History’ conference on Asian cinemas with the Centre for
Asian Studies, Vilnius University; and co-organized the Film Studies and Cinematic Arts conference
in Dakam. The Cultural Engine Research Group has shaped and sustained the Affect and Social
Media network, a global network of academics and art practitioners that holds its annual conferences
at UEL. Its Sensorium art show brings together international scholars and graduate students to
debate cross-disciplinary issues relating to affective experiences with social media platforms.

Crucially, our events tackle the experiences of diverse communities and support a form of open
and participatory scholarship that encourages the participation of these communities. From 2015
onwards CCSR has convened an annual public seminar series that brings together researchers in
the fields of cultural studies and political studies with members of the public, artists, journalists, and
political activists. These series have been organised and promoted in collaboration with non-
academic partners including Open School East, Doomed Gallery, and the New Economy Organizers’
Network, with all events also disseminated as podcasts. CCSR’s ‘Life and Death’ collaboration with
NYU foregrounded the participation of original contributors to the downtown art and music scene,
many of them minority practitioners. In a similar vein, the Cultural Engine Research Group have
convened a series of open ‘Club Critical Theory’ discussion events in Essex and East London to
engage local populations in debate around key contemporary issues. Overall UoA members have

                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
organized ~100 public events since the beginning of 2014, several of them featuring high-profile
speakers such as Andy Beckett, Rosi Braidotti, Paul Gilroy, Glenn Greenwald, Michael Hardt,
Maurizio Lazzarato, Angela McRobbie, and Marc Stears. Access has been facilitated through the
uploading of these contributions as podcasts. This has enabled us to enrich public discussion on
contemporary social, political, and cultural issues, tackling the concerns of marginalized
communities while encouraging their engagement.

   ii.     Contribution to society

Members of the UoA share a commitment to outreach, engagement, and impact. We work with
partners and communities outside the university sector in a range of contexts to disseminate and
activate our research. This includes policy advice, political interventions, contributions in the cultural
and creative sectors, and engagement with local and marginal communities. Our efforts to historicize
and promote New York City music, social dance, and art culture of the 1970s and 1980s, much of it
created by diverse and marginalized protagonists, are charted in one impact case study (Lawrence).
Our input into the revival of progressive politics in the UK, which concerns itself with democratization,
participation and equality across class, gender, race, regional and sexual divides, is charted in a
second impact case study (Gilbert). Our contribution to society reaches beyond these case studies
in important ways.

Complementing Gilbert’s impact case study and his contribution to democratization, we work with
local councils and third sector organizations to engage disenfranchized and marginal
populations in debates over planning, regeneration, heritage, democracy and citizenship,
migration, cultural tourism. Our work as the Cultural Engine Research Group, for example,
focuses on areas of deprivation and regeneration in Essex coastal areas and Newham, aiming to
empower local communities by providing a space in which they can contribute to local policies. Since
2014 the group has run a series of public-facing conferences and seminars in informal spaces to
establish dialogue between academics, policymakers and creative practitioners, with members of
the public encouraged to participate. These include the ‘Essex Futures’ two-day conference (which
included keynotes from Robert Hewison and Jack Monroe); two Resorting to the Coast conferences
staged in Walton-on-the-Naze and organized in collaboration with Essex County Council; the
‘Silvertown Sessions’ community wealth-building workshops, which were organized in collaboration
with the Royal Docks Learning and Activity Centre, and included City Airport, Crossrail, Newham
Council, Tate & Lyle and local community groups as participants.

We have also (through the work of Hardy, who left UEL in the summer of 2020) played a key
advocacy role in the field of media regulation. Hardy’s research, consultancy and policy
submissions have influenced Labour Party and Green Party policy debate and formulation and have
been adopted by civil society organizations including the TUC, media unions and the Media Reform
Coalition. Hardy has made a key contribution to the Campaign for Press and Broadcasting Freedom
(secretary since 1995) and the Coordinating Committee of the Media Reform Coalition (member
since 2018). He addressed the Parliamentary Office for Science and Technology in 2015) and has
made policy submissions to the Cairncross Review into the future of high-quality journalism in the
UK, the IASA consultation on online ad-labelling, the CMA and Ofcom on the proposed acquisition
of Sky by Twenty-First Century Fox, the House of Lords Inquiry on the Advertising Industry, and the
House of Lords Select Committee on Communications Consultation on Media Plurality. He has
addressed the wider public in articles published in The Conversation, Free Press and Open
Democracy.




                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Complementing Lawrence’s concern with the creative and political importance of New York’s music
and art scenes of the 1970s and 1980s, our outreach activities also address the fields of popular
culture, youth culture and the arts, with our work in cinema and music in particular enhancing
well-being and sustaining a sense of community. Our contribution in South Asian film has generated
an extended programme of public engagement and pedagogy in Myanmar, where Vitali developed
and delivered a three-week intensive film history course at the Yangon Film School. The brief was
to create a self-sustaining educational and film-making structure so involved the training of local
personnel and the inclusion of local filmmakers as well as film lecturers. The project was funded by
groups including the Finnish Foundation for Media and Development VIKES, the European Union
and George Soros’s Open Society Foundation.

Our creative practice in film has been recognized through screenings and awards. The film My
Private Life (Daniels, 2014) received an honourable mention at the Athens International Film Festival
(Ohio) and was screened in Toronto and Belfast. Private Life II (Daniels, 2016) won the Best
Experimental Film award at the Ann Arbor Experimental Film Festival. Breathing Still (Daniels, 2018)
was screened at film festivals in Australia, Croatia, Iceland, the Netherlands, Poland, and Spain, and
was winner of the Jury Award for Best Documentary at the Small Axe@Tolpuddle Radical Film
Festival, UK. Maier’s films have been screened at 13 major festivals, exhibitions, and venues,
including the Cannes film festival, the European Media Arts Festival, and the Whitley Bay film
festival. The short documentary Where is Europe? (an exploration of European identity in the era of
Brexit and in relation to the contemporary crises of forced migration, displacement, and diaspora by
Signorelli) was screened at over 30 festivals, including the Venice Biennale, and won first prize at
the Rome Independent Cinema Festival, the Mario Matteucci Award at Doc Anno Zero, best
documentary short at the London independent film awards, and best short documentary at the
Prisma Independent Film Awards.

Augmenting the c. 100 research-inspired audiophile-community dance events organized by Gilbert
and Lawrence since 2014, the Cultural Engine ran a series of HLF-funded youth culture events at
London Fields, Hackney, where artists, arts organizations (including the Museum of Youth Culture)
and academics explored popular culture and ‘establishment’ representations. Another public event,
‘Tribal Youth in Revolt’, held in support of the Beecroft Gallery’s Subcultures exhibition, evaluated
the historical legacies and politics of youth practices. The UoA also convened a session for Metal
Culture's Estuary Festival, ‘Sound of the Delta’, where musicians, writers, artists, filmmakers, and
broadcasters examined the relationship between place and music.

In summary, as researchers who are also members of many wider communities, we are ambitiously
outward facing. We aim to contribute to wellbeing and sustainability through creative and
participatory outreach and engagement activities. We are equally committed to sustaining a
supportive, dynamic, and collaborative research culture within the university, and to contributing to
the wider national and international research field.




                                                                                             Page 15
