Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: 14 – Geography & Environmental Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Key indicators of vitality and sustainability from strategic investment in people and facilities,
 2014-20:

     •   REF-eligible staff grew from 28 to 40.2 FTE, increasing the proportion of female staff
         from 17.9% to 29.1%
     •   Athena SWAN bronze renewed, and the first woman promoted to Professor of
         Geography at Birmingham for 20 years
     •   Significant increase in the number of BAME staff
     •   £13.1m in research income
     •   Partners in five doctoral training centres, leading NERC-CENTA2 and Leverhulme Forest
         Edge
     •   Bringing the £30m Birmingham Institute for Forest Research on-stream as an exemplar
         of multi-disciplinary, impact-led research
     •   Creating the Birmingham Environmental Research Suite with internal investment of
         £3.1m, including a new flume stream mesocosm facility, air quality supersite,
         meteorological facilities and controlled environmental chambers
     •   Publishing 855 Scopus outputs January 2014-July 2020 with 14,292 citations. 68% of
         these outputs were in top 10% journals by CiteScore and 58.8% were co-authored with
         international collaborators from 69 different countries.

 1.1 Structure of research across the submitted unit

 Position of the unit within institutional structures

 UoA14 sits within the School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences, one of four
 schools within the College of Life and Environmental Sciences at the University of Birmingham
 (UoB) [REF5a 1]. The School also includes UoA7 (30.8 FTE) with significant synergies between
 the two units and other Schools across campus, including shared facilities. The size of the unit
 combined with a collaborative ethos drives a particular emphasis on interdisciplinary research
 examining the processes affecting our planet and its people. This activity cuts across the natural
 and anthropogenic, operating at scales from the nano to the global.

 UoA14 is organised into two research themes, Human Geography and Physical Geography,
 with considerable collaboration between the two. Each theme has subthemes open to all,
 promoting interdisciplinarity. Collaboration within and across themes, as well as with UoA7, is
 facilitated by fully integrated committee structures at School-level, dedicated research support at
 College-level and interdisciplinary institutes at University-level.

 Research theme structures and achievements

 Both human and physical geography look outward for collaborations beyond UoA14 but also
 undertake interdisciplinary work within the unit. This can be seen in, for example, Hannah and
 Clark’s work on mountain ecosystem services for poverty alleviation, our socio-hydrology
 reading group, and work on urban air and water quality. There is also a significant cross-cutting
 interest in the use of real-time sensors, including physiological monitoring (Pykett, Jones),

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 water quality (Hannah, Bradley, Krause) and climate and air quality (Chapman, Ferranti, Sadler
 and with links to UoA7). This interdisciplinary work is, however, built on the foundation of strong
 research within the subdisciplines.

 Physical Geography (PG): was established as a research theme in 2015 following a review of
 research strengths within the School. It operates across three subthemes:

 Water Sciences remains a major focus of UoA14 and was highlighted as one of our ‘particular
 strengths’ in feedback from REF 2014. This area has been designated as one of UoB’s
 research ‘hotspots’, leading to major staffing investments since 2014, including McDonnell,
 Ullah, Dixon and Larsen. The subtheme leads the Water Council, a joint initiative between UoB
 and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign [REF5a 2.1.8] delivering world class research
 around global water challenges. Hannah has been appointed as the UK’s first UNESCO Chair
 in Water Sciences and has established a UNESCO UniTwin network on Ecohydrological
 Interfaces. Theme highlights include developing new methods for meaningful comparison of
 stream solute transport processes across different discharge conditions and spatial scales
 (Krause) and the impact case study protecting freshwater fish from high water temperatures
 under climate change (Hannah).

 The Institute for Global Innovation’s (IGI), [REF5a 2.3] ‘Water Challenges’ theme led by UoA14,
 supports over 20 pump-priming projects with international stakeholders to develop solutions to
 global water challenges in low- and middle-income countries. This work has produced several
 projects with a global scope including 100 Plastic Rivers (Leverhulme) and FAR-GANGA
 (NERC). It has also led to emerging pollutants such as microplastics becoming a central theme
 for fundraising by UoB’s Development and Alumni Relations Office [REF5a 4.1], driving new
 interdisciplinary research opportunities with industry and public sector partners.

 Ecology and Biogeography developed from the strength of our freshwater ecology research
 highlighted at REF 2014. This expertise has expanded to include terrestrial environments with
 the appointment of Gauci at Professor alongside Matthews and Graham as Birmingham Fellows
 [REF5a 3.4.1]. The subtheme has members from across UoAs 14, 7 and 5, focusing on global
 environmental change issues in a range of systems including tropical forests, peatlands, urban
 areas and oceanic islands. The subtheme’s work spans the theoretical, empirical and
 methodological spheres including combining large datasets and complex biological models.
 Publication highlights include demonstrating that there are exceptionally large methane
 emissions from Amazon floodplain trees with major implications for climate change (Gauci) and
 that greater attention needs to be paid to the type of species–area curve used in ecological
 analyses as they can lead to fundamentally different results (Matthews).

 Meteorology and Climate has a particular focus on urban climates, statistical downscaling and
 managing risk from extreme events. There is considerable interdisciplinary collaboration with
 colleagues from UoA7 as part of activities studying urban air pollution, including the WM-Air
 project (£5m, NERC). Applied meteorology is a key strength of the subtheme, with impact
 activity around urban sensors led by Chapman, including Birmingham being part of the Urban
 Observatories network (£8m, UKCRIC). Impact and knowledge exchange activity has been
 enhanced by EPSRC / NERC KE fellows Ferranti and Jaroszweski working on the implications
 of climate change for transport and infrastructure. Highlights include Widman’s prize-winning
 monograph which meets the demand from decision makers to produce more useful information

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to better manage climate change impacts and Chapman’s impact case study transforming
 decision making in road maintenance using low-cost sensor networks.

 The depth and breadth of research within PG is reflected in the range of funders supporting its
 activities, including NERC, ESRC, EU, Innovate UK, EPSRC, British Council, Leverhulme and
 the Royal Society as well as industrial partners (e.g. RS Hydro). The PG team have also
 attracted five highly esteemed visitors to Birmingham via UoB’s Institute for Advanced Studies
 (IAS) Distinguished and Vanguard Fellows schemes [REF5a 2.3].

 Human Geography (HG): conducts theoretically and empirically grounded research on the
 interrelationships between people, place, and environment. It replaced the previous Society,
 Economy and Environment research theme in 2015, reflecting a significant expansion (new
 appointments starred*), with a realignment of expertise and new facilities. This has allowed HG
 to build on the strengths highlighted by REF2014 in political geography and geopolitics
 (appointments of Kama* and Richardson*) and qualitative methodologies (investment in the
 Playful Methods Lab, see 3.3). Theme members are driving international research agendas in
 carceral geographies (Moran, Griffiths*) and children’s geographies (Kraftl*, Hadfield Hill*).
 There has also been significantly expanded expertise in LMIC contexts (Sugden*, Kuznetsova*,
 Cornea*, Clark, Round, Noxolo*, Hadfield-Hill*). Five research subthemes have been
 developed:

 Adapting to Energy and Environmental Uncertainties is concerned with societal adaptive
 capacities and strategies for energy transitions and environmental change. This includes
 pioneering work by Day on the capabilities of local communities to address energy uncertainties
 (AHRC), and Kraftl’s exploration of the food energy water nexus in coastal Brazil (ESRC-
 Newton-FAPESP).

 Geopolitics and the Carceral explores the opening and closure of space through geopolitics, the
 tensions and power dynamics behind these spatial processes. Highlights include Richardson’s*
 examination of hyperreal borders in the Kuril islands and Moran’s world leading analysis of the
 spaces of carcerality and recidivism which forms one of our impact case studies.

 Urban and Regional Studies focuses on dynamic change in the world’s urban areas, resilience
 and adaptation processes. Highlights include Round and Kuznetsova’s* examination of how
 migrants and immigration policies reconstitute urban spaces (Open Society/British Academy)
 and Lee’s USE-IT project (ERDF) collaborating with Birmingham City Council and other regional
 stakeholders on the implementation of a major new urban redevelopment project.

 Embodied Geographies examines the intersections between bodies, landscapes and
 materialities in explaining humans’ interaction with the world. Highlights include Pykett’s work on
 the intersection of neuroscience and geography, Noxolo’s* examination of the embodied
 securityscape and Jones’ work on digital geographies.

 Geographies of Children, Young People and Education was established following investment
 from IAS [REF5a 2.3] in 2016 creating the UoB-wide Children and Childhood Network. This is
 an interdisciplinary group bringing together over 130 academics working on a range of themes
 (including environment, health, technology and community) in projects worth over £15m.
 Highlights from within UoA14 include Kraftl’s* cutting edge monograph exploring the relationship

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 between children and the environment and Hadfield-Hill’s* impact case study examining the
 position of children in the design of new settlements in the UK and developing world.

 The depth and breadth of research within HG is highlighted by the range of funders supporting
 its research, including ESRC, AHRC, NERC, EPSRC, ERDF, H2020, FAPESP, Marie Curie,
 Leverhulme, Wellcome Trust and the British Academy. Oldfield* and Kraftl* have secured
 prestigious Leverhulme Fellowships.

 HG has a strong emphasis on interdisciplinary working, with members leading cross-campus
 activities funded by the IAS, including: Intercontinental Academia; the Children and Childhood
 network; Bodies 2.0; Dancing Maps; and Atmospheres of Terror and Security. HG also hosted
 Mark Paterson (University of Pittsburgh) as part of an IAS Vanguard Fellowship. The strength of
 this interdisciplinary activity has been reflected in theme members leading and contributing to
 large-scale UKRI consortium projects, including a significant GCRF component as well as
 connections to physical geography and UoA7, for example: young people and the food, energy,
 water nexus in Brazil; planning education in South Africa; citizen science for water-dependent
 ecosystem services in Nepal, Peru, Kyrgyzstan and Ethiopia; and narratives of change around
 droughts and floods in Southern Africa.

 1.2 The unit’s research objectives and strategy during the assessment period and next five years

 Objectives underpinning the 2014-21 research strategy

 Research strategy in UoA14 is driven from the bottom up. Discussions at research theme-level
 are used to inform wider strategy via the School Research Committee. This Committee
 comprises the Director of Research, Research Theme leads, REF leads, an early-career
 representative and facilities leaders, meeting every two months.

 Three future objectives were identified at REF 2014: i) to enhance our culture of
 interdisciplinarity; ii) to reinforce our international partnerships and; iii) to grow strength in our
 areas of excellence. We subsequently refined and expanded the ambition of these, underpinned
 by the reorganisation of our research theme structures. Our strategy for the 2014-21 REF
 period has therefore been guided by five core objectives:
         O1) Enhance interdisciplinary expertise: increasing the permeability between research
         themes and between UoA14 and UoA7; promoting activity within and beyond the
         discipline; and substantially expanding staff numbers.
         O2) Invest in areas of strength: existing ‘hotspots’ such as water sciences received
         significant internal investment during this REF cycle, while other areas of strength such
         as climate, biogeography, political geographies and advanced methodologies have been
         enhanced through investments in people and infrastructure.
         O3) Strengthen international leadership and collaboration: including the appointment
         of Hannah as the first UNESCO Chair in Water Sciences. The unit has also taken
         advantage of institutional partnerships in Brazil, India, China, the EU and North America
         [REF5a 2.1.8] to enhance our research power through joint activity with world leading
         centres.
         O4) Developing senior leadership in human geography through hiring a new ‘global
         professor’ (Kraftl) and developing/promoting mid-career staff (e.g. Moran and Oldfield to
         Professor, Clark, Lee and Jones to Reader).


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        O5) Refining internal processes to facilitate research excellence with an emphasis
        on enhancing EDI via: introducing pump priming schemes for innovative research and
        impact activity; extending the reach of study leave; strengthening internal review of
        research grants and papers; and offering mentoring for staff at all career stages.

 Delivering the 2014-21 research strategy

 UoA14 has produced internationally leading research in water sciences, the carceral,
 biogeography, children’s geographies, meteorology, geopolitics and qualitative
 methodologies among other areas. These specialisms are characterised by a significant
 degree of interdisciplinarity, with growing expertise in low- and middle-income country (LMIC)
 contexts. As we enter the next REF cycle our trajectory sees us extending our leading role
 within the increasingly challenge-focussed international research landscape. This is driven by
 the unit’s proven capacity to flexibly assemble interdisciplinary teams to deliver world-leading
 theoretical and applied projects (O1, O3).

 Research in UoA14 has been significantly enhanced through new appointments during this REF
 cycle: UoA14 is returning 40.2 staff (up from 28 eligible staff in REF2014 of which 27 were
 returned). This includes 11.7 female staff and 3 BAME staff (up from 5 and 1 at REF 2014).
 Expanding staff numbers alongside improvements in research support and mentoring have
 resulted in a significant growth in research income during this REF period. In seven years,
 2013/14-2019/20 researchers in UoA14 generated £13.12m compared to £6.13m across the five
 years of the previous REF cycle (O2, O4, O5).

 Interdisciplinary collaboration specifically between UoA14, UoA7, UoA5 and UoA8 has also
 helped to drive research facility investment within the School to over £21.8m 2014-2021,
 not including investment from research grants. The School also has a 25% share of UoB’s new
 £80m capital investment in a Molecular Sciences laboratory building, due to open in 2023
 [REF5a 4.2.1], with 6 UoA14 staff due to move to the new facility. Other examples of our
 leading interdisciplinary research include the Urban Initiative, EcoLaboratory, the Water
 Council (jointly established with University of Illinois Urbana Champaign), the UKCRIC
 Birmingham Urban Observatory and the Children and Childhood network. UoA14 also
 plays a leading role in five interdisciplinary doctoral training programmes including NERC-
 CENTA2, Leverhulme Forest Edge, NERC-ESRC DREAM (Data, Risk and Environmental
 Analytical Methods) and regional DTPs for ESRC and AHRC (O1, O3).

 The unit is home to major initiatives and facilities with reach across the College, University and,
 in many cases, internationally. A highlight in this regard is the Birmingham Institute for Forest
 Research (BIFoR) [REF5a 4.2.3] which has matured during this REF cycle (see 4.5). Created
 with a £15m gift from the JABBS Foundation and £15m from UoB, this unique institute takes a
 social and natural systems approach to understanding forest environments, integrating
 activity from the terrestrial through to the atmospheric, including close collaboration with both
 UoA7 and UoA5 (O1,O2, O3).

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I) is embedded in all operational and decision-
 making activities and is a standing agenda item on all School Committees. The ED&I
 Committee includes academic and professional services staff, varied contract types and PGRs,
 with a range of abilities, ages, ethnicities, religions and sexual orientations represented.

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Committee and the ED&I Committee both input directly to the School Executive
 Committee and College Board (O1-5).

 Our investment and growth has been maintained since the start of the Covid-19 period,
 with new appointments (including Graham) being made, promotions processes operating as
 normal and capital spend on facilities such as the Molecular Sciences Building continuing.

 Objectives underpinning the 2021-26 research strategy

 Building on our strategy for 2014-2021, our renewed research structure enables UoA14 to lead
 the increasingly challenge-driven research agenda to 2026 and beyond. This aligns with the
 wider UoB strategy [REF5a 2.4] to significantly increase research as a proportion of the
 university’s activity by 2026 as we emerge from the uncertainties of the Covid-19 period. To
 deliver on these aspirations, the objectives for 2021-26 in UoA14 are to:
     1) Establish Birmingham as a global centre of excellence for research in water
         sciences and in urban studies by capitalising on investments made 2014-20. This will
         build upon the creation of the Water Council, the IGI-funded [REF5a 2.3.3] Water
         Challenges theme and leading the Urban Initiative (see 4.5).
     2) Deliver additional investment in infrastructure and equipment, including the £80m
         Molecular Sciences building [REF5a 4.2.1] currently under construction and continued
         investment in BIFoR [REF5a 4.2.3] and EcoLaboratory.
     3) Increase the proportion of female staff, particularly in Physical Geography, aspiring to
         bring the proportion of female staff above the average for UK geography departments
         (>37%). Investment in this area will continue notwithstanding Covid-19.
     4) Increase the numbers of female and BAME staff in senior roles via enhanced
         support and mentoring to improve promotion success alongside recruiting to new posts.
     5) Further enhance support for engagement and impact activity both through
         expanding regional links and capitalising on investments in LMIC expertise to generate
         interdisciplinary projects tackling global challenges.
     6) Continue to bring taught students into the research culture of the School including
         embedding UG/PGT students in staff research ‘labs’ for project work in both human and
         physical geography.

 1.3 How the unit has sought to enable and facilitate the achievement of impact arising from their
 research

 There has been continued investment to develop impact activity building on the unit’s
 strength in this area recognised by REF 2014. The key underpinnings of our impact strategy are
 i) investing additional resources, ii) training and mentoring, iii) embedding impact in all grant
 applications, iv) enhancing activities with external partners.

 The UoB strategic goal ‘Expand the impact of our research’ [REF5a 2.1.3] has helped increase
 the proportion of impact-centred research. The College has a new Business Engagement team
 helping to deliver UoA14’s engagement strategy by proactively cultivating new partnerships and
 enhancing existing relationships. College-level engagement and impact funds are available to
 work with partners at all stages of project development; School-level funds facilitate face-to-
 face meetings with industry.

 Chapman’s sector-leading impact expertise led to his appointment as the College Deputy
 Director of Research and Knowledge Transfer; he has also served as a member of the NERC
 Innovation Advisory Board. He runs the School’s ‘engaging with engagement’ activity, which

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 includes dedicated sessions at School meetings and annual retreats as well as bespoke
 workshops. The effectiveness of UoA14’s investment and support strategy can be seen in the
 diverse range of impact case studies contained in this submission.

 We have achieved a sustainable pipeline of impact activity by placing relationships with end-
 users at the heart of our grant application process. Moran’s international work with prisons, for
 example, highlighted the relationship between poor environments and recidivism through a
 series of impact-led projects. Similarly, business engagement schemes run by the research
 councils e.g. Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP), CASE PhDs and the industry links
 embedded in DTCs such as NERC-CENTA are used as a tool to build trust with end-users. A
 KTP with RS Hydro resulted in the project’s research assistant winning Innovate UK’s Young
 Business Leader of the Year 2016.

 1.4 The submitting unit’s approach to supporting interdisciplinary research

 A culture of interdisciplinary working is built into the unit’s approach to research, through i)
 encouraging colleagues to sit across multiple research subthemes, ii) integrated research
 management at School- and College-level to encourage collaborative projects including via
 dedicated funding, iii) significant engagement with the UoB structures promoting
 interdisciplinarity.

 UoA14 is a major hub for interdisciplinary activity across the wider College and University. The
 Urban Initiative, for example, was developed to integrate our critical mass of expertise across
 Infrastructure Resilience and Urban Planning, Urban Ecology, Pollution and Environmental
 Health Sciences, connecting to colleagues in Engineering and the Business School (see 4.5).
 We also received significant University and College investment during this REF cycle to support
 interdisciplinary facilities such as BIFoR [REF5a 4.2.3], EcoLaboratory and the Playful Methods
 Lab (see 3.3). The School also provides targeted funds for novel early-stage research with an
 interdisciplinary focus.

 UoA14 has been central to developing the agenda of UoB’s Institute for Advanced
 Studies / Institute for Global Innovation (IAS/IGI) [REF5a 2.3]. This deep involvement is
 signalled by Moran being appointed Deputy Director of IAS/IGI [REF5a 2.3], while Krause leads
 the inaugural IGI theme ‘Water Challenges’. In its first year alone, the Water Challenges theme
 led to externally-funded collaborative grants for Ullah (Newton) and Krause (NERC). UoA14
 researchers also led 14 IAS workshops 2014–2020 providing opportunities to explore
 collaborative interdisciplinary opportunities around blue skies topics.

 1.5 Progress towards an open research environment

 The School’s Director of Research (Sambrook Smith) sits on UoB’s Open Research Board
 [REF5a 2.2] and is an open research champion. A School-wide strategy on Open Research
 has been developed and applied in UoA14, recognising the benefits of openness for both the
 academy and wider society. Key actions include:
    1) Maximising Open Access publications by: accessing UoB funds for Gold OA of key
       papers not supported by the RCUK block grant; requiring Green self-archiving of all
       research outputs wherever possible on our institutional repository; and encouraging
       posting of pre-prints in appropriate subject-specific repositories.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        2) Establishing an interdisciplinary Open Research joint working group for UoA14 and
           UoA7 which runs Open Research training sessions and briefings as part of School
           Retreat, induction meetings for new staff and research theme meetings. Good practice is
           also shared via the School newsletter.
        3) Training about open data sharing via subject-specific repositories and the UoB
           Research Portal in line with the Concordat on Open Research Data.
        4) Promoting work to non-specialist audiences by encouraging members of UoA14 to
           run/contribute to research blogs, produce articles for platforms such as The Conversation
           and deliver public talks e.g. via our Lapworth Lates programme. This activity is
           supported by the UoB Public Engagement team and the College Research
           Communications officer.
        5) Tweeting links to UoA14 Green and Gold OA papers of relevance to the GCSE and A-
           level curricula as part of #teachertuesday

    Our climate facilities 1 and BIFoR 2 [REF5a 4.2.3] are exemplars of providing open data via live
    feeds and there are plans to extend this to ecological and other datasets. Another highlight is a
    collection of open access R packages created by Matthews which fit the gambin distribution to
    species-abundance distributions from ecological data. These have attracted c.500 downloads
    per month from GitHub.

    1.6. How the unit supports a culture of research integrity

    UoA14’s culture of research integrity builds off the approach to open research in ensuring that
    transparency is at the heart of our research practice. This is supported through i) staff training
    sessions and briefings (especially for ECRs, see 2.1.3), ii) research theme leaders providing
    advice and guidance, iii) a programme for postgraduate training (see 2.2.2). These approaches
    are underpinned by robust institutional processes for ensuring ethical research practices [REF5a
    2.2]. All new research projects (staff and PGR), and all research involving human subjects or
    with other potential ethical issues (e.g. work with animals) are reviewed by the UoB Ethics
    Team. Undergraduate and PGT projects are subject to ethical review at School level but can be
    referred to the UoB panel in more complex cases. The University has clear Regulations and
    transparent, supportive processes for whistle blowing in cases of alleged research misconduct to
    ensure that research integrity is maintained. UoB also subscribes to the UK Research Integrity
    Office to provide support and training.


    2. People

    2.1. Staffing strategy and staff development

    Key principles of our staffing strategy are:
       1) recruiting new staff to complement areas of international expertise;
       2) increasing the numbers of female and BAME staff in all roles including tackling
           barriers to promotion through targeted support and mentoring;
       3) developing and promoting colleagues to enhance succession and leadership;
       4) increasing the numbers of independently funded research fellows.

    There has been a major investment in new posts, significantly expanding the HG and PG
    teams in UoA14 to 40.2 FTE. For comparison, at REF2014 27 staff (96% of those eligible) were

1
    https://data.birminghamurbanobservatory.com/
2
    https://www.birmingham.ac.uk/research/bifor/face/Live-Data.aspx

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 returned to UoA17 (PG=13, HG=13, archaeology=1). The HG theme has now been expanded
 to 21 staff (M=11, F=10) and the PG theme has grown to 20.2 staff (M=18.5, F=1.7). 95% of
 UoA14 staff are employed full-time, and 95% are employed on open-ended rather than fixed-
 term contracts.

 Strategic investments have been enhanced through UoB’s Birmingham Fellows scheme
 [REF5a 3.4.1], a 5-year research fellowship leading to an open-contract academic position
 (Kuznetsova, Griffiths, Fregonese, Matthews and Graham) and through the appointment of
 independent fellows (Hadfield-Hill, Kama) into lecturing positions. These appointments have
 built critical mass in emerging areas of research excellence including ecology and children’s
 geographies.

 The School received a Bronze Athena SWAN award (2014 renewed 2019). Shortlisting and
 appointment panels pay enhanced regard to equality and diversity questions, including:
 adding an ED&I statement to all job adverts naming a female staff member to contact informally;
 encouraging applicants from underrepresented groups; targeting potential BAME/female
 candidates through subject networks; use of gender-neutral language; contextualising
 outputs/achievements in relation to career breaks in our shortlisting processes and interview
 procedures; only approving shortlists if there is realistic gender balance; and unconscious bias
 training for all panel members. These efforts have resulted in a 95% increase in female
 applicants since 2015, 100% increase in females shortlisted (gender parity reached in
 2017), and 320% increase in females appointed, although the proportion of female staff within
 the unit remains low, due to the historical imbalance and our high staff retention rates.

 2.1.1. Staff development strategy.

 Staff follow a comprehensive system of probation, annual appraisal, mentoring and training.
 Academic staff probation is typically three years framed by a Probationer’s Personal
 Development Plan outlining agreed objectives, combined with mentoring and an annual
 Performance Development Review (PDR) [REF5a 3.4.3). Peer and thematic mentoring are
 available to all staff (addressing topics such as research focus, time management, career
 progression for women, adapting to UK academic life). Coaching opportunities provided by
 UoB’s People and Organisational Development team were taken up by 4 UoA14 staff 2014-
 2020.

 A diverse set of training opportunities are available. A new induction programme developed
 by the School builds a sense of cohort among new staff, enhances personal development skills
 and introduces the current HE landscape. CPD opportunities [REF5a 3.4.4] include the
 University’s Research Leaders’ Programme (3 UoA14 participants 2014-20), Emerging Leaders’
 Programme (10 participants) and Senior Leadership Programme (4 participants) as well as the
 College Rising Stars programme (3 participants). The success of these programmes is
 evidenced by colleagues from UoA14 taking senior leadership roles at College level (Director
 and Deputy Director of Research, Director of Internationalisation, Director of Postgraduate
 Taught Students) and University level (Deputy Director of IGI-IAS).

 ED&I training is available to all UoA14 staff. ED&I is a standing feature of the weekly School
 Bulletin, with regular vignettes from ED&I role models, information on events such as Women in
 Science, Black History Month and UoB LGBT and BAME networks [REF5a 3.4.5]. There have

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 also been specific themed events such as the 2017 workshop ‘Embodying Geographies:
 research intensive diversity work’.

 The career pathways for part-time staff are equivalent to full-time. Promotions panels follow a
 code of practice which emphasises that: ‘Where a member of staff works part-time, the quantity
 of their inputs/outputs and other responsibilities will be considered in relation to their working
 hours.’ Of UoA14 staff being returned to REF, 2 work part-time (1 female, 1 male); this
 proportion has not changed significantly during the REF cycle.

 Staff on maternity, shared parental and adoption leave remain on mailing lists (without
 expectation of messages being read), continue to receive the School Bulletin, and can use
 ‘keeping in touch’ days to attend research events and meetings (see 2.3.2). Funding is
 automatically allocated to replace staff on such leave, ensuring colleagues are not expected to
 take on additional responsibilities. Tailored support is provided for career progression of
 returning staff and long-term changes can be made to working hours to accommodate caring
 responsibilities.

 Requests for flexible and remote working are considered by the Head of School and
 implemented by the HR team where possible [REF5a 3.4.5]. Flexible working is highlighted in
 job adverts and options are set out within induction packs. Staff can trial flexible working before
 making a final decision and it is possible for staff working flexibly to revert to previous working
 patterns.

 Staff are surveyed annually to collect flexible working requests. In the first year implemented
 (2018/19), requests were received from 19 staff in UoA14, 16 of which were supported. Children
 are welcome in the School, and we have an ED&I webpage with images highlighting our family-
 friendly workplace, including male staff and same-sex couples as family role models. Research
 seminars and key meetings are scheduled within core working hours (10am–3pm), aligning to
 the needs of those with caring responsibilities.

 2.1.2. Staffing and recruitment policy.

 Disciplinary leadership has been nurtured throughout this REF cycle with 6 promotions to Chair,
 4 to Reader and 7 to Senior Lecturer. We acknowledge that the proportion of senior female
 research staff within UoA14 remains low (only 1 of 8 chairs within UoA14 is female). We are
 actively addressing this through:
     • improving the PDR process [REF5a 3.4.3] to include explicit discussion of promotion
         criteria and how these might be achieved;
     • the Head of School proactively encouraging female staff to apply for promotion when
         ready, plus one-to-one meetings with all staff considering applying;
     • dedicated promotions workshops;
     • mandatory equality and diversity and unconscious bias training for staff on (gender-
         balanced) promotions panels;
     • appointment of an equality and diversity representative to promotions panels;
     • development of an ED&I promotions protocol/checklist.
 This has led to increases in this REF cycle in female applicants and success rates for
 promotion (25% of applications 2014-20, 38% successful compared to 33% successful for male
 applicants). We recognise that we have more to do here. Increasing the proportion of female
 research staff, particularly in physical geography through pro-active recruitment, and increasing

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the numbers of senior female staff across the unit, are priority actions identified within our
 Athena SWAN Bronze award.

 2.1.3. Support for early-career researchers (ECRs).

 UoA14 has a vibrant community of ECRs. These include externally and internally funded
 independent fellows, including 5 via the Birmingham Fellows scheme [REF5a 3.4.1]. We
 support independent research fellows to become competitive applicants for open-ended staff
 positions at UoB or externally, with 4 UoA14 staff making this transition 2014–2020. ECRs are
 provided with specialist training opportunities and mentoring as part of their induction and
 probation (see below and 2.1.1 above). Independent fellows are treated as full members of
 academic staff; postdoctoral research fellows are constitutionally involved in School
 governance through roles on Research and other committees.

 The PERCAT (Postdoctoral / Early Researcher Career Development and Training) initiative
 provides ECRs access to training courses, career advice, funding opportunities, workshops and
 other events [REF5a 3.3]. It is designed to meet the principles of the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers and the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. This
 document is provided as part of the School’s Staff Handbook.

 In 2018 the School reached gender parity in numbers of academic staff on fixed term contracts,
 but the majority (77%) on open ended contracts were male. We have established a number of
 actions as part of our School Athena plan to address this imbalance, including working with
 PERCAT to provide additional support to female ECRs wanting to secure permanent posts such
 as training via the Aurora programme.

 2.1.4. Policy for research leave for all staff.

 Our workload model (see 2.1.6 below) is designed to maximise the time that staff have
 available for research. Wherever possible, the majority of an individual’s teaching is
 concentrated into a single semester to reduce time fragmentation. We enhanced our study leave
 programme in 2014, encouraging staff via the PDR process to take academic leave to develop
 their research activity. The programme is open to all academic staff (full or part time) who have
 worked at Birmingham for at least three years. In 2014–2020, 4 male and 5 female staff within
 UoA14 took study leave. Applications are particularly encouraged where staff with significant
 caring or other responsibilities are seeking to enhance their research activity.

 2.1.5. Procedures to support exchanges between academia and business, industry or public or
 third sector bodies.

 Our Business Engagement Lead drives the UoA14 strategy for impact and knowledge
 exchange, meeting monthly with the College Research Support Office and a dedicated Business
 Engagement Partner. Rapid response pump-priming funds at School-level facilitate knowledge
 exchange activity. Our recruitment strategy considers impact potential, and utilisation of KE
 Fellow schemes boosts the number of impact-focussed staff. Staff are supported in undertaking
 consultancy (examples in 4.3 below) and CASE studentship applications as a route to build
 larger scale business engagement.


                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.6. Recognition and support for staff delivering research and impact.

 Staff in the School led the development of principles and tariffs for the College-level workload
 model calculating research, impact-activity, teaching and administrative load. All UoA14 staff
 were invited to validate the weightings used in the model which were built on best practice
 elsewhere in the UK. Data are gathered annually and used to inform discussions in Personal
 Development Review meetings where workloads and annual targets are examined. Where new
 grant or impact activity has been secured, teaching and administrative roles are
 redistributed. The workload model includes a standard tariff for citizenship duties, with FTE-
 adjustments for part-time staff, and is monitored annually for gender bias.

 Research theme leads receive an annual research allocation of £500 per staff member to
 support conference attendance, away days, writing retreats, small pieces of equipment etc.
 Funding for international networking activities is available via the UoB International Office
 and dedicated College funds.

 In line with the Knowledge Exchange Concordat, impact is viewed as having equal
 importance to blue-sky research and this is reflected in the promotion criteria (e.g. Moran and
 Chapman were promoted to Chair based partly on their impact activity) [REF5a 3.4.6]. The
 workload model ring-fences time to develop impact activity. Training is also provided in many
 aspects of impact including public engagement with research, policy and commercialisation (e.g.
 the flagship Medici programme for research staff wanting to explore the commercial potential of
 their work).

 At University level, Impact is celebrated through annual Impact Awards at which we have had
 great success (e.g. Moran, overall winner for Impact in Society category 2018 alongside Hannah
 and Ferranti who were both shortlisted, with Chapman overall winner for Outstanding Impact in
 Technical Innovation 2019).

 2.2. Research students

 Research doctoral degrees awarded in academic years 2013/14 to 2019/20:

         2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Total
         9.50    11.00   12.51   15.75   8.35    11.5    12.85   81.46

 2.2.1 Recruitment and funding

 PGRs aligned with UoA14 are funded through three pathways: doctoral training partnerships
 (DTPs); overseas scholarships; self-funding. The College PGR Studentship Fund also offers
 partial support, typically 25%. UK/EU PGRs based in UoA14 have access to 5 major DTPs:
     • NERC (CENTA2, £8.1m 2014-22, led by UoB);
     • AHRC (4 Cities);
     • ESRC (Midlands Graduate School);
     • ESRC-NERC big data and risk (DREAM);
     • Leverhulme (Forest Edge, £1.05m, led by UoB).
 Co-led with UoA7 CENTA2 is the joint-largest NERC DTP, expanded by 50% at renewal in
 2019. Forest Edge is linked to BIFoR and made 20 studentships available 2018-20 with
 interdisciplinary projects across physical and social sciences.

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2.2. Monitoring and support mechanisms

 Students undertake a Development Needs Analysis (DNA) annually with their supervisors to
 identify skills gaps and training opportunities, including around research ethics. Supervisions
 take place at least monthly with a formal record made of progress and agreed actions. PGRs
 have a documented Postgraduate Board meeting every six months with the PGR lead, their
 mentor and supervisory team. These ensure the project is on track and the supervisory team is
 working in the interest of the PGR. Based on this meeting, further support interventions can be
 put in place.

 Enhanced support for PGRs was implemented throughout the Covid-19 pandemic, with
 supervisory meetings and Postgraduate Boards continuing as normal online. Evolving impacts
 on PGR work were recorded within these meetings, providing support as well as documentation
 for extension applications. Social support structures were co-constructed with the PGR
 community and continued after the initial period of lockdown.

 2.2.3. Skills and career development

 Campus-based training courses for PGRs are curated by the Graduate School, giving access to
 modules from across UoB [REF5a 3.2]. There are significant regional training opportunities
 available through the DTPs for NERC, ESRC and AHRC. McDonnell leads our prestigious
 Catchment Science Summer School. Unique international training opportunities have also
 been provided through EU networks including the INTERFACES and HypoTrain ETNs and
 the HiFreq RISE ITN. The College has a dedicated member of academic staff who develops
 PGR training opportunities. The postgraduate careers officer in the University Graduate School
 [REF5a 3.2] provides training and one-to-one consultations.

 The College has a PGR travel fund and resources for supporting PGR organised conferences
 and workshops. PGRs organise the annual School-wide Postgraduate Conference, where in
 year 1 they give a poster presentation, in year 2 an oral presentation and in year 3 chair a
 session. The Postgraduate Conference builds skills in both presentation and workshop
 organisation. This activity supports the presentation of research at larger international
 conferences and enhances interdisciplinary interactions across the PGR and staff communities.

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 2.3.1 Conference attendance and travel support for staff and PGRs with caring responsibilities,
 ill health etc.

 UoA14 staff are eligible to apply for the College Equalities Travel Support fund. Up to £500
 can be awarded to an individual per year to cover costs around, for example, additional
 childcare, needing a family member to accompany travel or providing personal assistance
 relating to disability. Travel funds are explicitly available for support for incoming visits as well as
 outgoing trips.

 2.3.2 Support for staff and research students returning from periods of leave (including parental
 leave) or ill health, managing long-term illness or with caring responsibilities


                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff on adoption/maternity/shared parental leave have up to 10 optional ‘Keeping in Touch’
 days. These allow training and development to continue and provide an opportunity to catch up
 with current developments. Upon return from such leave, staff are entitled to a term of workload
 remission from one of the three elements of their contract. Where the quantity of academic
 outputs has been impacted as a result of leave, part-time working arrangements or restrictions
 on activities due to breast-feeding (e.g. lab work), this is recognised in the promotions
 processes, REF output expectations and any other exercise that uses quantity of outputs as a
 performance measure. There are clear pathways within university policy for flexible and
 part-time working practices as appropriate for the individual, including parental leave, ill health
 and caring responsibilities. Phased return planning with Occupational Health provides support
 for those coming back from long-term illness.

 2.3.3 Support for staff with protected characteristics (e.g. disabilities) to enable them to research
 productively

 UoB provides training to ensure that the requirements of the Equality Act are well understood
 [REF5a 3.4.2]. This helps to ensure that structures are put in place for individuals with one or
 more protected characteristics such that reasonable adjustments can be made where
 appropriate to working patterns to allow them to research productively. The Employee Disability
 Service provides disabled staff with practical support and guidance in the workplace, particularly
 in relation to workplace adjustments.

 2.3.4 Approach to supporting staff and PGR wellbeing

 The Employee Advice and Listening Service helps staff make informed decisions about work
 and personal issues. Counselling services are also available via Workplace Wellness. There is
 a dedicated Harassment Advice Service, Employee Disability Service and University Mediation
 Service. PGR students have access to the services provided via the Student Hub, including
 Counselling, Wellbeing, Disability, Mental Health and Learning Support [REF5a 3.4.5]. An
 annual workplace wellbeing week is held in the autumn term to raise awareness of these
 services. Events associated with wellbeing have been held at College and School level,
 including tours of the Lapworth and Map Collections and staff-student netball matches.

 2.3.5 Approach to ED&I in construction of REF submission

 Within this REF cycle the University launched its Equality Scheme ‘Promoting Equality, Valuing
 Diversity 2016-2020’. This is explicit that: ‘As we prepare for our next Research Excellence
 Framework… we will ensure that equality remains integral to our research activity, particularly in
 relation to race & age, as well as gender, and is taken into account in our processes.’

 All UoA14 staff were given the opportunity to comment on the Environment Template through
 two rounds of internal review. In line with the UoB code of practice, a School-level panel was
 convened to review the algorithmically-generated selection of outputs for UoA14 to examine
 representativeness by gender, BAME, part/full-time status and age using equality impact
 assessments (EIAs). The selection was approved by College and University panels as an
 appropriate representation allowing for career stage.




                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Funding and strategies for generating research income

 Grant income has grown significantly, in line with growth in staff numbers, reaching £13.12m in
 this REF cycle compared to £6.13m for REF 2014. As highlighted in section 1.1, research
 themes and individuals have been successful in drawing on funding from a diverse portfolio of
 sources across RCUK, charities, the EU and industry.

 A core element of the UoA14 research strategy has been flexibly assembling teams across
 disciplines for nimble grant applications. The College Research Support Office helps with
 identifying opportunities, drafting applications, bringing external partners on board and
 organising mock panel interviews [REF5a 4.1]. This support works in conjunction with a
 rigorous system of mentoring and internal peer review of applications introduced as part of
 the reconfiguration of research themes in 2014-5. The success of this strategy has been
 seen in increasing grant income during this REF period, with colleagues acting as PIs or
 major work package leads on grants from 28 different funders. Highlights not detailed elsewhere
 include projects examining: risk assessments and climate change (Met Office, Leckebusch); the
 complex processes underpinning hyporheic zones (H2020 ITN, Krause, Hannah); prison
 visitation (ESRC, Moran) and; the intellectual legacies of Soviet climate science (AHRC,
 Oldfield).

 New hires in HG have created much greater expertise in low- and middle-income countries,
 which has driven interdisciplinary grant success in the GCRF space. Highlights include:
 enhancing community resilience to drought in South Africa through arts and creative approaches
 (AHRC, Day); and examining ecosystem services provision in mountainous regions of Nepal
 (NERC, Clark and Hannah).

 3.2 Organisational structures supporting research and impact

 The UoB ‘research that matters’ strategy supported a unit-level review of outcomes from
 REF2014. The result has been enhanced support for creating high-quality outputs, impact and
 business engagement alongside increased research inputs. This support takes a number of
 forms.

 9 staff took study leave [REF5a 3.4.3] during 2014–2020, targeting improved output quality. An
 annual residential writing retreat is available to all staff across PG and HG. Research themes
 also organise pre-submission review of papers and peer review of grant proposals as well
 as identifying opportunities to enhance the quality of outputs through additional data collection.

 An internal pump-priming fund initiated in 2015 allocates funds (£2-5k) for proof-of-concept
 research and impact activity with potential to deliver world-leading outputs. Applicants face a
 ‘Dragons Den’ pitch-to-peers (School Research Committee) to give experience of funder
 interviews. The fund received 19 applications from UoA14 2015-20 (11 male, 8 female) with 12
 receiving funding (6 male, 6 female). The School also uses a competitive bidding process to
 allocate £50k annually for small equipment items.




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Both College and University-level funding is available for international networking activities
 particularly for activities relating to LMIC partnerships. There is also funding for work with
 specific international partners e.g. UoB’s strategic link with the University of Illinois Urbana
 Champaign [REF5a 2.1.8].

 The institution has been successful in obtaining Impact Acceleration Accounts from all
 research councils that offer these. In addition, School, College and university-level impact and
 enterprise funds have been created. All submitted impact case studies as well as other projects
 in UoA14 have benefitted from these schemes, in many cases extending the international reach
 of activities.

 3.3. Infrastructure

 The biggest highlight this REF cycle has been the £30m investment in BIFoR (see 4.5). There
 has also been major UoB investment (£3.1m plus substantial external funding) to create the
 Birmingham Environmental Research Facility [REF5a 4.2.3], comprising the EcoLaboratory,
 BAQS, Glasshouses and Meteorological facilities.




 Figure 1: A) Forthcoming Molecular Sciences Building; B) BIFoR FACE; C) EcoLaboratory

 EcoLaboratory (Environmental Change Outdoor Laboratory, opened 2017) is a £1.4m UoB-
 funded facility for producing experimental water and sediment environments comprising over
 100 flume mesocosms. This is a unique facility in the UK, providing high replication and
 sensors for real-time monitoring. Built to enable interdisciplinary collaboration, EcoLaboratory
 provides tools for environmental risk assessment including multi-stressor interactions, alongside
 novel ‘genes to ecosystems’ approaches.


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 BAQS (Birmingham Air Quality Supersite) is one of only three national air quality research
 supersites, developed through a £670k NERC capital equipment investment (plus ~£100k
 support from UoB). Operated in collaboration with colleagues from UoA7, BAQS includes
 advanced instrumentation to characterise gaseous and particulate components of the urban
 atmosphere. This allows the identification of variation in atmospheric composition due to policy
 changes and other influences. Data from BAQS is open-access, fed into the national supersite
 network repository, UoB website and Birmingham City Council’s monitoring network.

 Meteorological facilities: UoA14 operates two weather stations, one for research and a second
 integrated into the UK Met Office network. Our meteorological facilities, including the
 Birmingham Urban Climate Laboratory, have been the base for a number of funded projects
 during this REF period, notably the £1.1m investment by EPSRC UKCRIC in Urban
 Observatories.

 Glasshouses: this newly redeveloped facility, due to reopen in 2021 (delayed from 2020 by the
 Covid-19 pandemic), has been funded through a £1m Wolfson Foundation award alongside
 £1.6m from UoB. It provides a series of controlled environmental chambers to study the
 interactions of plants and biological systems with physical and biological environmental
 stressors. The facility represents an interdisciplinary collaboration between UoAs 14, 7 and
 5. The glasshouse features twelve self-contained sub-chambers, varying CO2, heating, lighting
 and irrigation. UoA14 staff are using the glasshouses to undertake climate change experiments
 around greenhouse gas emissions adding value to research undertaken within BIFoR.

 Aerial robotics: The miniaturization of sensors is a distinctive element of our interdisciplinary
 research across UoAs 14 and 7. This includes NERC-funded deployment of meteorological
 payloads on tame and wild birds for measurements in settings unsuitable for drones. We also
 have a large fleet of drones for use in aerial photogrammetry and surveying.

 Stable Isotope Laboratory: provides state-of-the-art Continuous-Flow Isotope-Ratio Mass
 Spectrometry (CF-IRMS) for the investigation of environmental and biological samples.

 UoA14 researchers also have access to the UoB high performance computing cluster
 (BEAR). This includes high-capacity batch processing, cloud-based virtual machines, rapid data
 transfer, a Git-style code repository and large dataset storage [REF5a 4.5]. These facilities
 support the activities of UoA14 scholars particularly working in big data, ecological modelling
 and meteorology.

 The Playful methods lab is a unique facility among UK geography departments that
 enables experimentation using different technologies within qualitative human geography
 research. VR headsets, biosensing wristbands, gaming consoles, touchtable, 3D printer and a
 portable video studio are available for use by colleagues across UoA14. This was funded in part
 through the College Basic Equipment Renewal Grant, with the investment reflecting feedback
 from REF 2014 which noted the strength of qualitative methods research at Birmingham.

 The Peart Map Collection is one of the largest held by a UK university, with ~500,000 sheets,
 more than 600 atlases and many rare items. There are regular public engagement events,
 including activities linked to the annual UoB Arts and Sciences Festival. An IAS [REF5a 2.3]

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 workshop on the map collection in 2017 attracted interdisciplinary participants from across UoB.
 Parts of the collection have been digitised for public display on a museum-grade touchtable, the
 software for which was developed with AHRC funding.

 The School hosts the Lapworth Museum of Geology, designated an ‘outstanding’ collection by
 Arts Council England [REF5a 4.3). The Museum was subject to an award-winning £2.7 million
 redevelopment 2014–2016. Visitor numbers tripled and the Lapworth was shortlisted for Art
 Fund Museum of the Year 2017. The Museum runs an extensive schools’ education
 programme, reaching over 15,000 school children in 2016–2020. For staff within UoA14 the
 Lapworth Museum is a key facility for undertaking public engagement work, hosting a range of
 events (including ‘Lapworth Lates’) to showcase research.

 Looking forward, construction work has commenced on the £80m Molecular Sciences Building
 [REF5a 4.2.1]. This will be a focal point for strengthening our core research capabilities across
 campus in the chemical, environmental and bio-molecular sciences. ~6 academic staff (plus
 associated postdocs, PhD students and technicians) from UoA14 will move into the new
 building, due for completion in 2023. This will facilitate much greater collaboration between
 UoA14 and the School of Chemistry.

 3.4 Equality and Diversity support in research funding/infrastructure

 The School Research Committee has equality and diversity as a standing item on its
 agenda and also within its terms of reference:
       ‘As part of the University's legal Equality Duty, we will regularly consider the potential
       equality impacts of processes overseen and decisions made by the Committee,
       specifically where they affect individuals or groups with protected characteristics (age,
       disability, gender reassignment, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion or belief, sex and
       sexual orientation, marriage/civil partnership). To these ends we will (1) have due regard
       to the need to eliminate unlawful discrimination, harassment and victimisation, (2) advance
       equality of opportunity and (3) foster good relationships between people who share a
       protected characteristic and those who do not.’
 The Research Committee has undertaken an analysis which has shown similar success rates in
 grant proposals but lower applications by female staff members. Increased mentoring and
 support have been targeted at female staff in order to improve the rate of applications.

 3.5 Infrastructure, facilities and expertise used to create impact

 BIFoR and the Birmingham Environmental Research Suite were built with impact-led work in
 mind. Likewise, scholars within UoA14 are able to take advantage of impact-related expertise
 from the University of Birmingham Enterprise team [REF5a 4.1], established in 2014 to build
 relationships with external partners.

 3.6 Cross HEI and shared facilities (UK and overseas)

 UoB is part of Midlands Innovation, giving access to equipment and facilities across Midlands
 universities [REF5a 2.1.5]. BIFoR features in the UKRI infrastructure roadmap published in
 2019. The meteorological facility is part of a national network of urban observatories that have
 been brought together as part of a £1.1m EPSRC-UKCRIC investment.

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.7 Benefits-in-kind

 BIFoR was established immediately prior to the current REF cycle (November 2013) as part of a
 £15m gift to the University from the JABBS Foundation. Alongside the donation, the Foundation
 also provided the site at Mill Haft for the Free Air Carbon Enrichment experiment as an in-kind
 benefit, as well as making the Long Barn available as a research and meeting space. Smaller
 scale examples of in-kind benefits include the use of NERC facilities by Barrand (Isotope
 Geosciences Facility) to examine glacial and hydrological change in Iceland.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations

 Researchers within UoA14 have field sites and collaborations spanning every continent
 and the research power of the unit is significantly enhanced through association with high
 performing groups and individuals globally. 58.8% of our total Scopus outputs published within
 this REF cycle were with an international collaborator.




 Figure 2: UoA14 colleagues produced Scopus outputs with international co-authors from 69
 different countries 2014-2020 (Source: SciVal).

 Within this REF cycle, significant working relationships have been forged through grant
 applications, joint projects, fellowship visits and invitations to give keynote talks in more than 32
 different countries. This activity includes significant engagement and collaboration with
 global agencies including UNESCO, water.org, the International Water Management Institute,
 Panta Rhei, International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development, the UNHCR, UNEP, UN-
 Habitat and the IPCC. There have also been significant regional and community-focussed
 activities (examples in 4.3).

 UoB has a Brussels office to facilitate engagement with European partners and
 policymakers. Colleagues from UoA14 sit on committees setting the agenda for UoB
 internationalisation activity. Priority regions are Brazil, China, India and North America, each of
 which has a dedicated team responsible for promoting engagement, with funds available to
 pump prime research activity [REF5a 2.1.8]. An example of this is the BRIDGE (Birmingham-
 Illinois Partnership for Discovery, Engagement and Education) initiative established between

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoB and the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. BRIDGE funding allowed the international
 Water Council to be set up between the two institutions. This has led to joint initiatives tackling
 the issue of microplastic pollution in freshwater systems.

 A mapping exercise created a database of all international collaborations within the School and
 College. This makes it easier to find partners to work on GCRF and Newton fund applications.
 The College also has an internationalisation fund (up to £1000 per award) to facilitate
 international collaboration and networking for more junior staff. This fund can also be used to
 bring key collaborators to Birmingham where staff are unable to travel because of caring/other
 responsibilities.

 4.2 Interaction and development of relationships with key users

 UoA14 staff engaged with over 150 different public, private and third sector end users during the
 period 2014-20 (examples in 4.3). Collaborations range from simple networking and contract
 research through to formal collaborations on research activity, acting as named project partners,
 CASE studentships, studentships funded via CENTA, KTPs and other Innovate UK-funded
 projects.

 4.3 Wider contributions not captured by impact case studies

 HG members have been highly successful in securing funding for impact-led work. USE-
 IT, for example, is built around a collaboration with Birmingham City Council and regional
 partners undertaking a major regeneration project (Lee). UoB’s ESRC impact accelerator
 account has funded projects including examining community adaptation strategies in rapidly
 eroding coastal areas (Clark) and work with the Welsh Government on mindfulness and
 behaviour change (Pykett). PG staff have been particularly successful in using the various
 NERC funding schemes in developing new technologies. For example, creating a water
 quality sensor with RS Hydro via a NERC knowledge exchange fellow (Bradley and Hannah)
 and developing a groundwater sensor with Silixa via a NERC technology proof of concept grant
 (Krause). Work aligned with the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund has been undertaken as
 part of a project undertaken with major water companies (Affinity, Thames Water) to reduce
 storm-induced contamination risks to water supply infrastructure using active fibre-optic
 distributed temperature sensing.

 Allied to our impact case study by Chapman, we also have growing expertise in climate and
 infrastructure. Jaroszweski, in collaboration with Network Rail, has mapped the vulnerability of
 transport networks to weather-induced natural hazards. Likewise, Ferranti has held both a
 NERC knowledge exchange fellowship and an ESPRC Living with Environmental Change
 fellowship. These have allowed her to explore transport resilience in the face of climate change
 and produce guidance on the use of Green Infrastructure to improve urban environmental
 quality, including a new Landscape Standard for HS2. There has also been work at the interface
 of HG and PG around issues of sustainable water resources led by Hannah and Clark alongside
 Sugden’s work with the International Water Management Institute. Milner worked on the IPCC
 Special Report on the Ocean and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate, acting as lead author on
 the ‘High mountain areas’ chapter. Chapman and Hannah also contributed to both the second
 and third UK climate change risk assessments which inform the National Adaptation
 Programme.

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Members of both PG and HG have been active in undertaking impact-led consultancy work
 during this REF cycle. These include: identifying land management options for solar panel sites;
 acting as an expert witness on licensing of groundwater extraction representing the first legal
 test of the Habitats Directive; advising DEFRA and Environment Agency on the implementation
 of the 25 Year Plan for the Environment; working with the British Council on the use of science in
 cultural relations in Russia, Argentina and Iran; serving on the Measurement and Policy Advisory
 Board for the Centre for Thriving Places; advising the Met Office on their new surface
 observation strategy; working with Birmingham City Council on a regeneration scheme framed
 by a new hospital development; and providing a geophysical field survey as part of a project
 cleaning up New York’s Passaic River.

 4.4 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline

 We have a productive relationship with the Royal Geographical Society (RGS) and have run five
 CPD events in collaboration with the RGS for local secondary school teachers (over 200
 participants). An output from these events has been ‘Ask the Geographer’ podcasts used in
 classrooms across the country. We also promote the discipline via our Explore Geography
 days for local schools. Staff in UoA14 have collaborated with PGDipEd students in the School
 of Education, putting together resource packs on specialist topics for use by GCSE and A-level
 teachers.

 4.5 Exemplars of interdisciplinary research

 As has been highlighted throughout this document, interdisciplinary research is a key focus for
 UoA14 (see also 1.4). An exemplar of this approach is the interdisciplinary Birmingham
 Institute of Forest Research (BIFoR), bringing together UoAs14, 7 and 5 to create a step-
 change in UK forest research. BIFoR’s flagship facility is a Free Air Carbon Enrichment
 (FACE) experiment which came on stream in 2016 supported by a £15m gift from the JABBS
 foundation and £15m from UoB. BIFoR FACE assesses the impact of rising CO2 levels on
 whole forest ecosystems in mature woodlands. This facility is the only such experiment in the
 northern hemisphere and represents a significant advance on Phase 1 FACE experiments which
 used vigorously growing recently planted forests. Mature forests behave differently, especially in
 critical aspects of water and nutrient cycling, stress responses, resilience and intraspecific
 competition. Early results indicate increased carbon assimilation and cycling processes in
 response to elevated CO2.

 BIFoR has a significantly wider remit than managing the FACE experiment, driving
 interdisciplinary work considering all aspects of forests and forest management. The £1.04m
 Forest Edge initiative, for example, provides Leverhulme funding to 20 PhDs working between
 the humanities, physical and social science – 7 of 15 studentships allocated to date have a Uo14
 researcher as supervisor. The Institute is also part of a global initiative investigating the effects
 of climate change on forest ecosystems in different climatic zones, enabling BIFoR to test the
 wider application of its data. International collaboration puts BIFoR at the heart of discussions on
 land management decision-making.

 Launched in 2017, and led by UoA14, the Urban Initiative (UI) acts as a virtual centre bringing
 together researchers across UoA14, UoA7, the Business School and Engineering. It has
 generated original and transformative research based on interdisciplinary collaborations

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 between researchers interested in urban environments and systems. The UI emphasises
 partnership with international universities, funding bodies and other private and public
 organisations. Its primary foci are in the intersections between urban planning, environmental,
 ecological and health sciences; it currently comprises over 50 academic members, plus
 postdocs and PhD students alongside alumni and stakeholders interested in the urban.

 The UI consolidates considerable expertise in urban research in UoA14 and UoA7 relating to
 health and environmental changes, risks and resilience (from flooding to volcanic hazards),
 liveability, biodiversity and greening, as well as urban planning, regeneration and community
 engagement. This expertise cuts across both the Global North and South spanning physical
 environments, social practices, policy and future prospects, with partnerships in Brazil, India,
 China, Australia and Mexico.

 The UI has been a catalyst for inter-disciplinary collaborations particularly in the area of
 environmental changes, including air quality and water. This includes ASAP East-Africa (DFID,
 £1.2m) and WM-Air (NERC, £5m). Both these projects involve genuine collaborations between
 researchers based in UoA14 and UoA7 across physical and social sciences.

 4.6 Responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives

 UoA14 has major advantages of scale, low barriers to interdisciplinary collaboration and
 flexibility of administrative structures that make it well placed to respond rapidly to emerging
 questions and priorities. This can be seen in successful GCRF, Newton and DfID bids across
 UoA14. This activity ties into a new emphasis on international development as a UK research
 priority.

 4.7 Wider influence and esteem

 UoA14 staff have made important contributions to the vitality and sustainability of the discipline
 and the broader academy while widening engagement with stakeholders, policy practitioners
 and publics. Highlights for this REF cycle include:

 Academic leadership:
     • In 2016 UNESCO invited the School to join its prestigious global universities network;
        Hannah became the first UNESCO Chair in Water Science.
     • In 2020 Kraftl was elected as a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences and won the
        2020 RGS-IBG Murchison Award, recognising his outstanding work in the field of
        children’s geography. He was also elected as Honorary Treasurer of the Research and
        Higher Education Division of RGS-IBG Council.
     • Moran and Jones were central to establishing two new working groups of the Royal
        Geographical Society (respectively Carceral and Digital Geographies).
 Colleagues have also served on committees of other learned societies, including: UN Habitat
 Global Expert Group; British Hydrological Society; UNESCO; Association of American
 Geographers International Members Task Force; EGU Cryospheric Sciences Division.

 Prizes:
     • Royal Meteorological Society Innovation Award 2015, the Harry Otten Foundation Award
         2017 (€25,000) and Highways UK’s 2017 Intelligent Infrastructure Award (Chapman).
     • Most Productive Young Researcher Award 2015 from the Scientific Commission of the
         Azorean Biodiversity Group (£500) (Matthews).

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Howard Journal 2019 Best Article Prize for work on the prison-military complex (Moran)
    •   PROSE Award 2019 of the Association of American Publishers in the Environmental
        Science category (Widman).
    •   RGS-IBG Political Geography Research Group Book award 2019-20 (Fregonese).
    •   Editorial excellence award 2017 for work with the Journal of Hydrology (Larsen).
    •   Area Prize for New Research in Geography 2018 (Dixon)

 Editorial roles: members of UoA14 have served as editors of: Transactions of the IBG; Children’s
 Geographies; Area; Geography Compass; and Eurasia Border Review. They have also served
 on the editorial boards of 14 major peer reviewed journals.

 Grant Panels: UoA14 staff have served on major grant panels, including: Royal Society; AHRC
 Panel and Peer Review College; ESF College of Expert Reviewers; GCRF Peer Review
 College; Newton Fund Social Sciences Panel; ESRC Peer Review College; EPSRC Peer
 Review College; various NERC panels; Innovate UK; NASA Cryosphere Land Ice Panel. Two
 UoA14 staff have served on the NERC Advisory Network.

 Invited keynotes: have been undertaken at a number of prestigious institutions, highlights
 including UN Habitat, the World Bank, the British High Commission in Delhi, and Columbia
 University.

 International fellowships: have been secured at a number of respected global institutions
 including: University Louvain-la-Neuve; International Water Management Institute; University of
 Alberta; Centre for Asia-Pacific Futures, Kyushu University; Japan Society of the Promotion of
 Science; Institute of Freshwater Ecology Berlin; RMIT University; University of the Azores;
 University of Melbourne.



 Summary

 This document evidences the successful strategy to significantly enhance our research
 environment in this REF cycle. There has been a major increase in staff numbers, reflecting
 UoB’s policy of investing in areas of research excellence. We have restructured our research
 themes to facilitate a genuine culture of interdisciplinarity to lead the challenge-led research
 agenda. Major strategic investment has been secured for flagship initiatives such as BIFoR and
 the Birmingham Environmental Research Facility. Enhanced processes have been developed
 around staff induction, study leave, pump priming funds and internal review of grants. The
 success of these measures is seen in low staff turnover, substantially increased grant capture
 and an increasing number of new fellows. We have developed ‘best-in-class’ doctoral training,
 embraced the open research agenda alongside enhanced engagement and impact beyond HEI,
 while actively diversifying our staff intake. Investment has continued despite the constraints of
 Covid-19. Our vibrant research environment enables us to deliver world-leading research and
 impact, now and into the future.




                                                                                           Page 23
