  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Institution: University of Kent

   Unit of Assessment: 20: Social Work and Social Policy

   Section 1 Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
a.
b. a. Context and Structure
c.
   The School of Social Policy, Sociology and Social Research (SSPSSR) at the University of Kent
   is one of the largest units of its type in the UK. Our research is characterised by its scale, diversity,
   international character, policy relevance, flexibility, capacity for innovation, and theoretical depth.
   It is underpinned by a broad and expanding range of methodological expertise, and by
   engagement across the full range of stakeholders and the public. The Category A staff FTE
   submitted rose from 56 to 61 between RAE2008 and REF2014, and has continued to rise in step
   with the School’s research income, which was one of the largest in the sub-panel in both previous
   exercises. The School took the opportunity to expand public health and health services research
   during the REF2021 period, following the University’s decision to pursue a Medical School bid,
   and did so with signal success. Accordingly, we are submitting 67.4 FTE to UoA20, with £17.3
   million of associated research income, and an additional 16.65 FTE to UoA2, with £7.8 million in
   research income. The continuing vigour of our research in Social Work and Social Policy is
   demonstrated by the fact that the UoA20 submission alone is substantially larger than that made
   in 2014.

   Our UoA20 submission includes three externally funded centres, four institutionally recognised
   centres, eleven research clusters that serve as foci of School research, and various ad hoc
   research groupings. These centres and clusters reflect our strengths, and permit the focused and
   agile responses through which we attract prestigious Research Council, EU, and charities awards,
   as well as government and enterprise funding from the UK and abroad. They maintain strong
   relationships with academic colleagues in national and international networks, as well as with
   policy-makers and users, beneficiaries, and co-producers of research beyond academia. These
   relationships underpin our engagement with a wide range of users, as illustrated in our six impact
   case studies.

   The School’s signal strengths include its multi-disciplinary culture, theoretical profile, wide-ranging
   methodological expertise, strong international presence, policy-relevant research, engagement
   with the wider public, and vibrant and supportive research environment:

   Multi-disciplinary character. The breadth of the School’s expertise enables us to focus a wide
   range of disciplines and methodologies onto issues in social policy and social work. We draw on
   expertise at the leading edge of sociology, criminology, social and cultural geography, social
   history, cultural studies, personal social services, medical provision, and learning and disability
   research, and employ a wide range of qualitative and quantitative methods. Our rich research
   environment stimulates staff to form partnerships and pursue interdisciplinary work. We also
   maintain a number of seminar series: the weekly cross-School staff and postgraduate seminar,
   meetings and symposia in the research units (including invited local and national professionals),
   and occasional conferences and day-schools organised by our research clusters, which bring
   together scholars from a range of disciplinary backgrounds.

   Theoretical profile. The School has world-leading expertise in social, political, and cultural theory,
   social services and social care, and the psychology of autism. Our policy-relevant research is
   underpinned by authoritative and critical social theory, notably in the sociology of ageing and care
   (for example, Forder, Hussein, Milne, Vickerstaff), the body (Rajan-Rankin, Shilling, Twigg), labour
   markets and work (Chung, Lyon, Strangleman), disability (De Vries, Murphy, McGill, McCarthy),
   violence (Ray), parenting (Lee), social attitudes (Baumberg-Geiger, Chung, Taylor-Gooby),
   ethnicity, identity, and policy-making (Rajan-Rankin, Song), religion (Garbin, Shilling), responses
   to risk (Burgess), gender relations (Pedwell, Twigg), environmental movements (Hensby, Wrenn),
   urban studies (Jupp, Miller), wellbeing (Wilkinson), and charitable giving (Body, Breeze,

                                                                                                     Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sanghera). These theoretical strengths underlie the School’s success in inter- and multi-
 disciplinary research projects; for example: Breeze’s research on corporate philanthropy (social
 policy/history/institutional sociology); Chung’s research on work flexibility (sociology of work,
 gender and care); Garbin’s projects on urbanisation and religion in African mega-cities (social
 anthropology/migration studies/sociology of religion); Pedwell’s fellowship on digital media and the
 human (sociology of culture /technology/critical feminism); Song’s projects on mixed-race identity
 (sociology/politics of identity); Taylor-Gooby’s on attitudes and politics of welfare (social
 policy/comparative political science/social psychology); and Vickerstaff’s studies of ageing and the
 workplace (demography/health and disability studies/gerontology).

 Wide-ranging methodological expertise. The School combines proficiency and an innovative
 approach in handling large quantitative national and international datasets (notably in its research
 centres, Q-step programme, and the Eastern ARC collaboration, but also in other aspects of its
 work (see section 1.b.4 below), and skill and creativity in qualitative approaches to collecting,
 analysing, and representing narrative and textual data, as well as visual and sensory materials.
 We have broad expertise across multiple methods and approaches: from unstructured interview,
 democratic forum, and focus group work, through statistical survey and survey experiments, to
 cutting-edge quantitative analysis. We have strengths in narrative and discourse analysis,
 historical, textual, behavioural, and legal analysis, institutional studies, data-harvesting and
 manipulation, advanced statistical methods, and econometrics. These are evident in the range of
 datasets used in School projects, including British Social Attitudes Survey, the Millennium Cohort,
 European Social Survey, Eurobarometer, Labour Force Survey, Living Costs and Food Surveys,
 England and Wales Crime Survey, Health Survey for England, Understanding Society, the English
 Longitudinal Study of Ageing, National Child Development Study, the Health and Retirement
 Survey, Opinion and Lifestyles Survey, Family Resources Survey, and many others, as well as
 the large number generated by the School’s own research. They also emerge in the range of
 qualitative material, including the large and complex cross-national qualitative and quantitative
 datasets produced by the ESRC/MRC, GCRF, and NORFACE projects, and by the Personal Social
 Services Research Unit, the Tizard, and the Philanthropy Centre.

 Strong international presence. Staff in the School conduct research in numerous countries world-
 wide, including projects in Sri Lanka (Seoighe), the DRC (Garbin), Calcutta (Calnan), Beijing
 (Zhang), and Seoul (Chung). This submission includes funded work with collaborators in all
 continents except Antarctica. Our research funders include British Academy Newton (Zhang), the
 EU (Chung, Taylor-Gooby), the Council of Europe, NORFACE (Taylor-Gooby), and the
 Governments of Australia, Canada, Eire, Finland, and Jamaica (Cottee), as well as ESRC
 (Baumberg-Geiger, Chung, Kendal), the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, GCRF (Garbin,
 Zhang), MRC (Calnan; Vickerstaff), NIHR (Milne and others), the Russell Sage (Song), Joseph
 Rowntree, Nuffield, Sharland (Baker), and Varkey (De Vries) Foundations, the Leverhulme
 (Pedwell) and Wellcome (Calnan) Trusts, the British Council, Canadian Social Science and
 Humanities Research Council (Strangleman), Fondation Maison des Sciences de l’Homme, and
 Swedish Research Council (Shilling). Our staff have funded collaborations with colleagues at
 Aalborg, Harvard, Humboldt, Ljubljana, Seoul, and Uppsala universities in the REF period (see
 section 3a for details). School staff also made more than 250 presentations to international
 conferences in the REF period (see section 4 below).

 Policy-relevant research is a central strength of the School. We have an outstanding reputation,
 particularly in research on ageing, health and social care, personal social services, autism, cross-
 national comparative social policy, employment and labour markets, gender, work and welfare,
 intellectual disability, race and ethnic identity, philanthropy, the politics of welfare, poverty,
 inequality and social divisions, and crime and criminal justice. Much of this work is funded by
 central and local government departments, including BEIS, DH, DWP, EHRC, MoJ, NHS, NAO,
 NIHR, OBR, HM Treasury, and the US National Institute of Justice, as well as major NGOs. Staff
 members have acted as advisors to the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs, Health, Work
 and Pensions, and Women and Equalities Select Committees; Sports England; the Charity
 Commission; NCVO; the Trussell Trust; the BA ‘Shaping the Future’ and the ESRC ‘Social Science
 for Recovery’ Groups; the G20 Task Force on Social Cohesion; HMRC; the Kent and Medway

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Partnership Trust; the Woodrow Wilson Centre Washington; the Korean Institute for Health and
 Social Affairs; Toynbee Hall; the TUC; the NHS England Committee on Forensic Learning
 Disabilities and on the Liaison and Diversion Service Specification; and HMPPS on Learning
 Disabilities guidance.

 Engagement with the wider public is a further strength of our research environment, with notable
 examples in public engagement, from inception and design to dissemination and the
 implementation of findings in the Research Centres and across individual projects. Key examples
 include: Stevens’ work chairing two of the Advisory Committee on the Misuse of Drugs working
 groups, leading to EU and DH-funded research, and work as Special Advisor to the Health
 Services Select Committee and to its report recommending a policy shift towards decriminalisation
 of drug users; Forder’s longstanding association with DH, funded by a series of DH grants, and
 leading to the new social care funding formula allocating £5.7 billion annually; the active
 engagement of people with learning disabilities and autism across the projects of the Tizard
 Centre; and the series of public lectures, study days, and pub evenings on issues ranging from
 Black Lives Matter to Brexit. The Faculty (now Divisional) Director of Public Engagement, Stevens,
 is a member of the School.

 Our vibrant and supportive research environment. The School’s weekly seminar series and the
 conferences, workshops, and symposia organised by staff and students help nourish a lively and
 stimulating working environment. This is supported by the involvement of our large PGR
 community (114 individuals in 2019-20, full- and part-time) in the life of the School, and by our
 policies on mentoring, teaching loads, staff research, conference allowances, and study leave
 (see section 3b, c below).

 The School’s three externally funded research centres make a pivotal contribution to its research
 capacity and prestige:

    •   Personal Social Services Research Unit (PSSRU, 11 members submitted). PSSRU is
        the largest social services research unit in the UK (operating in collaboration with PSSRU
        LSE and PSSRU Manchester), and is a partner in the NIHR School for Social Care
        Research (SSCR). It conducts high-quality research on social and health care to inform
        and influence policy, practice, and theory, and has an outstanding UK and international
        reputation. This is evidenced, for example, in the requests to access training on and use
        the Unit’s ASCOT long-term care and wellbeing measurement techniques from Eire,
        Northern Ireland, Austria, Denmark, Finland, Italy, Norway, Spain, Japan, and Australia.
    •   Tizard Centre (11 members submitted). This Centre specialises in the study of intellectual
        and developmental disability, offering degrees at undergraduate, masters, and doctoral
        levels, and undertaking world-leading research. Particular strengths are the path-breaking
        work on autism, managing challenging behaviour, and learning difficulties among the
        prison population.
    •   Centre for Health Services Studies (CHSS). Developed within SSPSSR, and
        maintaining close research links with researchers in the School, CHSS is submitted to
        UoA2.

 SSPSSR also includes four institutionally recognised centres:

    •   Centre for Philanthropy. This Centre is a UK leader in research, teaching, and public
        engagement in the field, with a strong media presence and successful engagement with
        business funders, demonstrated in Coutts Bank’s support for the annual Million-Pound
        Donors report and Pear’s Foundation sponsorship of a Research Fellow.
    •   Centre for the Study of Social and Political Movements. This long-established Centre
        sustains international links in research on contemporary social and political movements,
        especially in relation to environmental activism, and fostered the development of the
        leading journal in the field, Environmental Politics, edited from SSPSSR.
    •   Centre for Parenting Culture Studies (CfP). This Centre has gained a national and
        international reputation for its interdisciplinary research and dissemination work (notably

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        through close links with colleagues in Law and Psychology), leading to recent
        presentations at the Royal College of Physicians, University of Cambridge, and Institute of
        Education.
    •   Centre for Child Protection’s (CCP). This Centre’s international reputation rests notably
        on its innovative research on child protection training (including on simulation and a
        MOOC) and postgraduate study, and its Technology Strategy Board-funded research on
        advocacy.

 The School’s current research is further consolidated within eleven research clusters, which meet
 regularly to discuss work-in-progress, organise seminars and conferences, and prepare funding
 bids supported by seed-funding from School and University resources. All staff are members of at
 least one cluster or Centre, and about half are members of more than one. The number of clusters
 has almost doubled since REF2014, as the School continues to develop, consolidate existing
 strengths, and respond to opportunities. The new research clusters include: Gender Sexuality and
 Culture; Welfare States; Applied Research Ethics; Visual and Sensory Research Methods; and
 Social Theory. The six previously existing clusters continue to represent the major established
 research strengths of the School, including: Health and Social Care; Civil Society; Risk and
 Uncertainty; Work, Employment, and Economic Life; Crime, Culture, and Control; and Migration
 and Ethnicity. In addition, Embodiment has been added to the Health and Social Care cluster, and
 Religion and Belonging to the Migration cluster, to reflect the expansion of the School and enhance
 capacity to address new areas in research. School members are also play leading roles in the
 establishment of the University’s new Signature Research Themes, notably Migration and
 Movement (Rajan-Rankin).

 In 2020, SSPSSR came together with Kent Law School and the Centre for Journalism to form a
 new Division of Law, Society and Social Justice (see institutional environment statement for further
 details). The Division will offer new opportunities for research collaboration and a dedicated
 Research and Innovation Office to support the full range of research carried out in the School.
 Newly appointed divisional Directors of Research and Innovation work closely with School
 Directors of Research and Innovation to invest in research of the highest quality and impact.

 b. Research Strategy

 The School’s overarching research objective remains simply (as articulated in the previous three
 RAE and REF exercises) to ‘develop work at the leading edge of theoretically informed social
 policy in the widest sense’. We focus effort in areas of particular strength through the structure
 described above. We also provide the flexible support described below to enable colleagues to
 identify and pursue opportunities that they identify:

    1. Support in time and money. Study leave, conference allowance, teaching relief through
       ‘buy-outs’, administrative support and seed-funding for events and activities enable high-
       level research. Staff on Education and Research (E&R) contracts have taken more than
       125 terms of study leave in the REF period, and have been bought out through research
       grants for at least a further 25 terms. In addition to the research support provided by the
       University, discussed in REF5a, the School provides a full-time research manager and
       further financial, administrative, and web support.

    2. Mentoring and collegial advice. All senior staff in the School participate in a programme to
       help colleagues develop research bids through written comments and discussion. A similar
       scheme provides peer review of draft outputs to support publication in prestigious journals.
       Central University funds cover Gold Open Access journal fees. Both schemes are
       supported by School-level small grants, complementing the existing Faculty (now
       Divisional) and University targeted small grants (see REF5a, section 2a).




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. Appointment of new staff to enhance the range of our work. Since REF2014, we have
       appointed new staff in Criminology, Social Policy, Cultural Studies, Intellectual Disability,
       Quantitative Social Science, and Social Work to enable us to strengthen work, particularly
       in drugs policy, social security, and migration studies, and promoted staff to professorships
       in Risk Research, Parenting Research, Social Gerontology, Intellectual and
       Developmental Disabilities, and Social Work and Criminal Justice. This has led to new
       research directions and grants; for example, from the British Academy (£282k: religious
       urbanisation in Africa, Garbin), NIHR (£900k: interventions to reduce risk-taking among
       adolescents, Stevens; plus £800k: group CBT for male prisoners with ID, Murphy).

    4. Development of staff careers. In addition to the provision detailed above, we ensure that
       new E&R staff are able to establish and develop their research careers through a 50%
       teaching reduction in year 1, and through annual mentoring and appraisal. We endorse
       and actively implement University policies on flexible and family-friendly working practices,
       provision for disabled staff, and all other policies relevant to protected characteristics. We
       currently hold an Athena SWAN Bronze Award (see 2c below).

    5. Building links with stakeholders and the wider public. We maintain strong links with
       potential funders, and ensure that our work is widely known through the extensive activities
       listed below.

 c. Impact Strategy

 Our impact strategy follows from our research strategy, which stresses work at the leading edge
 of social policy across the discipline. Impact is bound up with engagement. Engagement feeds
 research by presenting and expanding ideas and opportunities, and enables current work to
 achieve the recognition and response that facilitate and stimulate future activities. We seek to:

    •   Draw on and extend our contacts with users, beneficiaries, and stakeholders to gain ideas
        and opportunities, and to secure access to research environments (including highly
        sensitive hard-to-access areas in health, personal social services, childcare, and criminal
        justice);
    •   Continue to develop our engagement and opportunities for dissemination and impact
        across a broad range of users and beneficiaries, as we have in previous REF cycles, and
        ensure that our researchers have the resources to do this through the support outlined in
        section 5b1.

 The School is particularly well placed to contribute to policy development and professional
 practice. Its contacts range from the central and local government-level policy communities
 addressed by all seven research centres and researchers across the School (especially in drugs
 policy, ageing, pensions, ethnic and racial identity, parenting practice, the labour market, personal
 social services and learning disabilities research), to NGOs, professional and practitioner groups,
 and the general public.

 We have established user groups across a wide range of areas corresponding to our research
 activities and interests. These groups develop over time, as our research shifts to match changes
 in society, welfare, social work, and policy. Our users, beneficiaries, and stakeholders fall into
 three main groups:

    •   Government and the associated policy-making, implementation, and monitoring
        communities at central, regional, and local government level, and also internationally in
        Europe, East Asia, and elsewhere;
    •   NGOs, charities, business agencies, and bodies, trade unions, religious organisations, and
        organised civil society;
    •   The wider public, including those with interests in specific areas of provision through
        personal involvement, those concerned about the politics of welfare and provision, and
        more generally.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We engage these groups through a wide range of means, including:

    •   Participation in meetings and committees with policy-makers and the broader policy
        community (in addition to official committees and inquiries), the use of electronic media,
        especially twitter and high-profile blogs;
    •   The creation of interactive websites, including those linked to specific projects or areas
        (listed below under ‘Engaging the Broader Public’); radio, television, and newspaper
        publication; running or participating in user-directed conferences and workshops;
    •   The production and distribution of briefing papers;
    •   Participatory research with our user groups and communities throughout the research
        process, from design to dissemination. Our extensive engagement in normal academic
        channels of communication through learned societies, academic conferences, and
        electronic media and publication, and the ready availability of the Kent Academic
        Repository, national archives, and our own online site links with many members of the
        policy community.

 For example, at the international level:

    •   Zhang has enjoyed signal success in engaging with policy-makers, scientific practitioners,
        regulators, public engagement professionals, and the public. Her recommendations on
        science governance were officially accepted by China’s Ministry of Science and
        Technology in 2019, and put forward to Ministers and other high-level officials. It is
        extremely rare for any social science research or work funded outside China, and even
        more for any research carried out by a non-Chinese academic, to be so treated (see impact
        case study and Nature annual reviews of China, 2018 and 2019).
    •   Stevens led a 2018 review for the Irish Government on which it based recommendations
        to change the management of drug possession offenders. He also advises the
        Governments of Norway and Quebec on drug policy reform (see impact case study).
    •   Chatwin represented Europe in the Brookings 'Improving Global Drug Policy' programme
        at the UN General Assembly Special Session (UNGASS) on global drug policy, 2016. Her
        work on European drug policy was also presented in London, New York, and Beijing.
    •   Chung’s research on flexible working and gender equality is cited in the EU ‘Equality
        Between Men and Women’ report (2019); she contributed to a European Institute for
        Gender Equality's research note on gender equality (2018); and advised the Korean
        Ministries of Labour and Health and Social Affairs, the TUC, and the Italian Government
        (2018; see impact case study).

 At the level of national government:

    •   The high profile of our researchers is indicated by the appointment of SSSPSSR staff as
        special advisors to the House of Commons Women and Equalities Committee (Vickerstaff;
        impact case study), the Health and Social Care Select Committee Inquiry into drug policy,
        the UK Government’s Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs, and the Scottish Affairs
        Select Committee for its inquiry on drug-related deaths (Stevens; impact case study), and
        the Cabinet Office Shared Parental Leave advisory panel (Chung; impact case study).
        Chung also addressed an EU DG Justice plenary. Our staff have made numerous
        contributions to the work of House of Commons Committees, including the House of
        Commons special committee evaluating the Psychoactive Substances Act (Chatwin,
        2016).
    •   Wilkinson contributed statistical analysis to the Final Report of the All-Party Parliamentary
        Groups on School Food, and Hunger and Food Poverty ‘Children's Future Food Enquiry’
        (2019).
    •   Baumberg-Geiger’s work on disabled JSA claimers is cited in the OBR ‘Welfare Trends’
        report (2019), and the WP Select Committee Sanctions report (2018), discussed by
        committee members in the first evidence session and quoted, as well as de Vries’s work
        on BAME claimers in the EHRC ‘How Fair is Britain?’ 2018 report.

                                                                                              Page 6
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        •   Baumberg-Geiger was one of only two academics to be invited to a roundtable with the
            Secretary of State for Work and Pensions in 2018.
        •   Milne is a member of the Standing Commission on Carers (2006-15), an advisor on the
            National Carers’ Strategy, and a member of the Chief Social Worker’s Adults Advisory
            Group.
        •   Calnan sits on the NIHR committee on Research for Patient Benefits.
        •   Vickerstaff chairs the GO-Science Working Group on ‘Covid-19 and Employment’.
        •   Taylor-Gooby sits on the UKRI/GO-Science Group on Covid-19 and Vulnerable
            Populations, which advised SAGE.
        •   Warner’s work on the emotional politics of childcare was quoted by the Chief Social Worker
            and recommended to the DfE book club.
        •   Breeze advised the DCMS ‘Giving’ team on ‘The Future of Charitable Giving’ strategy.

     At the level of national and international NGOs:

        •   Kendall was invited to submit the UK Policy Brief on the challenges facing international
            civil society for the Social Cohesion task force as part of the 2018 G20-T20.
        •   Breeze served on the Charity Tax Commission Advisory Group on Treatment of
            Fundraisers (2019), and carried out an evaluation study for the Heritage Lottery
            Foundation in 2017, which made recommendations incorporated in the new multi-million
            pound ‘Resilient Heritage’ scheme.
        •   Silvestri served as invited academic advisor to the National BAME Women in Policing
            Working Group; and is also involved in discussions with the College of Policing; British
            Association of Women Police; National Black Police Association and the Muslim Police
            Association; and West Yorkshire Police Positive Action group.
-
     At the level of business:

        •   Stevens was consultant on Qualitative Comparative Analysis to RAND Europe (2019).
        •   Chung advised BEIS on flexible working for the WERS/WLB survey (2019), and assisted
            the Government Equalities Office in producing action notes for employers on addressing
            the gender pay gap (2018).

     At the regional level:

        •   The School maintains close links with users and beneficiaries in local communities. For
            example, in September 2019 SSPSSR hosted, in collaboration with Rochester Diocese,
            Kent Police, and Medway African-Caribbean Association, a national conference on
            reducing knife crime and youth violence, attended by more than 175 professionals and
            members of the public; an evening of talks on the history of slavery abolitionism in Kent in
            November 2018; an academic-professional seminar on hate crime in March 2019; and a
            post-film screening discussion with students and the Director of Childline at the Gulbenkian
            Cinema, Canterbury, in April 2019. The Tizard Centre is in close and continuing liaison
            with Mencap, the National Autistic Society, Autistica, the ex-offenders Keyring Group,
            Working for Justice, and Advocacy for All.
        •   Our Research Centres have established strengths in engagement with local and national
            communities. For example, the Centre for Philanthropy builds on the links established
            through its annual conference to which donors, major fund-raising charities, and members
            of the public are invited. The ideas debated at this forum underpin research bids and
            strengthen links with user and stakeholder groups. Similarly, Tizard maintains a reference
            group of people with autism and with learning disabilities, and a Family Carer Research
            Advisory Group to identify areas for research and support and facilitate existing research

     We continue to build links with users and beneficiaries at as early a stage as possible in the
     development of research. Examples include:


                                                                                                 Page 7
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        •   The close links maintained by the Centre for Parenting Culture Studies with national
            journalists who attend its annual conferences.
        •   The engagement of Trade Union leaders and CBI representatives on the advisory group
            for the ESRC ‘Work Autonomy, Flexibility and Work-Life Balance’ project; and of the TUC,
            Daycare Alliance, ETUC, and ILO on the ‘Work-Life Balance’ group.
        •   The inclusion of people with learning disabilities as co-researchers and as presenters at
            the London (2018) and Manchester (2019) conferences of the Tizard ‘Love Project’. The
            role of a national newspaper journalist and NGO representatives on the advisory council
            for the NORFACE ‘Our Children’s Futures’ project.
        •   The participation of major donors (Coutts Bank) and fund-raisers on the ‘Million-Pound
            Donors’ project steering group.
        •   The involvement of the Trussell Trust and NCVO in designing the ‘Community, Crowd-
            funding, and Covid’ project.

-    Engaging the broader public
-
     The School’s commitment to ensuring the availability and accessibility of our research far exceeds
     the requirements of Open Access compliance. We make as many research publications and
     reports as possible openly available, have a substantial media presence, and use online and social
     media to engage others in our work. We will continue to develop the policies outlined below, in
     particular to include more members of user communities in the development of research projects
     at an early stage.

        •   Open access to our research. All research-active members of staff record all publications
            on, and make pre-publication versions of their articles and other documents publicly
            available through, the Kent Academic Repository (KAR), except for a small number of
            cases where the sensitivity of the material or confidentiality requirements preclude this.
            Many staff and research students also make use of other archives and repositories, notably
            the UK Data Archive, ResearchGate, and Academia.edu, as platforms from which to share
            and discover research. The Data Archive contains seven large datasets deposited by
            School members between 2014 and 2020. ResearchGate currently has 764 SSPSSR
            members, 14 with scores in excess of 20. The average number of reads is close to 900
            per week, the most popular articles being accessed by a similar proportion of UK-based
            and international readers (February 2021).
        •   Online and social media. The School’s teaching and research members make extensive
            use of social media to press home their research and promote debate. The Research
            Centres also have a social media implementation group to develop and support the use of
            social media as part of a wider impact strategy. Individual staff members have substantial
            presence; for example, Stevens (9481), Breeze (4725 followers), Warner (3608), and
            Bradley (3530). Members of academic staff regularly write blogs, for example: ‘Let’s all be
            open about what we earn’ (Baumberg-Geiger); ‘Working Class Perspectives’
            (Strangleman); and ‘Brexit won’t work without a new welfare state’ (Taylor-Gooby); and
            contribute to online magazines that are spaces of public intellectual exchange; for
            example, The Atlantic, The Conversation, and Discover Society (notably Baumberg-
            Geiger, Chung, Cottee, Stevens, Taylor-Gooby, Wilkinson). Staff also curate and
            contribute to publicly accessible websites dedicated to specific projects or programmes of
            research. Examples include: Before the Welfare State (Bradley); CB for Men with Learning
            Disability (Murphy); Centre for Parenting Culture Studies (Lee); Centre for Philanthropy
            (Breeze); Clothing and Age (Twigg); Community Care Inform (Shemmings); Cultural
            Criminology (Redmond); Imagining Autism (Beadle-Brown); The Love Project (McCarthy);
            The Match Project (Langdon); Offenders and Social Care (Murphy); PSSRU project blogs
            (Forder); Quality and Outcomes of Care (Forder); Research in Practice (Shemmings);
            Uncertain Futures (Vickerstaff); Welfare at a (Social) Distance: Kent (Baumberg-Geiger);
            Welfare State Futures (Taylor-Gooby); and Work Autonomy, Flexibility, and Work-Life
            Balance (Chung).
        •   Radio, TV, and newspapers. SSPSSR has an impressive media presence, locally,
            nationally, and internationally. For example, during the REF2021 period, the School’s
                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        research on ageing, on social policy in fiction, and on women and flexible working has led
        to an appearance on BBC1 TV (Who Do You Think You Are? Bradley, May 2019), at least
        eight appearances on BBC Radio 4 (Duggan: Moral Maze; Strangleman, Twigg, Taylor-
        Gooby, and Chung: Thinking Allowed), plus Sanders-McDonagh (News at One) and BBC
        Radio 5 (Duggan, Wrenn). In addition, research on decriminalisation of drugs has been
        broadcast across six countries (Stevens), and our work on philanthropy, drug policy, and
        food banks has been the subject of numerous discussions locally and nationally (Breeze,
        Chatwin, Taylor-Gooby). Our research on work/life balance has attracted highly significant
        international attention, including that from the EU and the Korean Government (Chung).
        We contribute substantially to print media, including recent Guardian, Independent, Daily
        Mail, and Observer articles (Baumberg-Geiger, Body, Haux, Hogg, Lee, Song, Wrenn) and
        articles in The Spectator and The Atlantic (Cottee). In addition, Seoighe co-organised a
        two-day exhibition: ‘Tamils of Lanka: A Timeless Heritage’, with the Tolworth Tamil
        Information Centre, opened by the leader of the Opposition, Jeremy Corbyn MP, and
        attended by over 1,500 people (May 2019).

 Guaranteeing integrity

 We ensure that users and stakeholders have continuing confidence that our research maintains
 the highest ethical standards by:

    •   Training all staff and research postgraduate students in research ethics and in GDPR
        procedures.
    •   Following the Universities UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity.
    •   Requiring all proposals for research that involves human participants (a substantial
        proportion) and animals (much fewer) to be subject to review by the School Ethics
        Committee. In the case of ESRC and similar projects, the Faculty (now Divisional) Ethics
        Advisory Group is also involved.
    •   Following the specific procedures for NHS research laid down by the UK Policy Framework
        for Health and Social Care Research and pursuing early-stage approval.
    •   The School Data Protection Officer ensures that all data gathered by School staff subject
        to Data Protection legislation are securely and appropriately stored.
    •   A striking example of the commitment of our staff to high professional standards is the
        principled decision by Stevens to resign from the Home Office Advisory Committee on the
        Misuse of Drugs in November 2019 in protest against the political vetting of members.
    •   We maintain a high level of transparency and shared information within the School, and
        believe that this benefits all our activities, including our research and public engagement,
        and, indeed, preparations for our REF submission. We ensure that all our decision-making
        processes are open and transparent by publishing minutes and agendas, except those that
        involve identifiable individuals, to the School, and including junior staff members on all
        main committees.

 Our research and Covid-19

 The speed with which our staff established four new research projects designed to produce up-to-
 date information to guide Government and NGOs provides further evidence of the responsiveness
 and public engagement of our research and our commitment to impact. We have set up national
 quantitative and qualitative surveys examining the benefits system under exceptional pressure
 (ESRC: Baumberg-Geiger); detailed studies of faith-based organisations in two mega-cities in
 Sub-Saharan Africa for managing the pandemic (ESRC: Garbin); analyses of crowd-funding for
 food banks and homelessness charities and social cohesion (Taylor-Gooby); and research into
 the experience of the time of the pandemic in collaboration with the Mass Observation Archive
 (Lyon).

 The Covid-19 lockdown has delayed activity and spending on some projects. This led to a
 downturn in the upward trajectory of research income for 2019-20 and 2020-21, which will be
 compensated by deferred spending in future years.

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 a. Staffing Strategy, Development, and Succession Planning

 Our goals in this area are to maintain and enhance our capacity to carry out leading-edge
 research, to ensure that we are responsive to the changing research environment, and to develop
 our work into the future. We wish to achieve strong impact on, and engagement with, our users
 and beneficiaries, and this goal is embedded in staff development. We achieve these goals
 through a number of activities all of which we will continue to develop during the next REF period.

 Academic staff

    •   Our sustainability and development strategy seeks to ensure that new staff appointments
        since REF2014 enable us to continue existing research streams and develop new work in
        areas of national and international importance. For example, through a combination of
        turnover and the creation of new posts, eight new staff have been appointed in criminology
        (Akoensi, Cunliffe, Duggan, Mills, Sanders-McDonagh, Silvestri, Van Hellemont, Young),
        who significantly enhance capacity in policing, gangs, media, prisons, sex work, sexual
        violence, and youth offending, expand the range of research funding and high-quality
        publications, and further develop our engagement with users and beneficiaries. The new
        professorial Director of the Tizard Centre (Rogers) brings additional research and
        methodological expertise and, with her sociological background, links Tizard more closely
        with other groups in the School.
    •   Our staff include three recipients of ESRC Future Leaders awards during the current REF
        period (Baumberg-Geiger, Chung, Zhang), Leverhulme Fellowships at different levels
        (Cottee, Twigg, Pedwell, Redmond), and applicants for individual European Research
        Council awards.
    •   Explicit Work Allocation Model (WAM) points for research and scholarship (currently one-
        third total) for staff on E&R contracts.
    •   Relatively low teaching loads, with reductions for those undertaking a PGCHE or on
        Probation, as detailed above.
    •   Generous study-leave arrangements of one term after seven (see 1b1.i).
    •   A mentoring system that matches each member of staff to a more senior colleague with
        relevant expertise, and includes an annual ‘Reflect, Plan and Develop’ exercise in line with
        the University’s HR processes.
    •   Conference allowance of £1,400 per annum for E&R staff (and £1,000 for ES&P staff).
    •   £1,000 seed-funding per research cluster and access to Faculty (now Divisional) research
        funds, in addition to the availability of University funds for specific initiatives.
    •   Bespoke funding workshops delivered by Research and Innovation Services and the
        University’s Graduate and Researcher College. Topics include matching research bids to
        funding agencies, planning for impact, and managing research staff.
    •   Buy-out for staff in receipt of research funding, in addition to normal study leave: more than
        25 terms during the REF period (see above).
    •   Administrative support for the preparation and management of research grants, with
        specific mentoring on an individual basis by senior staff and exchange of proposals within
        research clusters for peer review, plus more routine support in developing and checking
        documentation.
    •   Training in research ethics and a robust internal process for the ethical approval of
        research projects, overseen by the School and Division (see above: ‘Guaranteeing
        integrity’).
    •   A lively SSPSSR Seminar Series with internal and external speakers, as well as other
        seminar series and one-off conferences, symposia, and events offered by our Research
        Clusters and in different parts of the School.
    •   Inclusion of staff representatives in committee structures and School-wide meetings to
        ensure a high level of transparency and engagement of all staff in research direction.


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In the Research Centres:

    •   Generous training budgets ensure that staff sustain a high level of methodological
        capacity.
    •   Early career researchers (ECRs) are included in article, presentation, and proposal writing,
        and participate as named co-applicants on research grants, helping to support career
        development.
    •   A data management committee in the Research Centres supports researchers in handling
        sensitive data and complying with ethical and legal requirements. All staff are trained in
        GDPR.
    •   PSSRU (Brooks) leads and funds a dedicated Public Involvement and Implementation
        Group through one of the Policy Research Units (QORU), which helps researchers engage
        with partners outside academia in proposal writing, ethics, lay person summaries, advisory
        groups, and study materials.
    •   In September 2019, the University committed to the Vitae Researcher Development
        Concordat, covering career development, environment and culture, and employment.

 Professional services staff

 The research activities of the School are supported by professional services staff members with
 expertise in research management, finance, website construction, public engagement and
 dissemination, general administration, and management of doctoral students. We continue to
 enhance the capacity of professional services staff to support research and impact by training
 mentors, and ensuring that provision is under active review to align activities with changing
 developments in the School. Our internal administrative strength and financial security puts us in
 a good position to make the most of the opportunities to deploy the enhanced resources resulting
 from the recent reorganisation of the University (see REF5a).

 b. Research Students

 The School offers an outstanding research culture to its large and thriving postgraduate
 community. We currently have 114 research students registered, of whom just over two-thirds are
 full-time, recruited internationally, nationally, and also locally from our own UG and PGT
 programmes. Students funded by, and attached to, projects such as ‘Welfare Futures’
 (NORFACE) and ‘Uncertain Futures’ (ESRC/MRC) contribute directly to our work. Our goals are
 to:

    •   Ensure that our current students receive excellent research training (see below) and
        opportunities to develop their own research in a supportive environment.
    •   Offer a research environment that is well-resourced and attractive, both nationally and
        internationally, across the wide range of fields in which we work.
    •   Ensure that our research strengths contribute nationally and internationally at the
        postgraduate as well as at higher levels.

 Postgraduate research is overseen by a Director of Graduate Studies (Research), a Director of
 Graduate Studies (Taught), and a dedicated Postgraduate Office (three members of staff) and
 Manager, who handle all aspects of the School postgraduate programme from enquiries and
 admissions to degree awards. All postgraduate students are also members of the University’s
 Graduate and Researcher College (formerly the Graduate School), which provides further training
 in research methods and expertise.

 The statistics provided in REF3 show that PhD completions have continued to rise from 12.67 in
 2013-14 to 21.0 in 2019-20, totalling 121.75. Our support and encouragement to doctoral students,
 and the quality of our programme of graduate seminars and workshops, as well as our supervision,
 is demonstrated in the fact that our completion rate consistently rises faster than our enrolment.
 We will continue to pursue and build on the following activities to support postgraduate research:


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1. The School is part of the South-East Network for Social Science Consortium (SeNSS),
        through which we access ESRC postgraduate scholarships via Sociology and Social Policy
        pathways. The network also provides disciplinary, multi-disciplinary, and interdisciplinary
        training sessions and courses developed and run by each of the universities in the network.
        Kent makes a significant contribution.
    2. The School awarded 12 fully-funded (at ESRC level) PhD Scholarships during the REF
        period, in addition to five centrally funded University Studentships allocated to the School,
        plus Tizard and Quantitative Social Science scholarships, and two further studentships
        funded through research projects. Tizard has enhanced its commitment to capacity-
        building through postgraduate research and has increased the number of studentships it
        provides in recent years. We are confident that the number of studentships in the School
        will continue to increase during the next REF cycle.
    3. We offer four scholarships at MA level to our highest-performing UG students, to
        encourage interest in postgraduate work and in methods training, leading to PGR study.
    4. After a skills audit in the first term, students receive research methods modules on
        quantitative and qualitative methods, research ethics, and the design of social research.
        We also host an extensive Professional Development Seminar Programme, and research-
        group-led sessions on visual methods, ethnography, digital research, experimental
        methods, and other areas. The School’s postgraduate research training is accredited by
        the SeNSS Doctoral Training Partnership. The core modules of the MA Methods of Social
        Research attract large numbers of students from across the Division.
    5. As part of the Researcher Development Programme, all new PGR students are strongly
        encouraged to take the four core modules in research methodology. The PG Certificate in
        Methods of Social Research is awarded to all SSPSSR PGRs who complete the
        programme. Our methods training draws on the high level of expertise of the three
        specialist lecturers appointed following our success in the Nuffield Q-Step programme.
    6. Training in research ethics is provided as an essential part of our postgraduate programme
        through a specific module.
    7. Supervisory teams meet at least monthly, and are composed of at least two supervisors,
        one of whom must have qualified supervisor status (accredited through completion of a
        training programme and recent experience). All meetings generate written reports, which
        are shared with the supervisee and approved by the Director of Graduate Studies. Other
        senior staff also participate in annual reviews and contribute written comments on a
        submission by the student.
    8. We organise Continuation Seminars at which PGRs present their work to School staff after
        enrolment for four terms. Students benefit from detailed comments on their presentation
        and on a 10,000-word paper submitted at the same time, read by a staff member outside
        their supervisory team.
    9. PGRs participate in the weekly SSPSSR seminar series, which includes invited speakers.
        The School subsidises their participation with speakers and staff in the dinners that follow.
        They also benefit from the Tizard seminar series, the Crime, Culture, and Control seminar
        series, and the Criminology Common Studies Session (a postgraduate conference series
        hosted by criminology programmes in Europe and the US).
    10. The Director of Graduate Studies (Research) oversees a Professional Development and
        Employability Series to prepare PGRs for academic careers. This includes Advanced
        Seminars in which PGRs present papers in a supportive environment, career-based
        sessions, workshops on writing and research impact, and our ‘Developing Your Teaching’
        Certificate (compulsory for all new Graduate Teaching Assistants and completed prior to
        any teaching).
    11. PGR representatives sit on the School Graduate Studies Committee. There are regular
        PG consultation meetings.
    12. The School funds three students per annum to participate in an annual Postgraduate
        Advanced Writing Workshop in Prato, Italy, which offers excellent opportunities to build
        contacts with other postgraduates from across Europe and Australasia.
    13. The Graduate and Researcher College offers Advanced Training Opportunities in specific
        methodological approaches and skills. SSPSSR staff lead more than half of these
        sessions.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    14. PGRs have a minimum annual allowance of £200 for conference attendance, and can
        apply for further discretionary support of up to £200 from the Division. The Allcorn/Box
        Fellowship for Sociology PhDs provides a further £400 to two students annually. This
        allowance has increased ahead of inflation during the REF2021 cycle.

 c. Equality and Diversity

 SSPSSR has a diverse staff and student profile, and is fully committed to equality, diversity, and
 inclusion (EDI). The Deputy Director of Division has the brief for all EDI matters in the Division to
 which the School belongs, and sits on the University EDI Committee and related activities. At
 School level, we have a job-shared EDI role that also encompasses Athena SWAN. EDI is a
 standing item on the School staff meeting agenda.

 Gender. We achieved an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in November 2018, and are preparing to
 submit for a Silver Award. Sixty-nine per cent of our academic and research, and 88% of our
 professional services staff, are female (31 July 2020). Staff are encouraged to apply for promotion,
 and supported in their applications. The proportion of women Professors has risen from 33% to
 47% between 2014 and 2020. The proportions of women Readers has remained roughly constant
 during the same period, at 75%.

 Parental leave. We have built on the University scheme to enhance parental leave provision, and
 provide opportunities for flexible working and access to the University’s day nursery (the Oaks).
 The School also benefits from University-wide policy changes that provide special leave for fertility
 treatment, and the provision of additional leave and pay for parents of premature babies from the
 first day of employment.

 Ethnicity. We are conscious that the number of BAME staff is relatively low, at 10% of academic
 and research staff and 8% of professional services staff (as of 31 July 2020; not all staff declare
 ethnicity). This is an area where we actively seek to make new appointments. At our Medway
 campus, five out of 18 academic staff are BAME. We are addressing factors, including race, with
 respect to student attainment, and have appointed a Student Success Lecturer (Fitton) and
 administrator (Warr) to support our BAME postgraduate and undergraduate students. The School
 is active in the ‘Decolonise Kent’ programme, and has organised a number of meetings directed
 at the reform of curricula and the learning environment.

 Disability. Eight per cent of our academic and research staff, and 6% of our professional services
 staff, have declared a disability (31 July 2020). We are committed to ensuring that the working
 environment is healthy, and that mental and physical wellbeing is addressed for colleagues and
 research students. The School has funded special equipment, work-station modifications, and
 counselling for those who require it. The University provides all staff with access to free
 physiotherapy, as well as optical and counselling services. We have also had a number of staff
 affected by long-term illnesses, and have ensured appropriate treatment on their return to work,
 facilitating leading-edge research engagement, including, in one case, leadership of a very large
 externally funded project and, in another, enabling a professor to continue as president of an
 International learned society and advisor to a House of Commons Select Committee.

 Age. The staff recruitment strategy described above enables us to maintain a balanced age profile
 within the School.

 The School has no specific policies in relation to marriage and civil partnership, religion, gender
 reassignment, or sexual orientation, but colleagues are active in various University groups,
 including the LGBT+ network.

 Our transparent procedures support all our staff in accessing study leave, mentoring, and support
 for making research bids. They also ensure fair allocation of workloads and of institution-funded
 research time. Our REF procedures have been as open and inclusive as possible. All staff involved
 in the process received EDI training. We consulted with staff throughout the selection procedure,

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and ensured that the process was transparent. We analysed internal and external reviews of
 outputs to ensure that there was no gender bias. When choosing between outputs of equal
 expected score for the submission, our policy was always to select the one authored by a staff
 member with a protected characteristic (where data is available) in order to promote inclusivity.
 This affected three selection decisions.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The School is large and diverse, and this is reflected in our internal structure. The Head of School
 is supported by two Deputies, one in Canterbury and one in Medway, a Director of Research and
 of Education, two Directors of Graduate Studies (Research and Taught), and a School Manager.
 Directors are appointed to head each Research Centre, and Co-ordinators for each Research
 Cluster, all with appropriate teaching reductions. The research activities of the School are further
 supported by professional services colleagues as described above.

 In 2019-20, the University undertook a wide-ranging restructure, designed to focus existing
 research and teaching strengths and to establish an environment that will nurture new strengths
 (see REF5a). Formerly part of the Faculty of Social Sciences, the School is now part of the new
 Division of Law, Society, and Social Justice. The restructure means that the School has access to
 greater resources to manage its own affairs, as well as continued opportunities to benefit from
 central University research support, including in identifying research opportunities, making bids,
 and managing communications, stakeholder engagement, and finance, together with seed-corn
 funding.

 a. Research Funding and Strategies for Generating Research Income

 The School has one of the most impressive track records among UK institutions in securing grant
 and other research-related income. This has been achieved by maintaining our close engagement
 with existing funders and ensuring that we engage with new funding streams whenever these
 become available. The range of expertise in the School (sustained through the new appointments
 mentioned above) and our established engagement strategy (see above) enable us to develop
 high-quality bids in response to opportunities across a wide range of areas. Examples of success
 through engagement with existing funders include:

    •   Continuing funding from DH and NIHR (PSSRU, Tizard).
    •   Research Council support, notably ESRC, MRC, and AHRC.
    •   Continuing support from NGOs such as Coutts Bank, the Leverhulme Trust, and the
        Joseph Rowntree Foundation.
    •   Success in applications to international bodies such as the EU and ERC.

 Examples of success through agile response to opportunities are:

    •   The large grants from ESRC (Baumberg-Geiger), GCRF (Garbin; Zhang), NORFACE
        (Forder, Taylor-Gooby, Vickerstaff), the Russell Sage Foundation (Song), ESRC (Chung),
        and MRC (Vickerstaff), all gained through flexible response to new initiatives.
    •   Q-step funding of £1.5 million awarded to SSPSSR (2013-18) by the Nuffield Foundation
        (50% match-funded by the University).
    •   Fellowships and grants from the Pears, Shirley, and Garfield Weston Foundations and
        Blackbaud PLC to support the Centre for Philanthropy.
    •   Research income amounted to £17.3 million over the REF2021 period, averaging £2.5
        million per annum. Funders have included the British Academy (Taylor-Gooby), Coutts
        Bank (Breeze), ESRC (Baumberg-Geiger, Calnan, Chung, Taylor-Gooby, Vickerstaff),
        MRC (Calnan), AHRC, DH, DWP (Baumberg-Geiger), the EU, the UK Government
        Equalities Office (Chung), Max Weber Centre for Advanced Cultural and Social Studies
        (Garbin), and German Science Foundation (Garbin), Leverhulme Trust (Cottee, Pedwell,
        Redmon, Rogers, Twigg), NORFACE (Taylor-Gooby, Forder), Joseph Rowntree, Nuffield


                                                                                             Page 14
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            (Haux), and Russell Sage (Song) Foundations, as well as the governments of Australia,
            Canada, Eire, Finland, Korea (Chung), Norway (Chung), and Sweden (Shilling).

     Our research income has maintained a consistently high level throughout the REF period, and
     constituted 15.4% of total University research income from 2013-14 to 2018-19. The largest
     component in our research income (about two-thirds) comes from UK central and local
     government and health service sources. Our success in gaining funding from these sources both
     reflects and enhances our capacity to attract the attention of senior policy-makers and achieve
     high impact in social policy and social work-related areas, as demonstrated in section 2 above.
     About one-fifth of our income (in excess of £3 million) is from research councils, demonstrating
     that our staff are well-recognised for their theoretical and general social science expertise. This
     enables us to ensure that our research continues to maintain its distinctive broad-based theoretical
     foundation, while being able to respond readily to social and institutional change.

     b. Organisational Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact

     Research in the School is well-supported by the University’s Research and Innovation Services
     (RIS) team. The University has established an institution-wide peer-review process for grant
     applications, which is complemented by the School’s continuing peer-review programme. In 2018,
     the School appointed a dedicated Research Manager (Watters) to support research and enterprise
     bids. Senior school staff each review several draft applications each year for colleagues across
     the social sciences at Kent, and provide staff with collegial support through this process (see
     section 1b).

     Over the REF2021 period, staff have gained internal funding from a range of sources, including:
     the Social Science Faculty Research Fund (£50,000); the Faculty Internationalisation Fund
     (£40,000); the University’s Public Engagement Fund (£40,000); Partnership Fund, Large and
     Complex Grants Fund; and Outputs and Impact Support Fund (£200,000, of which £50,000 was
     secured by SSPSSR staff), as well as funding from the School’s budget (£30,000). We are
     currently setting up a Divisional Investment in Research fund, and benefit from central University
     support for our newly established Signature Research Themes and through a Large and Complex
     Grants Fund.

     c. Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure

-    All SSPSSR staff benefit from high-quality individual office space at Canterbury and Medway.
     SSPSSR at Canterbury is housed in a recently built £12 million building, Cornwallis East, and an
     extensively refurbished wing of Cornwallis North East. This new space includes dedicated open-
     plan office areas for PGRs, and separate areas for research staff not employed in the funded
     Research Centres, plus dedicated seminar/meeting rooms and social space. The recently
     extended and refurbished Templeman Library at Canterbury, together with the Drill Hall Library at
     our Medway campus, offer an integrated Library search function and significant shelved and online
     research resources.

     d. Infrastructure and Impact

     The infrastructure and facilities described above support our approach to impact, notably by:

        •   Enabling close engagement with users and stakeholders as collaborators, as in projects
            led by Beadle-Brown, Breeze, Chung, Garbin, McCarthy, Stevens, Taylor-Gooby,
            Vickerstaff, and Zhang.
        •   Enabling us to invite users and beneficiaries to our conferences; for example, in the Centre
            for Parenting Culture Studies, the EU ‘Resilience, Unemployment and Young People’
            programme’s London Civil Servants and EU Officials Conference, and the annual
            conferences of the Tizard Centre and Centre for Philanthropy.
        •   The Research Units offer a dedicated research environment for the production of
            collaborative, high-quality, policy-relevant research.

                                                                                                 Page 15
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        •   The contribution of School and University infrastructure is further demonstrated in our six
            impact case studies. These show how support in seed-corn funding, study leave, and the
            facilitation of research buy-outs, the availability of postgraduates to engage in projects,
            computing and library support, and the availability of accommodation has enabled us to
            engage with, and press home, our findings to policy-makers and commentators.
-
     e. Specialist research infrastructure and facilities

     PSSRU has two high-specification computers, bookable for secure analysis of large and complex
     datasets. It also runs a system called PHEDAF (PSSRU Health Economics Data Farm), which is
     powerful and highly secure, and which enables researchers who have attended relevant security
     training to access certain NHS datasets. These two facilities ensure that PSSRU is in a strong
     position to offer research to national and local user communities, with relatively quick outcomes
     and an unparalleled level of expertise.

     f. Collaborative Use of Research Infrastructure and Facilities

     We gain support from colleagues in other universities and make use of such infrastructure as the
     UK Data Archive (see section 1c above, ‘Engaging the Broader Public’, and the information on the
     Millennium Cohort, Family Resources, and European Social Surveys, and other large datasets
     listed in section 1a). These are of particular relevance to us, given our methodological expertise
     and interests. Infrastructure collaborations are not relevant to the majority of our activities.

     g. Major Benefits in Kind

     The most important in-kind benefits received by researchers across the School are the access to
     research materials and key informants afforded by the contacts we maintain with our users,
     beneficiaries, and co-producers of research. These benefits are particularly important for CHSS,
     PSSRU, the Tizard, the Centre for Philanthropy, and the Centre for Parenting Culture Studies, as
     well as the Work, Employment, and Economic Life and Welfare States research clusters.

     4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

     We are a large and diverse community of scholars, and we pay continual attention to maintaining,
     updating, and improving our links with our users, beneficiaries, and co-producers of research to
     carry out the work at which we excel:

     a. Research Collaborations, Networks, and Partnerships

     SSPSSR staff have engaged in a wide range of research collaborations and partnerships with
     colleagues in institutions locally, regionally, nationally, and internationally during the REF2021
     period. These include funded projects at national level with colleagues at LSE (Baumberg-Geiger),
     UCL (Taylor-Gooby), Manchester and Bath (Vickerstaff); and, internationally, at Indiana (Song),
     Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Norway and Slovenia (Taylor-Gooby), Helsinki (Wilkinson), India
     and Ghana (Calnan), DRC and Nigeria (Garbin), Germany (Song), Australia (Towers), Nebraska
     (Breeze), Norway (Chung), and six European countries (Stevens). We also sustain numerous
     ongoing and shorter-term partnerships with academics leading to the large number of co-authored
     and Kent-led publications submitted in this exercise, which offer the possibility of building future
     funded research collaborations.

     b. Engagement with Research Users, Beneficiaries, and Other Audiences

     We interact with users, beneficiaries, and co-producers of research through streams of activity
     that parallel and often merge into the academic-focused activities outlined above. These are
     illustrated in our impact case studies, and include:



                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Attending and delivering papers, typically by invitation, at user conferences, workshops,
        and symposia convened by Government departments in the UK and internationally,
        including the Treasury, BEIS, GO-Science, Parliamentary Labour Party, and the Eire
        Department of Employment, as well as by supranational bodies (EU, European Forum on
        Primary Care).
    •   We develop links through the targeted dissemination of material from our research
        projects, maintaining close contacts with local, national, and international media, and
        participating in a wide range of print, broadcast, and electronic media (as described in
        section 1c).
    •   The research-based advice roles of Chung and Vickerstaff for the Women and Equalities
        and Work and Pensions Select Committees for BEIS initiatives, leading to the restructuring
        of retirement support and childcare policies, and of Stevens for the Health and Scottish
        Affairs Select Committees and the Misuse of Drugs Advisory Group.
    •   Cottee’s work on identifying and tracking ISIS followers, which recently led to two high-
        profile arrests.
    •   The high level of engagement with NGOs (including Mencap, KeyRing, National Autistic
        Society, Autistica, and Advocacy for All) and with users and beneficiaries; for example,
        through the Family Carer Research Advisory Group, a distinctive feature of the work of the
        Tizard Centre.

 c. Engagement with Diverse Communities

 We maintain links across a wide range of user and co-producer communities, corresponding to
 the diversity and number of our research interests, through a number of means described in
 section 1a and the following paragraphs.

    1. Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline, support for interdisciplinary
       research, and responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives

 We recognise that interdisciplinarity is at the heart of Social Policy and Social Work and essential
 to the sustainability of the discipline. It is a central feature of our research, nourished by expertise
 across the wide range of disciplines and methodologies that are included and replenished within
 the School. Section 1a describes how we support interdisciplinary and multi-disciplinary work
 through our Research Clusters, our externally funded Research Units, and institutionally
 recognised Centres, all of which include members from a range of disciplinary backgrounds to
 develop and enable cross-cutting work. This feeds into our success in pursuing an agile response
 to priorities and attracting support for research into issues in social policy and social work practice.
 Examples include:

    •   The ‘Uncertain Futures’ programme (Vickerstaff), which drew on contacts with colleagues
        at seven universities and institutes to respond to a large national initiative and gain
        substantial research council funding to make a major contribution to academic work and
        policy in relation to rising retirement ages and flexible retirement.
    •   The 2015-19 NORFACE programme, which brings together colleagues from six European
        universities with backgrounds in theoretical work on deservingness (Van Oorschott,
        Leuven) and the moral economy of welfare (Larsen, Copenhagen, Hvinden, Oslo, Taylor-
        Gooby, Kent), methodology and labour market studies (Chung, Kent), housing and poverty
        (Filipovic, Ljubliana), and European political science (Mau, Humbolt, Taylor-Gooby, Kent)
        to lead an international multi-disciplinary team developing an innovative democratic forum
        approach to research in welfare state attitudes. This programme introduces a new method
        into a large and growing field and demonstrates its strengths and limitations.
    •   The work of the Centre for Philanthropy (Breeze), which draws on sociology, political
        science, and psychology to explore the factors influencing the success and shortcomings
        of different approaches and institutional structures in fundraising.




                                                                                                 Page 17
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        2. Wider influence, contributions to, and recognition by the research base of the
           discipline, and evidence of good citizenship

     Members of the School are highly active in a wide range of areas. This contributes to the esteem
     in which we are held at national and international level. A large number of staff members are
     Fellows of learned societies:

        •   Academy of Social Sciences (Hale, Murphy, Netten, Pahl, Pickvance, Ray, Taylor-Gooby,
            Twigg, Vickerstaff – half of all University of Kent Fellows).
        •   British Academy (Taylor-Gooby – out of three Kent Fellows).
        •   British Gerontological Society and Gerontological Society of America (Twigg, Vickerstaff).
        •   NIHR School for Social Care Research (Milne, Towers, Forder, Murphy).
        •   Queens Nursing Institute (Kendall).
        •   Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce (Milne).

     We have gained recognition through various awards: CBE (Pahl), OBE (Shemmings, Taylor-
     Gooby), and MBE (Kendall) for Services to Social Science; the Social Policy Association Lifetime
     Achievement Award (Taylor-Gooby); the British Society for Gerontology Outstanding Achievement
     Award (Twigg); University of Kent Annual Research Awards (Breeze, Peckham, Taylor-Gooby,
     Van Ven and Vickerstaff). De Vries received the British Journal of Sociology 2020 award for best
     paper and Body the Campbell Adamson Best Paper Prize for the Voluntary Sector Research
     Conference (2019). Chung a top-five finalist for the Rosabeth Moss Kanter Award for Excellence
     in Work/Family Research (2017). The expertise of School staff is also recognised in their
     appointment to roles such REF subpanel member for UoA20 (Milne), as well as the wide range of
     contributions to Government, business, and major NGOs mentioned in section 1c above.

     d. Editorships

-    Staff are currently (or have been during the REF2021 period) in editorial roles with prestigious
     journals across the social sciences, including: Behavioural and Cognitive Psychotherapy
     (Langdon); Canadian Journal of Sociology (Rootes); European Journal of Risk Regulation
     (Burgess); Environmental Politics (Rootes); Feminist Theory (Pedwell); International Journal of
     Drug Policy (Stevens); International Journal of Care and Caring (Milne); International Journal of
     Law, Gender and Sexuality (Duggan); International Journal of Positive Behavioural Support
     (Baker); International Journal of Voluntary and Nonprofit Organisations (Kendall, J.); Journal of
     Applied Research in Intellectual Disabilities (Langdon); Journal of Applied Research in Intellectual
     Disabilities (Murphy); Journal of Korean Welfare State and Social Policy (Chung); Journal of
     Poverty (Baumberg-Geiger); Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly (Breeze); Primary Health
     Care Research and Development (Kendall, S.); Quality in Ageing and Older Adults (Milne); Social
     Policy and Administration (Chung, Taylor-Gooby); Sociology (Chair, Editorial Board,
     Strangleman); Sociological Research Online (Lyon); Sociology Compass (Section Editor: Science
     and Medicine, Lee); Sociology of Education Abstracts (Shilling); Time and Society (Lyon); Tizard
     Learning Disability Review (Bradshaw, McGill); Voluntary Sector Review (Hogg); Voluntas
     Kendall, J.); Women’s History (Logan); and Work Employment and Society (Section Editor: Work
     and Organisations, Strangleman).
-
-    Books series editorships include: Co-editor of the Policy Press Book Series Research in
     Comparative and Global Social Policy (Chung), and of the Bristol University Press series
     Rethinking Work, Ageing and Retirement (Vickerstaff).

     e. Membership of, and Contribution to, Research Councils and Other Funding Bodies

-    Staff are heavily involved in Research Council work, notably for the ESRC (Chatwin, Kirton, Lee,
     Mitton, Strangleman, Vickerstaff are members of the ESRC peer review college); the NIHR and
     other major health funders, where staff are both reviewers and panel (college) members; as well
     as for the British Academy (chairing Newton Fellowships and Small Grants committees, chairing
     the ‘Inequalities and Vulnerabilities’ Group, and serving on the ‘Shaping the Future’ Covid-19

                                                                                                 Page 18
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Advisory Committee to SAGE: Taylor-Gooby), Leverhulme, Nuffield, and various overseas bodies,
     including the Australian Research Council, NORFACE, the EU, and the Dutch Social Science
     Research Council (Taylor-Gooby). Vickerstaff was appointed to the Strategic Advisory Network,
     ESRC, UKRI, 2018-19, and chaired the ESRC Centres Competition Panel 2018-19, the ESRC
     Dementia Panel, 2018, the ESRC Productivity + Panel, 2018, and is a Member of the Panel for
     UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships (ongoing). Taylor-Gooby was appointed to the ERIC-ESS panel
     (2019) and the Social Science for Recovery Group (2020-21).
-
     f. Keynotes
-
-    SSPSSR staff are frequently invited to speak at academic conferences, symposia, workshops and
     seminars, and have delivered more than 150 keynote lectures in the REF2021 period, as well as
     approximately 250 presentations and a substantial number of public lectures. For example, Taylor-
     Gooby recently gave the Centenary Sidney Ball Oxford Lecture (2020).
-
     g. Refereeing

-    Staff undertake refereeing for a wide range of publications, including all those listed under
     editorships, and for research council and other grants, including for all the agencies listed under
     ‘Membership of, and Contribution to, Research Councils and Other Funding Bodies’ above.

     h. Collaborations on PGR Training

-    The School is an active member of the ESRC South-East Doctoral Training Centre (now South-
     East Network for Social Sciences), together with City, UERA, Essex, Goldsmith’s, Reading,
     Roehampton, Royal Holloway, Surrey, and Sussex (see section 2). We secured 40% of the awards
     available during the REF period.
-
     i. Visiting Professorships

-    Staff in the School have held prestigious visiting chairs and fellowships nationally and
     internationally, and are recognised for their expertise through their appointment as Visiting
     Professors (for example, Forrester-Jones, University of Toledo; Shemmings, Royal Holloway;
     Shilling, Uppsala University; Taylor-Gooby, UCL; Wilkinson, University of Navarra).

     j. Contributions to Professional Organisations and Networks
-
-    SSPSSR staff are active in many informal and formal networks and associations across social
     policy and the social sciences, including (staff as members attending and organising conferences
     and presenting papers): the Academy of Social Sciences; American Association of Geography;
     American Sociological Association (chair of the Animals and Society Section, Wrenn); British
     Academy (chair of the Inequalities group, Taylor-Gooby); British Sociological Association, British
     Society of Criminology, British Society of Gerontology, European Forum for Primary Care (Chair:
     Kendall, S.); European Social Policy Analysis Network; European Sociological Association;
     History UK; International Association for the Scientific Study of Intellectual and Developmental
     Disabilities; International Health Economics Association; Korean Association for Social Policy
     (Chung); Royal Geographic Society; Socio-Legal Studies Association; Social Policy Association;
     Society for Research in Higher Education and the Working-Class Studies Association
     (Strangleman). Staff regularly convene panels at the major conferences of these organisations,
     and organise conferences, symposia, workshops, and seminars that attract national and
     international audiences. For instance, the 2019 annual ‘Working-Class Studies Association’
     conference was organised at Kent (Strangleman), the first time the conference was held outside
     the United States. Warner convened the BSA 2019 Risk conference in London. Nettleingham was
     lead organiser for the Sociological Review Seminar Series in 2019.




                                                                                                Page 19
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     k. External Examining

-    Twenty-three members of staff are currently External Examiners for UG and PG programmes in
     the UK, with numerous others acting as External Examiners for PhDs in the UK and abroad.
-




                                                                                        Page 20
