Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of the Highlands and Islands

 Unit of Assessment: 23 Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 The context for educational research at the University of the Highlands and Islands

 The University of the Highlands and Islands is unique in being Scotland’s only university that spans
 Further and Higher Education, and in being a federated university that comprises thirteen
 Academic Partners and a network of regional study centres across the entire Highlands and
 Islands region. This makes for a rich educational environment in which specialist site specific
 learning and teaching, blended learning, networked delivery of degree programmes that can be
 studied from any of the Academic Partners and online distance learning all co-exist, and often
 intersect. Within this setting, and reflecting the wider aspirations, ethos and structure of the
 university, key pedagogical themes at the university include student transitions into and through
 FE, HE and into employment, digital educational practices, and meeting the needs of
 geographically dispersed students including rural learners. These issues, and the geographically
 and digitally distributed nature of the institution, create a unique setting for educational research
 and are important dimensions of that research. To a great extent, this uniqueness of the university
 means it serves as its own laboratory for developing and conducting educational research.

 In taking a strategic approach to developing of educational research in ways that are coherent
 with and maximise the potential of our own nature and context, we have sought to prioritise and
 support educational research in a focused number of areas. These comprise:

    •   learning and teaching in digitally and geographically distributed contexts;
    •   student transitions within tertiary education and into employment;
    •   teacher education (for which the university has a regional responsibility);
    •   educational policy and strategy including educational research focused on professional
        development, policy and practice in the context of institutions that, like our own, are
        geographically and digitally distributed.

 Our focus in these areas is not to the exclusion of other forms of educational research, e.g. as
 relating to pedagogic practice in specific disciplinary contexts. Indeed, arguably a key strength of
 the university’s educational research activity, and a key enabler for growing further research
 capacity, is the distributed nature of educational research across our Academic Partners, across
 the aforementioned educational research specialisms, and within various disciplines where
 educational research is being nurtured and embedded (including nursing and healthcare).

 1.2 Strategic development of educational research

 While this is the university’s first education submission for the REF, there has been active
 engagement in educational research throughout our history. The university was set up to deliver
 economic, social and educational benefits to our region, but this unique environment and context
 was always recognised as being highly fertile ground for specific education based developments
 both in actual practice and associated applied research. A strategy and plan for the development
 of educational research was an integral and implicit element of the university’s overarching
 strategic plan since before the start of the current REF period. This has led to a number of highly
 important strategic developments across the REF period, including the appointment of a Professor

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Pedagogy in 2014 to lead the research engagement and capital investments to support and
 underpin this work (e.g. state-of-the-art Learning Lab as described Section 3, and extensive Virtual
 Learning Environment and Video Conferencing technology across the University).

 This has served to establish our Learning and Teaching Academy, led by the Professor of
 Pedagogy, as the base for educational research activity (albeit noting that educational research is
 undertaken as a key activity in several of the university’s physical campuses), and also as the hub
 for supporting education-based research activity of staff whose primary discipline is not education.
 The LTA coordinates an interlinked programme of educational research scholarships, professional
 development initiatives, and research mentoring (through the University Mentoring Scheme, led
 from the LTA), all of which are designed to support and increase engagement in educational
 research (and, for the mentoring scheme, support research across all disciplines).

 The LTA also coordinates or co-leads a range of university-wide educational research projects
 that have specific application potential and relevance and impact not only in this university (e.g.
 the Research-Teaching Linkages project described later) but also in other UK institutions and
 other parts of the world (e.g. the educational policy, practice and research developments at the
 Royal University of Bhutan as described in one of our Impact Case Studies).

 The university therefore set a deliberately ambitious target for its own research development
 across the current REF period in order to help influence educational research at a disciplinary
 level, and is already building on its successes in preparation for the period covered by the next
 REF.

 The university’s ambition has been underpinned by a strong and deliberate staffing strategy,
 outlined in detail in Section 2, and which has combined recruitment of new staff, translation from
 other discipline areas into education of existing researchers in the university, and development of
 new research talent from within the existing staff base.

 Since the prioritising of educational research as a key area for research development post 2010,
 the number of colleagues engaged in dedicated or discipline-related educational research for
 which outputs have been produced has increased from a core of six individuals in 2010 to forty
 colleagues in 2020 (including colleagues engaged in nurse education research). Within this overall
 group, twelve were identified as producing educational research that would be eligible for the REF
 UoA23 submission, with many more colleagues engaged in other forms of scholarship or nascent
 research relating to education, or producing educational research related outputs for other UoAs.

 The work undertaken to develop educational research during the period of assessment has seen
 a significant increase in relevant scholarship and research outputs recorded in the university’s
 research repository. In the period covered by the 2014 REF, there were 30 published research
 outputs with a clear educational research focus in the repository. For the period covered by the
 current REF, a further 81 educational research outputs have been registered in the repository,
 bringing the current number of published outputs to 111. Published outputs to date span articles,
 journal papers, peer reviewed book chapters, two textbooks for students produced through a
 research project, and six monographs. Of the outputs produced in the period of eligibility for REF
 2021, fifty-three outputs were considered for inclusion in the UoA23 submission.




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.3 Key achievements to date

 The university’s key strategic goals for educational research across the current REF period have
 been achieved, and surpassed in several cases. Beyond the significant increase in the number of
 staff engaged in educational research and in outputs being produced, these goals have included:

     •   Appointment of an academic and research lead for education (Smyth, 2014);
     •   Appointment of an academic and research lead for Teacher Education (Redford, 2014);
     •   Formation of educational research as a key activity and component with the University’s
         Learning and Teaching Academy as the coordinating hub for educational research;
     •   Development of a Research Teaching Linkages (RTL) research project, to explore staff
         and student conceptualisations of research-based learning and teaching, and thereafter
         embed an identifiable university approach to research-based learning and teaching that
         will produce knowledge artefacts of direct value to university’s wider communities;
     •   Development of a cogent network of specialist educational researchers in the
         aforementioned (1.2) areas of educational research;
     •   Establishing education research hubs in Academic Partners, interlinked through the LTA
     •   Engagement in collaborative education research developments internationally;
     •   Linking to community-based projects and initiatives, and thereby also linkage to the
         activities of public engagement with research, through a range of interdisciplinary
         research activities within which education research has been a core part.
 Furthermore, since the earliest stages of its development, researchers in the education UoA have
 been both committed to, and promoted engagement with, the ‘open access’ agenda. This has
 been through identification and promotion of publication in relevant journals, and encouraging
 publication of monographs in open access outlets and formats. Close involvement with the Journal
 of Perspectives in Applied Academic Practice (Section 2) is another important example.

 Some of the writings and activities of staff involved in the education submission have been directly
 invested in areas of research ethics, researcher development and research integrity. The
 principles of effective and appropriate engagement with research and associated methodologies
 have been part of the offerings made available to staff, and promoted to them, by and through the
 wider activities of the LTA. Section 2.2 elaborates.

 1.4 Going forward and into REF2028

 Building from the significant base now established, the intention for the next REF period is to:

     •   Develop and implement a university-wide strategy and framework for supporting the
         further strategic development of educational research and for increasing the number of
         colleagues directly engaged in educational research. This aligns with the university’s
         commitment to the development of educational research contained in its Research, Impact
         and Knowledge Exchange Strategic Plan 2018-2022;
     •   Increase the number of academic staff who formally identify educational research as being
         a key area of research activity, and developing early career educational researchers within
         the education field and in their own academic disciplines;
     •   Building on existing activities in research Masters and Doctoral level student supervision,
         to introduce a specific education research degree and cohort of PhD and MRes students;


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   Translate the RTL project and its findings into a formal university-wide approach, seeking
         also to harness the research findings to influence other HEIs (including internationally) in
         developing institutional wide approaches to research-led education that has direct benefits
         to their wider communities through engaging students as public scholars;
     •   Influence education policy in Scotland and further afield, including in the areas of
         institutional enhancement of education, digital education, and student transitions;
     •   Extending the university’s international research influence into education-based
         associations with universities in the Republic of South Africa, e.g. the University of the
         Free State (UFS) and the University of Venda (UNIVEN), and institutions in other parts of
         the world that operate in similar geographical, economic and social contexts to UHI;
     •   In the area above, build on the model for engagement already successfully achieved in
         Bhutan (explored in the Impact Case Study: ‘Ways of Knowing: Cross-cultural
         collaborative educational research in the development and implementation of pedagogic
         practice and policy at the Royal University of Bhutan as the national provider of higher
         education in a Least Developed Country’);
     •   Further develop the university’s growing international recognition for research in rural
         teacher education and professional learning (explored in the Impact Case Study:
         ‘Influencing and impacting rural teacher education: researching and reconfiguring digital
         approaches, professional identify and agency in responding to a national need for
         teachers in rural and geographically dispersed communities’).

 Further future developments include establishing a new education hub at Lews Castle College
 UHI. CORE (Centre for Online Research and Education) will be focused around the education
 programmes for staff delivered online from LCC UHI (e.g. MEd) and research in digital education.


 2. People

 2.1 Staff and staffing strategy

 As a rapidly developing area of research activity within the university, educational research
 requires, and has benefitted from, a range of staffing, staff development and support mechanisms,
 which have helped to build and embed a strong – and growing – staff base.

 The introduction of the Professor of Pedagogy brought to life the coalescence of staff who were
 already active in educational research, and thereby form a core of education research staff under
 the ‘hub and spokes’ LTA structure, together with an associated grouping of wider university staff
 who are supported by the LTA, or through activities of the LTA, to undertake educational research.
 In some instances, educational research is being undertaken within the context of a specific
 discipline, most notably in teacher education (e.g. the work of Coker, at the university until 2019,
 and Redford, as explored in the aforementioned Impact Case Study), and also in music education
 (McLaughlin), environmental education research (Ruck), and business education (Camps).

 The LTA, as the hub for educational research, comprises a core group of 8 active educational
 researchers who are included in the UoA, together with 4 associate members who have been
 undertaking specific aspects of educational research within their own pedagogic practice. The
 core team comprises Alexander, Coker, Fabien, O’Donnell, Rayner, Redford, Rennie and Smyth.
 Of these, several members have been directly involved in the development of educational
 research across the whole REF period, with one (Rennie) active since 2007.


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In consort with the university’s core mission (see Institutional Level Environment Statement, ILES)
 the education area’s research has (in many cases) been linked to some form of practical and
 practice-based aspect, fostering research-based impact in a number of ways. This includes:
 through institution-level developments (as for our work in Bhutan); local developments of research
 capacity and support for our communities linked to the outputs of praxis-focused curricula
 (Rayner); or the application of research and resulting tools and models to help education
 practitioners undertake their own work more effectively, especially in relation to teacher education
 in rural contexts (Coker, Redford) and across dimensions of digital education including mobile
 learning (Fabien) and distributed and open education (Smyth).

 Furthermore, as a tertiary institution that spans FE and HE and with a strong ethos of widening
 access, there is a corresponding strong focus in our educational research on the purpose and
 nature further education, and on student transitions from FE to HE (O’Donnell, Smith).

 Concurrently, within the above contexts and in relation to specific research outputs, there has
 been an increasingly strong focus on critical educational research which has challenged key
 aspects of HE and educational practice (e.g. Alexander on social justice in careers education,
 Rayner on RTL, and Smyth on deconstructing curricula and conceptualising the digital university).

 Within the LTA itself, in addition to the Professor of Pedagogy there are a number of personnel
 who play important roles in relation to supporting educational research, and our first education
 submission to REF. These include an Evidence-based Enhancement Lead, who oversees the LTA
 Scholarship discussed further on; a Professional Development and Recognition Lead, who co-
 ordinates the University Mentoring Scheme; an Organisational Learning and Development Lead
 who oversees staff funding for postgraduate study including PhDs; and a Digital and Open
 Education Lead who is supporting developments in open online scholarship and research.

 The above is in addition to the institutional mechanisms in place to enable personal development
 and engagement in research, including sabbaticals, travel and conference funding, and formal
 research mentoring (offered through the aforementioned institution-wide University Mentoring
 Scheme, operated out of the LTA). The ILES provides further information in these areas.

 While the Professor of Pedagogy has an overall responsibility for educational research, and the
 LTA provides a hub for related support, our educational research activities are taken forward
 through structured collaborative working between the Professor of Pedagogy, LTA, Professor of
 Teacher Education, and colleagues within the Academic Partners who have a local leading role
 for educational research (Rennie at Lews Castle College UHI and O’Donnell at Perth College UHI).
 While educational research activity is also supported across the university’s four Research
 Clusters, it is a specific objective of the SILK (Society, Identity, Landscape and Knowledge)
 Research Cluster. Rennie and Smyth are members of the SILK Research Cluster Steering Group,
 while other key staff involved in educational research across the university are members of the
 cluster itself. Collectively these research related posts and structures help to pilot, evaluate,
 communicate and embed a range of initiatives to create a positive educational research culture.

 The staffing and staff structures in place are also essential to further capacity building for
 educational research (including a post-REF2021 education research strategy) as per Section 1.

 2.2 Staff development



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 While the SILK cluster offers initiatives that support research development and dissemination
 which are open to colleagues engaged in educational research, the majority of staff development
 opportunities in educational research are delivered or facilitated through the LTA.

 Several strands of activity are relevant here. The first encompasses a significant annual
 professional development programme of workshops, events and symposia that the LTA has
 offered since 2016. Many events are focused on engaging in educational research, through
 sessions introducing key concepts and methodological approaches, or through staff and external
 guests sharing their own projects and findings. Significant events in recent years that have
 supported dissemination of educational research have included our first university wide Learning
 and Teaching Conference in 2017, and the second Learning and Teaching Conference in 2020
 which was titled ‘Dimensions of Tertiary Engagement’. As with the overall emphasis on the tertiary
 nature of the conference, the themes for the conference aligned with our own specialist areas of
 educational policy, practice and research (co-creating, digital, enhancement, equality and
 transitions) with research itself as the sixth sub-theme and for which the call articulated our aim of
 using the conference “…to provide a platform for colleagues undertaking educational research
 across the university to share their work”. Several contributions to the 2020 conference were from
 colleagues who have submitted for UoA23, in addition to sessions focused on the support that is
 available for engaging in educational research at the university.

 The LTA has also sought to provide opportunities for staff, including established and aspiring
 educational researchers, to engage with and learn from leading educational researchers and
 theorists. This has included an annual critical educational research event held in Inverness, and
 by videoconference across and beyond the university, since 2018.

 Our inaugural critical educational research event saw Dr Antonia Darder present a public lecture
 on the topic ‘The Social Justice Question: Decolonizing Pedagogy, Methodology and Leadership’
 on 16th July 2018. June 2019 saw Dr Stephen Brookfield facilitate a participative workshop, based
 on his research, on the topic ‘Becoming a Critical Educator’. These and similar events have been
 pivotal to developing of a wider knowledge base of critically focused educational research, and in
 encouraging colleagues to conduct their own critically focused educational research. The LTA
 has also sought to engage staff with the growing research and evidence base related to open
 education. This included, in May 2017, the two day symposium ‘The Porous University – a Critical
 Exploration of Openness, Space and Place in Higher Education’ run by the LTA and the national
 Open Educational Practices Scotland (OEPS) project. The symposium featured, and provided a
 platform for the refining of, research and theoretical models subsequently published in the
 monograph by Johnston, B., MacNeill, S. and Smyth, K. (2019). Conceptualising the Digital
 University: The intersection of policy, pedagogy and practice. Switzerland: Palgrave MacMillan.

 Beyond events of these kinds, the university provides a platform for engaging with, developing
 and sharing of educational research through the LTA Connect series of webinars. These run on a
 monthly basis, with many featuring internal and external speakers providing insights into their own
 educational research, methodological approaches, and findings.

 Since 2014 the LTA has operated the LTA Scholarship fund. This offers small grants (up to 10K)
 to individuals or small teams to undertake educational research projects that are directly relevant
 to current or emerging pedagogical concepts, needs or developments within the sector or the
 university. To date the LTA Scholarship fund has supported twenty-three projects. In 2018/19 the
 LTA Scholarship fund was revised, and introduced the requirement for every project to produce at
 least one paper ready to submit to a relevant peer-previewed journal relating to education or

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 education in the specific discipline, and to deliver internal dissemination activities. Up until 2018
 the LTA Scholarship fund only encouraged the submission of a paper to a relevant journal. The
 LTA Scholarship has now produced eight peer-reviewed publications, most coming since the
 redesign in 2018/19. Publications produced through LTA Scholarship projects, and feature in the
 UoA23 submission, include outputs from Coker, Fabian and O’Donnell.

 At the time of writing, there are six active or recently concluded LTA Scholarship projects across
 the university and for which a minimum of one peer-reviewed publication will be produced. These
 include educational research outputs from colleagues who belong to other research disciplines
 and Units of Assessment, which we see as critical to the wider development of educational
 research across the university and to realising an approach to educational research that is situated
 within the disciplines, curricula and practices of the university.

 This also underlines a commitment to the development of educational research that extends
 beyond REF2021 and those who are formally included in the UoA, and which has an impact and
 relevance for disseminating effective pedagogical practice. A recent example of this is an LTA
 Scholarship project led within Argyll College UHI on the topic of ‘The use of screen capture
 software to deliver individual formative feedback’ which was highly commended at the College
 Development Network Awards 2019 https://www.cdn.ac.uk/college-awards-2019/.

 The support the LTA provides for producing peer reviewed educational research outputs has also
 been complemented since 2018 by a series of residential Write-UP (Writing for Publication in
 University Practice) workshops offered each academic year. These are open to any colleagues
 who would like to apply to attend, and who have something relevant to work on by way of either a
 scholarly or research output in education. The option to work on a scholarly output is intended to
 support those who are seeking to have an initial engagement in education as a disciplinary area
 of theory and research, and who may transition to formal educational research. There are several
 educational research publications in progress as a result of the Write-UP residential workshops,
 with 2020/21 seeing the first three publications come to fruition.

 Since 2017 the LTA has also co-ordinated the aforementioned University Mentoring Scheme, at
 which point the scheme was extended to offer three distinct strands of mentoring activity in the
 areas of: Research; Learning and Teaching Enhancement; and Professional Recognition. In 2020,
 Scholarship Development was added as a fourth strand of mentoring activity. Through the
 Research mentoring strand of the scheme, an increasing number of colleagues are being
 supported to engage in educational research alongside the scheme’s established role in
 supporting research across other discipline areas and other REF Units of Assessment. Colleagues
 who are beginning to engage in educational scholarship can seek mentoring support through the
 Scholarship Development strand of the scheme, before transitioning to the Research mentoring
 strand as they move into formal educational research activity. In many cases, educational
 research undertaken as part of LTA Scholarship projects is directly supported through the
 research mentoring strand of the scheme. Colleagues successful in their LTA Scholarship bid, but
 new to educational research, are required to sign up for research mentoring support.

 There are staff development pathways through the various activities outlined above, and the
 increase in the number of colleagues engaged in educational research (Section 1.2) has seen
 individuals progress from attendance at educational research seminars through to LTA
 Scholarships/writing retreats/mentoring, and on to producing peer reviewed research outputs.

 2.3 Postgraduate research development

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Staff who comprise the UoA submission have been directly involved in the supervision of
 increasing numbers of PhD and Research Masters students across the current REF period. Due
 to the nature of the development of educational research, most of our research students have
 been linked to other discipline areas, but with an education-related aspect to their research
 studies. Staff have been principal supervisors of 10 students across the period and second
 supervisors on 6 more across the same period. These engagements are beginning to show
 through as graduations in the statistics, and it is the university’s intention to grow these numbers
 markedly in the next REF period, and also to extend the doctoral level study options to include an
 EdD. Rennie and Smyth are leading the work required to establish education as a named area for
 postgraduate research. This is currently underway for implementation in 2021/22. Rennie and
 Smyth are also amongst the staff at the university who supervise education-related PhDs within
 other disciplinary contexts (including computing, nursing and allied health sciences) and are co-
 supervising with colleagues to build capacity for doctoral supervision when education is
 established as a distinct area of postgraduate research. The intention is to enhance the existing
 research degree student experience by building not only a cohort of educational research students
 but extending this to include all students within whose research has an education element.

 A specific dimension to postgraduate research development in education at the university has
 been the increasing number of staff who are currently engaged in education-related doctoral
 studies (including PhDs, EdD’s) within the university and at other institutions. Many of these
 engagements are part-funded through the university’s ‘Staff Development 1 Fund’ that is co-
 ordinated by the aforementioned Organisational Learning and Development Lead in the LTA.
 Within the 13 PhDs and other postgraduate research awards that have been supported by the
 LTA and undertaken by university staff since 2015, a total of 6 have been EdDs or PhDs in
 education with 4 completions to date.

 2.4 Equality and Diversity

 As outlined within the ILES, the university is committed to equality of opportunity with respect to
 participation in research and research development. This commitment to equality and diversity is
 also central to the development of and participation in educational research. We are particularly
 mindful of the challenges many colleagues face in coming to educational research for the first
 time, sometimes from a position of having engaged in discipline related research or sometimes in
 seeking to frame their own research development in the context of learning to become an
 educational researcher. We are also conscious of the challenges of time and resourcing that
 academics who are teachers and practitioners can face when seeking to engage in educational
 research around dimensions of their own educational practice.

 We seek to address the above through several of the aforementioned staff development
 approaches and interventions, including seminars and webinars to introduce key concepts and
 considerations for those seeking to develop their educational research, formal research mentoring
 arrangements, and LTA Scholarship funding that can be utilised for purposes including remission
 from teaching or for recruiting research assistants for educational research projects. With the
 exception of the Write-UP writing residentials, all other educational research events are offered as
 online networked events (or offered in dual face-to-face and online mode) to ensure that
 colleagues can participate regardless of their location within the university.

 Furthermore, the University Mentoring Scheme is underpinned by a Mentoring Code of Practice
 which articulates the importance of mentoring to directly address inequality of opportunity due to

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 gender, career stage, returning from maternity leave, or access to funding to participate in career
 development opportunities. On this latter point, all of the LTA’s professional events and provision,
 including mentoring, are available for staff to participate in at no cost to their own department or
 Academic Partner. This includes cover for accommodation costs for attendance at residential
 events (i.e. the Write-UP retreats or our Learning and Teaching Conferences).

 The university was awarded Institutional Athena SWAN Bronze Award in May 2017. Staff from the
 LTA contributed directly to that work and are contributing to work being undertaken for the Silver
 Award. Furthermore, the wider work undertaken by the LTA in tandem with supporting
 engagement in educational research includes coordinating the university’s Women’s Network
 (established 2018), offering seminars and events that explore equalities from an educational
 research perspective, and coordinating participation in Advance HE’s Aurora leadership
 programme for colleagues who identify as women and who are seeking to be supported in
 developing their own academic and research leadership capacity and experience.

                 Grade/position              Female                Male
                Dean                           0                    1
                Professor                      1          3 (includes the Dean
                                                              in above line)
                Reader                       0                      1
                Senior Lecturer              1                      0
                Lecturer                     3                      3
                            Total            5                      7
                     Role and gender profile of staff submitted to UoA 23

 Within the UoA the gender split is a fairly even one although with less balance in relation to senior
 roles. In developing educational research going forward, a key component of the educational
 research strategy to guide us post REF2021 and up to REF2028 (as covered in Section1.4) will
 be an equality and diversity impact assessment and associated action plan.




 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 In terms of income generation, educational research at the university to date has tended to be
 focused around relatively small-scale projects, but ones where clear future benefit and impact can
 be achieved in short timeframes. This is part of a deliberate strategy of capacity building for
 educational research and the associated activities described thus far, and that has been our main
 focus from 2015. However, increasing our income generation for and through educational
 research is a key objective in our forward trajectory for the development of educational research,
 and we have already been successful in securing funding for a number of significant projects and
 facilities.

 External research income generated for specific projects includes the £300K awarded to the
 university for the Jisc funded e-TIPS (e-Textbook Institutional Publishing Service) research project
 that undertaken in partnership between Lews Castle College UHI, UHI Executive Office and


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Edinburgh Napier University between 2015-18. The e-TIPS project was one of four projects funded
 as part of Jisc’s national ‘Institution as e-Textbook Publisher’ programme, exploring the potential
 and capacity for universities to be publishers of open and low-cost e-textbooks for students. The
 e-TIPS project was led by Rennie as Principal Investigator with Smyth as Co-Investigator. The
 aims and collaborative nature of the project are detailed further in Section 4.

 In 2018/19, Rosie Alexander secured £5K in external funding from HECSU (Higher Education
 Careers Services Unit) for a research project looking at rural students’ experience of higher
 education careers provision, undertaken through Inverness College UHI.

 Colleagues within the unit of assessment have also received funding for a number of Global
 Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) projects. This has included the CHORTENS (Creating Helpful
 Open Research Tools for Engaging New Staff) project with the Royal University of Bhutan. This
 received funding of £40K for the first year of activity in 2018/19 and further funding of £37K for the
 second year of funding in 2019/20, and is explored in more detail as part of one of our Impact
 Case Studies. In addition, Smyth was a Co-Investigator on the GCRF funded ‘Culture and
 heritage, language, education and creativity: UHI Cultural Resilience Project in Senegal’ which
 received initial funding of £9.5K in 2019. A follow-up project ‘Project Senegal: African Digital
 Academy’ was undertaken in 2020, supported by £37K of GCRF funding, and with Smyth as
 Principal Investigator. Fabian also secured GCRF funding of £8.1K to investigate the use of OER
 (Open Educational Resource) in mathematics education in the Philippines during 2020.

 In addition to receiving the external funding outlined above, during the period of assessment for
 REF 2021 the university, through the aforementioned LTA Scholarship fund, has distributed £140K
 of funding internally to enable small-scale educational research project as described in Section 2.

 Regarding investment in infrastructure and facilities, in addition to creating and appointing the role
 of Chair of Education (Pedagogy) in 2014, to provide leadership in relation to the Learning and
 Teaching Academy and educational research, the university and Highlands and Islands Enterprise
 also secured European Regional Development Funding to construct the Inverness Campus which
 includes the An Lòchran Research and Enterprise Centre. An Lòchran includes the Learning Lab
 and associated spaces to support educational research and development projects.

 Latterly, in 2019 Rayner led the University’s engagement in a bid that secured ZAR5M (£236k)
 from the British Council and the RSA Government, to support co-supervision of 10 academic staff
 members in 2 South African Universities according to a novel model of doctoral degree delivery,
 as part of a collaborative international research project in its own right. We intend for this
 development to be the focus of an associated educational research project.

 3.2 Infrastructure

 The infrastructure for supporting the development of and engagement in educational research is
 a distributed one within the university, with the Professor of Pedagogy having an overall leadership
 responsibility and the LTA providing a hub for supporting staff to engage in educational research
 and educational research development activity. This includes through the range of aforementioned
 support activities and processes (professional development events, LTA Scholarship projects,
 University Mentoring Scheme, and Staff Development 1 Fund for relevant PhD studies).

 As highlighted previously, in addition to the Professor of Pedagogy the LTA has a dedicated
 specialist team of staff who lead on and co-ordinate the aforementioned activities that directly

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 underpin or provide additional support for engagement in, and dissemination of, educational
 research, and also in supporting the transition from educational scholarship to formal, peer-
 reviewed educational research. The wider LTA team, excluding the Professor of Pedagogy,
 comprises 4.6 FTE staff in addition to a part-time Senior Lecturer (Research) (Alexander) who is
 attached to the LTA working on an emergent area of educational research that is pertinent to the
 university and our region (careers education and social justice in rural contexts).

 In addition to the LTA and SILK Research Cluster, the infrastructure for educational research also
 includes several colleagues who have responsibilities for leading and developing educational and
 other research activities within the contexts of their own roles and/or Academic Partners. This
 includes Rennie at Lews Castle College UHI and O’Donnell at Perth College UHI, who represent
 a number of colleagues who are active in educational research across these particular Academic
 Partners, and Professor Redford, Professor of Teacher Education, who is supporting colleagues
 to engage in research related to the development and impact of teacher education activities and
 curricula (as explored in the second of our two Impact Case Studies). The aforementioned
 colleagues and the Professor of Pedagogy work in close collaboration in the development of
 educational research both in respect to REF2021 but also more generally in relation to developing
 an even greater capacity for educational research going forward. In addition, the Vice Principal
 Research and Impact and the Dean of Research are key colleagues within the Executive Office
 who are working with the Professor of Pedagogy and UoA staff to support educational research.

 3.3 Facilities

 The aforementioned Learning Lab at An Lòchran is an adaptable space designed to support a
 range of pedagogic research and development activities. It has directly supported and enabled
 research undertaken by the core team in the UoA, and has supported a range of the professional
 development initiatives in educational research, including the Write-UP retreats, as covered in
 Section 2. Colleagues from across the university also use the facility to undertake their educational
 and discipline-related research and knowledge exchange activities. In terms of supporting
 educational research, the Lab is equipped with a range of educational tools and technologies and
 can be configured to simulate or support learning and teaching in classroom, blended and online
 contexts, and to support research in current and emerging areas of educational practice including:

    •   interactive classroom approaches;
    •   distributed networked learning;
    •   immersion in simulated virtual environments.

 The Lab is also equipped to support observational research and evaluation activities both on site
 and remotely, and to provide a space for professional development activities and events (including
 teaching observations, practical workshops, and the prototyping and testing of pedagogic
 interventions, methods and educational resources by staff and students). The Media Suite
 attached to the Learning Lab provides ‘control room’ functionality for high quality audio and video
 recording of activities taking place within the Lab, including qualitative and observational research.




                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                The Learning Lab at An Lòchran Research and Enterprise Centre




          The Media Suite with observation and recording facilities for the Learning Lab

 The European funding secured for developing the Learning Lab also procured a range of
 equipment to facilitate research into various dimensions of digital education practice, and to
 support research off site. The range of equipment which staff can book for use on and off site
 includes laptops and tablets, audio and video recording equipment, virtual reality headsets, 3D
 printers, interactive smart screens, and accessible screen readers.

 Located next to the Learning Lab is a Media Suite, which is the space from which the Learning
 Lab can be used for recorded observation and for broadcasting events, and which also supports
 education technology developments. The An Lòchran research and enterprise centre also houses



                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Professor of Pedagogy alongside the majority of the staff that comprise the Learning and
 Teaching Academy and the university’s Educational Development Unit.

 The Learning Lab is complemented by two similarly constructed lab spaces for educational
 research, one at Lews Castle College UHI and a new lab at Perth College UHI. We are exploring
 the networking of these spaces as a means to enable further research into networked, multi-
 location collaborative learning and teaching. Further facilities support for educational research is
 provided through extensive subscriptions to a full range of educational research journals, and
 the provision of specialist software for data collection and analysis.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations

 Collaborative research activity has been central to the development of educational research at the
 university, and a multiplier in terms of supporting increased capacity for educational research and
 supporting early career educational researchers, and in relation to staff collaborating with
 colleagues at other universities to combine research strengths and interests.

 Key collaborative educational research initiatives within the university, and which are having
 benefits internally and beyond the university itself, include the Research-Teaching Linkages
 project described Section 2. This is exploring staff and student conceptions of, and approaches
 to, RTL across various disciplines, and is disseminating academic outputs and curriculum
 enhancement case studies and resources to the wider sector.

 Collaboration with other universities and organisations has also been key to our educational
 research to date. Nationally, research outputs have been produced in conjunction with colleagues
 at the University of Glasgow in the area of Scottish Education policy and practice, the University
 of Dundee in relation to student transitions and employability, and Oxford Brookes University and
 Vitae in respect of researcher development. In addition, collaboration with colleagues at Glasgow
 Caledonian University and University of Strathclyde produced the aforementioned monograph on
 the concept of the digital university that proposes a number of new models and frameworks.

 In the area of teacher education, Professor Redford is part of MQuITE - a longitudinal project
 across eleven universities providing teacher education qualifications in Scotland. Professor
 Redford also leads the Scottish Council of Deans of Education ‘Closing the Attainment Gap’
 project in collaboration with seven other Scottish universities. The project is first major
 collaborative education research project funded by the Scottish Government since 2009

 The aforementioned e-TIPS project saw Rennie, Smyth and colleagues working in partnership
 with Edinburgh Napier University for a large scale project funded by Jisc as part of their Institution
 and eTextbook Publisher Programme. As with the other projects in the programme, eTIPS
 involved researching, developing, implementing and evaluating the process and impact of an
 institutional approach to publishing e-Textbooks. The books to be produced (in our case, two
 cross-disciplinary texts to guide students in undertaking UG and PG research projects) were
 secondary to the research and development process, with eTIPS tasked to implement and
 evaluate a low-cost/wide distribution e-Textbook model that utilised open educational resources
 to support the books themselves. The research and development work undertaken through eTIPS
 directly and significantly influenced the content of Jisc’s Institution as e-textbook Publisher Toolkit


                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which was released in December 2018, and processes developed for eTIPS have since seen the
 university collaborate with postgraduate students on the publication of Masters research..

 Internationally, our ongoing collaborative research with the Royal University of Bhutan has had a
 significant influence on the development of RUB and their own internal educational research
 culture. The first project in 2017, Sub-Alpine, saw Rennie and colleagues investigate the creation
 of an appropriate Learning and Teaching Strategy and opportunities for professional accreditation,
 and tested the efficacy of a continuing professional development framework. The subsequent
 project, CHORTENS, has been running from 2019 and is due to complete 2021. CHORTENS has
 built on previous engagements with RUB through undertaking a phenomenographic programme
 of educational research focused on: (a) establishing a baseline study of the conceptual and
 practical engagement of staff at RUB with pedagogical research in their own practices; (b)
 intervening with appropriate capacity-building support structures; (c) and analysing RUB staff
 experiences and impact on institutional development, practice and policy.

 Smyth, in partnership with colleagues from Creative Industries and UHI Language Sciences
 Institute, collaborated with a number of universities in Senegal across 2019 and 2020. A key focus
 of the related projects, ‘Culture and heritage, language, education and creativity: UHI Cultural
 Resilience Project in Senegal’ and ‘Project Senegal: African Digital Academy’, was to research
 cross-cultural educational experiences in the arts, supported by digital education practice and a
 linking of the activities of the curriculum to social issues and needs in Senegal.

 Alexander has also forged successful collaborations with colleagues in her field of research from
 the University of the Faroes and the University of Greenland, resulting in joint publications on
 careers guidance education, policy and practice in self-governing regions.

 4.2 Networks and partnerships

 Internally, educational research is supported directly through the ‘hub and spokes’ structure of the
 LTA which supports the network of researchers that comprise the UoA. Furthermore, our LTA
 Scholarship projects directly enable both individuals as well as teams of colleagues within and
 across the university’s Academic Partners to undertake funded educational research that directly
 benefits our own educational practices as well as our educational research profile. The LTA
 Scholarship project ‘An investigation into blended learning at the university: uses and
 effectiveness’, which was undertaken by a small team from across three of our Academic Partners,
 is a good example of a funded internal research project that addressed and provided research
 evidence for the enhancement of practice internally, as well as producing research that was
 published and contributed to the wider literature around blended learning and teaching.

 A further example, undertaken across 2018, involved an LTA Scholarship project that took a mixed
 methods approach to investigating student and staff perceptions of digitally enhanced learning
 and teaching at the university which informed selection of, and investment in, a new Virtual
 Learning Environment for the university which was implemented in 2019.

 Research and development in digital education is a significant workstream in terms of networks
 and partnerships. Externally, beyond the examples already in 4.1, Smyth was one of the co-chairs
 for the annual conference of the Association for Learning Technology (ALT), the largest
 educational technology research and practice conference held in the UK. The 2019 ALT
 Conference took place at University of Edinburgh, and Smyth was announced as the new Vice
 Chair of ALT at the event.

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 In terms of peer reviewed journals, and research related committees, colleagues within the UoA
 are active on several fronts. This includes working in partnership with the University of Glasgow,
 University of Dundee, University of Sussex and Heriot Watt University to run the open access
 Journal of Perspectives in Applied Academic Practice, and collaborating with University of Stirling
 and Dundee and Angus College to establish the new journal College Action Inquiry Research
 Network (CAIRN) which is dedicated to educational research in Further Education.

 Further responsibilities include the membership of Redford on the Council of the British
 Educational Research Association and editorial board of the Scottish Educational Research
 Journal. Redford and Smyth are also members of the Research Strategy for Scottish Education
 Academic Reference Group, working with the Scottish Government to devise and implement a
 national plan for educational research across the entire Scottish education sector.

 Colleagues in the UoA also review for the following education journals:

    •   British Journal of Educational Technology;
    •   Computers and Education;
    •   Educational Technology Research and Development;
    •   Environmental Education Research;
    •   IEEE Transactions on Education;
    •   International Journal of STEM Education;
    •   Journal of Computers in Education;
    •   Journal of Education for Teaching;
    •   Journal of Perspectives in Applied Academic Practice;
    •   Research in Learning Technology;
    •   Review of Education.

 Our involvement with the Journal of Perspectives in Applied Academic Practice has been an
 especially impactful one. This has seen Rennie guest edit a special issue on Learning and
 Teaching in the Distributed University in 2015, and for which a number of university colleagues
 were supported to submit research papers and other articles. The outcome of this was that nine
 of the fourteen publications featured in the special issue came from colleagues at UHI. In addition,
 Smyth and colleagues worked with the Quality Assurance Agency Scotland to guest edit a special
 issue of JPAAP carrying research publications produced through the QAA Scotland national
 Enhancement Theme 2015-2017. The Student Transitions special issue was published in 2017,
 and launched at the QAA International Enhancement Conference 2017.

 In wider work to support engagement with educational research amongst new researchers, Smyth
 worked with Professor Yvonne Bain (then University of Aberdeen) to produce a 2016 special issue
 on Early Career Research for Scotland’s oldest educational journal (Education in the North).
 As previously explored, the university has partnered with groups including the Open Educational
 Practices Scotland (OEPS) project, and with international scholars to offer joint events relating to
 key and emerging aspects of the educational research agenda.

 4.3 Wider activities and engagements

 A number of senior colleagues in the UoA are engaged in wider activities and positions not
 mentioned thus far, and related to their area of educational research expertise or interest.

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Rayner was founding chair of the Scottish REF Managers Group, former chair of Universities
 Scotland’s Research Development and Training Committee, and a longstanding member of
 Universities Scotland’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee. His wider professional
 activities intersect with his interests in researcher development and the RTL nexus.

 Redford served as chair of the Scottish Council of Deans of Education (2016 – 2018), on the
 Strategic Board for Education (2016 – 2018), the Council for Education (2017-18), and the National
 Teacher Workforce Planning Group (from 2015). Redford is recognised for hosting ISFIRE an
 International Symposium for Innovation in Rural Education at Perth College UHI in August 2021.

 Rennie is currently External Examiner for the Masters in Open and Distance Education at the
 Institute of Educational Technology, Open University, and is former Visiting Professor at Kings
 College London, working with the School of Dentistry to develop online educational resources.

 Smyth is Visiting Professor in Learning and Teaching at Edge Hill University, is Vice-Chair of the
 Association for Learning Technology, and is External Expert for digitally enabled education on the
 NHS Education Scotland Technology-Enhanced Learning Governance Group, to oversee the
 implementation of a national NHS Education Scotland TEL Strategy.

 4.4 Beneficiaries

 The university’s engagement with formal education research is relatively young, but its influence
 and significance has been growing rapidly across the REF period and is already very well
 established in the sector. The mixture of research practice and theory is a perfect complement to
 the university’s overall mission, and our research in action across our own educational delivery,
 and its reaching out across UK HE and internationally, indicates our growing contribution to the
 field and provides a solid base for even more contributions in the next REF period. Beneficiaries
 include education practitioners in schools, colleges and universities, politicians/policy-makers and
 their researchers, school pupils across all grades, undergraduates and lifelong learners; and fellow
 researchers in the field of Higher education in Scotland, the UK, and internationally.

 4.5 COVID-19

 The educational research expertise within the UoA has been drawn upon internally and externally
 in response to COVID-19. The LTA as the hub for educational research proved to be an important
 reactive and proactive player for the institution, drawing upon research and evidence-based
 practices to support staff to augment existing digital practices through interventions including peer
 mentoring, and the development of research informed guidance.

 Smyth oversaw these activities, and also engaged in a number of sector wide events and initiatives
 around the challenges of teaching within and through the pandemic. This included being invited
 to chair the closing plenary of the Association of Learning Technology’s global online conference
 in 2020, and which featured a number of leading experts exploring the implications of the
 pandemic for education. Smyth also contributed as invited speaker or facilitator to a number of
 professional body COVID-19 events offered across sector, for organisations including Jisc, the
 Staff and Educational Development Association, College Development Network, and NHS.



                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rennie has also been active, helping to frame responses to COVID-19 through the design and
 delivery of digital health research initiatives with the Western Isles NHS.

 Finally, Fabian has been advancing a project looking at Filipino teachers’ use of TPACK
 (Technological Pedagogical Content Knowledge) framework for the design of digitally enabled
 education within the context of the pandemic (with an initial output submitted in January 2021).




                                                                                         Page 17
