Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sunderland

 Unit of Assessment: 11 - Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Unit 11, situated within the School of Computer Science in the Faculty of Technology, supports
 applied computer science research that invigorates the taught curriculum, enhances the student
 experience, and supports the needs of local industry and society. The unit has a single primary
 research group (ARC: Applied Research in Computing) that meets on a monthly basis plus
 regular informal gatherings around themes of interests. The applied research focus calls for
 pervasively interdisciplinary research that draws on expertise and partnerships. Impact is
 generated through the close working with partners, an approach that underpins the unit.
 Expertise developed through original research provides disciplinary inputs to projects, alongside
 knowledge of leading-edge research.

 ARC’s focus has maximized research activity during the School of Computer Science’s
 considerable reduction in size over the last decade. Existing disciplinary expertise from
 longstanding research groups in Intelligent Systems, HCI, and Software Engineering now
 combines with expertise in application areas such as Bioinformatics, Health and Wellbeing,
 Creative Practices, and Cybersecurity. Partnerships and collaboration within and beyond the
 University of Sunderland have a multiplier effect, increasing the range, resources, and impact of
 a relatively small group of researchers. This current focus on applied interdisciplinary research
 has been an effective strategic response to reduced staff resources for research.

 In line with this strategic response, each researcher in the school combines expertise in
 disciplinary areas with experience in application areas. This results in an agile responsive
 research environment capable of a broad range of collaborations. ARC expertise in application
 areas is as follows:

    •   Bioinformatics, Health and Wellbeing: Clawson, McDonald, McGarry, Peng, Timmis
    •   Children, Teenagers and Families: Hall
    •   Creative Practices: Bowerman, Cockton, Hall, Jiang.
    •   Cybersecurity: Bowerman, Irons, Jaf, McDonald
    •   Finance/Fintech: Bowerman, Jaf, MacFarlane

 ARC expertise in disciplinary areas of computer science is as follows:

    •   Data Science/Intelligent Systems/Natural Language processing: Bowerman, Clawson,
        Jaf, Jiang MacFarlane, McGarry, Peng, Timmis
    •   Education: Irons
    •   Human-Computer Interaction: Cockton, Hall, McDonald, Gandy

 Disciplinary and application areas provide the capability to meet future research objectives for
 Computer Science, which are set within a common framework for the Faculty of Technology,
 aligned with the University Research and Innovation strategy. These objectives are:

    1. Continue to deliver sector-leading applied research through extensive
       interdisciplinary collaboration with strategic external partners and audiences to advance
       the vitality, significance, reach and relevance of the Faculty’s research base.
    2. Sustain a dynamic research environment by recruiting, developing, and nurturing
       researchers at all career stages, from PhD students to professors.
    3. Leverage partnerships to develop a range of funding streams in collaboration with
       SMEs, and public and voluntary sectors, to the benefit of the regional and UK economies,
       and thus further develop centres of innovation, excellence and collaboration.
    4. Deliver impact through the university’s strategic focus on sector-leading applied
       research, innovating collaboratively with external partners and audiences.


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    5. Ensure that research contributes to undergraduate and postgraduate programmes
       through new research-informed curriculum content and student research opportunities.

 These objectives refine earlier ones from 2016 and 2018, which in turn were based on REF2014
 objectives for our former Digital Innovation Research Beacon, which had been to:
     • develop academic staff whether early career, established or aspirant researchers,
         achieved by investing resources to support staff at all key career transition points through
         additional time, financial support, and fully funded PhDs (Section 2).
     • target SMEs to engage in research to benefit the regional economy, achieved
         through partnerships with regional SMEs funded through many Knowledge Transfer
         Partnerships (KTPs), frequent consultancy (Section 4 below) and the CREATIVE FUSE
         project (below).
     • grow research in data science, supported through appointing a Professor of Data
         Science (Peng, in 2016) and a Senior Lecturer (McGarry, in 2018 -- promoted to
         Associate Professor, 2019). Their research has applied data science to health,
         strengthening partnerships with City of Sunderland hospitals (McGarry) and Public
         Health England (Peng), and providing contextual data for investigation of research
         challenges. Their outputs underpin the current submission, including an impact case
         study.
     • feed research into the taught curriculum and involve students in research: we have
         ensured that students directly benefit from our research and associated partnerships
         such as Sunderland Software City (below). Module leaders engage with all 4 quadrants
         of Healy and Jenkins’ research informed teaching model. For example, McDonald,
         Cockton and Irons (2020) integrated students as both participants and researchers in a
         study of how usability inspection method outcomes might be improved through
         application of think-aloud protocols.
     • develop student research, often to a high standard. For example, research by
         undergraduate students was accepted for presentation at the 2017 BCS Human
         Computer Interaction conference, chaired by Hall and hosted by Sunderland. Master’s
         programme project-module students must now produce an academic paper rather than a
         dissertation. This has developed further publication opportunities for staff. Research
         facilities (e.g., usability lab, high-performance computing cluster) are used by
         undergraduates and taught Master’s students (e.g., to conduct user-centred research
         projects).

 In support of its Impact Strategy, the University has invested: in tracking software to record
 evidence of impact, training workshops delivered by Professor Mark Reed (Newcastle); and in
 an Impact Officer, who has advised staff on how to embed impact within individual research
 projects and applications. She has met all research active and research aspirant staff in this unit
 to help them to plan for research impact, mostly for REF submissions after 2021. The ability to
 plan impact activities has been developed via a review exercise that focuses on identification of
 beneficiaries, stakeholders, and metrics. The exercise guides staff to identify metrics that
 demonstrate the impact of their research. It also guides them to develop instruments such as
 questionnaires to quantify impact. The University provides dedicated financial support for impact
 work.

 The unit has a long history of effective engagement with business, government and the third
 sector. Direct funding from industry and from regional, national, and European sources has
 supported a quarter century of collaborative research, with application in practical contexts. This
 engagement spans a range of activities from contract research, collaborative projects, large
 scale support projects for the digital sector, and bespoke training and consultancy. We have
 supported our relationships with public sector and industrial partners through the appointment of
 a number of visiting professors (see Section 2). We continue to develop new ways to engage
 potential partners and collaborators. For example, recent degree apprenticeships are adding
 new collaborators and creating new practical research project opportunities that offer new
 potential pathways to impact.


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This broad portfolio of activities with partners and collaborators, with associated access to
 funding, establishes sustainability and vitality. Impact is achieved in domains such as healthcare,
 digital government (including privacy), business solutions, media, legal services, Creative-
 Digital-IT, children, teenagers and families, and education. Much has been enabled by decades
 of involvement in collaborative networks. The unit contributes to the University’s strategic
 society-shaping mission by making “a positive difference to industry and society through our
 research, innovation and practice”, aligning with national agendas, as reflected in two submitted
 impact case studies and further impact detailed below.

 McGarry’s impact case study with City Hospitals Sunderland NHS Foundation Trust,
 Nottingham University Hospitals and Hampshire Hospital NHS Foundation emerged as a
 consequence of a visiting professorial appointment in McGarry’s previous Faculty, Health
 Sciences. Kim Hinshaw, until recently Director of Research & Innovation at South Tyneside &
 Sunderland NHS Foundation Trust, introduced McGarry to doctors and physicians who needed
 support with statistics and modelling. The resulting collaboration led to development of a new
 multifaceted Disabilities Complexity Scale (DCS). McGarry’s expertise in creating medical
 statistical models has had conceptual, capacity-building, and instrumental impacts that benefit
 disabled children and young people and their clinicians and families. DCS was validated against
 existing functional scales. Its use since 2015-16 in Sunderland paediatric disability clinics
 improved clinical care compliance with NICE autism diagnosis timescales. Since 2019, DCS has
 been used by GPs and Learning Disability clinicians. DCS’s healthcare impact spans systematic
 identification of multi-faceted needs, more accurate calculation of NHS funding, increased
 capacity within specialist pediatric disability (three new clinical posts, need evidenced by DCS),
 improved clinical care and service design, and improved transition between paediatric and adult
 services.

 McDonald’s impact case study originates in a work-based MSc double module on User
 Experience that was developed in 2007 by McDonald and Cockton for Sage, a Newcastle
 FTSE-100 software company. Content from this module was repurposed and updated by
 Tingting Zhao (PhD 2012, supervised by McDonald) when she was a Senior User Researcher in
 the Cabinet Digital Office. Zhao’s PhD research on improved think-aloud methods for usability
 testing provided important innovative content for this update. The training courses that Zhao ran
 for UK digital government gave attendees practical experience in applying her PhD research
 with McDonald. As a result, the underpinning research on improved think-aloud methods has
 directly influenced practices at the Home Office and the Government Digital Service (GDS).
 Practitioners who attended Zhao’s training course have changed their user testing practices,
 which has improved the quality of the 3,000 most-visited pages on GOV.UK (11-14M visits per
 month), the GOV.UK search function, and the publishing tools used to update GOV.UK. In
 addition to this impact on digital government processes, Zhao’s healthcare work with creative
 digital design agencies had positive impact on all Wellcome Trust’s websites (including the
 Wellcome Collection, 0.25M visits per month), and the Sanger Institute (0.27M visits per month).
 Most recently, Habito, an online mortgage broker, improved their business solutions when Zhao
 updated their user testing practices.

 In addition to the two submitted case studies, there has been extensive impact via KTPs,
 Innovate UK projects, the CREATIVE FUSE project (below), and industry funded projects. KTPs
 have been especially important for developing ECRs’ understandings of pathways to impact as
 part of their development. In addition, researchers benefit from new datasets and software
 architectures for future research. Peng and Clawson developed and managed a healthcare
 KTP for Rokshaw, focusing on data driven intelligence for enhanced manufacture of specials
 medications, which are personalized formulations manufactured on demand for patients with
 unique prescription requirements. They are increasingly in demand through need for
 personalised precision medicine. Rokshaw could only produce products after an order was
 received on the day. The KTP developed a cloud-based, data driven medical formulation engine
 (MFE) using natural language processing, deep learning, and semantic search technology. The
 novel NLP pipeline combined deep feature extraction with one-class support vector machine
 learning. Rokshaw were able to perform enhanced literature searches, increase shelf lives of

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 over 1000 products, and manufacture more than 50% of orders in advance with little wastage,
 thus increasing efficiencies and capacity.

 Research by Timmis has also resulted in healthcare impact through the formation of a company
 in 2014, Simomics Ltd, that has gone on to launch the Reason product, which is used by a major
 personal care company to support risk assessment, and also to risk assessment tools that are
 now being developed as part of a major Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) funded by the EU
 working with 12 leading pharmaceutical companies.

 Bowerman and MacFarlane are working on a business solutions KTP with Proforecast to
 extend financial forecasting services (balance sheet with profit and loss forecasting, cash flow,
 report generation) through deep machine learning driven models that help companies to manage
 cashflow and to decide on prospective investment, expansion, and sustainability. Proforecast
 have benefitted from a new forecasting module within their commercial suite of services resulting
 in a smoother, faster, more streamlined reporting process. They have installed faster servers to
 meet computational AI needs in line with increased demand.

 Jaf’s project with regional company ProcurSmart built on his research to develop an AI solution
 for procurement document classification, as part of an ERDF funded project (GX08) as part of
 the Newcastle-Gateshead initiative. ProcurSmart has adopted an AI solution to automate
 procurement document classification. Jaf’s business solutions KTP on Smart Procurement and
 his Innovate UK project with Distinctive Publishing (in collaboration with Durham University)
 have resulted in competitive edge in the market. Distinctive publishing expanded its operation
 with a new branch to utilize products developed during the KTP.

 As well as impact with businesses, healthcare and government, the unit’s research has
 influenced educational curricula. McDonald and Hall were part of the trail blazer group for the
 development of the standard for a User Experience Digital degree apprentice standard.

 Within our significant regional anchor institution, local impact is based on long-lived collaborative
 networks through an unbroken chain of local and regional projects and organizations over two
 decades: Digital Media Network (1999-2003, directed by Cockton and Hall), CODEWORKS
 (2003-2012, initial CODEWORKS NITRO regional university support directed by Cockton, with
 significant support for SMEs/startups from Hall and McDonald), Digital Knowledge Exchange
 2006-2008 (HEFCE CoKE project, Sunderland lead Cockton), Sunderland Software City (2006
 onwards, initial support and direction from MacIntyre as Dean and Hall, and during this REF
 period from MacIntyre, now PVC, and Irons as Dean), and industry led regional Dynamo
 network (2012 onwards, founding board member Irons - the unit hosted the 2015 and 2017
 Dynamo conferences). Together, these projects and organizations have kept the School of
 Computer Science at the heart of regional support for the software sector.

 Sunderland Software City (SSC) was a focus of a REF 2014 impact case study. Since then, Hall
 developed SSC activities and led on KTP projects related to Sunderland Software City, involving
 more than 20 academic staff, and generating over £600k research income. SSC Chief Executive
 David Dunn based his 2016 University of Sunderland Professional Doctorate on resource
 requirements and impact of Sunderland Software City and related regional projects. His thesis
 identified close local links between industry and education, including research, as important to
 the success of the software cluster. His Professional Doctorate is one example of the unit’s
 continued support for Sunderland Software City (www.sunderlandsoftwarecity.com).

 Hall is Institutional Lead and Co-Investigator in CREATIVE FUSE, a collaborative project across
 five regional universities (Newcastle, Durham, Northumbria, Sunderland, and Teesside) focused
 on research-led growth in the Creative-Digital-IT (CDIT) industries of the North East England
 region and funded by AHRC, ERDF and the Arts Council. CREATIVE FUSE explores the
 economic and innovation value of the CDIT sector in the region, and delivers direct engagement
 with creatives, freelancers, and SMEs in the sector, identifying opportunities for innovation,
 growth and cross-sector collaboration with other industries and the wider economy. CREATIVE

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 FUSE’s purpose is to identify how the region’s CDIT sector can grow and contribute greater
 impact for the regional economy and facilitate growth in other sectors.

 Sunderland’s interdisciplinary applied approach and expertise has been most effective in
 CREATIVE FUSE, with input from HCI (Hall, McDonald), Artificial Intelligence (Bowerman) and
 Data Science (Peng). Several creative companies (including software service and hardware
 companies) have benefitted from collaborations within Creative Fuse. Innovation Pilots funded
 by Creative Fuse have delivered value to industry beneficiaries. For example, in the words of its
 director, Bowerman’s support for Wordnerds, a local Data Science and AI SME, “accelerated
 Wordnerds’ product immeasurably … at the end of the project, the team have delivered… a
 proof of concept of something we didn’t even think possible at the outset of project.” Similarly,
 Peng collaborated on an Innovation pilot to support Shoes2Run in their development of a novel
 wearable technology sock. An AI algorithm was developed and tested, providing support for
 evidenced claims for the product for when it is taken to market. Hall worked with Jupiter Artland
 sculpture park on mixed reality experiences of places for children’s working. Her Evaluation
 workshop led to Jupiter Artland changing their approach to audience evaluation from a
 questionnaire to a single question.

 Worth-focused design approaches developed during Cockton’s NESTA fellowship on value-
 centred design (2005-2008, with publications to 2009) have continued to be disseminated during
 the current REF period through courses at major HCI conferences (NordiCHI 2014 and 2016,
 CHI 2016 to 2019 inclusive), and courses for postgraduates across Europe. Publications and
 courses have led to worth-focused approaches being used for innovative business solutions in
 France (Orange: Family Pack app and services; Colibri: Viseo planning product), in-house
 developments in Finland (Finnish Golf Union), business development in the Netherlands
 (support for a creative entrepreneur) and for current national digital policy work in Germany
 (Privacy by Design programme). All have benefitted from Cockton’s novel concurrent design
 methodologies for strategic creative innovation.

 The unit’s HCI and AI research is inherently interdisciplinary, with collaborations within areas
 such as creative technologies, healthcare, and cybersecurity. These collaborations have always
 underpinned the sustainability and viability of the unit’s research by providing access to funding,
 data, collaborators, systems infrastructure, and practical challenges that require advanced
 research approaches and have led to foundational contributions to computing, such as
 Cockton’s interdisciplinary research on evaluation methods that has been continued by
 McDonald.

 Hall’s work on multi-setting evaluation approaches with children, teenagers, and families,
 includes collaboration with the Jupiter Artland sculpture park (above). Before this, her EU funded
 EMOTE project supported children’s learning through interaction with empathic robot tutors. Her
 Technological Family project explored the future of technology in the home and family. It
 combined Rapid Evidence Assessment, expert interviews, a Delphi study, parents’
 questionnaires, and workshops involving over 130 teenagers. More recently, her SMART project
 (Google Digital News Innovation funding) with Jaf, MacFarlane and Price (Journalism),
 combines journalism research with HCI, AI and Data Science to track and visualise real-time and
 historical trends in social media to pick up abuse, trolling, and more general behaviour patterns.
 A SMART app is being developed for journalists to explore how social media can be used more
 effectively to support stories and news, and to investigate and report stories about abuse and
 hate speech on social media. Hall’s KTP with Quantum Law has also added legal services to the
 mix of application areas, with the Associate on this project pursuing a PhD and publishing. Other
 KTP projects apply research for a Utilities’ supplier (Start Energy), digital marketing (Brown,
 Beer, Nixon, and Mallon), print quality (Imprint Wearables), and portable air sampling (Franks
 Portlock). CREATIVE FUSE sponsored and supported a creative track at the 2017 BCS-HCI
 conference, directed by Hall, that focused on the intersection between HCI and the creative
 sector. CREATIVE FUSE collaborations between Computer Science and New Media, and
 across diverse sectors from freelancers to large corporates and the public sector, have added a
 new interdisciplinary area to applied research (complemented by Cockton since his return).

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Overall, Hall’s interdisciplinary applied research has supported applications in law, culture, and
 media.

 Timmis’ work on computational modelling involves working with both clinical and experimental
 immunologists, to help reduce, refine, and replace animals in research. One focus has been on
 disease areas of Leishmania, producing a virtual laboratory to reduce and refine animal
 experimentation. The simulations replaced the use of animals in one set of studies to investigate
 monotherapy treatments, which would have taken three years and used over 3,500 animals. The
 best hits from the model output were validated using just 62 mice within a matter of days.

 A further example of interdisciplinary research is McGarry’s support for the late Prof Roz
 Anderson as bioinformatics and statistical advisor to her PhD student Jill Jobson (PhD awarded
 in 2015), who was funded by the Cystinosis Foundation Charity. McGarry supported exploratory
 proteomic investigation of cystinotic fibroblasts and proximal tubule epithelial cells using SILAC
 with his guidance and support on data pre-processing and cleansing, calculating summary
 statistics, post processing t-tests, and data visualization. The latter gave more visual prominence
 to significant proteins.

 Jaf has applied his research on advanced machine learning algorithms (deep learning) to many
 natural language tasks, including language syntax processing, automated text generation,
 language identification, and natural language inference. He has also contributed to cybersecurity
 in the areas of intrusion detection, advanced persistent threats, and botnet detection. Lastly,
 Bowerman has applied his research in Data Science, AI, Natural Language Processing, and
 Machine learning/deep learning to cybersecurity (fraud and terrorism detection), financial
 projection, health informatics, social network analysis, and marketing.

 As required for an open research environment, the University’s 2015 open access mandate
 requires all authors to deposit final peer-reviewed manuscripts, where this is permitted by the
 publisher, to our open access repository (SURE) within 3 months of acceptance for publication.
 Our strategy is to encourage authors to submit articles to Journals with Green Open Access
 routes. Where funded projects maintain a website, this enhances the accessibility of the unit’s
 research. Computing research active staff now follow a policy of sharing code for reuse on fora
 such as GitHub.

 A key aspect of research integrity is for all research projects to be compliant with institutional
 commitments to the Research Integrity Concordat. McDonald served as the ethics
 representative for the greater part of this REF census period and has been involved in assessing
 individual applications. The University has invested in an online submission system
 (epiGenesys) to support staff through a single approval process, with access to legacy data on
 approvals and submissions. Ethics training is provided to all staff and research students via the
 University’s staff development programme.

 2. People
 The School of Computer Science is committed to developing and promoting existing staff
 (Bowerman, Hall, McDonald, McGarry). Commercial and consultation activities are supported
 through work loading, e.g., time allocated for KTPs and other externally funded work. The
 appraisal process also directs staff to engage in external work. An annual university research
 conference provides further support along with a new Professoriate forum. Both facilitate
 knowledge exchange and interdisciplinary opportunities.

 Since REF2014 the host Faculty for unit 11 has seen significant changes in both staffing and
 structure. Our strategy has been to replace some departing research leaders through internal
 promotion to professor (Bowerman, Hall, McDonald). McGarry joined us from the Faculty of
 Health and Wellbeing as a senior lecturer and was promoted to Associate Professor. To achieve
 the first REF 2014 Objective, the unit has also made external appointments at both senior and
 early career levels: Peng was recruited as Professor of Data Science in 2016. His appointment
 was followed by further four appointments. Of these Jaf, an ECR appointment (2019) has

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 submitted outputs. The other three have been focused on teaching, with external collaborations
 as a route to developing high quality research bids and publications (Clawson, MacFarlane,
 Jian).

 In May 2019 Timmis was appointed as Deputy Vice Chancellor (Commercial). Following Peng’s
 departure in March 2020, Timmis has contributed research leadership in Artificial Intelligence
 and applied health computing. Timmis is leading technology development in a spin-out he co-
 founded, Simomics Ltd, working with leading pharmaceutical companies such as AstraZeneca.
 He also leads work on intelligent robotics in EPSRC funded collaborations across the UK. Also,
 Cockton returned to Sunderland on a fractional contract in April 2019. His publications since
 include two books, a PACM EICS paper, an invited JUS essay and book chapter, five ACM
 Interactions issues (as Co-Editor-in-Chief), and a CHI course, panel, and workshop papers. He
 has rejoined McDonald on evaluation method research (building on Woolrych’s 2012 PhD jointly
 supervised by Cockton and McDonald). His two books have advanced worth-focused
 approaches initially developed from 2004 to 2009, through a creative and strategic design
 context that he developed at Northumbria University’s School of Design.

 The profile of returned staff is thus 77% F1 (Bowerman, Cockton, Hall, Irons, McDonald,
 Peng and Timmis), 11% IO (McGarry), and 11% J0 (Jaf). Jaf is an ECR (13% of active
 submitted staff). They are supported by the University’s Visiting Professor and Fellow scheme.
 Six Visiting Professors extend the unit’s range of partnerships, develop ‘critical mass’ in line with
 University strategy, and support teaching and research through their expertise, experience and
 access to partner organizations. Russell May (4n6 Investigation and Training, Computer and
 Network Forensics) has presented school research seminars and master classes and weeklong
 programmes to students; Dr Adrian Davis (International Information System Security
 Certification Consortium, (ISC)²) has supported teaching and the unit’s relationship with (ISC)² ;
 Stuart Lynn (former Executive Vice President and Chief Product Officer, Sage) chairs the
 Faculty Industrial Advisory Board and has provided a range of support, including input to
 strategy on Fintech; Simon Roberson (former Regional Partnership Director North East, BT)
 provides support as a board member of Dynamo, industry-led regional network for digital
 industries; Giselle Stewart OBE (Director of UK Corporate Affairs, Ubisoft) is Vice-Chair of
 Dynamo and has guided development of degree apprenticeships as a pathway to impact; and
 Anne-Marie Imafidon MBE (CEO Stemettes) has engaged School researchers in Stemette
 activities, represented the Faculty and University at a number of DYNAMO events and gave an
 Institute of Coding 2020 keynote as a University of Sunderland, which promoted the Faculty’s
 equality and diversity agenda.

 In line with the University’s Research and Innovation strategy (2017), the unit supports staff
 through the allocation of additional research time, purchase of equipment and travel to national
 and international conferences through a annual Individual Research Plan (IRP) commencing
 2017/18. This is linked to yearly appraisals and staff development initiatives. IRPs are part of the
 university’s transition to comprehensive, institution-level planning and resource allocation for
 research. The IRP process asks staff to: identify their yearly research goals during appraisal; link
 them to university objectives; and request resources (time, training, equipment, travel, PhD
 registration) to fulfil those goals. Since IRP inception in 2017 the unit has increased funding to
 research active staff to £20,250, supporting personal travel and small equipment purchases.
 Investment has increased year on year as research staff become familiar with the process
 (2017/18: £3700; 2018/19 £8049: 2019/2020: £8500). This financial support has been
 supplemented with additional workload allocations to staff through the university’s framework for
 academic work loading, each equating to c.150 hours per year. There have been seven such
 allocations since 2017, with the university providing £27,000 of support for staff time to the unit.

 Researcher development training is provided centrally, often seeding collaborations across the
 university. Courses include “How to be an effective researcher” and the “Principal Investigator
 development programme”. The University has also collaborated with Northumbria and Teesside
 universities to develop and pilot a HE Leadership Foundation funded programme “Leading on
 Research Excellence” for Readers and Professors across the region. Hall and McDonald

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 attended this programme before their promotion to professor in 2016 and 2019 respectively.

 In addition to the IRP process and training, we follow the University’s inclusive approach
 spanning established and developing researchers:

 New colleagues are allocated a research mentor who provides one-to-one support ensuring
 that new colleagues have access to relevant training opportunities (e.g., grant writing
 workshops, training in PhD supervision). We seek to integrate new colleagues into existing
 research structures, for example PhD supervision teams to help them establish their own
 research profile. For example, Cockton has provided research development support for Jaf.
 Peng and Bowerman have mentored Clawson. Hall is mentoring an ECR, McFarlane in her
 KTP work, and in line with the interdisciplinary focus of research in this unit, also providing
 interdisciplinary mentoring of ECR and mid-career staff elsewhere in the university.

 Existing, research aspirant, student facing staff are offered mentorship support from the
 professoriate, waiver of fees for part-time PhD study, and involvement in colleagues’ research.
 For example, Gandy, a senior lecturer with 18 years’ teaching experience, registered for a PhD
 supervised by McDonald, on a part-time basis, and is now publishing. Experienced
 professionals who are not active researchers currently make important contributions to
 partnerships for research active colleagues.

 Staff seeking promotion through high quality research are supported to develop a career path
 to Associate/Professor positions. The review framework for promotion is transparent, audited
 (including regular Equality Impact Assessments) and subjected to external review. Colleagues
 pursuing merit-based promotion to Associate Professor or Professor can access a mentor and
 workshop support from previous successful candidates in developing applications. For example,
 McGarry (mentored by McDonald) was promoted to Associate Processor in 2019. Hall mentors
 Clawson, who has now successfully developed her work and is submitting to high impact
 journals and leading on funding bids with local healthcare trusts.

 Contracts were reviewed for Professors and Associate Professors in 2019 as part of the
 university’s ongoing strategy to better support research. To ensure these staff have the
 necessary time for research activity, face-to-face teaching hours are capped at no more than
 10% of work-loaded activity without the need to bid for research hours through the university’s
 IRP process. This follows recent changes to the University’s leadership.

 Equality and Diversity considerations in relation to recruitment, promotion, and research
 support are monitored by the Faculty Senior Management Team and Athena Swan Self-
 Assessment team chaired by McDonald. The Faculty recently became a signatory of the Tech
 Talent Charter which seeks to drive greater inclusion and diversity in the technology sector and
 is pursuing Athena Swan bronze level recognition with a bid being submitted in 2021. We have
 supported individuals with protected characteristics to undertake research. For example, by
 purchasing equipment and providing additional time for Gandy (an ECR with limited mobility) to
 undertake her research on computer-based detection of horse-rider asymmetry.

 The output profile reflects a good balance of E&D characteristics with 6 (35%) outputs
 associated with female staff and 2 (12%) from staff of non-Caucasian ethnicity. Also, there is an
 even male-female split for promotions within this REF period.

 Alongside externally funded students, recruitment of doctoral students has focused on
 development of home-grown talent, establishing an effective pipeline from our undergraduate
 and taught master’s programmes to MPhil and PhD. Current research student ambassadors in
 the unit support Faculty recruitment by presenting their work to undergraduate and taught
 postgraduate students. Fully funded studentships are available for suitable applicants. In line
 with the applied interdisciplinary focus of research in this unit, Hall, Irons, McDonald and
 McGarry co-supervise PhD students from other UoAs.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The unit’s Research Student Manager McGarry oversees end-to-end management of research
 students. Staff student liaison committees are held each term and the unit has a PGR
 representative from the student body. Once registered, doctoral students have an annual
 monitoring review each year from month 9 of year one.

 PhD students, in collaboration with their director of studies, are required to complete a personal
 development plan. Training workshops such as preparing to teach are offered to all students and
 we provide students with the opportunity to support module delivery to gain teaching experience.
 We encourage students to apply for recognition as Associate Fellow (Higher Education
 Academy) and have several students recognised at this level (Willis, Balloochzadeh, Button).
 PhD students are encouraged to submit to doctoral consortia, and have been accepted e.g., at
 the British HCI conference.

 The university organises Research Fridays for PGRs at Institutional level, which Hall started and
 ran successfully for 3 years until 2016. In addition, the university’s Graduate Research Support
 Office created hubs at three campus locations as social spaces where they can also work
 alongside each other. Computing PGRs benefit from the hub on St. Peter’s Campus, which
 brings them together as a cohort, promotes peer support, strengthens PGR research culture,
 and stimulates cross fertilisation of inter-disciplinary ideas. Post-docs and PGRS are also invited
 to the biennial university research conference, professorial lectures, and faculty seminars.

 PGR research skills development is provided through the institution’s Virtual Learning
 Environment with courses designed to support processes and the research degree – for
 example literature review processes, presentation and performance skills, ICT skills. Different
 workshop sessions are offered in a block teaching mode. A four-day induction programme is
 provided, which facilitates networking. Students can also access relevant modules on Masters
 programmes. The Graduate Research School provide several courses tailored to the students’
 year of study. For example, McDonald organises a Getting Published workshop for mid-stage
 students and another course prepares students for their viva. A training repository is provided
 via the institutional learning environment. Our subject specialist librarian offers a research
 buddy programme to support research students with literature searches and additional training
 courses e.g. How to get published with IEEE led by Ed Wong.

 We have an ethnically diverse group of PhD students and our promotional material has a gender
 positive focus. We have supported our female doctoral students to attend events such as the
 Hopper Colloquium which features women speakers presenting their research. Two students
 Baloochzadeh (2014) and Willis (2015) were finalists for the Colloquium’s spotlight on research
 competition.

 The University’s performance in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) placed
 it 2/63 institutions in 2018 and 11/103 in 2019.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 In alignment with the university focus on applied research, grounded in three decades of
 computing research that has engaged extensively with the private, public and third sector,
 research income for this unit is primarily from funders of collaborative research projects.

 These include 11 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships funded by Innovate UK (PIs: Hall – 5; Irons;
 McDonald; Peng – 2; Irving; and Edwards), with further KTP work subcontracted from Durham
 University (Jaf). KTPs support research in several ways, including funding from the KTP with
 Quantum Law for the Associate’s PhD. Company contributions complement the Innovate UK
 funding (e.g., Cellular Solutions, Momenta).

 A good proportion of research funding comes from highly competitive sources. Timmis has
 three current EPSRC projects. CREATIVE FUSE Phase 1 was funded by the Arts and
 Humanities Research Council, the European Regional Development Fund, and Arts Council
 England’s Local Growth Fund. Phase 2 (to 2022/23) is funded by the Arts and Humanities

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Council and the European Regional Development Fund. CREATIVE FUSE funded 12
 collaborative projects at Sunderland, with 5 in this unit of assessment. These included a £25000
 project with Wordnerds (Bowerman), one with Shoes2Run (Peng, £5000), one with Southpaw
 Dance (Hall, £5000), and one involving ECR Jiang (AdaBee, £5000, a robot for teaching
 coding). As with KTPs, these small projects have provided researcher development
 opportunities for ECRs such as Jiang. Hall was also a consortium partner in an EU funded
 research project (EMOTE).

 Other funders include Public Health England (Peng), Google (Hall), Huawei (Hall), Northern
 Health Science Alliance (Bowerman)and the Higher Education Academy (Irons, NTF scheme).
 Hall’s Technological Family project was in partnership with Internet Matters and funded by
 Huawei. Her SMART project is funded by the Google Digital News Innovation scheme. In all
 cases, attracting partners and funding is due to the sustained practical impact of the unit’s
 research. Creative FUSE collaborations have enabled successful research bids, e.g., with
 Google (Bowerman, Hall, MacFarlane) and a KTP with Proforecast (Bowerman), a company
 founded in 2014 that moved to the Sunderland Software Centre in 2019. In addition to regional
 collaborations, international ones include Cockton’s role as an international expert in the
 Academy of Finland ETAIROS project (Ethical AI for the Governance of the Society), his third
 collaboration with a Finnish national project that draws on his past NESTA fellowship work at
 Sunderland. Timmis worked extensively with DSTL through funded grants and PhD students,
 developing robotic mounted, anomaly detection systems used to identify potential roadside
 chemical-based threats. Work with AstraZeneca (AZ), led by Timmis, formed underpinning
 technology to accelerate the development of virtual laboratory technology for Simomics Ltd,
 leading to EU funding for Simomics and AZ and a successful series A funding round to grow the
 company to at least 30 people by 2022.

 The overall strategy is to focus on funding for collaborative projects that leverage the unit’s track
 record of applied research supported by prior foundational research. The approach of the unit’s
 single Applied Research in Computing (ARC) group here is distinctive and has supported both
 submitted impact case studies, as well as further impact described in Section 1 above. The
 university’s IRP process (Section 2 above) provides the necessary investment in the
 foundational and exploratory research that underpins the unit’s collaborative projects. University
 support for research and impact comes from the Research Office (within the Enterprise and
 Innovation Directorate) supported by the Research and Innovation Group, a committee of
 Academic Board.

 In line with the University’s strategy, common use is made of a shared infrastructure for
 research, collaborative outreach, and teaching. Applied research in this unit does not require use
 of major research facilities in the UK or overseas. These are supported by faculty-based facilities
 and technical staff, university support for impact activities and partnership-based grant writing, IT
 infrastructure and support, and the university library (for journal subscriptions, inter library loans
 and book purchases). ARC researchers have access to Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality
 facilities in the university’s Industry Centre. In addition, a total investment of around £200,000
 has been made in local resources within the Faculty of Technology. This includes: investment in
 infrastructure changes since 2014 (total value around £40,000); a·Dell R920 multicore server
 plus SMART GPU processing server used for data science (£26,000 - Peng, Jaf, McGarry); an
 Eye tracking lab with related user testing hardware (move to new room £10,000 - McDonald,
 Cockton); a Games Lab (£50,000 - PS4’s, VR devices, specialised PCs - Jiang); a networking
 lab with specialised PCs and CISCO equipment (£50,000); a Forensics/Cyber Security lab
 (£20,000 - Irons); specialist setups for individual research projects (e.g., Meta2 AR headset;
 Raspberry PIs for Gandy’s PhD on posture support for disabled riders, plus further PCs, CISCO
 networking kit for other projects). McGarry’s and McDonald’s impact case studies were
 supported by specific specialist facilities for their research within the Faculty. Tingting Zhao’s
 PhD with McDonald made extensive use of an existing usability laboratory. The underpinning
 research for McGarry’s ICS was supported by a university Digital Beacon grant for hardware
 (laptop) and travel (Value £3,000).


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The predominance of collaborative applied research projects brings many benefits in kind,
 including access to collaborators’ expertise, networks, data, sites, and facilities, and is one of the
 primary origins of the unit’s visiting professors. Gandy’s research is in partnership with the
 Riding for the Disabled Association. McGarry’s impact case study benefitted from access to
 healthcare data and application contexts.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 We have research collaborations within the UK, Europe, Africa, Asia and the Middle East. Hall’s
 EU funded projects complement her collaborations with north eastern universities. For example,
 EMOTE (2012-16) partners spanned the UK, Germany, Portugal, and Sweden. Jaf collaborates
 with researchers in Durham, Czech Republic, Dubai, Iraq, Pakistan, and China. Bowerman
 collaborates with researchers in Abu Dhabi and India. Irons has twice been a visiting scholar at
 the University of Cape Town. Peng set up a Joint Lab for Research and Innovation in Data
 Science (JLRI-DS) with Sichuan University China, with funding from the China Scholarship
 Council and British Council. Cockton continued collaborations from the 2009-2013 COST
 TwinTide action in work on agile practices with researchers in Iceland, Poland, and Sweden,
 resulting in a submitted output. Timmis has active collaborations in York, Bristol, Sheffield,
 Surrey and Napier, as well as overseas in The Free University Amsterdam and The University of
 Sydney.

 The unit continues to engage with a broad range of communities and publics. Within the North
 East region, Irons is a member of the boards of DYNAMO (from 2013) and the North East Fraud
 Forum (from 2004), Elected Chair, BCS North East Branch (from March 2016), and was a
 member of Digital Leaders North East Advisory Board (2013 – 2017) and chair of the BCS
 Cybercrime Special Interest Group (2015 – 2018). He is also a Trustee of the North East Futures
 University Technical College (from September 2018). Bowerman is a member of the regional
 steering board Satellite Catapult. Hall’s work within CREATIVE FUSE engaged with regional
 creative and digital companies in over 30 interdisciplinary innovation pilot projects alongside a
 wider and aligned innovation support programme and enabled a growing network of over 1000
 local stakeholders through over 30 ‘CAKE’ (Collaboration and Knowledge Exchange) events.
 CREATIVE FUSE has also supported industry support activities at Sunderland Software City. Its
 creative track at BCS HCI 2017 included a Digital Make-Believe Hackathon in the University’s
 FabLab. The winning team received seed funding and the event was disseminated through a
 hackumentary.

 Hall’s EMOTE project was selected as one of 5 exemplary projects showcased in the Lisbon
 ICT 2015 Pavilion by the European Commission, resulting in engagement with policy makers,
 EU Commissioners, SMEs, researchers, and the general public, with over 7500 people visiting
 our exhibit, along with significant television and press coverage. Hall led the Dissemination and
 Exploitation work package, resulting in significant coverage in the press and TV in the UK,
 Portugal, Sweden, and Germany (2015-16). There have been articles in the Huffington Post and
 local press related to twitter analysis related to Meghan Markle from the SMART project and Hall
 was interviewed on her research into sex with robots reported in a Czechoslovakian publication
 in 2019. Hall’s research into academic-industry engagement was highlighted by the Times
 Higher (Academics shun engagement with industry, January 12th 2016) followed by an interview
 on the challenges of engaging academics in external engagement (Big drop in academics
 commercialising their research, February 25th 2016).

 An important partnership for the unit is the Institute of Coding (IOC), a UK national programme
 which brings together members from industry, HEIs (England and Wales only) and outreach
 partners to bridge the digital skills gap. As well as the design of new courses such as the MSc
 Apprenticeship in Digital and Technology Solutions, the IOC has enabled the development and
 delivery of CPD and taster short courses (Coding, Cyber Skills and Data Science) for staff,
 students and industry with events aimed at bridging the skills gap between students / graduates
 and industry such as Digital Bootcamps. Peng delivered a data analytics workshop with over 30
 SMEs and contributed to the development of a series of short courses in data analytics. Jaf
 developed a short course (June 2019) as an introduction to Machine Learning. The institute has
 also supported the academics McGarry and McDonald in identifying partners for a UKRI bid.

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Bowerman, Irons and Clawson have been involved in Great North Care Record (GNCR)
 discussions around developing a regional trusted research environment for hosting clinical data
 and facilitating patient-facing service enhancement via collaborative applied research activity.
 GNCR is a way of sharing patient information and involves universities and health/social care
 organisations in the North East and Cumbria (spanning an overall population of 3.6m). One aim
 of GCNR is to establish a shared trusted research environment (TRE - specifically a secure, ISO
 certified and NHS approved repository) to receive health and other key data. Clawson is a
 Steering Group Member for the GNCR TRE and is presently involved in scoping a project with
 Sunderland City Hospital.

 Timmis has provided consultancy on mathematical modelling of immune reactions for a major
 multinational personal care company. Cockton’s courses have engaged with researchers,
 students and professionals in Reykjavik, Eindhoven, Helsinki, Gothenburg, Jyväskylä, California,
 Colorado, Montreal, and Glasgow, and through invited keynote addresses (below). He has
 developed relationships with key research users and professional beneficiaries through social
 media, conference courses, PhD summer schools and postgraduate teaching (1-3 per year
 2014-2019). His research has integrated creative and strategic practices from design and
 business into software development and has been influential across a range of business and
 public organisations (e.g., design agencies, consultants, in-house teams), who have applied his
 approaches to structuring, tracking, and planning design work.

 Irons is Chair of the British Computer Society (BCS) Academy Board and Vice President of BCS
 (from 2020, Member of BCS Academy Board 2014 – 2017). Peng is Chair of IEEE Big Data
 Taskforce for Computational Intelligence Society, a founding member of the Technical
 Committee on Big Data of IEEE Communications Society and IEEE Special Interest Group (SIG)
 on Big Data for Healthcare and Medicine, and an advisory board member for the IEEE SIG on
 Big Data for Cyber Security and Privacy. Timmis is a Board Member (from 2018) of the National
 Centre for the Replacement, Refinement and Reduction of Animals in Research (NC3Rs Part of
 Medical Research Council), and NC3R’s Crack-IT Chair (from 2019).

 Timmis had a Royal Society-Wolfson Research Merit Award (2011-2016) and a Royal Academy
 of Engineering Enterprise Fellowship (2015 – 2016). He is Distinguished Visiting Professor at
 Fudan University, Shanghai, China and Visiting Professor at the University of York, UK. He has
 undertaken extensive public engagement including talks at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival in
 2013, Edinburgh Science Festival in 2015, The Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition
 (schools talks) in 2014 and 2015 and The Royal Society Lates Event in 2015. In 2015, Timmis
 was technical chair of the European Conference on Artificial Life. Timmis reviews for a number
 of IEEE Transactions journals, Nature and Frontiers family of journals.

 Hall chaired the 31st British Human Computer Interaction Conference in July 2017 (hosted at
 Sunderland). She is Secretary of the BCS interactions SIG and was CHI 2019 Sponsorship
 Chair.

 Cockton is an ACM Distinguished Speaker, and a recipient of the 2020 ACM SIGCHI Lifetime
 Service Award. He is on the Editorial Boards of the Quality and User Experience journal and two
 Springer International Series (HCI, Design Research Foundations). He was Co-Editor-in-Chief of
 ACM Interactions magazine (2016-2020), and a BCS Advisory Board representative for selection
 of a new Editor-in-Chief for the BCS Interacting with Computers journal (of which he is an Editor
 Emeritus). He is a founding member of the Editorial Board of the Journal of Usability Studies. He
 has presented invited keynotes to ACM EICS 2017 (Portugal), WUD 2018 (Armenia) and WUD
 2019 (Estonia).

 Hall was an invited keynote speaker at BCS-HCI 2018 and at the RIDERS Storytelling
 Workshop at the University of Sheffield in 2016. She has reviewed evaluated proposals for
 EPSRC, HEA, Cyprus Research Agency and EU Horizon 2020, and has been an expert
 reviewer for EU FP7 projects. Hall is on the editorial board for Transactions on Edutainment

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Springer) and the International Journal of Technology Enhanced Learning. Hall has also
 reviewed for journals such as IEEE Transactions on Human-Machine Systems, Intelligent
 Systems; Applied Artificial Intelligence, Interacting with Computers, Interaction Studies, ACM
 ToCHI, Virtual Reality, Cognition, Technology and Work, AI & Society, Porn Studies, IEEE
 Transactions on Affective Computing, and for conferences including CHI, INTERACT, ACHI,
 British HCI, India HCI, Intelligent Virtual Agents.

 McDonald has reviewed for CHI; BCS-HCI2017; Interacting with Computers; ACM ToCHI;
 Behaviour and Information Technology; and Journal of Software and Technology. She was
 invited to be panel member for Innovate UK Health competition in 2015. Jaf has reviewed for a
 broad range of AI conferences and journals. Peng is an Associate Editor for IEEE Transactions
 on Big Data, IEEE Access (special section Data-enabled Intelligence 2019. Human-Centered
 Smart Systems and Technologies 2018) and co-guest editor of Journal of Applied Science
 (MDPI) on “Recent Developments in Smart Healthcare” (2019) and Journal of Applied Systems
 Innovation on “Healthcare System Innovation” (2018).

 McGarry has reviewed proposals for BBSRC Tools & Resources fund, EPSRC, MRC grants,
 NIHR grants, Diabetes UK, and the Israeli Ministry of Science and Technology. Timmis is a
 panel member for The Royal Society Partnership Grants and fellowships (from 2014) and for
 Royal Academy of Engineering Enterprise Fellowships (2018). Timmis and Cockton are
 EPSRC peer review college members. Timmis reviews for the EPSRC, BBSRC, MRC, NC3Rs,
 NSF and EU and is on the editorial board for journal Theoretical Computer Science and reviews
 papers for Nature, Science, various IEEE Transactions journals, amongst others. Cockton has
 reviewed proposals for ERC, EPSRC and Belgian (FWO) and French (ANR) research bodies.
 He has been a referee for ACM Awards (CHI Academy, ACM-W Rising Star), served on the
 programme board/committee of ACM PACM EICS and RoCHI (Romania), and reviewed for a
 broad range of HCI, Design and Computing journals and conferences.

 McDonald, Timmis and Cockton have also served as external examiners for PhDs. McDonald
 has been an examiner for Aalto University and for two UK universities (Teesside, Kingston).
 Timmis has examined several PhDs during the review period, including Durham, Kent,
 Aberystwyth (x2), Cambridge, Sheffield (x2), Queens, Loughborough, Herriot-Watt in the UK,
 and in New Zealand (Auckland) and Australia (Sydney). Cockton has twice been a public
 opponent in Finland during the current REF period (Jyväskylä, Tampere) and an external
 examiner in Belgium (Hasselt), France (Grenoble, thesis in French), the Netherlands (TU
 Eindhoven) and Sweden (Stockholm), as well as for five UK universities (UCL, City, Teesside,
 UWL, Heriot-Watt). Hall was the external for the validation of the Professional Doctorate
 programmes at UCLan (2018), and on the committee for the British Computer Society Human-
 Computer Interaction 2020 Doctoral Consortium (held online July 2020). McDonald delivered
 two doctoral training workshops for the ESRC NPIF Accelerating Business Collaboration.
 Cockton has been an invited lecturer and tutor at PhD summer schools in Helsinki (Aalto Arts,
 2015) and Jyväskylä (2018), and for Professional Doctorate students at TU Eindhoven (2016,
 2017).




                                                                                            Page 13
