Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Edinburgh Napier University

 Unit of Assessment:
 Unit of Assessment 34 – Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information
 Management

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit Context and Structure
 This Unit is made up of 19 staff from five research centres across three schools. One individual
 (Atton) works across two centres. All hold open-ended contracts.

  School                Research centre (no. of         Staff          Position
                        staff)
  School of Arts and    Centre for Media and Culture    Atton          Professor
  Creative Industries   (9)                             Blake          Associate Professor
  (SACI)                                                               (AP)*
                                                        Duff           Professor
                                                        MacLean        AP*
                                                        MacLeod        AP*
                                                        Milne          AP* (p/t)
                                                        O’Neill        AP**
                                                        Scott          AP*
                                                        Sellors        Lecturer
                        Applied Music Research          Atton          Professor
                        Centre (3)                      Harkins        Lecturer
                                                        Medbøe         AP*
                        Scottish Centre for the Book    McCleery       Professor
                        (1)
  School of             Centre for Social Informatics   Brazier        Lecturer**
  Computing             (CSI) (5)                       Hall           Professor (p/t)
  (SoC)                                                 Haynes         Lecturer**
                                                        Muir           AP**
                                                        Webster        Lecturer**
  Business School     Modern Languages and              Victoria       Lecturer
  (TBS)               Intercultural Communication       Zhou           Lecturer
                      Research Group (2)
  *Promoted in assessment period
  **Appointed in assessment period

 Staff from all three Schools interact frequently through research seminars and conferences, and
 with colleagues in other disciplines in their Schools. In some cases, Unit members collaborate
 across Schools on specific outcomes; e.g. Duff and Hall on joint research degree supervisions,
 co-authored papers, an external consultancy project and hosting the Association for Information
 Science and Technology’s (ASIST) 2016 Annual Lecture, MacLeod and Muir on improving
 equality and diversity (E&D) as departmental Athena SWAN champions, and Atton and Hall on
 the development of the University’s Research Degree Framework.

 Research across the Unit is diverse:

    •   The Centre for Media and Culture includes: alternative and community media (Atton,
        MacLeod); dream cultures (Milne); government intelligence (O’Neill); information society
        studies, ethics and policy (Duff); minority representation (MacLeod); philosophy of film
        (Sellors); and Scottish documentary and television (Blake, MacLean, Scott).

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Applied Music Research Centre colleagues conduct research on: sampling and
        instrumental history in popular music (Harkins); genres such as Nordic jazz (Medbøe);
        and free improvisation and progressive rock (Atton).
    •   Research in The Scottish Centre for the Book is devoted to Scottish and international
        publishing (McCleery).
    •   Researchers in CSI provide critical perspectives on sociotechnical interactions across
        subject areas that include: knowledge management (Hall); information behaviours and
        use (Brazier, Hall, Muir, Webster); information governance, and knowledge
        organisation (Haynes).
    •   Colleagues in the Modern Languages and Intercultural Communication Research Group
        focus on English as an international communication medium in education and
        employment (Victoria, Zhou).

 Methodologically the Unit embraces a diversity of approaches, from basic, conceptual research,
 through empirical studies including local and international fieldwork, to practice-led projects
 geared to local or global public engagement (PE).

 UoA 34 represents a multidisciplinary collective with built-in tendencies to favour interdisciplinary
 research, as evident in the research undertaken (e.g. library and information science research
 with employment research). This is also reflected in PhD supervision teams. In some cases,
 Directors of Study from within the Unit are joined by second supervisors from other Schools.
 This inherent interdisciplinary is also obvious in events attended and hosted by Unit members,
 e.g. staff participation at a conference on interdisciplinary social sciences in Japan in July 2018,
 and SACI’s hosting of the University’s Interdisciplinary Theory Group since 2016.

 1.2 Research and Impact Strategy

 1.2.1 Research objectives 2014-2020
 We stated in 2014 that our strategy was ‘to increase the volume, quality and impact of [our]
 research through strategic internal investment in research project development by staff and by
 funding new research studentships… [To] pursue applied research opportunities with industry
 partners and continued development of knowledge exchange, innovation and public
 engagement activities’.

 The anticipated internal investment in project development and University-funded PhDs helped
 meet these objectives. For example, in terms of research volume we have increased our rate of
 external grant applications. Furthermore, increased investment in staffing has contributed
 significantly to the growth of the strength of our research. Five full-time research-active staff
 have joined since 2014 (noted above). In addition, major internal staff development has added to
 our cohort of leaders, with five staff promoted to undertake leadership roles alongside the four
 professors (noted above). This investment in staffing also accounts in part for the doubling in the
 number of those submitted in the Unit in 2021, as compared with UoA36 in 2014.

 The strategic approach of devoting internal funding to strengthen the vitality and sustainability of
 the Unit is evident in many of our activities and outputs. For example, we have enjoyed
 sustained success at winning funding in a University-wide system of internal research grants
 (Muir, Webster). In some cases, the completion of small-scale projects and delivery of
 research-related events seed-funded through this scheme has led to the submission of
 successful external funding bids (e.g. Webster Carnegie funding, 2018). Even when
 unsuccessful, work on internal and external bids embeds research culture, especially when they
 involve internal and/or external collaborations.

 The increase in the volume of research outputs has also been supported by internal investment.
 For example, staff were relieved of some teaching and marking duties in 2018/2019 to
 concentrate on publications. Our systems of internal peer review for grants and research
 outputs, through mentoring and ‘dry-run’ events for papers to be presented at external events,
 contribute to the supportive environment in which our research can flourish. They also increase

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the quality of our research outputs, as feedback from peers can be incorporated into final
 versions of our work.

 Under another internal scheme, we have accessed funding to develop our PE activities. Victoria
 won funding to run a series of intercultural training workshops for tourism-oriented shops in
 2017/18, and to enhance intercultural understanding and inclusion using visual methods in 2019.
 Brazier was granted funding to support outreach activities with Edinburgh City Libraries in 2020.
 Members of the Unit also draw on funds offered at School level for PE. For example, Duff was
 supported in 2017/18 to engage the public on the streets of Edinburgh in debate about privacy.
 We also lend support to national PE events and campaigns (e.g. Harkins – AHRC Being Human
 Festival, Milne – Lithuanian days in Scotland, Muir - Soapbox Science).

 The Unit’s REF 2014 statement referenced ‘the high level of staff engagement with creative
 industries, SMEs and public bodies’ as a way of ‘help[ing] ensure the relevance of research
 project development’. Our 2014 objective to pursue applied research opportunities with industry
 partners in the current period relates to this. Our keen interest in practice, a natural outcome of
 the professional backgrounds of many staff, has resulted in several successful collaborations.
 These include Blake’s collaborations with Channel 4 and STV, and O’Neill’s weekly on-air
 media review at Radio Scotland.

 Other examples to illustrate the vitality of our links with creative SMEs and public bodies include:
 MacLeod’s work with the Scottish National Library Moving Image Archive (2016) and the
 National Museum of Scotland’s Rip It Up exhibition (2018); Medbøe’s long-term partnerships
 with the Edinburgh Jazz and Blues Festival, and the National Library of Scotland; Blake’s
 consulting projects for the Grid Iron Theatre Company and BASF Pharma; and Scott’s
 leadership of Screen Academy Scotland (a ScreenSkills-approved training provider designed for
 academia-industry symbiosis).

 We have met our 2014 ambition of developing our knowledge exchange activities, both in terms
 of ‘outward’ dissemination of our work with national and international research communities, and
 bringing key research stakeholders to our own events (mainly physically up to March 2020). For
 example, staff have been supported (both internally and externally) to make presentations
 across Europe (Atton, Hall, Harkins, McCleery, MacLean, MacLeod, Medbøe, Milne, Scott,
 Sellors), North America (Duff, Hall), South America (Hall), and Japan (Duff, MacLean). Our
 research culture has also been enhanced by our organisation and hosting of events, such as
 conferences and external-speaker seminar series open to external delegates and staff. These
 include seminar series on: discourse, culture and society; practice-based research
 methodologies in media studies; research methods in intercultural communication; information
 policy; women working in film and television.

 International collaborations on journal articles and edited volumes (Atton, Duff), and funded
 fieldwork (e.g. Milne in Moscow; Duff in Silicon Valley, California) are among the many ways in
 which a global reach has been achieved. Visiting researchers add to this. During the
 assessment period we have welcomed colleagues from many countries (including Austria,
 Brazil, Canada, Finland, Greece and Sweden) as visiting speakers and researchers for stays of
 up to one month. Such activities further demonstrate our commitment to the health, well-being
 and sustainability of the subject domains that we cover at local, national, and international levels.

 In terms of innovation, we have continued to approach research in novel ways, taking advantage
 of the interdisciplinary nature of the domains to which we contribute. While much of our work
 does not naturally lend itself to innovations as artefacts, it is innovative in the development of
 theory, the adoption of new research approaches, and in the presentation of new knowledge that
 may be applied in practice.

 The University funding of new PhD studentships noted in our 2014 strategy has added to the
 number of students in the Unit, and fee waivers have supported several part-timers.
 Studentships have been resourced from centralised funds, e.g. the University’s 50th Anniversary

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 studentship scheme, and by Schools. This investment has helped the Unit increase the volume,
 quality and impact of its research. For example, one University-funded student (now graduated)
 co-authored five peer-reviewed papers with her supervisors (one won a conference ‘best paper’
 award), and made efforts to facilitate impact from her work by presenting it at practitioner and PE
 events (e.g. practitioner conferences, Skeptics at the Fringe, BrightClub). By adding these
 internally-funded PhD students to the Unit’s cohort, we have also widened opportunities for staff
 to develop as research degree supervisors. Our research capacity is further enhanced as the
 new supervision team members work alongside their more experienced colleagues.

 1.2.2 Research objectives 2021-2026
 Our research objectives for 2021-2026 fit with the broad University aim to foster a sustainable,
 interdisciplinary research environment that inspires staff and stakeholders to solve real world
 problems. Our plans also acknowledge the University’s priorities following Brexit and the
 disruption of the pandemic (REF5a). We intend to use our research and innovation activity to
 help underpin the University’s reputation, financial sustainability and growth, to collaborate more
 intensively with others outside our core disciplines, to add to our existing collaborations with
 other institutions and industry, to keep our research closely aligned to government priorities, and
 to ensure that our research contributes to society by delivering real impact.

 In terms of growing the careers of our colleagues, one strategic development is focused on
 increasing the number of staff with PhDs. We are also keen to enlarge our cohort of PhD
 students to develop the next generation of researchers across the domains that we cover. In
 addition, following the recent success of SACI centres in increasing numbers of research
 leaders, we are keen to duplicate this elsewhere, particularly within CSI. These ambitions will be
 supported by institutional investment in new appointments as outlined in REF5a. Internal staff
 development and promotions will contribute to succession planning.

 We will continue to build our local, national and international networks, especially those in
 research user communities in the private, public and third sectors, to develop mutually beneficial
 links. This will contribute to our ambition to further breach the divide between practice and
 research, leading to an even stronger understanding of practice-led research, and practice as
 research. It will also facilitate increased impact. At the same time, we will engage with our peers
 in academia, both within and beyond the UK, to support the development of our subject areas.
 We will take advantage of the investment in the University’s Innovation Hub to showcase our
 expertise and the impact that we generate, and develop links and opportunities with external
 bodies, taking into consideration the challenges that our potential research beneficiaries face.

 We will advance knowledge by building on our established reputation in key areas by accessing
 further external research funding to support the University’s ‘Culture and communities’ theme.
 This will be achieved in tandem with growing expertise in new research areas and methods (e.g.
 advanced quantitative methods for the analysis of big data in the arts, humanities and social
 sciences), and through the recent appointment of additional staff (noted above). We will build on
 our track record in winning funding from internal schemes to support the preparation of bids with
 the ambition that all staff currently in the Unit (especially recent appointees) will be supported to
 generate income in the next assessment period.

 We are also keen to seek greater external reputational recognition, e.g. for the inclusivity of our
 research culture through national awards (e.g. Athena SWAN).

 1.2.3 Impact
 The importance of impact to the Unit is evident in the third objective of our 2014 strategy
 (above). Our focus is centred strategically on societal and cultural issues.

 We achieve impact by deploying a number of strategies. These include conducting research with
 research users, including user-commissioned research, appointing research users to project
 steering committees and advisory boards, and seeking the active engagement of research users
 in design, implementation and dissemination of research. The latter is particularly important

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 when we engage in practice-as-research, to generate collaborative creative works.

 In addition, our dissemination strategies are aligned to where and how research users access
 new information. This often means that we create ‘parallel’ outputs from our research projects,
 e.g. a paper in an international peer-reviewed journal for the research community, and a
 conference presentation for a practitioner audience. The former emphasises our contributions to
 knowledge and theory development, the latter recommendations that can be implemented in
 practice. We also ensure that our outputs are made open access whenever possible, and
 provide non-academic routes to them (e.g. Twitter and blogs).

 We are particularly active in drawing attention to our research in the media, using this as a route
 to impact. In the assessment period we have, for example:
    •   appeared on television: Newsnight, Scotland Tonight (Duff)
    •   appeared, or had work featured, on UK radio stations: BBC Radio 4 (Milne); BBC Radio
        Scotland (Blake, Medbøe, O’Neill); BBC Radio Orkney (MacLeod); and non-UK radio
        stations: Radio Sputnik (Duff); NRK Norway, DR Denmark, RTP1 Portugal (Medbøe)
    •   written for, been interviewed by, or been the subject of reports in print/online news
        media: The Atlantic.com (Duff); Buzzfeed (Blake), The Conversation (Duff, Harkins,
        Victoria); Edinburgh Evening News (MacLeod); The Ferret (Duff); Oban Times
        (MacLeod); The Oracadian (MacLeod); The Scotsman (Blake, MacLeod, Medbøe);
        Scotland on Sunday (Duff)

 We also contribute to strategies to encourage funders to support research that is relevant to the
 research user community, e.g. through Hall’s membership and chairing of the EPSRC Digital
 Economy Programme Advisory Board (2014-2018).

 The success of these routes to impact is reflected in the number of potential impact case studies
 from which we selected the two for our REF submission. Staff were initially commissioned and
 resourced to work on five drafts. The others concerned alternative media in the classroom
 (Atton), promoting ethical information principles (Duff), and feminist photographer Franki Raffles
 (Scott) (case study submitted in UoA32). This number is indicative of the real-world relevance of
 research in the Unit and its growth in diversity since 2014. From five we selected two to reflect
 the Unit’s strengths in scope and quality of research.

 In the research for our two submitted impact case studies we adopted the approaches described
 above. Key to modernising the information professions was user-commissioned research which
 benefitted from a steering board that included practitioners from across the information
 professions, who were actively involved in the design and implementation of the study. The
 project was publicised throughout its duration in a wide variety of media. Following completion
 outputs were generated for both the research community and practitioners. After an embargo
 period, the full report was made open access, thus extending further its reach and potential
 impact.

 For Enhancing participatory film practices to empower marginalised groups we deploy similar
 strategies so that relevant agencies, organisations and services users buy into the projects from
 their initiation, and key stakeholders draw on the outputs in future policy making and services
 provision. As practice-as-research, there are high levels of participation and engagement in the
 creation and delivery of the main artefacts from this seam of work, as well as associated outputs
 such as training materials. We ensure that the audiences for our productions are not restricted to
 the immediate beneficiaries in the marginalised groups. This means that the potential impact of
 the participatory film-making can be felt across society, from school children to the First Minister
 of Scotland. In parallel with disseminating our work to non-academic audiences, we generate
 outputs from our participatory film for the research community in monograph and
 journal/conference paper format.

 We plan to ensure impact in the future by deploying and developing the techniques outlined

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 above. In doing so we will draw on current good practice. This includes work of MacLeod to
 support community media projects and filmmakers in the Pacific, which serves as an exemplar
 of community benefit from participation in media production.

 1.3 Implementation of the University’s Approach to Open Research and Research
 Integrity
 The Unit’s progress to an open research environment fits with that of the University. At a
 minimum we support open access to our publications and underlying data (where appropriate)
 on the University’s research management system. We do so by following the University’s Open
 Access and Research Data Management policies and attending relevant training. In addition, we
 maintain publicly accessible online presences for some of our projects (e.g. http://lisrival.com)
 and ourselves (e.g. ORCID, personal web pages).

 The principles and practices to which we adhere when executing our research are defined in the
 University’s Code of Practice on Research Integrity. With reference to this, we apply appropriate
 research design and frameworks to ensure that the findings of our empirical work are robust and
 defensible. We also adhere to the highest level of research ethics considering requirements of
 national and international regulatory bodies, including the Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity (2019). Oversight of research integrity across the University is provided through School
 Research Integrity Leads, members of School Research Integrity Committees, and ethics
 gatekeepers. In the assessment period, Duff and Webster have undertaken Research Integrity
 Director roles for SACI and SoC (and also held membership of the University Research Integrity
 Committee), and Zhou has served on the Research Integrity Committee of TBS.

 Within the Schools, a number of targeted local initiatives have been introduced to support
 research integrity. For example, SACI has provided an online one-stop shop for documents and
 links, a weekly ‘professorial surgery’ drop-in facility, research integrity roadshows with
 presentations about research ethics, and research integrity presentations for research students.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing

 Our staffing and recruitment policy is effective at attracting and retaining excellent staff.

 In our new appointments we seek to increase the quality of our research and grow the existing
 areas of excellence in which we have critical mass, following the University’s Academic
 Appointments and Promotions Framework. Since 2015, this includes the requirement that all
 new staff hold a PhD. Candidates shortlisted for advertised posts follow a recruitment process
 that includes a panel interview, and at least one presentation to a wider group of staff.

 The demographic profile of our Unit varies across the three Schools. In SACI the majority of staff
 hold promoted posts, in SoC and TBS they are lecturers. Future efforts need to be directed so
 that those currently in lecturer posts have the opportunity to move into leadership roles, following
 the example of SACI colleagues in the period.

 2.2 Staff Development

 The University’s Academic Appointments and Promotions Framework recognises four career
 pathways. Those on the Research Pathway are supported in their career ambitions through
 development activities at University, School, and research centre level.

 The main tool for linking development with opportunity is an online appraisal system
 (MyContribution). Objectives are set annually with reference to the support required to meet
 them, e.g. mentoring, training, protected time. Objectives are geared towards winning of grants,
 production of research outputs, and facilitating impact. Progress is reviewed at least twice a year
 in professional development review meetings.
                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Training opportunities offered at University level are wide and varied. They include informal
 sessions for networking (e.g. researcher coffee club), technical training (e.g. on research
 software), seminars on the dissemination of research (e.g. academic publishing, conference
 presentations, PE as a route to impact), and research degrees (e.g. supervising and examining
 research degree candidates).

 Schools offer funds for staff to attend external training and staff development events, including
 international participation. School funding is also available to support travel for fieldwork. For
 example, MacLean and MacLeod were funded for separate projects in the Scottish islands
 (2017), and Milne travelled to Moscow (2016) and Stockholm (2019) to film for her practice-
 based research. On occasion we have won places on prestigious externally-funded development
 programmes, e.g. Webster was selected for the EPSRC ECR Digital Economy Crucible in 2017.

 In some instances, we have designed and implemented tailored development activities to
 address particular training needs. For example, Harkins, MacLean, Medbøe who all joined the
 University before 2015 and without a doctorate, have been supported to undertake PhDs.
 MacLean and Medbøe completed theirs by Published Works, a particularly appropriate route to
 demonstrate significant levels of professional and creative activity at doctoral level. They
 benefited from Atton’s leadership of the development and delivery of the PhD by Published
 Works through creative practice, taking advantage of a mentorship scheme, workshops, and
 PhD supervisors trained to support this route. The success of these colleagues reflects our
 increased emphasis on practice-led research.

 In the same way that we support established staff to achieve their research ambitions, we make
 provision to integrate new researchers into our research culture. Mentorship is vital to this. For
 example, all new researchers, postdoctoral and early career (ECR), are allocated an
 experienced member of staff as a mentor to help with activities from network building (e.g.
 encouraging collaborations with other researchers) to writing research proposals. We open PhD
 supervision opportunities to ECRs by awarding them School-funded PhD studentships
 (Webster) and/or appointment as additional supervisors on PhD teams (Brazier, Harkins,
 Haynes, MacLeod).

 Although the University does not operate a formal sabbatical policy, all research centres
 endeavour to support requests by staff at any level or contract for periods of research leave
 where the member of staff presents a proposal with tangible objectives, e.g. by condensing
 teaching allocation into a single trimester.

 2.3 Knowledge Exchange

 We stimulate and facilitate exchange with business, industry and third sector organisations
 through various means. We take advantage of existing networks built by Unit members in their
 earlier careers, for example in broadcast media (Blake, McLeod, O’Neill), music publishing
 (Harkins), and consulting (Haynes). We also maintain strong links with research user
 communities through project work, e.g. healthcare practitioners (Webster).

 Similarly, we place high value on professional memberships/services so that our staff are known
 and trusted in the wider environment. For example; Haynes is a member of the board of the
 International Society for Knowledge Organization, and Medbøe has been a member of Jazz
 from Scotland, serves on the board of directors of the Edinburgh Jazz and Blues Festival, and is
 the founding chair of the Scottish Jazz Archive. Milne is president of the Traditional Cosmology
 Society. On occasion this service has led to the winning of research contracts offered by
 professional bodies (Duff, Hall).

 We also have recourse to the wide range of networks to which other research centres in our
 Schools belong (e.g. the Scottish Informatics and Computer Science Alliance (SICSA) in SoC),
 and those that the University supports (REF5a). The University’s Innovation Hub provides a

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 further route to external knowledge exchange.

 2.4 Recognition and Reward for Research

 Recognition and reward for staff who carry out research primarily takes the form of time. The
 normal university workload allocation gives one day per week (0.2FTE) to research-active staff
 for research that is not externally funded. This allocation can be increased at local level, e.g.
 Brazier benefitted from an extra 0.1FTE in his first year as a lecturer to help establish his
 research career. Additional allocations are given for research leadership roles, including
 directors of research centres, UoA leaders, and those developing impact case studies. Similarly,
 where external research-related work brings esteem and influence to the Unit (e.g. UKRI activity,
 journal editorships), staff are awarded additional protected time.

 Staff are also recognised and rewarded for carrying out research and achieving impact through
 two University schemes; the Principal’s Research Excellence Awards, and Above and Beyond.
 The latter identifies high-performing staff across activities including partnerships, enterprise, and
 research and innovation. Members of the Unit have enjoyed success on both schemes. For
 example, in 2016 CSI was the most successful research group in the University with three
 Excellence Award wins. McLeod was nominated for a leadership Above and Beyond award in
 2019/20.

 2.3 Research Students

 2.3.1 Recruitment of research students
 In the current climate, with a scarcity of self-funded students in the UoA34 disciplines and
 difficulties in securing external funding, recruitment of research students is a challenge. We
 address this by deploying a range of strategies.
 There are three main entry points for our PhD students; application for an ESRC-funded
 studentship on a defined project won by staff through our membership of the Doctoral Training
 Partnership (DTP) of the Scottish Graduate School of Social Science (SGSSS), response to an
 advertisement for a fully-funded or part-funded (e.g. part-time fee waiver) School studentship,
 and submission of a project proposal as a self-funded/employer-sponsored student.
 In all cases, applicants engage in the formal recruitment process. This includes; completion of
 an application form, interview, supportive references, and, in the case of non-native English
 speakers, an IELTS score of at least 6.5. This process plays heed to good practice in respect of
 E&D, following the University’s guidelines on recruitment, e.g. gender balance on interview
 panels.

 In the current REF period we have won six studentships funded by a major funding body, with a
 further two secured for 2021/22. These are all supervisor-led ESRC Skills Development
 Scotland (SDS) collaborative awards accessed through CSI’s membership of the DTP of the
 SGSSS.

 2.3.2 Monitoring and support of research students
 During the census period the Unit has seen 14 PhD completions (plus 3 PhDs by Published
 Works). The completions comprise 8 supervised within CSI and 6 within SACI. Since the census
 date, a further CSI student has graduated (November 2020). Across the Unit there are currently
 19 PhD candidates: 10 in SACI; 6 in CSI (with 2 further ESRC/SDS students undertaking the +1
 Masters year at Edinburgh University); and 3 in the Modern Languages and Intercultural
 Communication Research Group.

 As per the REF5a, we monitor and support PhD students to completion through structured
 supervision arrangements with a minimum of two supervisors (meeting weekly in the first year,
 thereafter fortnightly), and via six-monthly review meetings with an Independent Panel Chair
 (who is also available to provide independent advice at any point). Our ESRC-SDS students also
 have a named contact at SDS to provide advice and support in relation to the PhD topic,

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 facilitate access to the policy community, and introduce opportunities for dissemination of
 research. The contact is invited to attend the six-monthly progress meetings. The quality of our
 supervision has been recognised nationally and internationally in two awards. Hall won the
 SICSA PhD Supervisor of the Year Silver Award 2017, and ASIST Clarivate Outstanding
 Information Science Teacher Award 2019.

 Our research students undertake training so that they graduate with a knowledge of principles of
 research design and strategy, qualitative, quantitative, mixed and multi-methods for data
 collection and analysis (including use of software), research data management, dissemination of
 research findings, and research ethics. In addition, it is important that they develop transferable
 skills, e.g. in communication, networking, leadership and management, so that they are fully
 prepared to take responsibility for the future trajectory of their careers following graduation.

 An individual student’s training programme is determined following a training needs analysis
 conducted with reference to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. This is initially
 conducted when the student joins the University, and subsequently reviewed at six-monthly
 intervals as part of the formal series of review meetings. Between meetings, any additional
 training needs that become evident, and the means of addressing them, are discussed and
 fulfilled at supervision meetings.

 The extensive range of training and development opportunities, both internal and external, are
 provided by a number of suppliers. Napier offers training at University, School and research
 centre level. It is mandatory that students participate in certain activities and events, e.g.
 undertaking training in research ethics, contributing to School and University-wide research
 conferences, and completing internal training that is of direct relevance to their studies. The
 students also access other internal training resources. For example, Sellors has organised a
 series of PhD workshops in SACI on topics such as conferences, research integrity practice
 research, and PE, with contributions from several members of the Unit (Duff, MacLeod, Milne,
 Scott). Muir organised a two-day ESRC-funded advanced training event with international
 speakers for PhD students in Information Science in 2016.

 Beyond the University, students take advantage of numerous training and development
 opportunities including those offered by the SGSSS, the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and
 Humanities (SGSAH) and other providers, e.g. National Centre for Research Methods. They are
 also funded to participate at conferences and doctoral fora (in the UK and beyond) to present
 their research in progress and build their own networks. In addition, we encourage our students
 to engage in the delivery of training themselves. For example, CSI research students have
 played an active role in the planning and hosting of iDocQ, the UK’s longest running annual
 Information Science Doctoral Colloquium, and contributed to training events hosted/funded by
 the SGSSS, e.g. the annual summer school.

 The physical and social environments within our research centres contribute much to the support
 of our research students, and are indicative of our commitment to developing a culture in which
 they are fully integrated. Each student has a desk in a large, multiple-occupancy office. In
 addition, those in CSI have access to ‘Core 44’, a collaborative workspace for research students
 in SoC, regularly used for training events. Research students are treated and valued as full
 members of their respective research centres. They are invited to all research group events,
 from regular weekly research group update meetings and research seminars, to fewer formal
 get-togethers (e.g. the informal online coffee breaks held 11:00-11:30 each weekday by CSI
 during the pandemic).

 2.3.3 Preparing Research Students for Future Careers

 These means of integrating of our research students forms part of our strategy to furnish them
 with necessary skills for their future careers. We emphasise that completing a PhD is more than
 writing a thesis. We offer students opportunities to work closely with their supervisors to develop
 their own publications through single-authored and collaborative work, to undertake teaching,

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and to contribute to on-going research projects. We also support them to engage in paid and
 unpaid external professional activities when it fits with their studies (e.g. copy editing, stewarding
 at conferences, external research assistant work), and to participate in the SGSSS paid
 internship programme. The value of this is evident in jobs that our PhD graduates secure. For
 example, the last five CSI PhD graduates in the census period found immediate postdoctoral
 employment at Dundee, Liverpool and Sheffield Universities, and within the NHS and Scottish
 Government.

 2.4 Equality and Diversity

 Our Unit is committed to E&D in the recruitment and support of staff and research students. In
 the first instance, we maintain this by following practices adopted at University level for
 arrangements such as maternity and paternity leave, flexible working, return to work after
 extended leave (e.g. following illness), and remote working. We also engage in training to
 support good E&D practice, e.g. unconscious bias. In addition, we participate in committees and
 the University networks established by the University to support colleagues with protected
 characteristics (e.g. Hall on the University E&D/Inclusion Committee, and as an LGBTQ+ ally).

 Our ‘local’ initiatives to support E&D across the Unit pay heed to the University’s Inclusion
 Statement. This commits us to promote equality of opportunity in all that we do. Thus, within our
 research centres we strive to promote equal access to opportunities for individuals to support
 their research and further their careers. This applies, for example, to access to funding for
 training and conference participation, internal research funding, and research leadership roles
 for all, regardless of contract type. In terms of promotion, individual circumstances such as
 periods of leave for medical treatment, part-time working, and caring responsibilities are taken
 into consideration when assessing an application (e.g. quantity of publications).

 Our three Schools seek to embed E&D in their work. Local initiatives support this. Staff returning
 from a period of leave are provided an opportunity to attend a conference to facilitate their re-
 entry in academic life (SACI). SoC covers the cost of child care to allow staff and research
 students to attend residential events, and ensures that on-campus meetings are held between
 the hours of 10.00 to 4.00 so that those with caring responsibilities participate fully. We also
 support particular initiatives such as the Aurora leadership development programme and have
 devised similar internal programmes, e.g. female mentoring in Creative Advertising (SACI). We
 seek to make visible our commitment to, and progress in, establishing an inclusive environment.
 For example, SoC has an “Inclusion Station” in Core 44. Here we celebrate our achievements,
 promote events, and share ideas related to E&D. In this assessment period, our E&D efforts
 have won external recognition. One of our UoA34 Schools secured an Athena SWAN bronze
 award in 2017. This work was led by Muir.

 The support of the well-being of our staff and research students fits with efforts to develop an
 inclusive environment in which research can flourish. While we have enjoyed good University
 provision of health-related resources throughout the assessment period (covering occupational
 health, mental health, access to sport and fitness facilities, as well as financial well-being), these
 gained much greater importance when lockdown restrictions came into force in March 2020.
 Since then, we have been able to take advantage of enhanced University services (particularly
 for mental health), as well as University initiatives to make home working as comfortable as
 possible, e.g. a scheme to refund costs of additional furniture to set up a home office. Within the
 Unit we have made other special arrangements, particularly to address the issue of isolation.
 These have included the setting up of slots for informal video conference chats, some outdoor
 meetings between staff, and ‘supervision’ of PhD students on walks (CSI).

 We have paid due to regard to E&D in the construction of the REF submission for this Unit. This
 has been achieved with reference to the University’s REF 2021 Code of practice. The
 membership of the Unit comprises all in UoA34 subject areas who have ‘significant responsibility
 for research’ as determined by the criteria on p. 9 of our Code. Similarly, we applied the criteria
 for ‘research independence’ noted on p. 23 when considering possible eligibility of research

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fellows for inclusion in our submission. In terms of the selection of our outputs, this was made on
 merit following a rounded academic judgement of each potential output against the criteria of
 originality, significance and rigour. Final selections were informed by an anonymised computer
 algorithm. This adhered to processes explained in Section 4 of our Code. All staff involved in
 REF-related research management have engaged in E&D training.

 We are confident that our processes around REF have been executed in a fair, transparent, and
 consistent manner. The resulting submission profile demonstrates:
    •   11 men and 8 women
    •   A majority (14) clustered around the 45-65 age range
    •   A spread of grade profiles: 8 at grade 6; 7 at grade 7; 4 at grades 8-10
    •   74% identifying as white, with 5% identifying as Asian, 5% mixed race, 5% ‘other’, and
        11% unknown

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 The total income figure for the Unit in the assessment period is £479,951 as summarised below
 (including £9,735 in tax credits).

  PhD studentships
  Funder       PI                   Income in REF     Project(s)
                                    period
                                    (of full grant)
  ESRC/SDS        Hall                       £119,015 The role of networking and social
                                                      media tools during job search: an
                                                      information behaviour perspective

                                                      Exploring the development of
                                                      innovative work behaviour of
                                                      employees in multiple workplace
                                                      contexts
                  Muir                        £17,651 Metaskills maturity for future
                                            (£52,950) workplaces

  AHRC            McCleery                      £108 AHRC Doctoral Award

  Community media, participatory film-making, and performance
  Funder        PI             Income in REF     Project
                               period
                               (of full grant)
  Royal         Blake                     £2,031 Our future Scotland
  Society of
  Edinburgh
  (RSE)
  Scottish      Blake                     £4,029
  Funding
  Council
  (SFC)
  University of Harkins                     £828 Uncovering the Secrets of the
  London                                         Fairlight: The Device that
                                                 Revolutionised Pop in the 1980s
  Carnegie      MacLean                   £5,916 A disappearing Hebridean story
  Trust



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  AHRC GCRF       MacLeod                    £26,364 Pacific community filmmaking
                                           (£93,888) consortium for gender and public
                                                     engagement
  Creative        Medbøe                      £6,999 Edinburgh Jazz & Blues Festival
  Scotland                                 (£29,000) research project
  Carnegie        MacPherson*                 £2,063 Tree fellers revisited - the
  Trust                                              interrogation of a documentary by its
                                                     audience
  SFC             MacPherson*                £20,000 Stellar Quines theatre company
                                                     business model
  AHRC            Scott                      £17,441 Film Bang 1976-2020: resilience and
                                           (£35,266) sustainability for freelance careers in
                                                     the screen industries
  Information policy
  Funder        PI                 Income in REF   Project
                                   period
  AHRC           Duff                     £175,465 Informing the good society
  Carnegie       Duff                       £1,849 Information revolutionaries
  Trust
  Library and information science research
  Funder         PI             Income in REF      Project
                                period
                                (of full grant)
  CILIP          Hall                       £9,297 Information literacy for democratic
                                                   engagement
  RSE            Hall                       £9,202 Research Impact, Value and Library
                                         (£20,000) and Information Science (RIVAL)
  Carnegie       Webster                    £8,511 Social media by proxy
  Trust
  EPSRC          Webster                    £3,287 dot.rural Portrait KE
  Cultural heritage
  Funder         PI             Income in REF      Project
                                period
  AHRC           McCleery                  £38,148 World War I at home
  RSE            McCleery                   £2,012 European Visiting Fellowship

 *Left Napier 2015

 Our most significant funder is UKRI, with the largest single grant awarded by the AHRC. Also of
 note are our supervisor-led collaborative PhD studentships. We are currently one of the top four
 Scottish universities to host students on this scheme (8 studentship won in total 2014-2020),
 with the best performance of all Scottish universities since 2018. The six on-going studentships
 will continue to provide income to the Unit until 2024.

 When writing bids for funding, we present strategies for generating high quality research outputs
 and impact. It is possible to trace a route back from these to the plans. For example, the 2019
 Journal of Documentation paper included in our REF2021 submission is an output from an
 AHRC-funded project from 2011/12 included in REF2014, and Duff’s 2017 paper in Journalism
 Studies an output from our largest AHRC grant in the current period. It is also noteworthy that
 we are successful in generating high quality outputs and impact on much smaller amounts of
 external investment, e.g. Blake’s funding of £6,058 for Our future Scotland underpins one of our
 impact case studies.

 Our strategy for generating future research income includes continuing to target funding sources
 with which we have previously enjoyed success, with an emphasis on New Investigator awards
 for ECRs. We also plan to increase our proportion of collaborative funding with other HEIs and

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 public bodies in the media industries. We will achieve this through taking advantage of the
 University’s schemes to seed-fund pilot studies, mentoring less-experienced colleagues in bid
 writing, putting all bids through our internal peer review process prior to submission, and
 capitalising on improved administrative support of research at University level.

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

 Infrastructure and facilities that support research in the Unit take two forms, staffing and
 equipment. Some members of the unit take advantage of investment in specialist technology
 and spaces required for their research (over and above standard University information services
 and estates).

 In 2016 dedicated Research and Innovation Officers were embedded within Schools to provide
 focused support, e.g. research centre budget management and submission of grant applications.
 These Officers furnish a link between the institutional Research, Innovation and Enterprise office
 and the research centres, e.g. to relay institutional-level intelligence and requirements.

 There has been new investment in facilities in SACI and SoC during the assessment period. In
 SACI £1 million has been provided to support areas of media practice (e.g. broadcasting) and
 practice-based research projects. For example, Blake has conducted research into the ‘second
 screen’ (i.e. consumers using phones and other devices simultaneously with television viewing),
 using new studio facilities as a testbed. Similar investment in upgrading studio and post-
 production facilities in music has also enabled the integration of sound facilities and music
 technology with film and television production work e.g. films by Milne.

 The most important addition to the suite of SoC facilities is the technology housed in the new
 Sensorium lab, launched in 2017 (£30,000). This measures reactions and behaviour of people
 as they interact in real-time with systems and services, and has been deployed in projects on
 information behaviour and use (e.g. Muir). As well as for research purposes, we use these
 facilities to create artefacts to share with wider audiences, e.g. in PE, and in efforts to generate
 impact from our research.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 We have several arrangements in place for external academic research collaborations. These
 include; joint bids with other universities (e.g. Hall and Brazier – Glasgow, MacLean -
 Edinburgh College of Art (ECA), and MacLeod - St Andrews), and projects with other
 universities (e.g. Blake – ECA and Glasgow on Our future Scotland, Scott – Glasgow School of
 Art and St Andrews on Franki Raffles). We have also undertaken joint PhD supervisions (e.g.
 Hall - Åbo Akademi, Finland, and Haynes - Dundee).

 Amongst the indicators of the success of our external academic research collaborations are;
 collaborative research bids awarded, joint publication ventures, visits to collaborators funded by
 the host institution (e.g. Hall to University of São Paulo Brazil in 2017), visits from collaborators
 funded by their home institution (e.g. CSI’s Visiting Professor from McMaster University to
 Edinburgh), and opportunities offered by collaborators to our PhD students (e.g. Åbo Akademi
 facilitated data collection in Turku for an ESRC/SDS-funded student in 2017).

 As outlined in 1.2.3, we work with a diverse range of research users and beneficiaries to develop
 impact. Just as our research has an impact on communities beyond academia, these audiences
 also enrich our research environment. For example, participants in the RIVAL project (Hall)
 decided part-way through its delivery that they collectively wished to generate four tangible
 outputs over the course of the funding period. These included a journal article and research
 council grant proposal.

 Although it is difficult to gauge the economic contribution of our research, we can highlight where
 it adds value to the economy and contributes to society (over and above that documented in our
                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact case studies). For example, MacLeod’s community media projects have regenerated
 areas of multiple deprivation in Glasgow by helping people with mental health and age-related
 medical conditions to participate in their communities, and celebrate creatively the heritage and
 cultural life of their area.

 We respond to national and international priorities and initiatives through our service on the
 boards of bodies involved in policy making (e.g. Muir – Scottish Parliament Cross-party Group
 on Digital Participation, Webster – Scottish Care), engagement in major initiatives targeted at
 addressing international issues (e.g. UKRI – MacLeod on research with indigenous
 communities), and by giving evidence to bodies such as Ofcom (O’Neill on media in the UK
 nations), the Scottish Government (Blake and MacLeod on cultural strategy and indicators of
 culture, and Duff on privacy and freedom of information).

 We can offer many examples to indicate our wider influence, contributions to, and recognition
 by, the research base. All these contribute to the sustainability of our disciplines. For example,
 during the census period, some members of the Unit have performed editorial roles. Atton co-
 founded and jointly edited of the Journal of Alternative and Community Media, and four staff
 edited journal special issues (Duff - Journal of Information Ethics, Harkins – Popular Music;
 Milne – Visual Culture in Britain, Zhou – Language and Intercultural Communication and
 Victoria as book review editor for Asian EFL Journal).

 We have also served on editorial boards (Atton - Communication, Culture and Critique,
 Journalism Education, Journalism: Theory, Practice, Criticism; Social Movement Studies,
 Sociology Compass, Hall - Aslib Journal of Information Management, Journal of Information
 Science, Duff - Keio Communication Review, Haynes - Aslib Journal of Information
 Management, Medbøe - Jazz Research Journal, and Milne - Journal of Comparative
 Mythology).

 We regularly referee for conferences and journals in our fields, e.g. ACM Conference on Human
 Factors in Computing Systems, European Journal of Cultural Studies; Film-Philosophy; IFLA
 Journal; Information, Communication and Society; Interacting with Computers; International
 Journal of Human-Computer Studies; Journal of Documentation; Journal of Television and New
 Media; Journalism Practice; Journalism Studies; Media, Culture and Society; New Media and
 Society; Participations; Popular Music; and Rock Music Studies. We review book proposals and
 manuscripts for publishers such as Bloomsbury, MIT Press, Oxford University Press, Palgrave
 Macmillan, Sage, and Routledge.

 We have been involved in the organisation of major international conferences as programme
 committee members. Amongst these are the ASIST Annual Meeting (Hall – also papers co-
 chair, 2015), European Conference on Information Retrieval (Brazier); International Association
 for Languages and Intercultural Communication Conference (Victoria, Zhou); International
 Conference of the Progect Network for the Study of Progressive Rock (Atton); International
 Society for Knowledge Organization Conference (Haynes); International Workshop on
 Personalisation and Adaptation in Technology for Health (Webster). Alongside these duties we
 have served as programme committee members and organisers for numerous other events at
 national and local levels, from conferences (e.g. MacLeod - Media, Communication and Cultural
 Studies Association Annual Conference) to single-day symposia (e.g. Harkins - Sustainable
 sounds: interrogating the materials of music making technologies).

 In terms of supporting research funding processes, in the current REF period we have provided
 input to grant-awarding bodies such as the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland, the
 Leverhulme Trust, Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council Canada, and UKRI
 (AHRC, EPSRC, ERSC). Duties have ranged from refereeing grant applications (e.g. as UKRI
 peer review college members), to service on award panels, including chairing.

 Our research expertise has been acknowledged in several invitations to present keynote
 speeches at high profile international conferences. In the census period we accepted invitations

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 at; ASIST Annual Symposium on Information Needs 2016 (Hall), EuroIA 2016 (Duff),
 International Conference on Progressive Rock (Atton); and Qualitative and Quantitative
 Methods in Libraries (Hall). We have also served as keynote speakers at national events (e.g.
 O’Neill - Association for Media Education Scotland), and have accepted other numerous
 invitations to speak, e.g. at in-house events at other universities (e.g. Sellors - Polish National
 Film, Television and Theatre School).

 We are involved in collaborative postgraduate research student training through membership of
 the SGSAH and SGSSS, in particular through CSI’s involvement in the DTP of the latter. As well
 as contributing to training provision, our work with the SGSSS in the current REF period involved
 contributing to the £19 million recommissioning bid in 2015 (Hall) and service on various SGSSS
 committees (Hall, Muir).

 Members of our Unit have been recognised for their influence on the research base in the award
 of major prizes (e.g. Hall – Jason Farradane Award 2016), profiling by national bodies (e.g.
 Webster’s research was included in EPSRC’s ‘Decade of success’ in 2019), invitations to serve
 as award judges (e.g. MacLean - Film G and Royal Television Society New Media Awards,
 MacLeod - Royal Television Society Scotland Awards), memberships of prestigious bodies
 (Blake – RSE Young Academy of Scotland, and Hall – elected RSE Fellow 2017), and external
 appointments (e.g. Hall - Docent in Information Studies at Åbo Akademi, member of REF2021
 sub-panel 34).




                                                                                               Page 15
