Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leeds

 Unit of Assessment: 19 Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

  POLIS maintains a well-established interdisciplinary profile beyond its core strengths of
  Political Science, International Relations and Development Studies pursuing its
  strategic mission: to deliver world-leading, impactful research that addresses the politics
  of global challenges by harnessing intellectual and methodological pluralism and
  engaging beyond standard disciplinary boundaries.

  This strategic orientation, explicitly rehearsed in our Strategic Plan 2020-25, establishes
  POLIS at the centre of the University’s own prioritisation (see REF5a) of global
  challenges, such as under-development, climate change, global health, and insecurity.
  POLIS’s intellectual focus is on the politics of global challenges: the inherently political
  processes through which global challenges are created, understood, and mediated by
  the exercise and contestation of power in its various forms. It is through this lens that
  POLIS’s five Research Centres pursue their respective research agendas.

  Framed by this intellectual agenda, this REF cycle has seen POLIS surpass the
  research aims it set out in REF2014, evidenced below, and its Strategic Plan 2020-25
  builds upon this success with an ambitious, yet sustainable, set of future strategic
  objectives.

  1. Strategic realignment to galvanize intellectual vitality
  Comprising a growing team of 43 research staff, POLIS is located in the Faculty of
  Social Sciences, alongside the Schools of Sociology and Social Policy, Law, and
  Education. The Faculty establishes the research governance framework within which
  its Schools operate. The School sets its own research strategy nested within Faculty
  and University objectives, managing staff and providing the appropriate material and
  development support to enhance its research delivery. Under overall leadership of the
  Head of School, the Director of Research and Innovation is responsible for the oversight
  and development of the School’s research environment and culture, setting the
  parameters within which its five Research Centres operate. Posts dedicated to
  postgraduate research, impact, and research quality enhancement, alongside the
  Research Centre Directors, form the core membership of the Research Committee,
  which reports to and informs the practice of both the School Management Team and
  the Faculty Research and Innovation Committee.

  This governance structure has been refined since 2014 to support the growth of the
  Research Centres, which bring together intellectually and methodologically diverse
  teams of researchers to concentrate research activity, support                pioneering
  interdisciplinary research initiatives, and enhance our global reputation in specialisms
  underpinned by world-leading outputs (as detailed below), international collaborations,
  and impact (see Section 4).

  First, in accordance with our REF2014 strategic aims, we formed the European Centre
  for the Responsibility to Protect (ECR2P) in 2016, which is now the largest Research

                                                                                         Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Centre in the world focusing on R2P and the critical challenge of humanitarian
  intervention. It is home to 22 associated researchers stretching across the disciplines
  of IR and Law, and also senior practitioners and policy makers from the United Nations,
  international NGOs, and humanitarian advocacy groups. The Centre has harnessed
  these close relationships to change UN and UK policy and practice on humanitarian
  intervention, as well as establishing ECR2P as a specialist knowledge hub advising
  parliaments, NGOs and governments on the legal and practical challenges of
  implementing the R2P. The Centre has secured funding from the ESRC and Danish
  Research Council, among others, and has shaped the global intellectual agenda of
  norm theory in International Relations (IO, RIS, European Journal of International
  Security) and has led new theoretical and empirical developments in practice theory
  (EJIR, International Theory), and the conceptual architecture of cosmopolitan theory
  and practice (International Theory, International Affairs, EJIR).

  Second, the Centre for Democratic Engagement (CDE) was formed in 2017 to
  capitalise on our established expertise in parliamentary engagement, political activism,
  and voting behaviour, and to provide a platform to link POLIS directly to legislatures,
  NGOs and think tanks around the world. CDE researchers have made significant
  empirical and theoretical contributions changing our understanding of crucial challenges
  to democracy and democratic renewal, including: political polarization and the media
  (Journal of Communication), voter preference structures (Political Geography,
  Comparative Political Studies, Party Politics) disinformation/fake news (Information,
  Communication & Society), and reframing the debate on populism (Journal of Political
  Ideologies). CDE scholars have also led new research agendas funded by the likes of
  ESRC and AHRC on parliamentary engagement and innovative tools for digital
  engagement (Policy & Politics, Policy and Internet), which have changed parliamentary
  public engagement practices within and beyond the UK.

  Third, in 2019 the Centre for Global Development (CGD), which had previously been
  a University-wide Research Centre, was relocated into the School, establishing a social
  sciences-led hub for interdisciplinary research into global development challenges.
  CGD scholars have directed social science contributions within four major GCRF
  interdisciplinary consortia (see Section 4) concerning global challenges of climate
  change, hunger, urbanization, and education. They have also made significant empirical
  and theoretical contributions within their specialist areas of political economy and
  development, reframing debates through monographs with leading publishers in the
  areas of health, education, gender, and labour, as well as articles in high impact journals
  on agrarian transformation (World Development), corruption and fraud (New Political
  Economy, African Affairs), and aid (International Studies Quarterly, World
  Development). These insights have informed and refocused the policy and practice of
  UN agencies, national governments, and NGOs in their pursuit of the SDGs.

  Fourth, in 2019 the Centre for Security Studies was rebranded and restructured as the
  Centre for Global Security Challenges (CGSC) to take forward critical scholarship
  supported by significant international funding on the politics of global challenges
  concerning terrorism (Journal of Politics, Journal of Peace Research, Journal of
  Communication), nuclear weapons (EJIR, Millennium), and foreign policy behaviour
  (Journal of Conflict Resolution, RIS, Foreign Policy Analysis, International Relations).

                                                                                        Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  CGSC staff have also produced monographs reinvigorating debates about soft power
  (Palgrave), and challenging existing understandings of civil wars and state violence in
  the twenty-first century (CUP, Routledge). The CGSC team have shared their research
  insights to influence and inform parliaments, UN agencies, and international NGOs on
  critical challenges regarding nuclear weapons, counter-terrorism, and conflict.

  In 2019 the Political Theory Research Group, established over two decades ago, was
  reconfigured as the Centre for Contemporary Political Theory (CCPT) to better
  support and develop the research activities of the group and align its activities with our
  strategic vision. During this cycle, CCPT researchers have attracted funding from the
  AHRC, ESRC, and others to develop novel and innovative theoretical framings to
  provide a more compelling view of politics, which can help to explain change and forge
  alternative, sustainable configurations of political relations around themes of civility
  (Political Studies), friendship (International Relations of the Asia-Pacific), moral and
  political leadership (Ethics and International Affairs), rights (Journal of Human Rights),
  justice (Political Studies), and solidarity (Journal of Social Philosophy). Scholars from
  CCPT have contributed to public debates on these issues in parliamentary select
  committees, and collaborations with Leeds Theatres and Opera North.

  The Centres have therefore become the primary catalysts of research activity and
  innovation in the School, overseen by the Research Committee. To sustain the
  increases in the scale and quality of our research activity in the next five years, we will
  enhance existing support for the Centres (see Section 3) by: raising annual discretionary
  funds for each Centre to £5000; investing in academic staff time to direct centres and in
  the specialist staff hired to support them; and recruiting staff whose research agendas
  augment cross-centre collaboration around core interdisciplinary themes (see Staffing
  Strategy – Section 2).

  2. Embedding and expanding interdisciplinarity
  World-leading interdisciplinary activity forms a cornerstone of our identity and is integral
  to our research mission. First, we have moved beyond our 2014 objective of generating
  “longer and larger grant bids through the development of interdisciplinary clusters” by
  substantially exceeding our research income targets (see Part 4 below). In particular,
  aligning our research identity and strategy with that of the University of Leeds and its
  strategic focus on global challenges and sustainable development goals has enabled
  us to contribute to Leeds’s outstanding success in GCRF awards (see REF5a). We have
  also embedded interdisciplinarity in our everyday practice by establishing the Centres
  not simply as hubs of engagement across the specialisms of POLIS, but as hubs that
  develop new interdisciplinary networks beyond the social sciences. While our
  submission portfolio increasingly reflects our strategic focus on the politics of global
  challenges – i.e. where political science questions are foregrounded in disciplinary and
  interdisciplinary work – POLIS academics have in addition co-authored outputs in
  leading journals in the fields of public health (BMJ, Social Science and Medicine),
  medical biology (Sexual Health), and epidemiology (Lancet, International Journal of
  Infectious Diseases, Globalization and Health). There has also been a notable growth
  of outputs co-authored with STEM researchers within our submission, including in the
  areas of advanced data science (Journal of Artificial Societies and Social Simulation,
  Big Data, PLoS ONE).

                                                                                         Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Second, to sustain this interdisciplinary activity the School has successfully supported
  staff to engage in the design, development, and leadership of large interdisciplinary
  consortia that have attracted over £27m in this cycle, examining themes such as water
  security and development, and climate change and agriculture in Africa (see Sections
  3 and 4).

  Third, to ensure the vitality and prominence of social science within interdisciplinary
  collaborations across the University, our researchers are allocated workload time to take
  on leadership roles in the University’s interdisciplinary hubs (e.g in the areas of Global
  Health and Water – see Section 4). Our researchers also take on roles on the Academic
  Advisory Boards of interdisciplinary clusters, such as the Leeds University Centre of
  African Studies (LUCAS) and the Leeds Institute for Data Analytics (LIDA), which brings
  together researchers and data scientists from across the University to raise standards
  of data quality, access, protection, exploitation, and policy implementation. Finally, the
  School has prioritized interdisciplinary doctoral supervision as one important way to
  build social science insight at the heart of cross-departmental collaborations: for
  example, PGRs funded by the ESRC and STFC exploring relationships between the
  Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and big data, astronomy, and earth sciences
  (see Section 4).

  To expand our leadership of interdisciplinary collaborations we will: continue and pursue
  leading roles in University initiatives, such as Net Zero and the COP-26 Delivery Plan;
  invest necessary resources to keep POLIS staff at the forefront of the University’s global
  challenges focus, including its thematic clusters and international consortia; increase
  strategic interdisciplinary hires (see Section 2); explore opportunities to co-appoint staff
  tasked with leading strategic themes across faculties; and finally, build upon existing
  success by increasing the number of funded interdisciplinary PhD projects with cross-
  school supervision.

  3. Increasing postgraduate research activity
  A key objective of POLIS has been to increase the number and quality of our
  postgraduate research cohort and environment and to integrate fully PGRs into the
  overall research profile of the School. Since 2014 the School has significantly increased
  the scale of its postgraduate research activity with PGR completions up from 42 in
  REF2014 to 65 in this exercise. This has been achieved by attracting more high-quality
  PGRs through a step change in the scale and diversity of PhD funding (see Section 2).
  This growth will be consolidated by further increasing the number of doctoral
  researchers, including a target to double the number of funded studentships during
  the next REF cycle, and by continuing to diversify our sources of research income.
  The School will establish two “Politics of Global Challenges” PhD scholarships (one
  home, one international) to be awarded annually for research projects that
  complement its strategic themes, with particular emphasis on applications from the
  Global South. The School will be strategic in its approach to PGR recruitment and
  integration: encouraging each Research Centre to pursue scholarships tied to the
  Centre; building studentships into funding applications; and recruiting more
  students on interdisciplinary projects and on themes co-supervised with other
  schools.

                                                                                         Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  4. Increasing and diversifying research funding
  A staple of our research strategy is to advance cutting-edge research through new
  funding opportunities. Research grant income brought into the School in this REF period
  has more than doubled from the previous REF cycle, from £1.23 million to £2.8 million.
  Fulfilling our strategic aims set out in REF2014, our range of funding sources has
  broadened, including: ESRC, GCRF, the Swedish and Danish Research Councils,
  Volkswagen Stiftung, British Academy, MRC, STFC, BBSRC, Leverhulme, AHRC,
  FIFA, US Institute of Peace, British Council, Netherlands Organization of Scientific
  Research, DfID, European Union, Independent Social Research Foundation, and
  Canadian Research Council. The number of major grant funded projects (over
  £100,000) has increased from three in REF2014 to fourteen in this period. Our research
  expenditure data evidences a strong upward trajectory during this REF exercise in terms
  of major successful projects, doubling from £550,000 in cumulative value in the first two
  years of the cycle up to £1.1m in 2019 and 2020. As detailed in Section 3, this increase
  has been facilitated by a combination of enhanced support mechanisms, investment,
  and interdisciplinary engagements. These will be extended so that we can meet our
  strategic goals: to maintain our track record of increasing research income in each
  assessment exercise (as well as the diverse portfolio of income sources); to increase
  the number of funded interdisciplinary consortia with which we engage; and to pursue
  further international scholarship opportunities with private donors, NGOs, and our
  alumni networks.

  5. Embedding and expanding impact activities
  Our focus on the politics of global challenges necessitates a strong emphasis on
  research that produces pragmatic, practical interventions that are policy-relevant with
  impact. To this end, all research staff are allocated 200 workload hours per year to
  conduct impact activities, while those who engage in close collaborations – including
  those involved in future impact case studies – are awarded an additional 300 hours per
  year. All staff impact work is supported through a dedicated Impact Lead in School ,
  annual impact training workshops within the Faculty, two faculty impact champions,
  University training sessions, a dedicated School impact acceleration fund for strategic
  use (£10,000 per year), and ongoing review of impact activity and support needs within
  POLIS. Impact case study development is regularly reviewed and the needs of those
  involved in impact case studies are constantly assessed and supported by the Impact
  Lead and a full-time Impact Officer in the Faculty. Furthermore, all impact activities are
  supported through the Research Centres, which deepen partnerships with research
  users by offering them affiliate status and inviting them to participate in Centre activities,
  including the co-design of research funding applications.

  In future, under the canopy of our strategic vision, we aim to increase impactful links
  between Centres and external organisations/actors. For example, development
  specialists in CGD and security scholars in CGSC recently signed an agreement to
  become an official WHO Collaborative Centre in the next cycle, working on its new
  “Health Systems for Health Security” framework to provide research and evidence. In
  terms of recruitment, the School will explore opportunities for dual appointments of
  leading researchers working for think tanks, NGOs and private actors, employing these
  researchers on a 0.2 attachment so that they actively support communication with our
  key policy audiences, for example. We will also expand the ‘Partnership Dissertation

                                                                                           Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Pathway’, which involves a member of staff co-designing a research project with
  external research partners (e.g. World Vision, Campaign for Womankind, WaterAid) and
  recruiting a Masters student to focus their dissertation on this topic, sharing data and
  co-producing policy relevant analysis with the partner.

  6. Internationalisation
  Addressing global challenges requires global outreach and collaboration. POLIS has
  strengthened the global reach of its research collaborations (see Section 4) and has
  added depth to its well-established expertise in Africa, Europe, South America, North
  America, and Asia. In line with our REF2014 objective, we have significantly expanded
  our links with international universities. For example, we have established strategic
  research partnerships with the China University of Political Science and Law, Nanjing
  University, and the East China University of Political Science and Law. These
  partnerships include commitments to collaborative research facilitation, co-publishing,
  and impact facilitation. POLIS staff have official research affiliations with international
  Universities, including the universities of California, Cape Town, Johannesburg,
  KwaZulu Natal, Leuven, Ljubijana, Mannheim, Mzumbe, Queensland, Salvador,
  Sciences Po, Tohoku and Vrije Universiteit Brussel. Our Research Centres have
  solidified cooperation with international partners, leading to a significant rise in co-
  authored outputs with international academics (see Section 4). Following the next five
  years’ strategy, the School aims to increase the number of international affiliates within
  each Centre, increase the number of internationally funded PGR projects, and seek new
  research and educational opportunities in the Global South with online research
  degrees for those unable to attend in person.

  7. Promoting research integrity and an open research environment
  The School is committed to research integrity and equal opportunity, maintaining a
  recognized support structure that ensures a culture of conducting research according
  to appropriate ethical and legal obligations and standards. All research is supported by
  the institution’s Concordat to Support Research Integrity, which promotes the principles
  of “honesty, rigour, transparency and open communication, and care and respect for all
  participants in research.” The School employs a rigorous process of internal peer review
  (see Section 3) for all research funding applications, which includes considerations of
  research ethics, value for money, potential for societal impact, and scientific rigor and
  independence.

  POLIS prides itself on being an open research environment. First, all applications for
  funding must contain a data management plan which specifies where and how all data
  will be stored, including considerations of prompt open access and appropriate data
  protection. Second, where possible, all research outputs are made openly accessible
  via the shared, open access repository White Rose Research Online. Staff in POLIS
  have also engaged directly with important international initiatives on open research and
  reproducibility. For example, Rinke leads the University-wide local network of the UK
  Reproducibility Network (UKRN), a national peer-led consortium promoting openly
  accessible academic research across the research cycle. He has organised
  international workshops and co-edited a special issue on “Opening Political Science”
  for PS: Political Science & Politics. To sustain such initiatives the School will provide



                                                                                        Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  additional research time to all staff who propose to lead projects promoting both
  disciplinary and interdisciplinary open research initiatives.


  2. People

  Equality, diversity and inclusion: governance and monitoring
  We are committed to retaining and growing a diverse and inclusive research
  community which integrates academic staff, including post-doctoral researchers,
  and doctoral researchers, and enables all members of our community to thrive.
  Accordingly, during this cycle we have enhanced our equality, diversity, and
  inclusion (ED&I) policies and our staff have taken a leading role across the Faculty
  of Social Sciences to develop the Faculty’s Athena Swan Action Plan (2020-2024),
  resulting in the Faculty being awarded Bronze status in 2020. This Action Plan
  reflects the consolidation of new governance mechanisms to monitor, analyse, and
  promote ED&I across our research activities.

  First, we have restructured the governance of ED&I within the Social Sciences
  Faculty so that the committee includes each Head of School to ensure delivery. In
  turn, this committee, which is led by Woods from POLIS, coordinates its activities
  with our School’s ED&I coordinator. School meetings for all staff have a dedicated
  place on the agenda for the delivery and discussion of the ED&I report.

  Second, as part of our Faculty’s Athena Swan Action Plan (2020-2024), we are
  improving the ED&I data with which we work with so that our relevant governance
  structures (e.g. School Research Committee) can analyse and monitor key areas
  of research activity, including: research leave awards, promotions, leadership role
  allocations, and internal and external funding applications/awards. For example,
  during this cycle the gender profile of research leave periods taken (men 50: women
  18), promotions to associate professor (men 9: women 6) and professor (men 1: women
  2), and research funding expenditure (men 59%: women 41%) is broadly in line with our
  overall unit profile (see below).

  Third, working with the University’s Equality Policy Unit, POLIS regularly participates
  in University-wide initiatives, such as the Equality Impact Assessment (EIA), which
  helps to ensure that University policies, procedures, and practices are consistently
  inclusive for all staff, students, and visitors.

  ED&I monitoring provides a vital source of data to understand our staff profile. The
  43 staff submitted here include 11 professors, 21 associate professors and 11
  lecturers. All submitted staff are on open ended contracts. The overall profile
  includes more women than in 2014 (up from 5 (21%) to 11 (26%)). Of our submitted
  staff, 7% identify as BAME, 37% have registered caring responsibilities, and <5%
  identify as having a disability. Our increased international outreach has also
  encouraged the growth of the proportion of international scholars included in our
  overall submission, up from 5 in 2014 to 16 in this cycle. To ensure that the
  submission accurately reflects the diversity of the school, in line with our University’s
  Code of Practice we have carefully monitored the balance of our submitted outputs

                                                                                      Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  across seniority, gender, BAME, and other protected characteristics to ensure that
  no groups are systematically underrepresented in our output profile. For example,
  the average number of outputs attributed to women from the unit (2.1) is almost
  identical to that of men (2.2).

  Staffing strategy
  Our staffing and recruitment policy continues to expand a diverse and inclusive
  research environment to enable our strategic orientation. This expansion has been
  achieved through continued investment in new staff appointments, evident in the 19
  new staff (8 female, 3 BAME, 12 international) included in this submission. To sustain
  the School’s vitality this balanced recruitment includes 5 Professors, 2 Associate
  Professors, and 12 lecturers. Our Strategic Plan 2020-25 sets out an ambitious
  recruitment strategy and curriculum review aimed to expand and further diversify
  our staff base in the next 5 years, particularly regarding women and BAME
  colleagues and researchers from the Global South.

  The growth of our staff base has focused on addressing the interstices of existing
  research to develop innovative themes that can foster collaboration across the
  School, University, and disciplines. For example, the recent and post-REF2021
  recruitment of Brown, Fraundorfer, and Williams (Public Health/Epidemiology and
  IR), Aroussi and Stappert (gender security and International Law), Bolsover and
  Rinke (political communication and big data) and Beardsworth, Corry, Shaw, and
  Spaiser (climate change and governance/data science). To build further research
  support capacity and deliver our strategic vision, we have appointed an academic
  to the role of Strategic Operations Officer (1.0 FTE) who coordinates, with the
  School leadership, the delivery of the POLIS Strategic Plan.

  To concentrate our commitment to equality and inclusion in all our recruitment
  processes and ensure that it adheres to the University’s Equality & Inclusion
  Framework, we work with the University’s Equality Policy Unit and Organisational
  and Professional Development Learning Unit (ODPL). Together we provide
  mandatory ED&I training, completed 58 times this assessment period by POLIS
  staff. Additionally, implicit bias workshops are made available for all POLIS staff.

  More can be done, however, to foster a diverse and inclusive research community
  that in turn helps to attract a diverse pool of staff in future recruitment. In the coming
  cycle we will build on existing best practice in the School. For example, in relation
  to gender, this includes explicitly promoting and celebrating the leadership of women,
  including the directorships of our Research Centres (currently five of the nine directors
  are women) and impact case studies (three out of four in this submission are led by
  women). This promotion has been further resourced through direct engagement with
  University and sector-wide initiatives such as Athena Swan and our commitment to the
  Aurora (Women in Leadership in Higher Education) Programme, from which two POLIS
  staff have benefitted in this assessment period. Such leadership has been recognized
  through our staff’s success in being nominated for, and winning, the University’s Women
  of Achievement awards (Stefan in 2018 and Mdee in 2019). We have also sought to
  facilitate the growth of a diverse and genuinely global portfolio of research agendas
  that will in turn attract outstanding international staff, giving emphasis, for example,

                                                                                       Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  to research foregrounding the voices of communities within the Global South (for
  example, Anderson – Malawi; Beresford - South Africa; Brown – Southern Africa;
  Bush – Egypt/Tunisia; Dyer – Ethiopia/India; Fraundorfer – Brazil; Mdee –
  Tanzania; Narayanaswamy – India; and Wiegratz – Uganda, Kenya). Our newly
  appointed Director of Inclusion will coordinate the strategic development of all areas
  of activity that pertain to questions of broader ED&I, including staff, student, and
  PGR recruitment, engagement in research practice, and aligning POLIS activity with
  the University’s ED&I commitments.

  Staff development strategy
  The School is firmly committed to the idea that the professional and personal
  development of individual staff translates into collective success. Our staff
  development strategy blends, accordingly, universal support provisions, designed
  to help all researchers thrive and deliver research excellence, with targeted support
  mechanisms to promote greater equality and inclusion.

  Universal research support provisions
  We have significantly increased investment in research support provisions for all
  research staff, irrespective of contract status, during this assessment period. For
  example, the Strategic Research Investment Fund, to which all staff can apply to
  support innovative research, impact, and networking initiatives, has been increased
  from £20,000 to £30,000 per year. We have also doubled the annual personal
  research allowance for all staff members from £1000 to £2000 to fund research
  visits and extend the international reach of their research impact as well as support
  pump-priming pilot initiatives and other small research expenses. The School has
  a large contingency fund to which staff and PGRs can apply to if they require
  additional financial support for routine research activities, such as extra travel costs
  for staff with disabilities and support for childcare costs for conferences.

  We believe that a vital element in the production of quality research is having
  dedicated time. As a result, we have increased the time allocated to all research
  staff for their research activities by 10% since 2014; research activity now
  represents 40% of a standard “Research and Teaching” profile. All research staff,
  irrespective of contract status, are eligible for research leave for one semester in
  every six, subject to agreed plans for high quality research, publications, grant
  applications, and impact in that period. The School has invested significantly in
  research leave over this REF cycle with study leave periods taken more than
  doubling from 26 in the last REF cycle to 68 in this one.

  All staff have an individual office and opportunity to work flexibly and remotely. For
  instance, part-time contracts have been given to those requesting them, whether
  on a permanent basis, to accommodate personal requests for flexibility (e.g. for
  caring responsibilities) or to support a phased return to work following periods of
  leave. To enable remote working, all staff have the option of a work laptop rather
  than a desk PC. All staff are able to ring-fence research days in their diaries to
  reduce the fragmentation of research time, and provision is made, wherever
  possible, for colleagues to cluster teaching each week to support flexible and
  remote working practices. Part-time staff are supported in their career progression.

                                                                                     Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  For example, we specifically consider for new roles the implications for part-time
  staff, encouraging them to take on leadership roles where suitable.

  We believe that everyone benefits from mentoring. Staff at all stages of their career
  choose a dedicated mentor from a pool of senior staff as part of our Staff Mentoring
  Scheme. Mentors are available for meetings four times per year and are responsible for
  administering the annual Staff Review and Development Scheme, which reflects on
  achievements and feeds into a personal development plan for the year. In addition,
  individual staff have an Annual Academic Review (AAR) with the Head of School, which
  is used in part to reflect on research activity and identify support needed to sustain and
  enhance future activity. Direct mentoring for research and impact activities is also
  available to all staff from the Director of Research and their Deputy, as well as the
  Impact Lead. All mentors commit to an ethos of promoting individual development, not
  performance management.

  We believe that all staff should have the best opportunity to further their research
  agenda. As a result, all staff benefit from well-developed systems of internal support
  for grant applications (see Section 3). To reward and compensate staff for the time
  taken on preparing grant applications, during this REF cycle those who completed major
  grant applications received a retrospective workload allocation of 100 hours for the next
  academic year. To support and reward impact activities, we have a dedicated School
  Impact Lead with an annual £10K strategic impact fund to promote impact opportunities
  with staff, as well as extra time allocations to pursue impact activities (see Section 1).

  To support ongoing researcher development and training the School and the
  University’s ODPL Unit provide extensive support and training opportunities for all
  staff and doctoral researchers, including thematic and tailored workshops focused
  on training in advanced methods, policy writing, impact development, media
  engagement, ED&I, management, and effective supervision. The establishment of
  one of 16 national Q-Step Centres at the University within the School provides a
  robust development resource accessible to staff and doctoral researchers who wish
  to enhance their quantitative methodological skills. For more advanced
  methodological training, LIDA and the Schools of Mathematics and Computing
  provide a broad suite of workshops and intensive courses. Staff are also able to take
  courses with the University’s LOGIK Centre, which provides a range of health and
  wellbeing classes.

  Targeted support provisions
  We take seriously the idea that no two people have the same professional needs.
  Thus, all staff with any form of protected characteristics are supported to research
  productively. Needs and requirements can be identified and discussed directly with
  the mentor, the Head of School and/or the Director of Research. The School works
  closely with the University’s Equality Policy Unit to ensure that appropriate
  accommodations and measures are put in place for all members of the School.

  The universal support provision for research, impact, and career development for
  research staff is coupled with additional, targeted support for Early Career
  Researchers (ECRs), including postdoctoral researchers and staff on fixed term

                                                                                      Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  contracts. These staff are an integral part of the research community; they all affiliate
  with at least one Research Centre, present their research at staff seminars, receive
  the same one-to-one mentorship and AAR as permanent staff, and are supported
  in applying for appropriate ECR grants and in identifying future funding streams,
  and are included in UKRI grants. Our approach is informed directly by the recently
  refreshed Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. The
  success of this support is reflected in the way POLIS’s fixed-term staff have built
  successful research portfolios and proceeded to secure employment at leading
  research-intensive universities around the world, including Australian National
  University, Birmingham, Edinburgh, Lille, Liverpool, Nottingham, Rotterdam,
  Sheffield, and University College London.

  To support our new hires and to integrate them into our research community they
  each benefit from: tailored, one-to-one inductions with the Director of Research;
  priority workload allocations for research funding development; reduced teaching
  and administration allocations for the first year; and discussion of appropriate
  membership of a Research Centre. A dedicated working group in the Faculty
  continuously attends to matters of equality and inclusion in this area.

  Special provision is made for staff planning and returning from periods of leave (e.g.
  shared parental, mental health, or sickness) through our Returner’s Scheme. This
  includes a phased process, tailored to the individual, which can include:
   A planning meeting with their mentor for their leave period to identify their needs
      and goals in a Leave Plan;
   A subsequent meeting with the Head of School to agree the plan and timetable
      and to identify areas of School support;
   “Keep in touch days”, where appropriate, during the period of leave;
   A post-leave planning meeting with their mentor to identify needs and goals for
      returning to work to update the Leave Plan. All staff returning for a period of more
      than 6 months will be placed on a “priority track” for an application for research
      leave;
   A meeting with the Head of School, when required, to update the Leave Plan and
      to put in place support mechanisms, including discussing plans for career
      progression and leadership roles.


  PGR support and training
  POLIS is committed to improving the number and quality of our postgraduate research
  cohort and environment and to integrating fully PGRs into our overall research profile
  as a School. As part of this commitment, the scale of our PGR activity has increased
  during this assessment period with the total number of doctoral degrees awarded
  during this REF cycle up to 65 from 42 in 2014. A total of 51 current PGRs or those
  that have completed during this exercise have received fully funded doctoral
  scholarships. To achieve this we have secured diverse studentship funding,
  including from the Commonwealth, ESRC and AHRC White Rose Doctoral Training
  Partnerships (WRDTP), ESRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Data and Society,
  and GCRF/STFC, and have attracted doctoral researchers sponsored by the
  governments of Indonesia, Malawi, Mexico, Thailand and Vietnam.

                                                                                     Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  PGR completions
   13/14      14/15      15/16       16/17      17/18      18/19      19/20       Total
   8          13         4           7          8.5        14.5       10.25       65.25

  PGRs are all recruited through appropriate selection criteria and interviews with
  potential supervisors and we have actively sought to promote internationalization
  as part of our PGR recruitment: 60% of our PGRs registered during this exercise
  are international students, while around a third on average across the cycle identify
  as BAME.

  PGRs are a key part of the POLIS research community, and the quality of training
  and supervision arrangements provided to them is continuously reflected in the high
  ratings given by our PGRs in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey
  (PRES), with 86% “Overall Satisfaction” in the most recent of these. Over the period,
  the School has invested in greater support for the PGR community by appointing a
  second Director of PGR. One is focused on directing the support and training for
  ongoing PGRs and on monitoring and acting upon equality and inclusion data (e.g.
  completions rates, training take-up). The other is focused on extending the scale
  and quality of PGR recruitment and on building the PGR community in line with
  School vision and strategy.

  Each PGR is co-supervised by two or more members of staff. We provide a structured
  programme of training that all doctoral researchers in the School are required to attend
  and participate in. Alongside training and development, this programme serves to
  integrate new entrants into the research environment and builds a strong culture of peer
  group support among our doctoral researchers. The institutional architecture at Leeds
  and our external collaborators offer additional pathways for enhanced training (see
  REF5a), including skills, methods, and data management workshops and showcase
  opportunities offered by the Leeds Doctoral College, ODPL, and the Leeds Social
  Sciences Institute (LSSI) (see REF5a). In addition, POLIS has secured placements
  through LSSI, which facilitate and promote research collaborations and engagement
  between PGRs and external partner organisations, for example, with the FCDO/United
  Nations Association UK and the UK Parliament. Methodological training and support
  have been significantly enhanced by recent sizable investments in the Leeds Institute
  for Data Analytics (LIDA), which offers a range of workshops in data science and
  analytics linked to the Leeds-hosted ESRC CDT in Data and Society. Further,
  excellence in research training, interdisciplinarity, and inter-institutional collaboration,
  fostered by the ESRC WRDTP in particular, helps to ensure the highest quality of
  doctoral research training skills and this methods provision is available to all POLIS
  PGRs regardless of funding source.

  PGR employability and transferable skills development are fostered through POLIS
  PGR career workshops in our structured training programme, and opportunities for
  PGRs to attend training from the ODPL unit. Many of our PGRs have, on graduation,
  secured academic positions at universities across the world (e.g. in China, Denmark,
  Ghana, Lebanon, Malaysia, Malawi, the Netherlands, Thailand, and the Philippines). All
  PGRs are encouraged to engage in the University’s “Career Architect Programme”,

                                                                                          Page 12
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      which offers support and guidance for those considering a career beyond academic
      research, and many of our PGRs have established successful careers in international
      public policy (e.g. UN, WHO) and NGOs (e.g. LEGO Foundation, NASFAM).

      We aim to integrate PGRs fully into our research culture through a range of
      initiatives, including:

     Integration of PGRs into the Research Centres: Each POLIS PGR is encouraged
      to affiliate to at least one Research Centre, and specifically to take advantage of
      their respective PGR workshops and reading groups for presenting work and grant
      proposals. PGRs are encouraged to take on leadership responsibilities within the
      Centres, such as website and social media management, as well as coordinating
      and planning international events (e.g. the ECR2P Women’s Network).
     Multiple spaces for presenting PhD work: Beyond their Research Centre, PGRs
      are invited to present “ideas papers” in our weekly School Seminar Series. They
      also contribute to interdisciplinary networks, such as the Researchers in
      Development Network (RIDNET), a cross-faculty network for PGRs and ECRs
      affiliated to the University’s Global Development Network.
     Inclusion of PGRs in the impact activities of the school: PGRs work closely with
      external partners as part of their integration into each Research Centre. This
      includes sharing research with the UN, governments, parliaments, and select
      committees (see Section 4). Funding is also available for PGRs to produce policy
      briefs to support the translation of their research findings into key policy and practice
      messages.
     Co-publication with centre staff is actively encouraged and, during this cycle, our
      PGRs have co-authored in leading international journals such as RIS, Politics,
      Global Constitutionalism and BJPIR.



     3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

      As detailed in Section 1, the School’s research strategy seeks to advance cutting-
      edge research in part through the pursuit of new funding opportunities: our research
      grant income has accordingly more than doubled in this REF period from £1.23
      million to £2.8 million. The profile of our sources of grant income has also diversified
      considerably, in line with our research objectives, reflecting the increased emphasis
      on interdisciplinarity. The significant increase in the breadth and scale of grant
      capture, together with the important uplift in our impact activities, has been
      supported by changes to our research architecture. The following have been key:

      1. Strengthening support mechanisms for grant writing and review. Academic staff
      are assisted in preparing and submitting research grant applications through a
      coordinated system of peer feedback and review. This follows a clearly structured
      support process, according to type of application:

           Informal pitch-to-peers of initial ideas within Research Centres, focusing on
            options for collaboration and routes for the co-production of research
           School review panel comments and feedback

                                                                                         Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Faculty review panel comments and feedback (on all UKRI applications)
       University review panel comments and feedback (on all ESRC applications)

  The Faculty Research and Innovation Office (5.8 FTE) provides support at all
  application stages, including costings and other forms of support such as impact
  pathways. This support is supplemented by LSSI for large, interdisciplinary grant
  applications in the form of dedicated Research and Innovation Development
  Managers (RIDMs) as well as the RIDMs attached to the other University
  interdisciplinary Themes (e.g. water@leeds, Global Food & Environment Initiative,
  Global Health Culture, etc).

  Staff are helped to balance competing commitments on their time and respond
  quickly to funding opportunities and every member of staff who submits a major
  grant proposal (above £250,000) receives a workload reduction in the following
  academic year (in addition to any research time secured through a successful grant
  application). Our success with grant funding has underpinned the production of
  outputs in world-leading journals, such as Evans’s ESRC-ORA (£1,201,700)
  funding to study the radical right (published in Comparative Political Studies) and
  Ralph’s EU Marie Curie International Outgoing Fellowship (£233,349) producing
  research on the future of international pragmatism and norms studies (International
  Organization). All our impact case studies have been supported, moreover, by
  external funding from a range of bodies, including ESRC, British Academy,
  Leverhulme Trust, and Marie Curie, among others (see REF3).

  Impact-related activities for all staff are supported by workload allocations (see
  Section 1) and all impact-related activities are supported and coordinated by our
  Impact Lead (400 workload hours per annum) and faculty-level impact support from
  two staff (2.0 FTE), who help design pathways to impact and coordinate delivery.
  In addition, the Faculty hosts impact workshops where best practice is shared and
  peer-to-peer feedback is given. To sustain impact activities five POLIS projects
  have also successfully applied to the HEIF/ESRC Impact Acceleration Account
  (IAA) run by the LSSI, receiving more than £65k, including partnership work with
  DfID, the Global Water Partnership, and the House of Commons. University
  interdisciplinary impact funding (£16k) also underwrote evidence production and
  policy work for the WHO on their new Health System for Health Security framework
  (see Section 4).

  2. Investment in the growth and consolidation of Research Centres. POLIS has
  invested significantly in the growth of its Centres as part of our strategic realignment
  (see Section 1). Critical to their success, including contribution to our funding
  capture, is their strategic alignment to pressing global challenges. They act as
  recognized support hubs for major research projects, facilitating collaboration within
  POLIS and also outside of it with research and practitioner “affiliates” attached to
  each Centre (see Section 4).

  3. Intensified interdisciplinary engagements. POLIS advocates strongly for the
  central role of the social sciences in the University’s “global challenges” vision. The
  University’s 2015-2020 strategy set out eight thematic areas addressing global
  challenges and POLIS academics have been supported with a 300 hour per annum

                                                                                    Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  workload allowance where they have taken on a directorship of these themes (e.g.
  Brown, GlobalHealth@Leeds and Mdee, water@leeds). The University has also
  enhanced its responsive capacity to emerging global challenge research areas,
  tasking senior research support staff with tailoring support to responsive funding
  opportunities offered by UKRI GCRF, among others. This support is led by the
  LSSI’s Research and Innovation Development Manager, who is tasked with building
  interdisciplinary activities involving the social sciences and managing large and
  complex funded projects across faculties and beyond the University. Our
  researchers engage in University forums anticipating targeted thematic calls (such
  as GCRF) and run workshops designed to build interdisciplinary connections,
  synergies and capacity. POLIS scholars now take leading roles in international
  consortia that have attracted awards totalling over £27m (see Section 4).

  4. Cross-institutional partnerships. The White Rose DTP (Leeds, York and
  Sheffield) is the second largest in the UK and allows for specialized research
  supervision across leading experts in the region and together with PGR training
  (see Section 2). One of the seven interdisciplinary pathways offered by the DTP –
  “Security, Conflict & Justice” – was directed by Newman. During this cycle, eight
  PhD scholarships have been funded through the ESRC and AHRC White Rose
  partnerships. The White Rose Consortium also funds research seminars series,
  which POLIS has successfully hosted for subjects including “R2P and Humanity”,
  which published a special issue involving leading researchers in the field (see
  Section 4).

  5. Infrastructure. POLIS has benefited from the £8 million university investment in the
  refurbishment of the Social Sciences Building, completed in 2014. The refurbishment
  has provided a modernized accommodation for all POLIS staff and doctoral researchers
  under one roof. It also provides event space for Research Centre activities and those of
  the School as a whole, including a dedicated PGR office cluster. All staff have access
  to University facilities, which have benefited from the University’s £520m investment in
  campus development (including libraries, landscaping, research hubs) aimed at
  providing welcoming, inclusive spaces for social activities and working collaborations.
  In addition to the support for staff research detailed above, the School covers the costs
  of specialist statistical or other analytical software not provided by the University’s core
  provision. The School also benefits from funded access time to the University ARC High
  Performance Computing facility, facilitating advanced data analytics and simulation
  modelling.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  In this cycle POLIS has helped shape disciplinary, interdisciplinary, and social debates,
  discussions, and policy both within academia and in society at large.

  Academic leadership
  POLIS staff contribute significantly to both the sustainability and enhancement of the
  wider discipline. Our researchers provide disciplinary leadership through their executive
  committee and trustee positions on major disciplinary associations, including BISA,
  PSA, British Academy, UACES, European Association for Evolutionary Political
  Economy (EAEPE), Association Social and Political Philosophy (ASPP), Study of

                                                                                        Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Parliament Group, British Association for International and Comparative Education,
  British Society for Middle Eastern Studies, Association of Southeast Asian Studies in
  the UK (ASEASUK), and International Communication Association.

  Our researchers lead their respective research specialisms through convenorships of
  strategic groupings within the discipline, including: PSA specialist groups on
  Parliaments (Leston-Bandeira), Conservative Politics (Hayton, Heppell, Theakston),
  Religion and Politics (McAnulla), Teaching and Learning, Political Leadership, Politics
  and History (Heppell), and Political Psychology (Dunn); the BISA working groups on
  Environment (Dyer), Critical Terrorism Studies, Global Nuclear Order (Considine),
  Ethics and World Politics, and Intervention and R2P (Gallagher); the APSA group on
  British Politics (Hayton); the ISA working groups on Global Health (Anderson, Brown,
  Williams), the Foundation of European Economic Development (Dannreuther), and the
  Research Collective on Agriculture, Environment & Labour in the Arab World (Bush).

  Over half of our staff have held positions on editorial boards during this assessment
  period, covering over 24 international peer-reviewed journals across the full span of the
  discipline. This includes a total of 20 journal editorial positions held by POLIS staff on
  leading journals (details below). POLIS staff have also collaborated widely as guest
  editors of journals, producing over 27 thematic special issues, and over 16 edited
  collections during this cycle (see details below).

  Peer review
  Our staff are members of the review colleges of all the major UK funding bodies in the
  social sciences and beyond, including: ESRC, AHRC, UKRI Future Leaders, British
  Academy, GCRF and the Medical Research Council. They have chaired ESRC
  Commissioning Panels and played active roles on the ESRC’s Grant Assessment
  Panel, as well as call-specific assessment panels for priority research agendas, such
  as the ESRC Brexit Priority Grants, ESRC Governance post-Brexit (phases 1 and 2),
  ESRC-DfID, ESRC ORA, ESRC-AHRC UK-Japan Connections, the ESRC Trust and
  Global Governance Panel, the Agence Nationale de la Recherche (France), and Fonds
  de la Recherche Scientifique (Belgium). POLIS researchers have reviewed for major
  funding bodies in Canada, South Africa, the Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland, and
  Norway, as well as international funding councils, such as the Commonwealth
  Scholarships scheme. Our researchers have also served on, and chaired, the WRDTP
  Academic Quality Committee (Dyer, Newman), overseeing the assessment and award
  of ESRC studentships.

  Interdisciplinarity and International Collaborations
  The number of our submitted outputs co-authored with scholars outside of the core
  discipline of Politics and International Studies is up from one (1.4%) in 2014 to 12 (11%)
  in 2020, of which seven represent collaborations with STEM academics. Productive
  interdisciplinary collaborations within the University have been fostered through
  collaborative doctoral supervision of over 11 students in this cycle between POLIS and
  other disciplines, of which six projects reflect collaborations with STEM subjects in
  projects that foreground social science research questions. Staff have also taken
  leadership roles as co-directors of University thematic research hubs, convened to drive
  interdisciplinary intellectual agendas, such as the University’s COP-26 Taskforce.

                                                                                      Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  POLIS researchers are attached to more than £27m of interdisciplinary research funding
  attained since 2014 addressing global priorities. This includes collaboration in large
  interdisciplinary consortia such as GCRF AFRICAP (Agricultural and Food-system
  Resilience: Increasing Capacity and Advising Policy) worth a total of £8m, the GCRF
  Water Security and Sustainable Development Hub (total 17.8m), the GCRF “Off Grid
  Cities” project working across Peru, South Africa, Kenya, and Haiti (total £1.9m) and the
  international ESRC/DfiD project “Making the elementary schooling system in India work
  for disadvantaged learners” (total £684k).

  In line with our strategic aims, the scale of our scholarly collaborations has increased
  significantly during this assessment period. The number of co-authored research
  outputs submitted for this exercise has risen from 12 (20% of submission) in 2014 to 65
  (61%) in this cycle, of which 33 outputs are co-authored with internationally based
  researchers. Collectively, our staff have given more than 600 conference presentations
  – delivering over 40 keynote addresses and over 200 research seminars in other
  universities – and organised more than 170 conference panels and over 100 workshops
  and conferences (more than 80% of our staff have supported the discipline by
  collaborating in the organisation of conferences and workshops).


  Contributions to the Research Base, Economy and Society

  We detail below how collectively and collaboratively our Research Centres have led
  intellectual agendas, driving this step change in academic collaborations and impactful
  engagements both within and beyond our discipline, and with practitioners and policy
  making communities.

  Centre for Contemporary Political Theory (CCPT)
  CCPT brings together scholars, practitioners and activists working within a variety of
  domains and traditions for the conceptual, normative and critical analysis of the politics
  of global challenges, from the personal to the planetary. For over two decades, the
  group has sustained a lively programme of external speakers, public lectures,
  workshops, international conferences collaborative editorships and practitioner
  engagement. Edyvane was awarded the 2020 Harrison Prize (Political Studies) for his
  agenda-setting work on civility and toleration; insights that he has shared with the UK
  Parliamentary Select Committee examining “justice in communities”. Smith’s work with
  Nordin (Lancaster) calls on scholars to rethink how ideas of “friendship” can be used to
  understand contemporary politics and international relations in a divided world (IR of the
  Asia-Pacific); debates now firmly identified with Leeds through international
  collaborative workshops funded by the Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation and Smith’s work
  in founding and directing AMITY: The Journal of Friendship Studies. CCPT work on
  refugees and human solidarity has augmented collaborations with Opera North's Head
  of Community Partnerships, Dr Madeleine Thorne, who participated in a workshop on
  “Understanding Solidarity amid Refugee Crises” organised by Woods and supported by
  the White Rose Collaboration Fund. Woods subsequently developed a White Rose
  College of Arts and Humanities funded collaborative PGR project, co-supervised with


                                                                                      Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Dr Thorne from 2019-2022, on “Arts Engagement and Storytelling as Pathways to
  Solidarity with Refugees”.

  Centre for Democratic Engagement (CDE)
  CDE has established a distinctive identity as a Research Centre dedicated to
  understanding challenges to democracy, democratic engagement, and democratic
  renewal. For example, Leston-Bandeira’s funded research (ESRC and Leverhulme
  Trust), involves intensive collaboration with parliamentary staff and civil society
  organisations in the UK, Australia, Brazil, Nepal, and Portugal, and focuses on how
  parliaments can design and reform their public engagement activities, including through
  digital technology (see REF3). These collaborations are supported through the Centre,
  which now hosts the International Parliament Engagement Network with over 200
  members in over 30 countries including international academics, parliamentary staff,
  and civil society groups (e.g. Involve, the Democratic Society, Hope for the Future), who
  regularly engage with the Centre’s activities, including coordinated grant proposals,
  workshops, and public events. Through these networks CDE has contributed regularly
  to select committee inquiries into issues of public engagement and political and
  constitutional reform (Heppell, Theakston). Leston-Bandeira has also co-produced
  groundbreaking collaborative collections on legislatures in Brazil, Iberia, and the UK,
  including an OUP book, Exploring Parliament (2018), developed in partnership with the
  UK parliament and bringing together over 60 authors including academics and
  parliamentary officials. CDE also hosts two ESRC WRDTP Collaborative Studentships
  with the UK House of Commons, focusing on digital engagement (2017-2020) and
  children, democracy, and inclusiveness (2020-2023). The first of these, awarded to
  PGR Nisbett, produced a co-designed web tool for parliamentary staff to extract
  meaningful information from citizen input, which is now used by the House of Commons
  to encourage changes to the practice of its public engagement activities.

  Another rich seam of CDE research concerns how contemporary challenges to
  democracy should be identified and understood, as well as their implications. For
  example, as well as being a member of the Northern Ireland Election Study team (2015,
  2017, 2019), Evans has led an international team on an ESRC-ORA (£1,201,700) four-
  country comparative study of the Radical Right. Evans has co-edited The Handbook of
  Electoral Behaviour (Sage, 2017), a state-of-the-art psephology volume bringing
  together more than 70 world-leaders in empirical voting models. Scholars in CDE have
  also edited book series on themes including Palgrave’s “French Politics, Society and
  Culture” (Evans) and MUP’s “New perspectives on the Right” (Hayton). Dean’s
  collaborative Leverhulme-funded research into populism with Maiguashca (Essex) has
  produced influential outputs challenging empirical and theoretical assumptions that
  often underwrite populism studies (e.g. Journal of Political Ideologies). Bolsover has led
  a special issue on the dangers of computational propaganda (Big Data), working with
  the Oxford Internet Institute to disseminate her findings with international ministries of
  defence, intelligence forums, and global companies including Facebook. Rinke has
  published original research on the role of digital media and news journalism in politics
  (Journal of Communication, Medien & Kommunikationswissenschaft) and recently
  become Associate Editor of the world-leading journal in this field, Political
  Communication.


                                                                                      Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  To reach wider policy and academic audiences and increase its research reputation,
  CDE has hosted a series of large public lectures by figures such as President of the
  Supreme Court, Baroness Brenda Hale, Harriet Harman, and John Bercow. Scholars in
  CDE have been engaged in a wide range of public events organized with impact
  partners to discuss international priorities, such as challenges presented by Brexit. This
  includes day-long workshops examining “Democratic Engagement in the Age of Brexit”,
  “The North after Brexit”, and “Britain in Africa after Brexit”, which involved
  parliamentarians, government ministers, international diplomats, DfID, MoD, the FCDO,
  and Chatham House.

  European Centre for the Responsibility to Protect (ECR2P)
  ECR2P has established POLIS as a world-leading specialist centre of R2P research
  and scholarship with global links to its sister institutes in the Asia-Pacific and North
  America. The leading international journal on R2P - Global Responsibility to Protect –
  is now edited by Gallagher with Cecilia Jacob (ANU) and Charles Hunt (Queensland).
  Over this REF period ECR2P has advanced core debates within the discipline. For
  example, its researchers have organised a series of ESRC-funded collaborative
  workshops in Leeds, London, and Sheffield on the concept of humanity resulting in a
  special issue of International Politics, including leading IR scholars Ken Booth
  (University) and Michael Doyle (Columbia). They have also edited four other special
  issues (International Politics, Global Responsibility to Protect, Criminal Law Forum, and
  Ethics and International Affairs). ECR2P has hosted a series of large international
  conferences with contributions from UN officials, ICC judges, senior foreign diplomats,
  and civil society groups. For example, Stefan co-organized an ESRC-funded
  conference on “Gender and R2P”, with participation from disciplinary leaders working
  on these topics (e.g. Jacqui True, Kristen Ainley). Gallagher organized an ISA-funded
  catalyst workshop and follow-up Asia-Pacific ISA workshop on “The Future of Norm
  Studies” involving world-leading scholars such as Martha Finnemore, Katherine Sikkink,
  Antje Wiener, Shannon Zimmerman and Amitav Acharya. ECR2P’s research
  excellence has been recognized by the British Academy Rising Star Award and EJIR
  Article of the Year Award for Ralph’s co-authorship with Gifkins (Manchester and
  ECR2P).

  Through its established connections to senior officials at the UN, international
  governments, and NGOs – of whom many are affiliated formally to the Centre – ECR2P
  has promoted strategies to help shape the future direction of the prevention and
  protection agendas of multiple stakeholders (see REF3). ECR2P influences policy
  debates on crises such as Myanmar, Xinjiang, or Central African Republic, as well as
  thematic analysis related to foreign policy, R2P and atrocity prevention. ECR2P staff
  have given oral evidence to Parliament and ECR2P has made over ten submissions of
  written evidence in the last four years. The ECR2P is a founding member of the UK
  Atrocity Prevention Work Group, a network of some 25 NGOs, research institutions and
  experts that coordinate and collaborate on related issues.

  To address the marginalization of women within IR debates about protection,
  intervention and security, Stefan established the “Women Network on the Responsibility
  to Protect, Peace and Security”, housed at the ECR2P. This network comprises female
  academics (including experts, PGRs and ECRs), and a range of policy actors, including

                                                                                      Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  experienced diplomats, judges, UN and EU officials, journalists, civil society leaders and
  charity directors. This has further consolidated and embedded the Centre’s affiliated
  impact partners, which include ECR2P’s Chair of Policy, Kate Ferguson (Protection
  Approaches), the former UN Secretary-General’s Special Adviser on the R2P, Jennifer
  Welsh, and the current office holder, Karen Smith.

  Centre for Global Security Challenges (CGSC)
  At a time when security issues increasingly operate at global scale, interconnected and
  mutually reinforcing, CGSC was formed in 2019 to consolidate and develop POLIS
  research and expertise in the study of security. POLIS has long-established
  collaborations in this area and our staff have co-authored world-leading outputs from
  quantitative projects exploring public opinion and foreign policy (Journal of Conflict
  Resolution, ISQ), and civil conflict (Journal of Peace Research, Energy Policy).
  Newman and Worrall have galvanized international work in this field of study through
  their editorial roles on Civil Wars and Newman is the founder and current co-editor of
  the influential Routledge series “Studies in Civil Wars and Inter-State Conflict”.
  Beardsworth’s recent special issue of European Review of International Studies has
  drawn together interdisciplinary expertise across IR, Psychology, and the
  Neurosciences to augment a new approach to the study of norms of warfare. In this
  area, PGR Waterman was awarded the Global Policy North Prize for the best thesis for
  his research into counterinsurgency in India.

  One of core priorities of the Centre has been to challenge the traditional boundaries of
  security studies. Its inaugural conference in May 2019 brought together scholars from
  across social science and the arts to explore “New Directions in Security Studies:
  Interdisciplinary Perspectives” and the Centre has since hosted the “Popular Culture
  and World Politics” conference for the journal Critical Security Studies. This builds upon
  existing strengths of our international collaborations, such as Robinson’s work with
  Susan Jackson (Stockholm) funded by the Swedish Research Council (total £1.8m) to
  develop novel theoretical and empirical insights into militarization, social media, and
  popular culture through a gendered lens (Perspectives on Politics).

  CGSC houses the European Journal of International Security, a BISA-CUP journal
  which publishes theoretical, methodological, and empirical papers at the cutting-edge
  of security research in the political sciences and brings together an international editorial
  team. CGSC scholars have also produced collaborative edited collections with
  international authors on a wide range of security studies research, including US foreign
  policy (Holland), terrorism (Clubb), Chinese soft power (Edney) and state recognition
  (Newman).

  CGSC is focused on pressing challenges to global security and its members have
  shared their research with diverse societal audiences. In response to COVID-19, Brown
  sits on the UK Cabinet Office COVID-19 Response Roundtable and provided insights
  that were included in a series of reports for Cabinet Ministers and the Prime Minister.
  He also works with the WHO Director of Evidence and Analytics for Health Security
  (EHS), who has drawn on his research (BMJ) to underwrite the new “Health Systems
  for Health Security” framework currently being co-written with Brown at the WHO in
  2020. Considine contributed to the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research

                                                                                         Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  programme and its report on WMD arms control verification (2020), and has built
  partnerships between CGSC and the EU Non Proliferation and Disarmament
  Consortium and the International Committee of the Red Cross to promote new research
  into humanitarian responses to nuclear weapons. Clubb works with the West African
  Centre for Counter Extremism (WACCE) in Ghana to develop their de-radicalisation
  programme, writing and implementing a new policy for the programme and delivering
  training. CGSC scholars also regularly share research into ongoing security dilemmas,
  such as the EU’s security challenges and ongoing crises in Syria and Libya, with the UK
  Parliament, the Cabinet Office, the FCDO, Home Office, MoD, and leading think tanks
  (e.g. Chatham House, BASIC, and the Foreign Policy Centre).

  Centre for Global Development
  CGD helps to shape the international research agenda into the transformation of human
  societies in response to critical global challenges. For example, its researchers are
  helping to direct the focus of major interdisciplinary consortia such as the GCRF Water
  Security and Sustainable Development Hub (Mdee and Narayanaswamy), GCRF-
  AFRICAP (Anderson) and GCRF Off Grid Cities (Mdee). CGD’s international influence
  is amplified by the wide range of editorial leadership taking place within the Centre in
  the areas of African Studies (Review of African Political Economy, Critical African
  Studies), Education (Compare: A Journal of Comparative and International Education),
  and Health (International Health and Human Rights). From 2021 CGD will house one of
  the leading Development Studies journals, Development in Practice. CGD scholars
  have also pushed forward collaborative intellectual agendas by editing special issues
  and edited collections on a wide range of topics, including neoliberal transformation in
  Africa, land, labour, economic fraud, and the global political economy of health, among
  others, for leading journals such as Review of International Political Economy and New
  Political Economy.

  CGD expertise is widely valued in practitioner circles. In the area of health, Anderson’s
  collaboration with Amy Patterson (Sewanee) analyzing African agency in global health
  won the International Studies Association Global Health Section best book prize in
  2018. Anderson’s work on African health generated policy-relevant insights, and she
  co-developed and drafted the Malawian government’s National Gender and HIV
  Implementation Plan, which drew extensively on her work and that of PGR
  Chinyamunyamu. Brown shared his findings on performance-based financing
  extensively with the Ministries of Health in Zimbabwe and Mozambique and also the
  World Bank’s Institute of Health. He also designed and delivered a training program for
  health diplomats for the Eastern, Central, and Southern African Health Community.

  In education, Dyer’s work in partnership with NGOs, governments, and UN agencies
  (on GCRF/ESRC, ESRC/DfiD and British Academy projects totalling over £1m), has
  produced significant new insights into how and why rural populations are marginalized
  from formal education provision and how these barriers can be overcome (see REF3).
  In the area of food, Bush was commissioned by the UN FAO to write a report on family
  farming in North Africa and the Near East drawing on his long-standing collaborative
  research into agrarian transformation (e.g. World Development) and he has
  communicated his research findings to international public audiences through his film


                                                                                     Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  documentary Fellahin with Habib Ayeb (Paris 8) on the role of peasants in the Egyptian
  and Tunisian 2010-11 uprisings.

  Spaiser’s innovative work on big data and the SDGs has been used by the UN, and she
  has subsequently worked closely with ESRC-funded PGR, Emami (co-supervised with
  Mathematics), to devise and develop a project working directly with the UN and the
  World Bank on the interactive effects between different SDGs. Lightfoot and Kobayashi
  have produced significant new insights into public attitudes towards aid (e.g. ISQ, World
  Development, BJPS) through international collaborations with Heinrich and Bryant
  (South Carolina), Davies (York) and Johns (Essex). Some of these insights have been
  taken up by FCDO to help refocus and reframe its communications strategy in order to
  make the defence of aid more robust and resilient in the face of populist challenges to
  the very idea of aid (see REF3).




                                                                                     Page 22
