Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Leeds

 Unit of Assessment: UoA12—Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 a. Overview
 This submission represents four of the eight Schools in the Faculty of Engineering and Physical
 Sciences, together with the closely aligned Institute for Transport Studies in the Faculty of
 Environment. The Schools, the Heads of Schools, and the number of academics (not all
 returned in this UoA) are:
      Chemical & Process Engineering (CHEM): Professor Elaine Martin OBE FREng,
       58 academics.
      Civil Engineering (CIVIL): Professor Muhammed Basheer FREng, 45 academics.
      Electronic & Electrical Engineering (ELEC): Professor Robert Kelsall, 44 academics.
      Mechanical Engineering (MECH): Professor Harvey Thompson, 56 academics.
      Transport Studies (ITS): Professor Simon Shepherd, 37 academics.
 The University’s 2015–2020 strategic plan (REF5a) underpinned an unparalleled period of
 investment in research infrastructure and personnel in this Unit, supporting the Schools not only
 to deliver, but exceed, the ambitions presented in their REF2014 submissions, discussed below
 by School. A common focus across the Unit has been to promote and grow interdisciplinary
 research to address technological and societal challenges through internal and external
 partnerships, both nationally and globally; indeed, over one half of our outputs in REF2 are
 collaborative with at least one international co-author. This has been achieved through the
 development of major externally-funded collaborative research centres, e.g. in medical
 technologies and in infrastructure materials, as well as through major University capital
 investment delivering, e.g. our new Sir William Henry Bragg Building and the new Bragg Centre
 for Materials Research. Major investment in personnel has been made into early career
 researchers through, e.g. our University Academic Fellowship (UAF) scheme, as well as into
 senior leadership chairs, with many appointments made jointly between Schools within, and
 external to this Unit. This has embedded interdisciplinarity, and further improved the quality
 and volume of our research outputs, and the breadth and depth of our research impact.
 The formation of the single Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences in 2019 through the
 combination of the former Faculty of Engineering and Faculty of Mathematics & Physical
 Sciences has further consolidated our goal of driving interdisciplinary working, by opening new
 opportunities for research networking and communication, and through development of co-
 located and consolidated research facilities.

 b. Research objectives during the assessment period and over the next five years
 A detailed and evidenced discussion on how we met, and exceeded, our REF2014 research
 objectives is provided here by School, followed by our vision for the Unit over the next period.
 Reference to selected REF2 outputs (e.g. CHEM-1) and impact case studies (e.g. ICS-1) are
 indicated. Colleagues with outputs in this submission are named in bold.

 School of Chemical and Process Engineering
 Research structure of the School
 Following a £38M refurbishment completed in this period, we re-organised into three
 externally-facing divisions to support the research goals outlined in our REF2014 submission:
 Advanced Materials Engineering (AME) (lead: Bell FREng FIEEE; 17 FTE) conducts
 research into the characterisation and control of microstructure-processing-property

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 relationships during materials/device fabrication, and in engineering applications.
 Innovative Manufacturing and Products (IMP) (lead: Roberts FREng; 17.5 FTE) develops
 new manufacturing routes and methods, allowing better control of product functionality,
 consistency, and quality.
 Sustainable Systems and Processes (SSP) (lead: Jones(J); 19.5 FTE) integrates research
 into the design, operation and life-cycle analysis of sustainable chemical and energy
 systems.

 Overview of the School’s research objectives and achievements since 2014
 In REF2014 we set a goal to increase our leadership and participation in major national and
 international materials research infrastructure. Advanced Materials Engineering has achieved
 this through leading on the formation of the University’s Bragg Centre for Materials Research
 (§3(b)), through founding membership of the Henry Royce Institute, and by developing closer
 links via new joint appointments with SuperSTEM (Ramasse), Diamond (Schroeder), and the
 Advanced Photon Source (Mishra). Research highlights include: production of the world’s
 thinnest 2D gold (CHEM-105); elucidation of p/n graphene doping mechanisms (CHEM-37); and,
 visualisation of catalyst dynamics at single atom levels (CHEM-80) and in hierarchical porous
 networks (CHEM-42). Resolving longstanding structural ambiguities in a variety of energy
 materials (CHEM-81,92), we discovered a new class of relaxor multiferroics (CHEM-44). We
 developed high performance lead-free electroceramics (CHEM-24), commercialised a new high-
 temperature ferroelectric for process monitoring (CHEM-8), and achieved homogeneous laser-
 doping of photonic glasses (CHEM-36). Newly developed materials characterisation methods
 include nanoscale vibrational spectroscopy (CHEM-91), in situ X-ray Raman scattering (CHEM-
 95), and hydrogen bonding spectroscopy (CHEM-11).
 Our 2014 goals included the development of new molecular product design approaches and
 digital process manufacturing technologies for the pharmaceutical, food and personal care
 sectors. To achieve this, Innovative Manufacturing and Products focused its vision around
 an interdisciplinary ‘Molecules to Product’ research concept, enabled via strategic industrial
 partnerships, and appointed new tenure-track UAFs (Warren, Hondow). Highlights include
 development of side-effect-free iron food supplements (CHEM-2), and micro-encapsulate
 delivery strategies for volatile additives (CHEM-28) and targeted drugs (CHEM-93). Industrial
 impact was achieved through development of digital design and manufacturing processes
 including: particulate spray drying (CHEM-29); self-optimised flow reactions for pharmaceuticals
 (CHEM-63,50,90), leading to rapid cancer drug delivery to market (ICS-5); and, rapid cell-
 screening methods for biopharma production (CHEM-23). A further 2014 goal was to develop
 understanding of nanoparticle toxicity, which we have achieved through identification of: zinc
 oxide nanoparticle toxicity mechanisms (CHEM-4); pathways for intestinal nanoparticle uptake
 (CHEM-20); a new nanoparticle tracking method in cell populations (CHEM-9); and, improved
 prediction of inhaled drug-delivery efficiency (CHEM-13).
 In 2014, we aimed to consolidate critical-mass research in renewable energy and nuclear
 engineering, and build on industrial links. This has been successful, with highlights from
 Sustainable Systems and Processes including the development of new production
 methods for high quality chemical products and biofuels from low quality biomass (CHEM-
 43,74) and algae (CHEM-30,45), as well as carbon nanotubes/hydrogen from waste plastics
 (CHEM-76). Whole energy-system integration approaches have quantitatively assessed
 biomass-driven decarbonisation in global steel industries (CHEM-86) and roof-top solar
 energy at city-wide levels (CHEM-19). Our investment in nuclear research has included new
 active-handling laboratories leading to new remediation technologies for active water (CHEM-
 65), and new mechanistic understanding of microstructural changes in irradiated graphite
 moderators (CHEM-10) and particle behaviour in waste-flows (CHEM-89), with adoption by

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 UK nuclear waste management and decommissioning.

 School of Civil Engineering
 Research structure of the School
 In this period, we restructured into three interconnected groups to deliver our REF2014 research
 plans and to respond effectively to national priorities and international opportunities such as the
 UN Sustainable Development Goals.
 Water, Public Health and Environmental Engineering (WPE) (lead: Stewart(D); 13.3 FTE)
 integrates physical, biological, chemical, social and economic sciences to inform delivery of
 robust and effective infrastructure and systems.
 In Materials and Structural Engineering (MSE) (lead: Bernal-Lopez; 12 FTE), world-leading
 research in infrastructure materials combines nanomaterials science with the measurement and
 modelling of full-scale structures, informing the design of future built environments.
 In Cities, Energy and Sustainable Buildings (CESB) (lead: Rees; 14.5 FTE), systems and
 socio-economic approaches are coupled with the physics of the built environment. We inform
 sustainable, energy efficient and resilient infrastructure design.

 Overview of the School’s research objectives and achievements since 2014
 In 2014, we planned to build on our success in understanding airborne infection, develop
 integrated approaches to water and sanitation challenges in the developing world, and tackle
 remediation and resource recovery. In Water, Public Health and Environmental Engineering
 our global analyses produced the first international models of plastic pollution (CIVIL-84) and
 faecal sludge management in rapidly urbanising environments (CIVIL-44), underpinning
 methods for measuring progress against UN Sustainable Development Goals (ICS-1).
 Collaborative activities in fluid dynamics led to patents for 3D-printed heat exchangers with BAE
 Systems (CIVIL-76) and world-first real-time airflow simulation for indoor environments (CIVIL-
 15). Our stochastic infection-risk models directly linking air, surface and hand contamination to
 hospital design (CIVIL-11) have informed international Covid-19 responses via our SAGE
 membership (ICS-8). Collaborative international research on bio-geo-chemical processes
 included the first explanation of the fate of nutrients in thermally-treated biomass (CIVIL-25,30),
 and seminal advances in coupled physico-chemical models for groundwater flows (CIVIL-34).
 We recruited Beretta and Trigg to address global issues on flood risk (CIVIL-65), a further 2014
 goal.
 Materials and Structural Engineering research advanced fundamental understanding of the
 performance and durability of materials to inform low-carbon, sustainable and resilient design.
 We recruited to reflect international interest in the impact of cementitious materials (Basheer,
 Bernal-Lopez, Garcia-Taengua, Barbhuiya). Highlights include the first coherent models both
 for the structure of calcium silicate hydrate binding phases in cement (CIVIL-10), and for the role
 of slag chemistry in cements that utilise industrial by-products (CIVIL-7,71). Fundamental work
 underpinning international design codes includes: the first full-scale demonstrations of the
 structural effect of edge restraint (CIVIL-70); and, the first explanations of the contribution of
 individual components in masonry-infilled frames and lightweight steel systems to earthquake
 response (CIVIL-62). Structures research has contributed world-first applications of quasi-
 steady aerodynamic theory to bridges (CIVIL-3) and models of splitting risk in reinforced
 concrete (CIVIL-16).
 A particular goal in our 2014 REF submission was to develop analyses of the complex interplay
 between resilience and technical infrastructure performance, supporting innovations for energy
 efficiency and sustainable building design. In the Cities, Energy and Sustainable Buildings
 group we have pioneered new systems approaches combining economic, environmental and

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 engineering analyses for assessing energy and infrastructure resource lifecycles (CIVIL-
 4,54,66), and a web-based tool for tackling multi-stakeholder approaches to maintaining urban
 infrastructure (CIVIL-83). This led to national leadership of the UKRI Resource Recovery from
 Waste Programme, and leading roles in two UKRI Circular Economy Centres and the ISCF
 Foundation Industries Network Plus. We invested in high-speed rail research capacity (§3(b)) in
 response to global transit strategies, recruiting Woodward and Connolly. Our new energy
 systems investments have yielded: unique statistical approaches for assessing risk in mega-
 projects and energy infrastructure (CIVIL-33) that directly inform BEIS strategy; and, a gold-
 standard data set for modelling geothermal heat exchange systems (CIVIL-60). We have also
 invested in architectural engineering, including through recruitment of Selim and Sarhosis.

 School of Electronic and Electrical Engineering
 Research structure of the School
 Since 2014, the School restructured its research into three institutes to reflect a growing focus
 on robotics and autonomous systems, to integrate research on communications and power
 networks and, to broaden the scope of its activities in optoelectronics and (bio-) nanotechnology.
 The Pollard Institute (Pollard) (Lead: Wälti; 18 FTE) explores high frequency electronics from
 GHz to THz frequencies, quantum electronic devices, semiconductor nanotechnology, and bio-
 nanoelectronics.
 The Institute of Communications and Power Networks (ICaPNet) (Lead: Elmirghani FIEEE;
 9 FTE) carries out research on communications, smart energy systems, signal processing,
 control systems and instrumentation, and engages with all major telecommunication companies.
 The Institute of Robotics, Autonomous Systems and Sensing (IRASS) (Lead: Valdastri;
 10 FTE) undertakes research in the fields of robotics, autonomous systems and sensing, with a
 strong focus on the translational impact of its discoveries.

 Overview of the School’s research objectives and achievements since 2014
 In our REF 2014 submission we planned to develop optoelectronic components and sub-
 systems, with a focus on terahertz frequency quantum cascade lasers (THz QCLs), and
 underpin development of nanoscale electronics for future high frequency devices. Highlights in
 the Pollard Institute include: the first electrically-pumped THz topological laser (ELEC-95); the
 first measurement of the switch-on dynamics of a frequency-tuneable semiconductor laser
 (ELEC-74); the first THz self-mixing near-field microscope (ELEC-29); fully phase-stabilized THz
 QCL frequency combs (ELEC-88); and, locking of a THz QCL to an optical comb reference
 (ELEC-58), and ultimately to the GPS primary frequency standard. We demonstrated the first
 lasing of a direct bandgap Group IV semiconductor (GeSn) on Si (ELEC-16), leading to ultra-low
 threshold lasing in tensile-strained GeSn alloys (ELEC-96). We also explored the physics of
 skyrmions (ELEC-55), artificial spin ices (ELEC-77) and domain-wall logic (ELEC-84).
 We also planned to integrate biological functionality into nanostructured electronic devices to
 develop new functional materials and devices, targeting therapeutic delivery. Highlights include:
 (i) the demonstration of label-free biosensors leading to commercial spin out (ELEC-28); directed
 self-assembly of RecA nucleoprotein filaments (ELEC-2); and, the observation of RecA-
 mediated homology searching (ELEC-61); (ii) the use of nano-tweezers for trapping single
 molecules within a single cell (ELEC-78) and delivery of individual protein oligomers into living
 cells (ELEC-34); (iii) new suturing techniques for fetal surgery (ELEC-37), and development of
 organ-on-chip models of the human endometrium (ELEC-47); and, (iv) cell separation using
 surface acoustic waves leading to commercial spin out (ELEC-46).
 In 2014, we planned to design energy efficient optical networks, content distribution networks
 and data centre architectures. Highlights in the Institute of Communications and Power

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Networks include passive optical network designs for data centres (ELEC-26) leading to
 commercial spin out, new distributed progressive processing for greening big data networks
 (ELEC-62) and, use of distributed energy efficient clouds over core networks (ELEC-6), leading
 to IEEE standards (§4(c)). We also expanded activity to encompass smart energy systems
 through the appointment of one Chair (Li(K)) and four lecturers (Aristidou, Azizi, Lawey,
 Schiffer).
 In 2014, we proposed exploiting functionalized microbubbles for targeted therapeutic delivery,
 exploiting our expertise in ultrasonics, signal processing and embedded systems. We have:
 explored liposome-loaded microbubbles for subharmonic imaging (ELEC-43); investigated gold
 nanoparticles for focused ultrasound therapy (ELEC-60); and, demonstrated high frame-rate
 contrast-enhanced echocardiography (ELEC-80). We expanded into surgical and medical
 robotics, and with the appointment of two overseas chairs (Valdastri, Xie) joint with MECH, and
 three UAFs (Mazomenos, Zaidi, Zhang(Z)), we established the new Institute, the Institute of
 Robotics, Autonomous Systems and Sensing. Highlights include the demonstration of
 closed-loop micro-ultrasound imaging in the bowel using intelligent magnetic manipulation
 (ELEC-87), with the additional introduction of robotic assistance (ELEC-104) reducing the
 burden on surgeons through autonomous control.

 School of Mechanical Engineering
 Research structure of the School
 As planned in our 2014 REF submission, we divided our former large Institute of Engineering
 Thermofluids, Surfaces and Interfaces into the two new Institutes of Functional Surfaces (iFS)
 and Thermofluids (iTF). The School is now organised into four research institutes.
 With a vision of ‘50 active years after 50’, the Institute of Medical and Biological Engineering
 (iMBE) (Lead: Wilcox; 11 FTE) comprises engineers, scientists, medics and clinicians, and aims
 to make a lasting impact on improving the quality of life of an ageing population.
 The Institute of Functional Surfaces (iFS) (Lead: Neville OBE FRS FREng; 8 FTE) carries out
 challenging research from basic science through to application in tribology and surface
 engineering, corrosion, and flow assurance, with impact on energy, transport and healthcare
 industries.
 Institute of Thermofluids (iTF) (Lead: Wilson; 14 FTE) develops powerful experimental and
 modelling techniques for understanding of flows and processes with impact in healthcare,
 combustion, transport, sustainability, energy and manufacturing.
 Institute of Design, Robotics and Optimisation (iDRO) (Lead: Richardson(R); 17 FTE)
 focusses on theoretical and experimental research in mechatronics and robotics in infrastructure
 and healthcare technologies, hybrid manufacturing, design sciences, and energy efficient
 automotive and aerospace structures.

 Overview of the School’s research objectives and achievements since 2014
 Within the Institute of Medical and Biological Engineering our 2014 goals were to increase
 our natural joint simulation capabilities, grow our research on biological scaffolds and
 regenerative interventions, and extend our computer simulation and modelling capabilities to all
 human joint systems. Highlights include: the first six axis natural knee simulator for in-vitro
 studies of natural joints (MECH-31), providing insights on mechanical cartilage degradation
 (MECH-74); the first quantification of non-directly measurable mechanical behaviour of fibrous
 tissues (MECH-23), and; development of a hydrogel for disc regeneration that mimics natural
 tissue behaviour (MECH-41). Furthermore, we developed the first processes for
 decellularisation of porcine superflexor tendon as an acellular scaffold for anterior cruciate
 ligament repair (MECH-53), and established new bioprocessing techniques for the efficient

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 removal of genetic content from porcine tendon (MECH-15).
 To capitalise on the growth of our corrosion/tribology/surface engineering research, we set the
 objective to develop a UK centre of excellence on functional surfaces. We have achieved this
 through the Institute of Functional Surfaces and highlights include: the first in situ synchrotron
 study of corrosion products growth (MECH-75); development of bespoke equipment for in situ
 study of tribochemistry processes (MECH-27,56) underpinning unique mechanistic (MECH-44),
 and multiscale numerical (MECH-18) models; and, the first demonstration of the role of mixed-
 metal coupling on tribocorrosion at the femoral stem-cement interface (MECH-13). Additionally,
 we developed the first 3D nanoprinting system using triboreactive materials (MECH-89), and a
 robust coating strategy of flexible substrates to boost the Hydrogen Evolution Reaction
 performance (MECH-113).
 The Institute of Thermofluids was launched in 2014 to focus on key thermofluidic phenomena
 in combustion and optimization. During this REF period: we showed for the first time that water
 inclusion must be considered in the combustion of future ethanol-based fuels (MECH-5); we
 developed an advanced optimisation process for maximising aero-engine thermodynamic cycle
 performance (MECH-51); and, we developed a new method for assessing dynamic surface
 tension and transient shear viscosity in nozzles/jets (MECH-14). In addition, new
 interdisciplinary research led to: enhanced oilfield scale prevention through inhibitor adsorption
 on carbon nanotubes (MECH-55); and, the first direct experimental evidence of the impact of
 extensional flow on protein stability (MECH-65).
 As planned in our 2014 submission, we refocused the Institute of Design, Robotics and
 Optimisation to be a hub for advanced design and manufacturing of innovative robotic systems
 for industrial and medical applications. Our stated goal to become an international centre of
 excellence in robotics has been enabled through formation of the Robotics@Leeds network
 (§3(b)) in collaboration with the IRASS Institute in ELEC, the School of Computing, and wider.
 Highlights include: the first meta-model and benchmark for product system definitions (MECH-
 11); the first implantable soft system for restoring cardiac output (MECH-62); the first soft
 inductive tactile sensor which exploits an inductance-transducer mechanism based on the eddy-
 current effect (MECH-80); and, the development of a portfolio of unique techniques to manage
 tether kinematics (MECH-10). Furthermore, we developed new capability in hybrid
 manufacturing through recruitment of Harris, Kay, Lee, and Saleh. Achievements include low
 cost, efficient infrared nanosecond laser textured surfaces for chemical sensing (MECH-42), and
 development of multifunctional metal matrix composites with embedded printed electrical
 materials fabricated by ultrasonic additive manufacturing (MECH-59).

 Institute for Transport Studies
 Research structure of the Institute
 ITS moved into a new £4M building in 2017, and undertakes multi-disciplinary research at the
 interface between academia, policy and practice with researchers belonging to one of five
 discipline-based research groups; our Social and Political Sciences group is returned to
 UoA14. The other four groups are:
 The Choice Modelling group (Lead: Hess; 2.8 FTE) develops mathematical models to
 understand the drivers of individual activity and travel choices, ranging from long-term choices
 such as residential location through to short-term choices such as route and even motorway lane
 selection.
 Economics and Appraisal (Lead: Smith(A); 7.2 FTE) develops understanding in the
 economics of transport demand and supply (both passenger and freight) and the economic
 appraisal of transport investments and policy interventions, and how these impact on individual


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 travel decisions and the overall business case for transport investment and wider interventions.
 Human Factors and Safety (Lead: Merat; 5.5 FTE) researches road users’ interactions with
 transport systems and technologies to advance transport safety, using field operational tests,
 naturalistic driving studies, and laboratory studies.
 Spatial Modelling and Dynamics (Lead: Watling; 11.2 FTE) develops and validates
 mathematical models and simulation tools for representation, analysis and optimization of traffic
 and transportation systems with a focus on use of big data in new modelling approaches.

 Overview of the Institute’s research objectives and achievements since 2014
 Within the Choice Modelling group, we have delivered on our 2014 plans to develop enhanced
 methodologies for choice modelling, contributing fundamental theory as well as applications to
 practical problems using new data sources such as GPS (ITS-12,28,33,39). We developed new
 methodology for estimating origin-destination matrices using mobile phone records from 2.87
 million anonymized users in Dhaka (ITS-4).
 In this period, the Human Factors and Safety group aimed to grow research in intelligent
 vehicles, refocussing around automation and safety, and building on our evolving ‘Virtuocity’
 simulator assets (§3(c)). To enable this, we hired new chair (Romano) and drew on our
 successful partnership with Jaguar Land Rover, EU projects, and development of our driving
 simulator (ITS-41,44). This has resulted in the first understanding of driver behaviour and
 braking, and validation of simulators with Volvo (ITS-17,23), together with understanding of
 human factors around the transition to automation (ITS-26,37), and driver workload (ITS-3).
 In 2014, a goal of the Economics and Appraisal group was to develop our rail economics
 research to deliver major policy impacts. We led work around values of travel time savings that
 have been taken into policy guidance (ICS-7), materially affecting the HS2 business case and
 resulting in recommendations that have driven £85M per annum through the Schedule 8
 regulatory regime of the British passenger rail industry (ITS-15,16,24). Our research into
 structure and operations has influenced the UK and EU rail operations (ITS-10,19,40), and has
 informed railway franchising in UK and Norway (ITS-5). We diversified into road transport,
 developing the benchmarking club for road maintenance (ITS-51).
 In this period, we planned to deliver improved methods for modelling complex transport networks
 in the Spatial Modelling and Dynamics group. Our work on network modelling (ITS-14)
 developed algorithms now implemented in commercial software developed by the Danish
 company Rapidis, which has been adopted in the Danish National Model, and in the European
 Union's Transtools 3 software forming the new standard for European network policy
 assessment. We responded to new challenges such as the ‘diesel-gate’ scandal and how
 pollution impacts asthma in children. We also took the opportunity to strengthen our electric
 vehicle research through appointment of Anable who worked on market segmentation and
 uptake of electric vehicles informing European Climate Foundation and US Department of
 Energy, fulfilling our ambition to increase presence in the transport and energy area.

 Vision and Future Research Strategy of the Unit
 Our research objectives over the next five years focus on cross-cutting challenges enabled by
 the Unit’s critical mass of interdisciplinary expertise, exceptional experimental and computational
 facilities, and international research leadership. Central to our vision is the development of
 effective physical and digital infrastructure systems that underpin lives and work. Current and
 future energy, transport and water infrastructure must be efficient, resilient and able to support
 the transition to a zero-carbon future. We will expand and diversify our research into healthcare
 technologies, improving patient outcomes and well-being, and build upon the remarkable
 breadth of research and innovation across the Unit and wider. We will capitalise on the

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 significant internal and external investment over this REF period (§3) including our new £96M
 Sir William Henry Bragg Building incorporating the £20M Bragg Centre for Materials Research,
 both opening in Spring 2021, and our new ten-acre £23M Infrastructure Innovation Park opening
 in 2022 which, in the first phase of occupancy, will house our new £50M Institute of High-Speed
 Rail and System Integration, and the £16M National Centre for Infrastructure Materials.
      We will commission our Infrastructure Innovation Park, and build our new Institute of High-
       Speed Rail and System Integration to be the most advanced centre in the world for high-
       speed rail planning, design, construction and testing. We will develop further major new
       facilities in field robotics, city simulation, and energy-intensive foundation industries. We
       will re-house and re-develop our Virtuocity suite of fully-immersive truck, car and
       pedestrian simulators and build capability in distributed simulation to support the
       development of UK transport policy and on the introduction of autonomous vehicles. We
       will lead research in the whole life performance of cleaner infrastructure systems from
       material supply to end-of-life disposal of decommissioned installations, integrating these
       considerations into design processes. Furthermore, we will expand our research on
       infrastructure economics, to understand better the funding, finance and political economy
       of infrastructure.
      We will reduce the carbon footprint associated with electrical energy consumption,
       developing new methodologies for smart grids encompassing renewable energy sources,
       providing new approaches for efficient data centre operation, and implementing new
       spintronic, ferroelectric, and high frequency (RF and terahertz) device technologies. We
       will grow our leadership of national facilities, such as Super-STEM and Diamond, and
       develop new partnerships through our leadership of the Royce Institute and our Bragg
       Centre for Materials Research, building on our expertise in in situ/transient measurements,
       operando studies, and interfacial properties. A focus will be on intelligent and sustainable
       material design, informed by product and component specifications, and end-of-life
       degradation and recycling, connecting through to digital manufacturing processes, for
       example in the pharmaceutical sector.
      We will develop the next generation of healthcare technologies, growing our successful
       partnerships with clinical practitioners, the NHS Trust, and industry, including the
       development of joint replacements with consistently excellent outcomes, functional
       decellularized scaffolds, and robust preclinical testing and simulation systems. We will
       address emerging opportunities around technology convergence and the integration of
       digital technologies into new therapies and evaluation systems, including the development
       and integration of sensors and biomarkers for point-of-care diagnostics and personalised
       therapy, sustainable and effective minimally invasive surgical robotic systems, and organ-
       on-chip and microfluidic capabilities for testing drug efficacy. Clean water is an urgent
       global requirement, with its unavailability linked to poverty, ill-health and marginalisation.
       We will contribute to sustainable water, sanitation, and waste management services, as
       well as healthcare screening platforms and robot-assisted rehabilitation methodologies to
       improve infrastructure and services for the most marginalised members of global society.

 c. How the Unit has enabled research impact, and is ensuring the vitality and
 sustainability of our impact
 In this period, the Unit has enabled a wide range of national and international impact in industry,
 public health and wellbeing, public policy and practice, standards and guidance, and outreach.
 Specialized research and innovation development managers (RIDMs) in the Faculty, and
 centrally, work with researchers to find/build strategic stakeholder partnerships, undertake early
 development of exploitation (including through strategic allocation of e.g. School, IAA and HEIF
 funding for pump-priming explorative work), and support development of e.g. Knowledge

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Transfer Partnerships and Innovate UK projects, and ERC Proof of Concept awards (§3(a)).
 The exchange of personnel between academia, industry and public sector bodies (§2(e) for
 examples and mechanisms), together with consultancy, are important mechanisms to facilitate
 impact. Furthermore, our engagement with technical and regulatory bodies supports the
 development of standards, and influences future directions. School workload models reflect
 significant research and impact commitments through reduced teaching and administration
 duties. Large research grants, CDTs, and ITNs include industrial partners to help direct and
 facilitate research impact.
 The achievement of impact in commerce, the economy, and production (ICS-4, 5, 9, 10) is
 particularly supported through the University’s Commercialization Services. The University
 provides formal IP protection/management, market scoping, due diligence and exploitation
 plans, and later stage commercialisation through licencing and spin-out. The Commercialization
 team includes case managers, patent and contracts administrators, and a corporate solicitor. A
 budget covers filing of UK/PCT patent applications, management of search reports and patent
 office actions, and proof-of-market/concept funding to provide market validation.
 Seven companies were spun-out of this Unit in this period: Acuity Robotics (MECH); Cell Lane,
 Celltron Networks, and Relitect (ELEC); Free Running Buildings (CIVIL); and, Optimus Vitrum,
 and Ultramatis (CHEM). These complement a further eleven companies spun out pre-2014
 period and still active in this REF period, including: Industrial Tomography Systems (CHEM);
 Instrumental (ELEC); Ionix Advanced Technologies (CHEM); and, Tissue Regenix (MECH) (ICS-
 2). Bourne’s secondment to AstraZeneca on RAEng Industrial Fellowships facilitated ICS-5;
 similarly, Hunter(I)’s RAEng Chair with Radio Design enabled ICS-9.
 Impact on public policy and on the environment (ICS-1, 6, 7, 10) is particularly enabled by
 School funding to buy-out academic time and support engagement, including travel/visits, with
 policy makers. This approach supported Carsten’s work with the EU on the benefits of
 intelligent speed assistance in vehicles (ICS-6), and Batley’s engagement with the Office of Rail
 and Road, and the UK Department for Transport (ICS-7). ICS-1 was enabled by Evans’
 international leadership in global sanitation, including through e.g. membership of the UN
 WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme Strategic Advisory Group, with Bower’s secondment
 to Mott MacDonald supporting ICS-10. International policy impact is further supported by e.g.
 our legal, contracts and research ethics teams, and WUN membership.
 Impacts on the health and wellbeing of people (ICS-1–3, 8) have been enabled through
 company spin-out and commercialization (ICS-2), and collaborative proof-of-concept projects
 with industry, regulatory and clinical end-users e.g. NHS Blood & Transplant, NHS Leeds
 Teaching Hospital Trust. Jennings was Chair of ISO TC150/SC4 Bone and Joint Replacements
 standards (ICS-3). Fisher led the Leeds City Region Science and Innovation Audit in 2019,
 commissioned by BEIS, to guide investment for medical technologies and facilitate impact
 acceleration in the Leeds city region. Noakes’ release from University duties to join the
 government SAGE committee informed international Covid-19 responses (ICS-8).
 We are adapting our approach to support the vitality and sustainability of research impact
 though, e.g. the University’s innovation hub (‘Nexus’) and the Infrastructure Innovation Park.
 Nexus consolidates, coordinates and expands our commercialization and corporate relationship
 teams, as well as providing incubator laboratories/space. Through this approach new research
 collaborations have been initiated, including by embedding partners on campus (e.g. Jiuli Group
 laboratories, Connected Places Catapult), as well as supporting new PGR training opportunities
 (e.g. Key Engineering Solutions, partner in Marie Skłodowska-Curie Nu-SPINE ITN). The
 Infrastructure Innovation Park provides capacity for large academic and industrial programmes,
 and will house our new Institute of High-Speed Rail and System Integration and National Centre
 for Infrastructure Materials from 2022 (§3(b)), with further major research facilities in robotics,


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 city simulation, and energy-intensive foundation industries to follow.
 The University’s media team promotes our research and impact, and engage in national debate,
 with many statements/articles/interviews in national media during this period on topics ranging
 from plastic waste in oceans (Velis, BBC News at Ten, 23 July 2020) and endoscopic robotics
 (Valdastri, The Times, 13 October 2020), to autonomous vehicles (Merat, Daily Mail,
 5 February 2020) and the transmission of coronavirus (Noakes, Financial Times, 23 September
 2020). The ‘Public Engagement with Research’ team support delivery of outreach to schools
 and national science fairs, e.g. an exhibit on terahertz technology at the Royal Society Summer
 Exhibition ‘Discovery Hub’, July 2019.

 d. The Unit’s approach to supporting interdisciplinary research
 The Unit supports and pursues interdisciplinary research within Schools as well as through
 leadership of, and participation in, interdisciplinary research centres that work across traditional
 School and Faculty disciplinary boundaries (§3(b)). Such centres arise organically through
 identification of shared interests, approaches, and facilities (e.g. Robotics@Leeds), but we also
 develop centres strategically to address a national/international research and impact challenge
 that capitalizes on research excellence in the Unit (e.g. Institute of High-Speed Rail and System
 Integration). The vitality and sustainability of the centres are enabled through the appointment of
 a Centre Director with workload buy-out, a representative management committee that includes
 early-career researchers, provision of dedicated RIDM support, and funding for events/seminars
 and pump-priming research. We reserve EPSRC DTP studentships to support interdisciplinary
 projects distributed both at Faculty level and aligned with interdisciplinary initiatives e.g. the
 Bragg Centre for Materials Research internal CDT comprising 20 studentships over four years.
 Our approach and strategy for generating research income, including large interdisciplinary
 awards, is discussed in §3(a).
 Interdisciplinarity is further supported and embedded through the academic background of
 researchers (e.g. in ITS alone, this ranges from mathematics and engineering, to psychology
 and economics), through shared PGR students, and through joint appointments. Such
 appointments include: Smith(A), Toner (50% ITS, 50% Leeds University Business School);
 Wang(J) (20% ITS, 80% CIVIL); Choudhury (80% ITS, 20% CIVIL); Mao (50% CHEM, 50%
 CIVIL); Cockerill (60% MECH, 40% CHEM); Ramasse (20% Physics, 80% CHEM); Wadud
 (50% ITS, 50% CHEM); Valdastri, Xie (40% MECH, 60% ELEC); Bourne, Muller (50% CHEM,
 50% Chemistry); Zhang(Z) (70% ELEC, 30% MECH); Collins (60% CHEM, 40% Chemistry);
 Mazomenos (50% ELEC, 50% Medicine). In the UoA12 Schools, but submitted elsewhere,
 these also include: Roelich (49% CIVIL, 51% Earth and Environment); Tillotson (33% CIVIL,
 33% Geography, 33% Earth and Environment); Blacker, Nguyen (50% CHEM, 50% Chemistry);
 Bale, Taylor (50% Earth and Environment; 50% CHEM); Edwards (45% MECH, 55% Biomedical
 Sciences); Morganti (50% ITS, 50% Food Science).
 The formation of the single Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences in 2019 supports
 interdisciplinary research by opening new opportunities for networking and communication, and
 through development of co-located and consolidated laboratory facilities.

 e. How the Unit is progressing towards an open research environment, and gone
 beyond the REF open access policy requirements
 The five Schools in this Unit adopted a robust approach to open research in March 2014,
 commensurate with REF 2021 Open Access policy announcement. Exceeding the requirement
 of this policy, authors were obliged to deposit all journal and conference papers (not just those
 anticipated to feature in this submission) and where appropriate, other research outcomes,
 ahead of the mandatory deadline set by the HEFCE. We introduced a quarterly communication
 with authors to confirm compliance, together with individual support to inform and mitigate

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 problems. A dedicated appointment oversees research compliance. All outputs in this
 submission, and published while an author was employed at Leeds, are available openly via our
 institutional repository except where a publisher’s policy intervenes.
 The University implemented its Research Data Management Policy in 2017 to ensure research
 data can be shared, reused and cited beyond the end of the project, and to comply with funder
 policies. Our Institutional Data Repository holds deposited data for a minimum of ten years and
 the datasets are associated with digital object identifiers referenced in the relevant publication.
 The University encourages all research-active staff, including PGRs, to use an ORCiD ID,
 ensuring work is clearly identified by individual and organisation.

 f. How the Unit supports a culture of research integrity, and conducts research
 according to ethical, legal and professional frameworks, obligations and standards
 We uphold the principles in the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers to support research integrity, which are embedded in the inductions given to
 new academic and research staff, and reinforced through School staff meetings, School
 Research and Innovation committees, the Faculty Research and Innovation Committee, and
 during individuals’ annual Staff Review and Development Scheme (SRDS) meetings and
 Annual Academic Meetings (AAMs) (§2). Principles in the EPSRC’s Framework for
 Responsible Innovation are taught in, e.g. our CDT and other PGR training programmes.
 All colleagues with leadership responsibility undertake training and must follow the University’s
 leadership excellence behaviours. Our formal Open Access and Research Data Management
 policies support transparency in the open sharing of research results and research data, which
 themselves comply with the requirements of major research funders.
 The Faculty ethics committee provides guidance, audits compliance, and appraises research
 proposals that include significant ethical dimensions, in particular involving human participants,
 field work in developing countries, use of medical and biological samples, and research with the
 potential for adverse impact upon the environment. All externally funded grants and contracts
 undertake a risk review before submission, including appraisal of ethics, safety, data
 management, anti-bribery, export control legislation, and potential conflicts of interest.
 We seek and are awarded audited external quality assurance for our facilities, including ISO
 9001 certification in ITS and MECH, and ISO 14644-1 in CIVIL. Complementing the University’s
 highest OHSAS and RoSPA accreditation and awards, the former Faculty of Engineering has
 separately held 18001 accreditation from 2013 (now transitioning to 45001 certification), as well
 as receiving five consecutive RoSPA Gold Awards, and three RoSPA commendations.
 We uphold professional standards by encouraging, and financially supporting, staff affiliation with
 professional societies and national academies, as well as through colleagues’ contributions to:
 research council committees and peer-review grant evaluation; industry/regulatory bodies, and
 technical committees; and, through journal editorial boards and refereeing publications (§4(e)).

 2. People
 Staffing strategy and staff development
 a. The Unit’s development strategy for all staff pursuing a career in research.
 In line with the University’s Employment Policy for Research Staff, we implement the principles
 of the Concordat, as indicated below for the 2019 Concordat: C1 Environment and culture (a
 supportive and inclusive research culture); C2 Employment (researchers are recruited, employed
 and managed under conditions that recognise and value their contributions); and, C3
 Professional and career development (enabling researchers to develop their full potential).


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Staff development occurs throughout an academic career including informally through
 membership of research groups/institutes, and formally via probation discussions, the annual
 Staff Review and Development Scheme (SRDS) meetings, and the Annual Academic Meeting
 (AAM). The University’s mentoring scheme will pair any colleague who requests, or is
 recommended, with an experienced academic mentor.
 New tenure-track staff and PDRAs join the University’s probation scheme and jointly agree
 academic targets, typically for two years, with an academic mentor/probation advisor and Head
 of School [C2]. New tenure-track staff supported by externally-funded five-year University
 Research Fellowships (URFs), and those appointed on our University Academic Fellow (UAF)
 scheme, are provided with a five-year developmental programme, leading to Associate
 Professor (Reader) status, with probation stages at year 3 and 5, with targets agreed with the
 Fellow.
 Established staff benefit from the annual SRDS meeting with their Institute/Centre Director, Head
 of School, or Dean. This developmental discussion identifies needs, goals, support and
 methods to achieve ambitions, including promotion [C2]. This complements the AAM between
 each member of staff and their Head of School, Director of Research & Innovation, Director of
 Student Education, and Institute/Centre Director, which appraises their research, student
 education, and administration activities, and includes discussion of future research plans. This
 informs the individual’s workload profile, in which significant research and impact commitments
 are balanced by reduced teaching and administration duties [C1]. All Schools employ teaching
 assistants to alleviate research staff workload.
 The University’s training and development opportunities are led by the Organisational
 Development and Professional Learning (OD&PL) unit [C3]. This complements specialized
 training arranged by other university services, including the Library (e.g. open access, research
 data management, thesis and journal paper writing), and the Research and Innovation Service
 (RIS) (e.g. grant preparation, interview practice, research impact, commercialization). Staff are
 further supported by local training in e.g. health and safety requirements associated with specific
 laboratory facilities [C3]. Colleagues taking up expert roles, e.g. the research ethics committee,
 receive bespoke training.
 We proactively identify and support staff at all career stages in e.g. securing promotion, research
 fellowships, and prizes [C2]. For major external opportunities (e.g. EPSRC fellowships), and
 those where an internal selection is required (e.g. RAEng URFs), candidates prepare an
 expression of interest for the Faculty Research and Innovation Committee. Those who align with
 the fellowship specification are supported by a series of workshops organized by OD&PL and
 RIS, and internal peer review; unsuccessful candidates receive feedback and guidance.
 Colleagues invited to grant/fellowship interviews receive training [C3].
 The University participates in national surveys to monitor progress in meeting its research
 training and development objectives, and we review feedback in appropriate discussions (e.g.
 School PGR–staff forums) [C1]. Such surveys include the Postgraduate Research Experience
 Survey (PRES) for research students, the Careers in Research Online Survey (CROS) for
 research staff, and the Principal Investigators and Research Leaders Survey (PIRLS).

 b. The Unit’s staffing and recruitment policy with evidence of its effectiveness
 Our staffing and recruitment policy is broadly divided into two approaches. The first focusses on
 supporting, sustaining and developing areas of strength and critical mass, with the second
 focussing on the development of new, and especially cross-disciplinary, research activity.
 The first approach typically concentrates on the recruitment of early-career researchers,
 including UAF/URFs and new lecturers, and the promotion and development of existing junior
 colleagues. By embedding them within and alongside existing critical mass activities, we

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 develop them to become the research leaders of the future and provide sustainability to the
 activity. As an example, since the inception of our UAF scheme in 2015, 26 UAFs have been
 recruited into this Unit comprising 11 internal and 15 external appointments: in CIVIL–Bernal-
 Lopez, Loveridge, Trigg; in CHEM–Bale (in UoA7), Hondow, Mishra, Warren; in ELEC–Actis,
 Freeman, McLaughlan, Mazomenos, Pensabene, Valavanis, Zaidi; in MECH–Alazmani,
 Brockett, Lee, Khodaparast, Mangolini, Ruprecht; in ITS–Rezaei. Zhang(Z) is joint between
 ELEC and MECH; Collins is between CHEM and Chemistry; Roelich is between CIVIL and
 Earth & Environment; Edwards is between MECH and Biomedical Sciences; Morganti is
 between ITS and Food Science; Mazomenos is between ELEC and Medicine. As evidence of
 the effectiveness of the support and appointment policy, all UAFs passed their first stage
 probation, and there have been six early promotions to date (before the end of the five-year
 probation period): Bale, Brockett, Hondow and Roelich to Associate Professor, and Bernal-
 Lopez to Chair, in Leeds, with Ruprecht and Mangolini appointed to Chairs at Hamburg
 University of Technology and the University of Texas at Austin, respectively. Valavanis and
 Bale subsequently received a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship and an EPSRC Early Career
 Fellowship, respectively. Since 2015, this UAF cohort has collectively achieved over £37M of
 research funding (total consortia value) as PI/Co-I across 83 successful grants, providing further
 evidence of the effectiveness of our UAF scheme.
 The second approach typically concentrates on recruitment of established outstanding
 researchers and their teams to grow a strategic new area rapidly (including through
 consolidation of existing activities). As an example, in this period we identified opportunity to
 develop significant new activity in high-speed rail research, headhunting Woodward and his
 team, and consolidating this with the activities of 14 existing staff across CIVIL, MECH, and
 ELEC. Further chair appointments including Li(K) and his team strengthen our expertise in
 smart energy systems, which complements this vision. The University invested £23M to create
 the new ten-acre Infrastructure Innovation Park to facilitate new industrial and academic
 collaborations nationally and internationally for this activity, and is committed to ten new
 academic appointments (§3(b)).
 A rigorous interview process, usually over two-days, is employed for tenure-track appointments,
 including candidate seminars to ensure transparency [C1,2]. We use research and professional
 networks to reach out to a diverse set of potential applicants and ensure diverse recruitment
 panel membership with training in unconscious bias and ED&I.
 Since 2014, our FTE increased from 141 to 199 to support the ambitious objectives identified in
 our REF2014 submissions (§1(a,b)), with investment across all career stages to balance
 strategic development of new activity with succession planning. 97% of our Category A staff
 have open-ended (permanent) contracts. A number of Category A staff hold part-time positions,
 providing flexibility for their personal circumstances.

                   Chair       AProf / Reader      Senior Lecturer / Lecturer        UAF / URF

  July 2013         66               17                         41                       28

  July 2020         83               53                         52                       25

 We recruit experimental officers and technical staff on permanent contracts, following probation,
 enabling long-term career paths to be developed. Trainee technicians are trained in analytical,
 mechanical and electronic skills before moving into Faculty or School laboratories and
 workshops [C3]. Since 2017, all trainees undertake apprenticeships and are supported to study
 for qualifications such as the HNC apprenticeship or part time degree. The success of our
 approach is evidenced by our retention of all but one of the eleven trainee technicians recruited
 in this REF period.


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 c. How individuals at the beginning of their research careers are supported and
 integrated into the Unit
 The Schools’ Institutes and Research Centres provide a critical mass of staff and shared
 research infrastructure to support individuals at the start of their research careers, and help them
 integrate into the research culture [C2]. The Institutes/Centres engender researcher
 collaboration and provide: a forum for interaction between staff at different career stages; focus
 and critical mass for sustainability and infrastructure development; seminar series, delivered by
 national and international speakers, which help staff develop contacts; and, support for grant and
 fellowship applications including peer review.
 Colleagues at the beginning of their careers are helped with reduced teaching and administration
 duties, and priority for EPSRC DTP and School-funded PGR studentships [C1]. The annual
 SRDS and AAM meetings identify and agree needs, goals, support and methods to achieve
 ambitions for all staff, but are particularly valuable to individuals at the start of their careers, as
 are the probation meetings for PDRAs and those newly recruited [C2]. Early career researchers
 benefit from the University’s training and development opportunities discussed above, which
 includes targeted support for grant and fellowship applications [C2].
 Networks provide opportunities to share experience and best practice, and to have a combined
 voice; e.g. in MECH, the Early Career Academics Network hosts inspirational senior academics
 to share experience on career development, and speakers from funding bodies. Early career
 membership of University research committees is built into their terms of reference.
 We develop individual career paths for our PDRAs through regular academic and pastoral
 meetings with their supervisory team, and via training and development activities [C2,3]. A
 University international mobility fund allows PDRAs to apply independently to attend
 conferences and for collaborative visits. Support in applying for, and securing, research
 fellowships is provided as discussed above, and PDRAs can be named as a researcher co-
 investigator on grants. PDRAs develop their academic skills, as well as contributing to the Unit,
 through opportunities to support PhD, MSc and undergraduate projects, and to contribute to
 research-led teaching through undergraduate and masters demonstrating.
 A formal meeting, six months before the end of each PDRA’s contract, explores future
 opportunities, including priority for University positions via redeployment [C2]. Bridging funding
 enables continuity of contract between research grants.

 d. Research and sabbatical leave
 School workload models reflect significant research and impact commitments by reduced
 teaching and administration duties, as well as providing time for personal research and
 generation of grant applications, tailored to individuals’ needs and career stage [C1]. Where
 possible, Schools concentrate staff teaching timetabling into one term, or on certain weekdays,
 to free blocks of time for research and impact activity. Schools support research/sabbatical
 leave, usually up to one semester, and secondments to industry (§2(e)), and financial support for
 travel and for pump-priming activities can be requested. These arrangements are available for
 all academic staff with both teaching and research responsibilities with open-ended contracts
 (full- and part-time) and who have progressed beyond probation. We encourage colleagues,
 including PDRAs, to apply for external competitive funding for research leave.

 e. Procedures to stimulate and facilitate exchanges between academia and business,
 industry, public and third sector bodies
 In addition to many colleagues having previous experience outside academia, we actively recruit
 directly from outside academia at all career stages [C3], facilitating industry and third sector
 engagement and translation of industrial practice and needs (e.g. Bayly, Hanson, Muller,


                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Romano, and York). Evans formerly at the World Bank, was a consultant with UNICEF, WHO,
 and WaterAid before joining CIVIL—see ICS-1. We write job descriptions to appeal to, and
 enable, talented engineers who have followed a non-academic career path to be competitive
 (e.g. without a PhD). Joint academic and PDRA appointments with overseas institutions (e.g.
 Wen with Beihang University), and with industry (e.g. RSSB and SNCF, Smith(A)), open
 opportunities for collaborative work and exchanges.
 We encourage and support colleagues to undertake secondments to industry (e.g. Bourne to
 AstraZeneca supported by an RAEng Industrial Fellowship, ICS-5), or government bodies (e.g.
 Tate seconded to Transport for London), and to engage through e.g. non-executive directorships
 (e.g. Clarke, Murphy Group). Some transition to an industrial position, but maintain a part-time
 role in the Unit (e.g. Bower to Mott MacDonald–ICS-10). Industry staff are seconded (or have
 visiting positions) to the Faculty: e.g. George (Syngenta) was seconded to CHEM for 50% over
 2018–2020.
 We also encourage and support colleagues with strong industrial engagement to apply for e.g.
 RAEng Industrial Research Chairs (e.g. Hunter(I) with Radio Design (ICS-9), Kapur with GSK,
 Schroeder with Infineum) and Senior Research Fellowships (Bourne with AstraZeneca,
 Williams(S) with dePuy). Schroeder’s RAEng Chair is also joint with the Diamond Light
 Source; other joint appointments with major infrastructure facilities include Mishra with the
 Advanced Light Source at Argonne National Laboratory, and Ramasse with SuperSTEM at
 Daresbury.
 Many research grants include industrial and public sector partners, and benefit from formal
 industrial advisory boards, as do our research centres. Visiting Chairs stimulate and facilitate
 exchanges through participation in School industrial advisory boards, and by speaking in
 research seminars and research-led undergraduate modules. Competitive funding obtained
 from e.g. EC Marie Skłodowska-Curie Research and Innovation Staff Exchange (RISE)
 (Williams(P), Schiffer, Aristidou) / Industry-Academia Partnerships and Pathways (IAPP) (Jha)
 programmes have further supported staff and skills exchange.

 f. Recognition and reward for carrying out research and for achieving impact
 The University’s Recognition Scheme is open throughout the year and includes options for one-
 off payments to recognise exceptional contribution, including in research and impact [C2]. The
 annual University Reward Scheme provides the ability to award additional or discretionary salary
 increments [C2]. The annual AAM meetings reflect on staff progress and achievement, and
 identify cases for promotion as the principal mechanism for recognising and rewarding research
 and impact [C2]. These are complemented by the annual SRDS meetings, which identify the
 support needed by colleagues to achieve their ambitions. In addition to achieving promotion
 through research excellence alone, the application, translation and impact of research beyond
 academia are criteria for promotion at all academic levels (e.g. Forth’s promotion to chair in this
 period). 88% of the 85 academic promotion applications in this period were successful.
 The University also recognises research and impact excellence through nomination and support
 of staff for national awards, fellowships, and prizes [C2] (§4(e)).
 The support provided to enable staff to achieve impact from their research is described in §1(c)
 and includes: use of workload models to reflect and enable significant research and impact
 commitments; support from RIDMs in the Faculty and centrally, as well as from our central
 commercialization and corporate relationship teams; and, strategic allocation of pump-priming
 funding for explorative work.




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research students
 a. The Unit’s approach to doctoral research student recruitment and evidence of
 studentships from major funding bodies
 We recruit PGRs through the relevant Faculty Graduate Offices ensuring that each applicant is
 addressed in a timely, consistent and fair manner [C1,2]. We advertise PGR positions widely,
 and host open days and recruitment events. Prospective PGRs are invited to see facilities and
 discuss aspirations, and candidates are interviewed by prospective supervisors either in person
 or remotely, following training in e.g. unconscious bias. Successful candidates are supported
 through registration, with the University International Office helping with visas. Many PGRs are
 recruited from our undergraduate/MSc base, encouraged by our policy to embed project work in
 research laboratories and through our provision of competitive summer laboratory placements
 (School funded, or via e.g. the EPSRC vacation bursary).
 Studentships are funded through a variety of mechanisms including: research councils (DTP,
 CDT programmes, and on ERC grants); international scholarship schemes; EC ITNs; co- or fully-
 funded by industry; and, self-funded by the candidate/candidate’s home government. We have
 also established School/University funding schemes to support training of the best post-
 graduates [C2] in core research areas (e.g. underpinning large research grants), areas that we
 wish to grow, and to support new and early career colleagues.
 Exemplars of studentships from major funding bodies include:
      EPSRC/UKRI Centres for Doctoral Training – we are leading on five centres newly
       awarded in this period comprising a total cohort of around 250 PGRs in: Bioenergy
       (EP/L014912/1), Complex Particulate Products (EP/L015285/1); Molecules to Product
       (EP/S022473/1); Water and Waste Infrastructure Systems (EP/S022066/1); and, Tissue
       Engineering and Regenerative Medicine (EP/L014823/1). We are furthermore partners in
       Centres led in other Leeds UoAs (e.g. Fluid Dynamics (EP/S022732/1) in UoA11) or other
       Universities (e.g. Nuclear Energy (EP/S022295/1, EP/S022295/1) and Aerosol Science
       (EP/S023593/1). We also led on Centres extant in period, but awarded before 2014 in:
       Low Carbon Future (EP/G036608/1); Molecular-Scale Engineering (EP/J500124/1); and,
       Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine (EP/F500513/1). We ring-fence EPSRC
       DTP awards to create strategic internal CDT cohorts e.g. twenty studentships over four
       years commencing in 2020 to support the Bragg Centre for Materials Research.
      Marie Skłodowska-Curie ITN/EJD/IAPP – 14 centres extant in period (H2020 and FP7)
       with nine newly awarded (of total consortium value €37M), including co-ordinating
       programmes in: green tribology and sustainable engineering (GreenTRIBOS); quantum
       communications (QCall); laser dental surfacing (LUSTRE); and, nano-electrochemistry
       (SENTINEL).
      International schemes – During this period, we have increased our internal scholarships
       budget to leverage the number of scholarships provided by overseas Government funding
       schemes, including CSC in China, CONACyT in Mexico, Brazil, Malaysia, Indonesia,
       Pakistan, Thailand, Nigeria, Iraq, Libya, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. Through partnerships
       with international universities in Asia, South America and Europe, we have established
       externally funded research training structures that are developing into dual PhD
       programmes (e.g. with the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro and the University of Sao
       Paolo, funded by BG Group; CSC funded scholarships with South West Jiatong University;
       Horizon-2020 funded scholarships with Universities of Ljubljana/Lulea/Coimbra etc).
      Direct Industry and CASE awards – During this period, studentships have been supported
       by e.g.: Parker Hannifin, Shell, Network Rail, Jaguar Land Rover, Arup, Transport for
       London, AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, P&G, Pfizer, Sellafield, Nuclear Decommissioning


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Authority, National Nuclear Laboratory, National Physical Laboratory, DePuy Synthes,
       Radio Design, KeySight Technologies, Thales, and Syngenta.

 b. Monitoring and support mechanisms for doctoral research students
 Each PGR is assigned at least two supervisors who undertake formal supervision training.
 Regular supervision meetings review progress, determine goals, and identify/rectify problems.
 The University’s web-based Graduate Record of Achievement and Development system records
 all interactions between supervisors and students, including supervision meetings and feedback,
 training, progress reports and assessment, ensuring compliance and standardisation of
 experience [C1]. The School Postgraduate Tutor meets each PGR annually. The Faculty
 Graduate Office provides, or signposts, further resources to support PGRs in their personal
 needs such as financial hardship, wellbeing and mental health [C1].
 Every PGR joins a research group/institute within their home School, which integrates them into
 the research culture and broadens their appreciation of the wider research agenda [C1]. As well
 as being provided with necessary research and computing equipment, consumables and facility
 access, funds are available for conference attendance, with additional competitive funding for
 research visits and conferences. Industry and academic placements are embedded into CDT
 programmes. PGRs have representation on School and Faculty committees, and opportunity to
 build teaching expertise through paid undergraduate supervision and demonstrating.
 All first year PGRs undertake compulsory training, including discipline-specific courses [C3].
 Students agree a personal development plan with their principal supervisor within one month of
 starting, using a training needs analysis tool based on the UK’s Researcher Development
 Framework. CDT programme training is available to aligned non-CDT PGRs also. The Leeds
 Doctoral College brings together the central support services, networking, and formal training to
 enhance each PGR’s research and well-being, and leads on activities to celebrate the
 importance of PGRs to the University. Within the Unit, School-based events such as PGR
 conferences, often organized by senior PGRs, provide training in presentation skills, as well as
 opportunities for communication, feedback, and networking.
 All PGRs write an outline report/literature review at six months, reviewed by their supervisors,
 followed by a formal report at the end of their first year, assessed by viva voce examination
 including an independent examiner, before progression. A further viva including an independent
 examiner, with a review of the thesis plan and an example/draft publication, takes place at the
 end of the second year. Training plans and supervision arrangements are reviewed at each
 stage [C2,3].
 We awarded 813 PhD degrees over this period, 79% greater per annum than at REF2014. A
 number of our PGRs are recognized through international prizes, e.g. the Eric Pas Dissertation
 Prize (Calastri, 2017), the IEEE Communications Society Competition (Nonde, 2016). 60% of
 the outputs in this submission have a PGR co-author.
 Employment destinations for our PGRs, in addition to academic positions in the UK and
 internationally, include: AstraZeneca, Johnson and Johnson, DePuy Synthes, Pfizer, Unilever,
 Sanofi, Jaguar Land Rover, Johnson-Matthey, Ricoh, Tata Steel, British Steel, Infineum, Radio
 Design, KeySight Technologies, Sky, Google, Hitachi, Teledyne LeCroy, Ericsson, Mott
 McDonald, Sonova, National Nuclear Laboratory, International Energy Agency, Environmental
 Agency, National Air Traffic Services, Ernst & Young, BEIS, Department for Transport.

 Equality and diversity
 Evidence of the Unit’s commitment to equality and diversity in the recruitment and
 support of research staff and students
 In 2016, the University of Leeds was the first UK university to achieve a Silver Athena SWAN

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 award across all of its engineering/computing schools. The Silver Award was retained in 2019,
 with the Faculty of Environment (ITS) also awarded Silver, building on their previous Bronze
 award. In 2017, we restructured our Equality and Inclusion (E&I) approach, creating a dedicated
 project support role and allocated workload allowances, to use our Athena SWAN success as a
 catalyst to develop a sustained agenda addressing all protected characteristics.
 Recruitment actions, including compulsory E&I training, active monitoring of shortlist diversity,
 and gender balance on panels [C1,2], ensure that our recruitment is unbiased and special
 circumstances are considered (e.g. career break, disability). This led to an increase in female
 staff from 17% in 2014 to over 22% in 2020 across the Unit. Revision to job adverts and online
 material, including our online ‘Footsteps’ initiative showcasing inspirational colleagues from
 under-represented groups and at different career stages, have had a positive impact on
 diversity; surveys captured for our Athena SWAN 2019 submission show unbiased recruitment
 and positive interview experiences.
 We played a key role in revising the University promotions scheme in 2016, providing clearer
 routes to senior roles through teaching and leadership achievements, and explicitly including
 outreach, E&I, and mentoring/support activities. Promotion workshops include role models from
 diverse backgrounds, who also provide mentoring and peer support. Of the 85 academic
 promotion applications in this period, the success rate for female and male applicants was
 comparable (89% and 88%, respectively).
 Flexible working policies support staff with caring responsibilities or ill health. Further support,
 including for those returning from leave (maternity/parental, illness), includes financial support to
 attend conferences/training courses, priority for PhD studentships, access to a wellbeing room
 (including facilities for medication and baby feeding) and reduced teaching workload [C1].
 Our approaches have had significant influence on wider University strategy, including direct
 input to policies (e.g. promotion, shared leave) and expansion of initiatives developed within the
 Unit. These include: our Career Architect scheme (Fisher) to support PGR career development
 into academia and industry, which is now adopted across the University; the Women at Leeds
 Network (Noakes) expanded from STEM to cover all Faculties in 2016; and, Wellness
 programmes to support mental health through exercise, developed by Engineering HR
 colleagues. The Women Rising programme (funded initially by EPSRC, now by the Faculty)
 was created to support female PGRs; all 17 from the first cohort remained in academia (indeed
 over 30% of our PGRs are female, above the national benchmark).
 Staff support groups focussing on protected characteristics offer opportunities for networking
 and peer support, and our Breaking Boundaries in STEM events (e.g. our annual LGBT+
 Research Day, Ada Lovelace Day, Black History Month, UK Disability History Month) provide
 vehicles to promote, and discuss, issues affecting these groups and include role models from
 academia and industry.
 We play a major role in the EPSRC ‘Northern Power Inclusion Matters’ project to support
 researchers from underrepresented groups, and provide mentoring and leadership development.
 Our joint activities with industry (e.g. ‘Building Equality’ and Leeds LGBT+ Pride, both with Arup,
 and outreach activities with Northern Rail) challenge societal perceptions of diversity in
 engineering and provide role models. We target underrepresented groups in outreach with our
 partner schools and colleges, and are expanding our geographical reach through digital activities
 and resources.
 The preparation of this submission has been undertaken in accordance with the University’s
 REF2021 Code of Practice. All individuals involved in the REF2021 decision making process
 undertook tailored E&I training [C1]. Periodic equality impact assessments were undertaken to
 ensure due regard to equality considerations. These have, and will, allow us to: understand the


                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 representation of the eligible and submitted staff against our academic staff profile; understand
 how the selection of outputs represents the diversity of the eligible and submitted staff
 community; and, identify where further progress on diversity considerations is needed to
 strengthen delivery of the Unit’s and University’s research and innovation strategy.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 a. The Unit’s research funding and strategies for generating research income
 The Unit secures research income from a wide range of funders including AHRC, MRC,
 BBSRC, NERC, EPSRC, ESRC, EC/ERC, Wellcome Trust, NIHR, Innovate UK, NGOs, and
 industry. A selection of major/prestigious grants awarded by external bodies on a competitive
 basis includes:
     EPSRC Programme, Platform and Grand Challenge Grants – 13 extant in period, with
      nine newly awarded (of total consortia value £46M) in: terahertz instrumentation
      (EP/P021859/1); infrastructure robotics (EP/S016813/1, EP/N010523/1); surgical robotics
      (EP/R045291/1); tribology (EP/R001766/1); advanced manufacturing (EP/P027687/1),
      crystallisation (EP/R018820/1); 6G LiFi (EP/S016570/1); and, tissue engineering
      (EP/P001076/1). We also received a £2.5M EPSRC Prosperity Partnership on corrosion
      and tribology with BP (EP/R00496X/1).
     GCRF Grants – seven awarded in period from EPSRC, NERC, BBSRC, ESRC, and the
      Royal Society (of total consortia value £31M) including in: bioenergy and fertilisers
      (BB/S011439/1); food resilience (BB/P027784/1); sustainable microgrids and energy
      harvesting (EP/R030243/1); ultra-low-cost endoscopy for gastric cancer screening
      (EP/P027938/1); advanced glasses (RS IC170195); and, resilience to water variability
      (NE/P016146/1), as well as the Water Security and Sustainable Development Hub
      (ES/S008179/1). We also received an AHRC Newton award on sustainable conservation
      in Jordan (AH/S011609/1).
     EC FP7 Collaborative Projects, H2020 Research & Innovation Actions/Innovation Actions
      – 20 awarded in period (of total consortia value €210M). Major programmes include
      €46M L3Pilot (Project 723051, coordinated by Volkswagen AG) on automated driving,
      and €26.5M AUTOPILOT (Project 731993, coordinated by ERTICO) to investigate IoT-
      connected driving. FET-Open awards include: optoelectronic devices based on Bose-
      Einstein condensation (Project 737017) and generation of ultrashort terahertz pulses
      (Project 665158).
     ERC – seven projects awarded in period of total value €14M: Advanced Grants to Neville
      and Romano; Consolidator Grants to Hess, Valdastri, and Wen; and, Proof-of-Concept
      Grants THEMIS (Project 727541) on terahertz imaging and APOLLO (Project 875692) on
      choice model estimation. These complement four further Advanced Grants and one
      Starting Grant extant in period. EC Marie Skłodowska-Curie programmes are discussed
      in §2.
     Large centres awarded and led in period include: £3.5M Medical Technologies IKC
      (EP/N00941X/1); £4.5M National Centre for Infrastructure Materials (EP/P017169/1);
      £7.2M EPSRC National Research Facility for Advanced Electron Microscopy
      (SuperSTEM Daresbury, NS/A000057/1); £5.7M EPSRC Centre for Innovative
      Manufacturing in Medical Devices (EP/K029592/1); and, £3.1M Point-of-Care Diagnosis
      for Reduction of Antibiotic Misuse (MR/N029976/1).
     Innovate UK – 23 KTPs awarded in period (of total value £4.2M) including with: Procter &
      Gamble, British Glass Manufacturers Confederation, Industrial Tomography Systems,
      Ilke Homes, Ardent Ltd, Sandvik Limited, DePuy International, and Produmax. A further

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      six Innovate UK awards were made, including Digital Design in the Pharmaceutical
      Sector of consortium value £20M (Project 14060).
     Fellowships awarded in period include: EPSRC (Bell, Bernal-Lopez, Colombo, Fuentes,
      Loveridge, McLaughlin, Markkula); UKRI Future Leaders (Choudhury, Valavanis);
      RAEng (Chair: Hunter(I), Kapur, Neville, Schroeder; Senior Research Fellow: Bourne,
      Williams(S); Industrial: Kim); and, Leverhulme Trust (Charpentier, Dawson).
 Our grant portfolio has supported the high-quality research output and impact described in §1;
 over 4,400 outputs have been published in primary archival international refereed journals by
 researchers in this Unit during this REF period.
 Our strategy for generating research income is underpinned by our approach to staff
 recruitment and development. We hire outstanding early-career researchers, including UAFs
 and new lecturers, to support, sustain and develop areas of strength and critical mass, and we
 recruit excellent established researchers and their teams to grow strategic new areas of
 research rapidly (for examples, see §2(b)). Opportunities to increase and embed cross-
 disciplinary research, and the funding opportunities that this creates, are enabled through e.g.
 joint appointments (§1(d)), and through the development of, and investment in, interdisciplinary
 research centres (§3(b)).
 The University Research and Innovation Service (RIS) and the specialized research and
 innovation development managers (RIDMs) horizon scan UK and international funding
 opportunities, and facilitate workshops to develop large research proposals, and convene
 consortia with e.g. industry and public sector organizations. Our industry collaborations provide
 direct research income as well as supporting grant proposals with both direct and in-kind
 support, and alignment with end-user needs. We work with, and are members of, national
 research institutes, research council and other funding body committees, and professional
 organizations (§4(e)), providing leadership to help define and direct national funding priorities,
 and provide visibility for our strengths and infrastructure.
 Researchers are supported by RIS, the Organisational Development and Professional Learning
 (OD&PL) unit, and their home Schools in preparing successful grant applications through e.g.
 peer review of draft proposals, mock interviews for large grants, matched equipment funding and
 PGR studentship contributions to grants, and pump-priming funding. University and Faculty
 finance, contracts and EU Grant offices support consortium agreements, audits, and financial
 reporting. Researchers (especially ECRs) applying for externally-funded fellowships receive a
 bespoke programme of support and mentoring throughout their application (§2(a,c)).

 b. Organisational infrastructure supporting the Unit’s research and impact, and areas
 where there has been significant investment
 Organizational mechanisms to support research and impact include our leadership of, and
 participation in, University interdisciplinary centres that span School and Faculty boundaries
 and which present critical mass to national and international partners. They enable new
 collaborations to be established, support large interdisciplinary grant applications, and
 consolidate and enhance experimental facilities, providing a platform to increase research
 funding, quality, outputs and impact.
 We highlight two such Centres initiated in this period that have received significant investment,
 followed by four examples of further centres/clusters that illustrate the breadth of our
 interdisciplinary organization and research. In all cases, the Centres are facilitated by the
 appointment of a Director with workload buy-out, dedicated RIDM support, and funding for
 events/seminars/publicity and pump-priming research activity.



                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Bragg Centre for Materials Research
 The Bragg Centre for Materials Research (Director: Linfield) was inaugurated in January 2019
 and comprises over 200 researchers from all Schools in the Faculty of Engineering & Physical
 Sciences, and from the Faculties of Biology, Medicine & Health, and Environment. The creation
 of £20M 2,300 m2 of shared and future-proofed laboratories in the new Sir William Henry Bragg
 Building opens opportunities for new ways of working, collaboration and interdisciplinary
 thinking. £10M investment in equipment and specialist facilities has already been secured
 (EP/P022464/1), together with funding (EP/R00661X/1, EP/S019367/1, EP/R02524X/1) to
 enable promotion of, and access to, our materials facilities by UK academia and industry.
 Further University investment includes three UAFs (including Collins between CHEM and
 Chemistry), an internal CDT of 20 interdisciplinary studentships, and funding for
 events/seminars/pump-priming research. The Centre complements our leadership of research
 activities in SuperSTEM at Daresbury, the Diamond Light Source at Harwell, the ISIS neutron
 facility, and the CMAC EPSRC Future Manufacturing Hub, and houses the Leeds activity of the
 UK’s Henry Royce Institute, in which we are a founding partner and leading the ‘Atoms-to-
 Devices’ theme with Imperial College London.
 Institute of High-Speed Rail and System Integration
 The University has invested £23M in a new ten-acre Infrastructure Innovation Park ten miles
 from the Leeds city centre, completing the site purchase in April 2019. This will house our new
 Institute of High-Speed Rail and System Integration (IHSRSI) (Director: Woodward, together
 with 14 existing staff and 10 planned appointments) providing substantial new research
 opportunity across the University and the Leeds City Region, and to facilitate industrial and
 academic collaborations nationally and internationally. For example, it will support a step-
 change in ELEC’s energy, electrical power systems, power electronics and sensing/control
 systems activities, building on the track record of the new Smart Energy Systems Chair (Li(K)),
 as well as extending ITS's capabilities in automated signal controls and simulation (Liu) and
 passenger comfort (Romano). Phase 1 of the IHSRSI will comprise two substantial
 components, an Infrastructure Testing Facility and a Vehicle Testing Facility, with an estimated
 value of £39M. Phase 2 will support an £11M Systems Integration and Innovation Centre.
 Before being temporarily paused by the Covid-19 disruption, Phase 1 was due to be completed
 in Spring 2021 with a £13M contribution from the West Yorkshire Combined Authority. Phase 2
 was due to be completed by Spring 2022 funded by UK-RPIF with £29M in industry matched
 funding, demonstrating significant industry interest to use the facilities for R&D, consultancy and
 testing, as well as further research into systems integration and passenger experience.
 The Infrastructure Innovation Park will also host our new National Centre for Infrastructure
 Materials (CIM), which builds on CIVIL’s £4.5M UKCRIC/EPSRC capital award (Black,
 EP/P017169/1) as well as a further £12M University investment, providing state-of-the-art
 structural materials degradation and characterization facilities. It will also rehouse elements of
 our £4.3M EPSRC National Facility for Innovative Robotic Systems.

 Examples of other centres that illustrate the breadth of our interdisciplinary organization and
 research include, but are not limited to:
      Leeds Institute for Fluid Dynamics (Co-Director Noakes) established in 2018 brings
       together over 200 researchers across twelve academic departments to provide
       interdisciplinary perspectives to complex flow challenges. LIFD leads the EPSRC CDT in
       Fluid Dynamics (EP/S022732/1, renewed 2019), has strong partnerships with industry
       (e.g. Sellafield Ltd, Dupont Teijin Films, Parker Hannifin, Shell, MPI, BAE Systems) and
       the public-sector (Met Office, PHE, NHS, NCAS), and over 50% of papers include an
       international collaborator, from over 85 countries.


                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      The University’s Robotics@Leeds network (Director: Valdastri) was formed in 2017 and
       brings together over 100 researchers across nine academic departments focussing on:
       field robotics (for infrastructure and exploration); medical robotics (assistive, rehabilitation,
       and surgical); artificial intelligence for robotics (learning, perception and manipulation);
       and, underpinning science and technology (communications, sensing, and manufacture).
       The Centre benefits from unique manufacturing and laboratory capabilities (e.g. our £4.3M
       EPSRC National Facility for Innovative Robotic Systems) consolidating equipment and
       personnel, and will open new facilities in both the Sir William Henry Bragg Building and the
       Infrastructure Innovation Park in the next period.
      There is a remarkable breadth and depth of health technology research and innovation
       across the Unit, with close collaboration with the Faculties of Biology, Medicine & Health,
       the Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, industry and national and international
       collaborators. The Healthcare Technologies Innovation Centre brings together over
       140 academics and 50 clinicians to develop new healthcare technologies to improve
       patient well-being. The academic leadership group includes Wälti (ELEC) and Wilcox
       (MECH).
      Energy at Leeds (Directors: Cockerill, Taylor in UoA7) comprises over 200 researchers
       with interdisciplinary expertise in whole energy systems in bioenergy, nuclear science and
       engineering, upstream oil and gas, transport energy systems, energy demand and
       efficiency, and low carbon transitions. A dedicated £12M Energy Building houses
       bespoke laboratories. We have close relationships with industry and government
       including Arup, Alstom, Drax, Northern Gas Networks, and Leeds City Council. We are a
       partner in e.g. the UK Energy Research Centre, and are supported by two EPSRC CDTs
       (EP/L015390/1, EP/S022295/1).

 c. Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting the Unit’s research and impact
 The Unit hosts significant experimental infrastructure; a selection of our particularly unique and
 large (TRAC-funded) facilities is given here.
      Our dedicated £2M Medical & Biological Engineering Building houses the world’s largest
       academic facility for joint replacement research. The facility includes over £5M of
       experimental simulation equipment in >500 m2 class 2 cleanroom laboratories, a
       dedicated imaging & metrology facility and retrievals laboratory, and an imaging suite
       with two microCT scanners. A dedicated laboratory for the processing and storage of
       orthopaedic retrievals supports development of pre-clinical simulation capabilitites.
      Our £6M state-of-the-art class 100 Nanotechnology Cleanroom comprises a full suite of
       equipment for optical lithography, and hosts the £3M JEOL 6300-FS EPSRC Regional
       Facility for electron-beam lithography. The cleanroom also provides hands-on training
       for PGRs and undergraduate research projects.
      Leeds Electron Microscopy & Spectroscopy Centre (LEMAS) with an equipment base of
       ~£10M has an international track-record with, per annum, >400 users from ~30 Leeds
       institutes, ~32 UK universities, and ~20 companies. As an EPSRC-funded facility (since
       2008), eligible UK researchers enjoy pump-priming access, feeding into national
       infrastructure (e.g. SuperSTEM). Investment in this period includes new £2M Royce-
       funded Versatile X-ray Spectroscopy Facility. LEMAS, together with the cleanroom, will
       move into the Sir William Henry Bragg Building in 2021 and both will be expanded.
      The Dowson Tribology Laboratory consolidates surface analytical techniques to study
       the complexities of surface processes in corrosion, tribology and flow assurance
       research. The facility has been expanded by 400 m2 in this period, with a £1.1M
       upgrade to the PVD coating system (EP/R02524X/1). Our capability to handle complex

                                                                                                 Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       corrosive gases under extreme conditions is unique in the UK.
      The £5M Terahertz Photonics Laboratory comprises nine optical bench systems for
       femtosecond pulsed, and quantum cascade laser, terahertz imaging and spectroscopy.
       It hosts the EPSRC national high-field terahertz facility. The facility is supported by eight
       cryostats including a 12 T cryogen-free dilution refrigerator, and a £2M MBE facility
       comprising two growth systems for opto-electronic III-V semiconductor device growth. A
       1.1 THz network analyzer complements our associated microwave laboratories.
      Our £4.5M EPSRC National Facility for Innovative Robotics Systems (EP/P017169/1)
       provides over £1M robotics facilities, over ten large autonomous aerial drones, two large
       mobile ground robots, 3D printers, and precision water/laser jet cutters. During this REF
       period, we have invested in a dedicated 140 m2 state-of-the-art Hybrid Manufacturing
       Processes research laboratory.
      ‘Virtuocity’ is a unique, immersive, human-in-the-loop simulation and visualization facility
       for city simulation and co-design, powered by academic models and industry software. It
       comprises three simulation laboratories (Driving Simulator, Truck SIM, and the Highly
       Immersive Kinematic Experimental Research (HIKER) laboratory), which can be
       connected for participants to interact in a single multi-‘player’ environment. The new
       £650k pedestrian laboratory (EP/R008833/1) enables interactions between pedestrians
       and drivers to be tested safely, including exploring automated vehicle design, warning
       system design, and intersection configuration.
      Our public health laboratories include facilities for the analysis of water and waste, and a
       class II microbiology lab and a clean laboratory for molecular biology work, including for
       the characterization of microbial populations in environmental samples. Bioaerosol
       sampling equipment is available for both laboratory- and site-based studies, including a
       class II aerobiology chamber for room-scale bioaerosol experiments.
 Throughout the REF period, the University has invested heavily in High Performance
 Computing, in accordance with a longstanding strategy of biennial hardware upgrades (most
 recently £2M in 2019) and maintaining a specialist support team. Since 2019 this has been
 supplemented through recruitment of a new Research Software Engineering team (including
 Leng in the School of Computing who received an EPSRC RSE Fellowship (EP/R025819/1)).
 Together these support research throughout this Unit, including fluid dynamics, materials
 modelling and image analysis. We benefit from partnership with national supercomputing
 centres: e.g. NICE and JADE2, which received significant investment in 2020.
 These, and our other, facilities are supported by experimental officers and technical staff with
 permanent contracts enabling long-term career paths to be developed. As part of the
 Sir William Henry Bragg Building, the University is investing in a new £2M electrical and
 mechanical workshop, providing state-of-the-art infrastructure and development opportunity for
 technical staff.

 d. How the Unit supports equality and diversity in acquiring research funding and
 accessing research infrastructure
 All researchers are supported in preparing successful grant applications through: local
 mentoring within Schools and research groups, and our diversity networks; School and Faculty
 peer review and mock interviews; and, grant writing workshops (typically 40% female
 attendees). We actively encourage fellowship applications through open calls and directly
 approaching staff, including those who may not actively put themselves forward. Analysis
 presented in our 2019 Silver Athena SWAN award illustrates the positive impact of this support
 on women who were associated with 24% of the total value of funding in Engineering


                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (compared to <20% eligible), and were more likely to be Principal Investigator.
 We enable flexible working to support staff with caring responsibilities or ill health, including
 working from home, to enable research grant preparation inter alia. We support those
 returning from a significant period of leave (maternity/parental, illness), and for those with
 caring responsibilities, via financial support and a reduced teaching workload to visit
 collaborators or attend conferences/workshops, as well as funding for an accompanying
 partner, and through priority for PhD studentships to help pump-prime research proposals.
 Alongside the measures detailed in §2, we support individuals with particular needs through
 the University’s occupational health and disability services, and drawing on e.g. the
 government’s ‘Access to Work’ scheme, including adapting offices, provision of specialist lab
 furniture, provision of specialist computing equipment and extra assistance (e.g. support to a
 visually impaired colleague through provision of a 0.6 FTE teaching and research assistant).

 e. How the Unit uses its infrastructure, facilities and expertise in relation to impact
 activities
 Infrastructure: The University’s innovation hub ‘Nexus’ consolidates, coordinates and
 expands our previous commercialization and corporate relationship teams. Nexus colleagues
 have enabled new research collaborations, helped embed industrial laboratories on campus
 (e.g. Jiuli Group with MECH), and importantly used their critical mass and expertise to drive
 major new impact opportunities, e.g. securing the significant local and national investment for
 the Institute of High-Speed Rail and System Integration (§3(b)). Nexus provides incubator
 laboratories/space e.g. the Connected Places Catapult have taken space to work closely with
 ITS. Furthermore, specialized RIDMs in the Faculty, and centrally in Nexus, work with
 researchers to find/build strategic stakeholder partnerships, and undertake early development
 of exploitation (§1(c)).
 Facilities: Researchers and PGRs use our TRAC-funded experimental facilities in
 collaborative research with industry. External users benefit from the infrastructure through
 contract research, accessing the facilities themselves or having work performed by our
 technical staff. For example, the materials characterisation facilities in CHEM (including the
 Leeds Electron Microscopy & Spectroscopy Centre, and the Versatile X-ray Spectroscopy
 Facility), are routinely used to facilitate industrial impact with large (e.g. AstraZeneca, GSK,
 Syngenta, P&G, Unilever, Pfizer, Infineum, Thales) and small companies (e.g. Keighley Labs,
 Burgoynes). As a further example, MECH hosts the world’s largest independent academic
 facility for the pre-clinical wear simulation testing of artificial joint replacements to verify and
 validate evidence, support regulatory approval (FDA and CE marking), and fulfil the
 requirements for industry-recognised methods and standards. Recent industry collaborators
 using these ISO 9001 accredited facilities include Mathys, Corin, DePuy, and JRI.
 Expertise: Researchers’ expertise underpins impact through pursuing research informed by
 end-user requirements; large research grants, CDTs, and ITNs include industrial partners to
 direct and facilitate research impact. Secondment of staff between academia and industry,
 public and third sector bodies, and consultancy are important mechanisms to facilitate impact, as
 is our engagement with industrial, technical and regulatory bodies to develop standards and
 influence future directions (§2(e), §4(e)). Colleagues exploit their expertise with industry and
 with major infrastructure facilities through e.g. industrial Research Chairs and industrial
 Research Fellowships (§2(e)). We develop impact through policy advice to government (e.g.
 Noakes is a member of the SAGE Covid-19 committee and Convenor/Chair of the
 Environmental and Modelling SAGE sub-group, Tate provided oral evidence to the Commons
 Select Committee on diesel emissions, and Evans is chair of DFID Sanitation and Hygiene
 Research Consortium Advisory Group, and member of the UN WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring
 Programme Strategic Advisory Group). Expert witness activities include: Anable in ‘dieselgate’,

                                                                                                 Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Brydson advising in High Court patent disputes between GSK and Vectura, and between
 Coloplast and Salts, and Fisher in High Court defence of DePuy Pinnacle Ultimet Products.

 f. Specialist research infrastructure: the Unit’s engagement with major research
 facilities
 A selection of our specialist research infrastructure was presented in §3(b,c), and our large
 collaborative research projects such as Programme Grants naturally involve cross-HEI use of
 such research infrastructure. Here we outline examples of national research facility use and
 collaboration in the UK and overseas.
 Daresbury Laboratories: Brydson and Ramasse lead the EPSRC National Facility for
 Advanced Electron Microscopy (SuperSTEM), founded in 2002, supported by >£25M and
 currently involving a consortium of six UK Universities. This internationally leading
 instrumentation attracts both UK and major international users. The national facility is
 underpinned by University LEMAS facilities, where £3.5M of EPSRC awards over the period
 have established low-dose analytical cryo-TEM, cryo-FIB, and 3D confocal light microscopy for
 soft matter characterisation.
 Diamond Light Source: Our Leeds-Diamond Collaboration centred on the soft X-ray
 beamline B07, is augmented by a joint Royal Academy of Engineering Bragg Centenary Chair
 in Synchrotron Science (Schroeder co-funded by RAEng, Diamond and Infineum), laboratory
 space in the Harwell Research Complex, and also a new Leeds EPSRC £1.2M
 (EP/R042683/1) SAXS/WAXS facility sited at Harwell. In addition to major Diamond usage
 across this Unit (including Barker, Bell, Black, Milne, Morina, Neville, Roberts, and Wälti),
 Mishra has a joint Leeds-DoE position at the Advanced Photon Source at Argonne National
 Lab in USA, and Schroeder is on the ESRF Strategic Advisory Committee.
 Rutherford Appleton Laboratory: On-going collaborative projects include e.g. development of
 satellite-borne instrumentation based on terahertz frequency quantum cascade lasers for
 astronomic and atmospheric gas sensing (Davies, Linfield, Valavanis), in conjunction with
 STFC RAL Space, UK and European Space Agencies, and the Centre for Earth Observation
 Instrumentation and Space Technology. In addition, collaborative programmes with the
 National Physical Laboratory are establishing standards for microwave/terahertz frequency
 waveguides and feedhorns (Cunningham), and high frequency measurement of 2D and
 topological materials and devices.
 We host a number of national facilities for the benefit of external users, including e.g. the
 EPSRC National Facility for Innovative Robotics Systems, the National Centre for Infrastructure
 Materials, and SuperSTEM Daresbury (above).

 g. Significance of major benefits in-kind
 The majority of our research programmes and grants are collaborative with, or supported by,
 industrial and other end-users of our research, providing not only direct research income and
 PGR sponsorship, but also in-kind support. This can include access to bespoke facilities and
 proprietary samples, opportunities for PGR placements and supervision, and staff
 secondments. Two examples of major equipment donations in this period include:
      A state-of-the-art £1M da Vinci surgical robotic system was donated by Intuitive to ELEC
       (Valdastri) to enable world-leading research in the field of robotic minimally invasive
       surgery. We are working to automate repetitive parts of surgical procedures enabling the
       surgeon to focus on the most delicate steps. Robotic automation in surgery will also
       enable improved and more reliable outcomes, thus enhancing the patient experience and
       reducing the NHS costs. This is the only da Vinci robot available in an academic
       anatomy laboratory, with access to human cadavers for experimentation, in the world.

                                                                                           Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      Our ‘Virtuocity’ city simulation and visualization facility (Romano) has received multiple
       in-kind contributions from industry (totalling £725k) including: access to Arup’s simulation
       models; the ‘Omnideck’ virtual reality pedestrian deck from the Transport Systems
       Catapult; truck and car cabs, and monitoring equipment, from Volvo, Jaguar Land Rover
       and Seeing Machines; and, other in-kind contributions from Nexteer, Belron, Highways
       England, and Aimsun. Our transport research also benefits from UK and EU partner
       collaborations with donations of vehicles (ECODRIVER), a Daimler truck, a BMW car,
       three Fiat Group vehicles, and research vehicles from CTAG, IKA and IFSTTAR.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 a. The support for, and effectiveness of, the Unit’s research collaborations and
 indicators of their success
 We lead numerous national and international research collaborations, networks and
 partnerships (§3). These are supported financially and operationally through: investigator
 workload buy-out; matched funding for, and direct purchase of, equipment; laboratory
 refurbishment; and, dedicated University Academic Fellow (UAF) positions and PGR
 studentships. Local, and central, university research and development managers (RIDMs)
 support programme reporting, consortia organization, and help develop sustainability through
 e.g. identifying further industrial and academic collaboration. Faculty funding to support
 development and sustainability of collaborations, and for membership of networks (e.g.
 ERTICO – European intelligent transport systems) and professional/standards bodies (e.g.
 RILEM – construction materials, systems, and structures) facilitate research and connect with
 industry. University and Faculty finance, contracts and EU Grant offices support consortium
 agreements, audits, and financial reporting, and communications and marketing teams
 disseminate research to press and other media outlets, and via social media.
 We give three examples to show how such support has underpinned the growth, effectiveness,
 and sustainability of collaborations, networks and partnerships in this period:
      Building on long-term international industrial research collaborations (e.g. Infineum UK,
       Total France, Komatsu Japan, SKF Netherlands), the Institute of Functional Surfaces
       in MECH (Bryant, Morina, Neville, Wilson) established the EPSRC Integrated
       Tribology CDT (EP/L01629X/1, with Sheffield) in 2014, co-funded by industry and the
       School. This developed the research base leading to multidisciplinary/multisectoral
       partnerships supported by Programme and Prosperity Partnerships Grants
       (EP/R001766/1; EP/R00496X/1), industry (e.g. BP, Parker Hannifin, Schlumberger) and
       Neville’s ERC Advanced Grant (INTELLICORR), and by 2017 had significantly
       strengthened the fundamental understanding of surface degradation and its
       consequence in a wide range of applications. Recruitment of four new School lecturers
       in 2018/2019 (Ghanbarzadeh, Kosarieh, Pessu, Yang(L)) expanded the research
       scope and developed new collaborations (e.g. EP/T024542/1 with the School of Design
       and TMD-Friction Gmbh in 2020). This increased critical mass led to new collaborations
       with e.g. Caltech, Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems, and Ljubljana, supported
       by an EPSRC Centre-to-Centre award (EP/S030476/1), and a Marie Curie ITN
       ‘GreenTRIBOS’ to explore tribology as an enabling technology in energy harvesting,
       advanced manufacturing, and green tribology.
      Critical mass nuclear engineering research into fuel recycling, reactors and
       decommissioning centred in CHEM (Fairweather, Hanson, Harbottle, Hunter(T)) has
       developed over 20 years, supported by a full-time technology manager and
       administrator. Award of the Sellafield Ltd Sludge Centre of Expertise (2011–2022) led, in
       this period, to: partnership in two multi-University CDTs in 2014 and 2019


                                                                                              Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       (EP/L015390/1, EP/S022295/1); School investment (£500k) in a Nuclear Laboratory
       suite with active handling capability (2015); and, new collaborations on cements and
       modular reactors with CIVIL and ultrasonic monitoring with ELEC. This contributed to
       the formation of the Energy Leeds network (Directors: Cockerill, Taylor (UoA7)
       supported by dedicated RIDM and administrator investment), and the Leeds Institute for
       Fluid Dynamics and associated CDT (EP/S022732/1). This has further enabled £25M of
       collaborative projects (EPSRC/EU/BEIS/Industry) with five UK Universities including
       Manchester and Imperial College (e.g. EP/S011935/1, EP/P013600/1, EP/L018616/1).
       Beyond the UK nuclear industry, this support has enabled funded projects with ten
       international institutions (e.g. BARC and IGCAR (India), CEA (France), KAIST (South
       Korea)).
      Long-standing support for terahertz electronics and photonics research in ELEC
       (Davies, Linfield, Cunningham, Dean), including >£5M internal funding for MBE
       growth, cleanroom fabrication and photonics infrastructure (§3(c)), enabled a number of
       EPSRC and EU awards, including a Programme Grant (EP/J017671/1, 2012–2017).
       This led, in this period, to further University support including two UAF positions
       (Valavanis, Freeman), underpinning: a further Programme Grant (EP/P021859/1) with
       Cambridge, UCL and Lancaster; a Career Acceleration Fellowship (EP/P007449/1,
       Burnett, in UoA8); establishment of the EPSRC national high-field terahertz facility (via
       EP/P001394/1); many international collaborations (e.g. Ecole Normale Supérieure,
       Queensland, and Nanyang Technological University) including two H2020 FET Open
       awards (737017, 665158); and, leadership of the UK ‘TERANET’ Network
       (EP/M00306X/1). The Network is now self-sustaining, attracting over 90 delegates
       annually representing 25 Universities, and it published the international terahertz
       roadmap in 2017 informing, inter alia, the EPSRC balancing capability exercise.

 b. How the Unit’s staff have developed relationships with research users to develop
 impact, and how this has enriched the research environment
 Our ICSs explain how we developed relationships with research users and beneficiaries, and
 §1(c) and §2(e) describe, respectively, how we have sought to enable research impact and how
 we have stimulated and facilitate exchanges with industry, public sector, and end-user bodies.
 Here, we give further examples of how impact has been developed in three contrasting areas of
 the Unit, and how this has enriched the environment by creating new research directions,
 providing opportunities for new staff appointment and development, and in CDT/PGR research
 and training.
      The Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering (Fisher, Wilcox, Williams(S))
       advances medical technologies by reducing technical, regulatory and commercial
       uncertainty, enabling downstream development of new medical devices by industry. In
       this period, we have collaborated with 202 user organisations of which 55 were industrial
       collaborators (e.g. via our second-phase Innovation Knowledge Centre (EP/N00941X/1),
       Catalyst-funded TRANSLATE programme, and the Grow MedTech Programme). Since
       2014, 78 collaborative proof-of-concept projects have been supported, with 23 progressing
       beyond TRL-4 to receive over £50M downstream investment by industrial partners (e.g.
       DePuySynthes, Invibio, NHS Blood & Transplant, NHS Leeds Teaching Hospital Trust). In
       turn this has broadened the research base, leading to large new initiatives (e.g. the Tissue
       Engineering CDT EP/L014823/1; and EP/N02480X/1, EP/R003971/1), and we have
       recruited two UAFs (Brockett, Edwards) and a lecturer (Herbert). In 2019, we led the
       BEIS-commissioned Leeds City Region Science and Innovation Audit to guide the
       investment of £250M in the Leeds City Region’s medical technology sector to strengthen
       the region’s position as a global leader in health (Fisher).


                                                                                            Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      The Institute for Process Research and Development in CHEM and MECH (Bayly,
       Blacker in UoA8, Bourne, Ghadiri, Kapur, Muller, Mullis, Roberts, Schroeder)
       translates new reactor platforms, optimization methods, analytical capabilities and digital
       design, delivering Industry 4.0 approaches to chemical manufacturing. Our CDT in
       Complex Particulate Products (EP/L015285/1, 2014–2022) is supported by £1.1M
       investment from >20 multi-nationals/SMEs, with these partnerships underpinning further
       funding through three EPSRC Manufacturing hubs (EP/N007638/1, EP/P006566/1,
       EP/P006965/1) with a total of seventy industrial partners, and an EU public-private
       partnership association (SPIRE). It also enabled us to establish an advanced in-line
       process research group co-located at Harwell, award of industry-sponsored RAEng
       Chairs/Fellowships (§2(e), §3(a)), and a further CDT in 2019 (EP/S022473/1). This
       expertise allowed establishment of a £20M BEIS-funded Government/industry/academia
       collaboration (ADDOPT) to explore digital design in pharmaceuticals, and direct industrial
       funding including PGRs/PDRAs to deliver digital technology platforms at major UK
       pharmaceutical manufacturing sites e.g. Pfizer, Dr Reddy’s, AstraZeneca, GSK (Bourne,
       ICS-5).
      The Institute for Transport Studies engages with transport policy stakeholders and
       industry to develop impact from research. Based on research into road cost
       benchmarking (Wheat), we established the Cost Quality and Customer (CQC) Efficiency
       Network in 2015, funded via subscription from 92 local government members, which
       enabled local authorities to progress new road investment strategies and obtain >£150M
       additional funding to improve road condition (CQC annual report, 2018). In rail, we were
       central in the ‘Schedule 8’ performance regime used by the Office of Rail and Road
       (Batley) to determine financial flow between Network Rail and Train Operating Companies
       (TOCs). Our research led to the industry ‘Passenger Demand Forecasting Handbook’
       updates versions 5 and 6, and underpinned Schedule 8 compensation payments from
       Network Rail to the TOCs of £106M in 2015/16 alone. Partnerships with SNCF and RSSB
       provided two 50% joint funded PDRA posts (Smith(A)) on methodological and empirical
       advances in transport economics research to address key policy challenges. The
       emission performances of new (Euro 6/VI) cars, trucks and buses were evaluated as part
       of a secondment to Transport for London (Tate), leading to advice around low emission
       zones.

 c. The Unit’s wider contributions to the economy and society, not captured in the
 impact case studies
 Our ICSs provide examples of our contributions to the health and wellbeing of people and
 society, commerce and the economy, and the environment. Here we provide three topical
 examples of our wider contribution, focussing on supporting standards, guidance and policy.
      We led the Wired Core and Access Networks (WCAN) working group of GreenTouch
       (2010–2015), which comprised 50 industrial and academic members aiming to improve
       network energy efficiency 1,000-fold. Elmirghani proposed five of the six core
       network energy efficiency improvement measures identified by GreenTouch, including
       the use of mixed line rates, energy efficient network virtualisation, energy efficient
       content distribution and energy efficient routing. These were recommended to all
       equipment vendors (e.g. Nokia, Huawei) and operators (e.g. France Telecom, Swiss
       Com, China Mobile, AT&T), and are being incorporated into industrial roadmaps. The
       methods developed are now being incorporated into IEEE standards, including P1925.1,
       P1926.1, P1927.1, P1928.1, and P1929.1.
      Tate was one of three experts invited to give oral evidence to the Commons Select
       Committee ‘Vehicle Type Approval – evidence session’ on 14 December 2015, owing to

                                                                                            Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       his research in real world emissions (NOx from diesel). A change to taxation policy was
       then recommended in a DEFRA-commissioned rapid evidence review of air quality
       actions in 2016 (Appendix 1 to project summary for contract AQ0959); we proposed the
       diesel car tax increase, and wrote the company car section. Following evidence by Tate
       to parliament, an increase in vehicle excise duty on diesel cars was applied in the
       Autumn budget 2017 along with a 1% increase on the diesel car ‘Benefit-in-Kind’ tax.
       Since 2017, diesel car sales have fallen from 50% to 30% market share. In conjunction
       with the West Yorkshire Combined Authority, and Transport for the North (formed in
       2018), we supported bids including the successful DfT Transforming Cities Fund award
       (£317M) announced for the Leeds City Region in March 2019, which incorporates ideas
       around mass rapid transit, connected and autonomous vehicles, and use of 5G
       infrastructure to manage traffic better.
      Locatelli’s partnership with BEIS and the Department of Energy and Climate Change on
       the economics and financing of small modular reactors (SMRs) resulted in two co-
       authored policy reports, supported the 2018 parliamentary briefing on SMRs, and led to
       consultation on a ‘Regulated Asset Base’ (RAB) model for new nuclear projects (BEIS:
       July 2019); the RAB model has potential to reduce the cost of raising private finance for
       new nuclear projects, thereby reducing consumer bills and maximising value for money
       for consumers and taxpayers. The IAEA standard on Nuclear Energy Co-Generation
       recommends Locatelli’s approach for assessing technical and economic feasibility.

 d. Evidence of the Unit’s contribution to the sustainability of the discipline,
 interdisciplinary research, and responsiveness to national and international priorities
 and initiatives
 Our breadth of research leadership, including in areas of significant societal relevance and
 benefit (e.g. in sanitation and waste in developing countries), enables us not only to respond to,
 but also importantly, influence national and international priorities and funding opportunities,
 contributing to the development and sustainability of the discipline. Four such examples are
 given here and sit within the context of wider frameworks such as the UN Sustainable
 Development Goals and HMG Industrial Strategy. Our approach to supporting interdisciplinary
 research is described in §1(d).
      Velis’ systems-based tools to quantify and manage solid waste have been applied to
       50 cities, and defined global strategy through authorship of the UN-Environment ‘Global
       Waste Management Outlook 2016’ and membership of the UN-Environment/UN-Habitat
       Joint Expert Group on Solid Waste Sustainable Development Group (SDG); SDG11.6.1
       is directly supported by our ‘Waste Flow Diagram’ project funded by the German
       Development Agency GIZ GmbH. In addition to her substantial global impacts on faecal
       sludge monitoring (ICS-1), Evans leads global sanitation strategy as chair of DFID
       SHARE Sanitation and Hygiene Research Consortium Advisory Group, and as member
       of the UN WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme Strategic Advisory Group, the
       GCRF Strategic Advisory Board, and the RAEng International Committee.
      Interdisciplinary collaboration between CIVIL (Purnell, Camargo-Valero, Velis,
       Stewart(D)), CHEM (Williams(P), Gale, Jha, Andrews, Tomlin, Dupont), Leeds
       Business School, Mathematics, and Geography, with multiple national, industry and
       government partners has influenced the national circular economy strategy including
       around decarbonisation in complex infrastructure systems (NE/L014149/1),
       decarbonising foundation industries (UK CREDS EP/R035288/1, BEIS Glass Futures
       Industry consortium), developing the Hydrogen Economy (BEIS Hy4Heat projects, £9M
       Ofgem H21-LeedsCity Gate Project), and resource recovery from alkaline and mineral
       wastes. Work on phosphorus recovery from waste waters and reuse in food production

                                                                                             Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       (BB/K011677/1, BB/N016033/1) led to collaborations with SMEs (Carbogen and
       Link2Energy) for pilot-scale testing. Purnell’s coordination of the £7M NERC Resource
       Recovery from Waste programme enabled integration across a national portfolio of
       projects, direct engagement with Defra, BEIS and the Treasury, and underpinned the
       £30M UKRI circular economy programme in 2020.
      Through our leadership of the Henry Royce Institute ‘Atoms-to-Devices’ core area
       (Linfield), over 220 representatives from academia and industry developed roadmaps
       identifying the necessary UK investments and interventions to meet the UK
       Government’s net-zero emission targets for 2050 on topics ranging from materials for
       photovoltaic systems and low-loss electronics, to the low-carbon production of hydrogen.
      Our response to the COVID-19 pandemic has been wide ranging. Noakes (CIVIL)
       provided expert advice on SARS-CoV-2 virus transmission, underpinning all UK public
       policy guidance through her membership of the SAGE Covid-19 committee and directly
       to multiple government departments, including Number 10 (ICS-8). Kapur and Culmer
       (MECH) optimised continuous positive airway pressure ventilators, with more efficient
       oxygen utilisation, which were used by the Leeds NHS Trust in the first wave (ICS-4).
       On-going new and repurposed activity includes: development of fast COVID-19 antibody
       tests, through adaption of electronic biosensor assays (Wälti, ELEC); development of
       autonomous robotic systems for city infrastructure disinfection (Purnell, CIVIL, ELEC,
       MECH, ITS); and, development of ultrasound for detection of lung pathologies in COVID-
       19 patients with Leeds NHS Trust (McLaughlin, ELEC).

 e. Indicators of wider influence, contributions to, and recognition by the research base
 Bower, Neville, and Noakes each received an OBE for services to engineering,
 complementing the OBE and CBE previously awarded to Martin and Fisher, respectively. We
 have 16 National Academy Fellows: 13 FREng (seven new in period: Basheer, Bell, Davies,
 Ghadiri, Hunter(I), Roberts, Wilkins), two FRS (one new: Neville), and one FMedSci. These
 complement our EPSRC/UKRI, ERC, Leverhulme, and RAEng research fellowships (§3(a)).
 Major prizes include: IoP Faraday Medal and Prize (Davies, Linfield, 2014); IOM3 Verulam
 Medal and Prize (Bell, 2014); EPSRC RISE Fellow (Neville, 2014); IEEE Outstanding Service
 Award (Elmirghani, 2015); MRC Suffrage Science Award (Neville, 2015; Wilcox, 2015);
 Japanese Ferroelectrics International Award (Bell, 2015); Royal Society Wolfson Research
 Merit Award (Linfield, 2015; Valdastri, 2016); Queen Elizabeth Prize (Neville, 2016); Edison
 Award (Elmirghani, 2016); Royal Society Leverhulme Medal (Neville, 2016); IMechE James
 Clayton Prize (Neville, 2016); IMechE Donald Julius Groen Prize (Morina, 2016); IWA
 International Development Research Award (Evans, 2017); Kona Award from Hosokawa
 Foundation (Ghadiri, 2018); ICorr U R Evans Award (Neville, 2018); Tribology Silver Medal
 (Neville, 2019); RSC Industry-Academia Collaboration Award (Fairweather, 2020); RMS Mid-
 career Achievement Award (Ramasse, 2020); Fellow IAAM (Basheer, 2020); Fellow IEEE
 (Bell, Elmirghani, 2020); IEEE Outstanding Technical Achievement Award (Elmirghani,
 2020); IOM3 Rosenhain Medal and Prize (Bernal-Lopez, 2020); IOM3 Chapman Medal
 (Fisher, 2020); RAEng President's Special Awards for Pandemic Service (Noakes, 2020).
 Prestigious research paper prizes include: British Geotechnical Association Medal (Yu, 2015);
 IET Electronics Letters Premium Award (Davies, Dean, Freeman, Linfield, Valavanis, 2015);
 IMechE Thomas Hawksley Gold Medal (Bryant, Neville, 2018); ICE James Watt Medal
 (Locatelli, 2018); EMS Outstanding Paper Award (Ramasse, 2019); and, the ICE Parkman
 Medal (Smith(N), 2019).
 We influence policy and help develop the national research agenda through membership of
 research council, national academy, and professional body committees. Examples include:

                                                                                          Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 EPSRC Council (Fisher); EPSRC Strategic Advisory Teams (Hoyle, McKay, Martin, Wilcox);
 UK Government SAGE (Noakes); UKRI-GCRF Strategic Advisory Group (Evans); RAEng
 Trustee Board (Martin); RAEng Policy Committee (Fisher); Royal Microscopical Society
 (Brown, Brydson); European Microscopy Society Executive Board (Brydson); IoP Electron
 Microscopy and Analysis Group (Brown–chair); IMechE Tribology Group (Morina–chair); IOM3
 Materials Chemistry Committee (Scott); British Orthopaedic Research Society Executive
 Committee (Brockett); and, IChemE Energy Centre Board (Hanson).
 Our membership of industry/regulatory bodies and technical committees supports the discipline
 through e.g. the development of international engineering standards. Examples include: ISO
 TC150/SC4 bone and joint replacements standards committee (Jennings–chair); ISO 14242-4
 pre-clinical assessment of total hip prostheses (Fisher, Jennings); ISO TC22/SC39/WG8
 driver ergonomics (Merat); ISO TC281 fine bubble technology committee (McLaughlan); ISO
 wear simulation of total ankle replacement (Brockett–UK lead); BSI TPR/001 committee
 (McKay); BSI standards sub-committee CH150/4 ‘Bone & Joint Replacements’ (Brockett,
 Jennings–chair); IEEE UFFC Society Ferroelectrics Committee (Bell); IEEE Standards
 Association Green ICT Standards Committee (Elmirghani–chair); IEEE Comsoc Energy
 Efficient ICT Standards Working Group (Elmirghani–chair); IEEE Sustainable ICT Initiative
 (Elmirghani–co-chair); many RILEM technical committees (Basheer, Bernal-Lopez, Garcia-
 Taengua, Sarhosis); and, Air Quality Expert Group / Defra (Tomlin).
 We contribute to the global engineering community through participation in, and organization
 of, national/international conferences, symposia and workshops. Major meetings organized
 and chaired include: European Microwave Week (Robertson–General Technical Programme
 Committee Chair, 2016); European Microwave Conference (Hunter(I), 2016); International
 Quantum Cascade Lasers School and Workshop (Davies, Linfield, 2016); and, the Leeds-
 Lyon Symposium on Tribology (Bryant, Morina, Neville, Wilson, 2014, 2016, 2018).
 In addition to the many invited and contributed conference talks, a selection of our keynote
 presentations include: 10th International Conference on Chemical Kinetics (Chicago 2017,
 Tomlin); 17th Driving Simulation Conference (France 2018, Merat); 6th International
 Conference on Electric Vehicular Technology (Indonesia 2019, Shepherd); and, 18th European
 Conference on Surface and Interface Analysis (Germany 2019, Schroeder).
 We support the vitality and integrity of our leading journals through membership of editorial
 boards and by refereeing manuscripts. Contributions as Editor-in-Chief include: Advances in
 Aerodynamics (Wen); Advances in Cement Research (Black); Journal of the Energy Institute
 (Williams(P)); Choice Modelling (Hess); Geomechanics and Geoengineering (Wu);
 Proceedings of the Combustion Institute (Tomlin); IEEE Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics and
 Frequency Control (Freear); Cognition, Technology and Work (Carsten); Transportmetrica B –
 Transport Dynamics (Watling); Tribology – Materials, Surfaces & Interfaces (Neville).
 Similarly, we support the vitality and integrity of UK/international research funding through grant
 peer-review, and through panel and EPSRC College membership. Examples of Panel Chairs
 include: EPSRC CDT (Brydson, McKay); IRC in Healthcare Technologies (Fisher); EPSRC
 Programme Grant (Purnell); EPSRC ICT Fellowships (Elmirghani); EPSRC Innovation
 Fellowships (Anable); EPSRC Global Challenges Research Fund (Anable); UKRI Future
 Leaders Fellowships (Martin); EPSRC Synchrotron X-ray Materials Characterisation National
 Research Facility Interview Panel (Martin); EPSRC Strategic Equipment Panel (Schroeder).
 Our PGRs are supported and trained by a wide range of formal national and international
 schemes, including eight newly awarded EPSRC/UKRI Centres for Doctoral Training, and six
 new Marie Skłodowska-Curie ITN/EJD programmes, as detailed in §2. These programmes all
 include substantial co-operation and collaboration with partner universities, industry, and NGOs,
 enriching our research environment and the PGR experience. Leadership of other formal PGR

                                                                                              Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 training collaborations include: EPSRC Dial-a-Molecule Summer School (Bourne, 2018, 2019);
 Annual Royal Microscopical Society Summer School in Electron Microscopy (Brydson, 2013–
 2020); and, SuperSTEM Summer School (Ramasse, 2015, 2017).




                                                                                      Page 32
