Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Cardiff University
 Unit of Assessment 23: Education
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1    CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE
 Education research at Cardiff benefits from its distinctive location within an interdisciplinary School
 of Social Sciences. The School was established over twenty years ago with the strategic aim of
 bringing together the disciplines of education, sociology, geography, criminology, social work and
 social policy to foster innovative and impactful research. To build interdisciplinarity, the School
 rejected single disciplines as the principal organisational units for research. The School currently
 has over 250 members of staff, (including 93 colleagues on Teaching & Research (T&R) pathways
 and 84 on Research (R) pathways). The School is submitting across a number of Units of
 Assessment, with 35 being returned to Education (28 T&R; 7 R-only).
 Education research within the School addresses three broad and overlapping areas:
       1. Children’s and young people’s welfare
       2. Knowledge, learning and pedagogy
       3. Education, skills and labour markets.
 Figure 1 provides a diagrammatic representation of how research in these areas is supported by
 seven Research Centres (in bold), each of which has dedicated staff and infrastructure, and
 eight Research Groups (in italics), which provide discussion fora for more specialised interests.
 This combination of Centres and Groups facilitates the circulation of new ideas ensuring that
 education research in the School benefits from, and takes forward, the latest thinking in the social
 sciences. It also provides an environment for education research that keeps in view the breadth
 and interconnectedness of social, emotional and economic processes that bear on educational
 experiences and outcomes from the early years to adulthood.

 Figure 1: Education-related Areas, Research Centres and Groups




                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Area 1: Children’s and young people’s welfare
 Research in this area investigates the circumstances that impact on the wellbeing of children and
 young people in and outside the school, as well as the consequences of social inequalities for
 their physical and mental health. Research is concentrated in three Research Centres and
 informed by discussions within two Research Groups that explore the nature of childhood from
 sociological and psycho-social perspectives, as outlined below.
 Research Centres:
    CASCADE (Children's Social Care Research and Development Centre) (directed by Forrester,
    returned to UOA21) aims to improve our understanding and response to children and families
    in need. The largest centre of its kind in Europe, CASCADE was a partner for the development
    of the English Department for Education’s Centre What Works for Children’s Social Care.
    CASCADE has strengths in evaluative research, including randomized controlled trials, quasi-
    experimental studies, data linkage, qualitative and mixed method research. During the REF
    period it secured over £15M of research funding (see Section 3).
    DECIPHer (Centre for the Development and Evaluation of Complex Interventions for Public
    Health Improvement) (directed by Murphy) is a UKCRC Public Health Research Centre of
    Excellence. Led by Cardiff (in partnership with Bristol and Swansea Universities) the focus is
    on developing and evaluating multi-level interventions to improve the health and wellbeing of
    children and young people. During the REF period, £7M has been awarded from ESRC, MRC,
    Wellcome Trust and Cancer Research UK. DECIPHer is the lead partner in the Welsh
    Government-funded School Health Research Network (SHRN) which brings together
    researchers, policy-makers and practitioners from health, education and social care to promote
    an evidence-informed approach to improving young people’s health and wellbeing in the school
    setting.
    Y Lab (directed by Lewis, submitted to UOA3) is a collaboration between Cardiff University
    and Nesta which brings together researchers, practitioners and experts from Nesta. At the core
    of Y Lab’s programme is the Welsh Government-funded ‘Innovate to Save’ scheme (c. £6.5M),
    aiming to tackle some of the biggest challenges faced by public services. Education projects
    include: the development of Schoop, an engagement app which aims to change the
    relationship between schools and parents; Food and Fun, a collaboration with the Welsh
    Government, is designed to prevent ‘holiday hunger’ experienced by children in poverty.
 Research Groups:
    Childhood and Youth (convened by Mannay) explores topics such as children’s rights, identities
    and lived experience in domains such as school and family.
    Gender and Sexualities (convened by Renold) explores issues of gender and sexuality with
    the aim of contributing to innovations in theoretical, methodological and policy/engagement
    across the fields of gender and sexuality studies.
 Staff working in this area being returned to UOA23 include: Elliott, R. Evans, Fletcher, Garner,
 Hallett, Hawkins, Littlecott, Mannay, Maxwell, Morgan, Murphy, Renold, Scourfield, Taylor,
 Wilkins, Young.
 Area 2: Knowledge, learning and pedagogy
 Research in this area focuses on the political and sociological dimensions of learning across the
 spectrum – from early years to professional education. Key issues explored in the two associated
 Centres and three Research Groups include the sociology of expertise, culture and the nature of
 interpretive enquiry.
 Research Centres
    WISERD (Wales Institute of Social and Economic Research and Data) (directed by Power) is
    a networked research institute with an administrative Hub at Cardiff and partners in
    Aberystwyth, Bangor, Cardiff, South Wales and Swansea Universities. Education research is
    a core theme in WISERD, which attracted £14M during the REF period, and has run the WMCS
    (WISERDEducation Multi-Cohort Study) since 2012. Funded for a third time by the ESRC, as

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    well as Welsh Government and others, WISERD undertakes research on the curriculum,
    policies to tackle disadvantage and young people’s engagement in civil society.
    CUREMeDE (Cardiff Unit for Research and Evaluation in Medical and Dental Education)
    (directed by Bullock), established in 2009, is an £800K collaboration between the School of
    Social Sciences and the Wales Deanery (now Health Education and Improvement Wales), with
    the purpose of conducting interdisciplinary research on the education and training of health
    professionals. The Centre has a strong international presence, involved in establishing
    guidance for dental and medical education across the world.
 Research Groups
    Ethnography, Culture & Interpretive Analysis (convened by Lewis, returned to UOA21) provides
    a forum for collaboration in ethnography and interpretive analysis, providing support and
    guidance for practical pedagogy in ethnographic.
    Knowledge, Expertise and Science (convened by R.J. Evans, returned to UOA21) explores the
    sociological nature of knowledge and how it is used, developed, and contested. A key focus is
    the public understanding of science and science education.
    Religion, Faith and Society (convened by Power) facilitates discussion of issues surrounding
    religion and faith. Key topics include the significance of faith schools and the nature and
    definitions of religious affiliation, belief and non-belief.
 Staff working in this area being returned to UOA23 include: Baker, Barrance, Bates, Bayfield,
 Beneito-Montagut, Bullock, Garner, Girvan, Hadfield, Hemming, James, Lyttleton-Smith, Moles,
 Power, A. Rees, Smith, Walkerdine.
 Area 3: Education, skills and labour markets
 Education researchers in the School have a long tradition of investigating the relationship between
 education, skills and labour markets at different life-course stages, in different employment sectors
 and for different professions. Research in this area includes the political arithmetic of educational
 outcomes, careers education, qualifications, recruitment, vocational and lifelong learning, Further
 Education governance and the changing nature of work.
 Research Centres
    Located within WISERD, WEDL (WISERD Education Data Lab) (directed by Taylor) was
    established in 2019 to consolidate the quantitative dimension of WISERD research and make
    it more stakeholder-facing. Co-funded by the ESRC and the Welsh Government and affiliated
    with the ESRC-funded ADR-Wales (Administrative Data Research - Wales), the aim of WEDL
    is to generate high quality research-based evidence on educational processes and outcomes.
    SIRC (Seafarers International Research Centre) (directed by Sampson, returned to UOA21)
    undertakes research on the international shipping industry and personnel working within it.
    Established in 1995, SIRC’s portfolio addresses issues relating to the education and training
    of seafarers, with a particular emphasis on occupational health and safety. Funders include the
    Institution of Occupational Health and Safety, Lloyds Register Foundation and the European
    Chamber of Shipping.
 Research Groups
    Contemporary Issues in Education (convened by Souto-Otero) focuses on global
    developments in education and skills policy, participation in education and training, and the
    multi-faceted relationships between education, communities and work.
    Work, Employment and Labour Markets (convened by Brown) explores the changing nature of
    the knowledge economy, including the rise of AI, the sociology of talent, as well as enduring
    issues of social stratification and social mobility.
    Survey Data Users Brown Bag Research Group (SURDUBB) (convened by Cheung, returned
    to UOA21) meets monthly to work with large-scale surveys and administrative data in the fields
    of education, sociology, health and social work.


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff working in this Area being returned to UOA23 include: Brown, Bullock, Connolly, Felstead,
 Fox, James, Lloyd, A. Rees, Souto-Otero, Stroud, Taylor, Zhao.
 1.2       RESEARCH STRATEGY
 The School’s strategy for education research is central to its overall mission. This is underpinned
 by three core principles: Firstly, research excellence in social sciences in general, and in education
 in particular, can only be achieved by ongoing investment, interdisciplinarity and innovation;
 secondly, that universities have a duty to grow the next generation of researchers; and thirdly, that
 academic research should be directed towards the betterment of governance and civil society.
 The success of this strategy for education-focused research during this REF period is evident in
 the following headline figures:
       •    Grant capture of over £25M for education and related research, including over £6M from
            UKRI;
       •    Twenty-five awards (£178K) for education-related engagement activities funded through
            the ESRC Impact Acceleration Award Scheme;
       •    Over 50 doctoral degrees awarded in the field of education and related areas, including
            10.5 professional doctorates;
       •    The publication of over 800 education and related research outputs, including over 500
            peer-reviewed journal articles and 30 books;
       •    The editorship of five major peer-reviewed education journals and board membership of a
            further 50 education-related journals.
 Within these overall principles, the School focused on seven strategic research objectives during
 the REF period, each of which strengthened the significance and reach of education research, as
 outlined below.
 1.2.1 The realisation of seven key research objectives
 1. To continue our commitment to multi-disciplinary research:
       The realisation of this objective for education research has been the enrichment of our
       understanding of the complex circumstances that contribute to young people’s welfare and
       progression. For example, CASCADE brings together education researchers with experts in
       social work and criminology to research the experiences of vulnerable children and young
       people. DECIPHer combines expertise in social policy, public health and education to improve
       health promotion in schools. WISERD combines educational, sociological and geographical
       approaches to examine the relationship between education and civil society.
 2. To strengthen research expertise in quantitative methods and digital technologies:
       We have enhanced our already-strong profile in quantitative methods (e.g. Q Step), through
       developing extensive expertise in digital technologies – both as a source of data and a means
       of data collection. We have spearheaded the use of tablets to collect data in schools for the
       WMCS. In the last two years, we have experimented with Empatica 3 wearable devices that
       offer real-time physiological data acquisition. These have been trialled in relation to student
       visits to museums with a view to use in classroom and playground settings to track students’
       emotional responses to school.
 3. To secure research funding from a wide variety of sources
       While the School has a strong track record of securing UKRI (nearly £15M) and Government
       (nearly £29M) funding, it has also entered into research partnerships with voluntary and private
       organisations (see Section 3). These have been particularly beneficial for education research,
       where we have undertaken collaborative projects with Action for Children, Artworks Cymru,
       Barnado’s, BookTrust Cymru, Cancer Research UK, and the Honourable Society of
       Cymmrodorion.



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. To align our research to the current and future challenges facing Wales
    During the REF period, we have sought to maximise the impact of our education research at
    local authority and national level. The capacity to provide timely and impactful data on
    education has been enhanced through the establishment of WEDL in 2019. The importance
    of this is evidenced by our response to Covid-19, where, since April 2020, Taylor and Power
    have collected and disseminated to the Welsh Government and other stakeholders data on
    young people’s experience of ‘lockdown’ and their use of online learning resources. This
    research is informing the Welsh Government’s Covid-recovery plan for education.
 5. To provide an important data resource for academic and non-academic users
    The ESRC-funded ADR-Wales has a base in the School which, as well as providing policy-
    relevant evidence, also has a secure data facility where researchers outwith the University can
    access administrative data, such as the National Pupil Database. A further example of our
    commitment to open research is that data from the WISERDEducation Multi-Cohort Study
    (WMCS) offer a ‘virtual laboratory’ for exploring students’ perspectives and experiences of
    school. The WMCS surveys and question banks are available through WISERD’s Data Portal
    for use by practitioners and policy-makers. Since 2018, these have been accessed over 1700
    times.
 6. To develop the next generation of researchers
    Throughout the REF period we have offered professional development programmes for
    researchers at every stage of their career. Since 2015, our relationship with the National
    Centre of Research Methods (NCRM) has enabled us to offer a range of training and capacity-
    building events to students and colleagues, as well as participation in the Welsh and GW4
    Crucible programmes, and the ESRC Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) (see Section
    2; see also REF5a).
 7. Strengthening our ties with international partners
    The School and individual education researchers have developed a range of international
    research partnerships (see Section 4). In Europe, for example, WISERD works closely with
    TRIANGLE in France, and Power has had three placements in the École Normale Supérieure,
    Lyon, which have led to joint publications and research proposals. Further afield, education
    colleagues have close working relations with Beijing Normal University. From 2020, Brown,
    Souto-Otero, James and Lloyd are leading the project Futures of Work: Reimagining Jobs,
    Skills and Education for a Digital Age with an international team from the University of
    Singapore.
 1.2.2 Enabling access to research outputs
 The School ensures that research outputs are as accessible as possible. All academic staff have
 ORCID IDs and full texts of journal articles and conference proceedings are deposited in the
 University’s open access digital repository within three months of acceptance. Financial support
 for Open Access is available from the School Research Committee, as well as University funds.
 In addition, the School operates a proactive ‘safety net’ approach to ensuring Open Access
 compliance, with Scopus and Web of Science alerts allowing the identification of new publications
 and prompting staff to enter relevant information into the institutional repository. The School has
 put in place robust procedures for data management and sharing. These include platforms which
 provide access to data for bona fide researchers, as well as strict protocols for the use of data.
 1.2.3 Upholding research ethics and integrity
 The School Research Ethics Committee (SREC) has been in existence since 2005 and reviews
 all research carried out in the School (Staff, PGR and Undergraduate) where responsibility to
 conduct an ethics review does not fall to an NHS REC. The SREC is independent of the Director
 of Research, meets on a monthly basis and includes representatives from non-academic user
 groups, as well as representatives from the range of disciplines in the School. To acknowledge
 the intensive nature of this work, the School provides professional service support as well as
 workload allocation for all SREC members.

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School follows Cardiff University’s policy on research ethics and integrity (see REF5a),
 including compliance with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Staff are required to
 complete the online university research integrity training. We have achieved 100% compliance.
 1.2.4 Key objectives for the future development of education research
 During the next REF period, we will continue to take forward the principles of the School’s overall
 strategy (see Section 1.2.1) of investment, interdisciplinarity and innovation. In recognition of the
 changing social and educational landscape, however, we will expand our education research
 through the following activities:
1. Develop a new research centre on the theme of ‘Education and the future of work’
       Building on the School’s longstanding strengths in research on education and the labour
       market, we are planning a new centre focused on the impact of digital transformations and the
       future of work, with particular reference to the significance of artificial intelligence for education
       and skills.
2. Expand our portfolio of research on education and civil society
       Arising from the success of recent projects in WISERD, we wish to consolidate expertise, and
       undertake international comparative research, on the significance of education for civic and
       political participation, with particular reference to current forms of student activism (e.g. school
       climate ‘strikes’), the mainstreaming of charities in schools and the growth of ‘hope labour’ and
       volunteering.
3. Build the long-term sustainability of the WMCS
       The last eight sweeps of data collection and analysis have confirmed the vital importance of
       this multi-cohort study for informing policy and providing an invaluable data resource for use
       by researchers, teachers and students. Building on existing agreements with the Welsh
       Government, we will work to ensure the long-term sustainability of the WMCS through
       attracting funding from diverse organisations and raising its national and international profile.
 4. Maximise the opportunities afforded by SPARK
       SPARK is the first social science research park in the world (see Section 3). Over the next
       year, four of the School’s centres (WISERD, DECIPHer, Cascade and Y Lab) will co-locate
       with other University centres and key stakeholders, including industrial partners and
       organisations from the public, private and third sectors. This will include the ESRC Wales DTP.
       This new environment will enable education researchers to build on existing collaborative
       working and develop new synergies and relationships.
 1.3     IMPACT STRATEGY
 We take it as axiomatic that our research should be not only excellent, but also socially useful.
 Education research is a crucial and highly valued component of the School’s contribution to wider
 society – in Wales, the UK and beyond. In order to ensure that our research is both useful and
 used, we engage with potential beneficiaries from the outset to the endpoint of the research,
 dedicating significant staff time to facilitate engagement and undertaking monitoring to evaluate
 effectiveness.
 In order to maximise impact, we appointed a senior academic in the School as Director of Impact
 who provides a strategic lead for the School’s impact and engagement activities. In addition to
 supporting the work of individual colleagues, the long-term strategy of investing in Research
 Centres has been especially productive. For example, WISERD benefits from an Engagement
 Manager, a Communications Officer and an Events Officer. The Research Centres also draw on
 their respective advisory bodies to help ensure that key stakeholders help frame the research
 agenda, guide the research process and support the communication of research evidence and
 the take-up of research recommendations. We have been supported in these endeavours with
 funding from the ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA), with education colleagues (Felstead,
 Mannay, Murphy, Renold, Smith, Taylor and Walkerdine) being awarded IAA funding of £178K for
 25 activities, including support for secondments, engagement events and pilot projects.


                                                                                                      Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our education research targets three key beneficiary groups: a) policymakers; b) professionals
 and c) publics and communities. The significance and reach of the impact achieved with each of
 these constituencies is greater than that which can be captured within the three selected impact
 case studies.
 1.3.1   Shaping policy
 The School’s education-related work has shaped policy in Wales and beyond. Education
 researchers in the School enjoy close working relations with the Welsh Government and the
 Senedd and are in regular dialogue with both ministers and civil servants – dialogue that is both
 critical and constructive. We have undertaken research projects and Minister-commissioned
 reviews across the range of education provision – from the early years (Taylor) to primary and
 secondary school phase (Power), to further and higher education (Brown, James, Rees, Taylor)
 and to workplace learning (Davies, Felstead). We have provided guidance on a wide number of
 interventions: the introduction of the Welsh Baccalaureate (Taylor); the new Curriculum for Wales
 (Power, Taylor); Careers Guidance (Davies, submitted to UOA17); and the Pupil Development
 Grant (Taylor). Our evaluation of the Foundation Phase (Taylor, Impact Case Study 1) won the
 2017 Wales Social Research Impact Award and the BERA-SAGE Public Engagement and Impact
 Award. The importance of the School’s education research for the policy community has been
 endorsed through Welsh Government’s funding for the continuation of WMCS and the
 establishment of WEDL. In addition, education researchers have contributed to policy guidance
 on the changing skills requirements for the future of the labour market through the Welsh
 Government commission of the 2019 Review of Digital Innovation for the Economy and the Future
 of Work in Wales (Brown).
 In addition to these major engagements, education researchers have trialled participatory methods
 designed to capture the voices of vulnerable children and young people so that their experiences
 can shape policy. The recommendations arising from Mannay’s pioneering research with looked-
 after children and young people (Impact Case Study 2) have been incorporated into Welsh
 Government policy – as well as leading to the development of a range of resources for education
 and welfare professions.
 1.3.2   Supporting education professionals
 The School’s research is informed by, and supports, professionals working in education. For
 example, as well as guiding policy, the Foundation Phase Evaluation has provided practitioners
 and stakeholders working in early years education with new tools and concepts in understanding
 and measuring Foundation Phase pedagogies. SHRN surveys schools biennially and provides
 every school with feedback about progress in supporting students’ health. In 2018, SHRN won
 Cardiff University’s Innovation & Impact Award 2018 for Innovation in Healthcare.
 Many of our projects are shaped not only by professionals but by their clients. This is the case
 with Renold’s pioneering work on children, sexualisation and relationships education (Impact Case
 Study 3), which has contributed to curriculum change. CRUSH, a new creative research-based
 practitioner toolkit to support sex and relationships education, gained UK-wide recognition in 2018
 when it won the ESRCs ‘Outstanding Impact in Society’ Award and the Times Higher Education
 ‘Research Project of the Year’ Award.
 We have also been heavily involved in strengthening the research capacity and literacy of teacher
 educators. WISERD has undertaken HEFCW-funded survey research to identify the volume of
 education research in Wales that falls below the REF ‘radar’, additionally investigating the
 challenges and opportunities facing researchers working in teacher education. These findings
 helped inform the criteria through which the Welsh Government allocated funding for Initial
 Teacher Education (ITE) and continue to inform Wales’ emerging National Strategy of Education
 Research and Enquiry.
 Since 2018, in collaboration with the University of Oxford, we contribute to the Cardiff ITE
 Partnership (one of Wales’ teacher education consortia) building research awareness and
 capacity amongst teacher educators and teachers. This arrangement formed the basis for a
 Welsh-Government funded research project (led by James) on the impact of COVID-19 responses
 on the nature and quality of ITE.

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3.3 Reaching out to publics and communities
 In addition to speaking at public events, we disseminate accessible information to interested
 publics. For example, each year we produce a series of infographic postcards highlighting key
 findings from the WMCS. These have featured on the ESRC website as an example of good
 practice in engagement. The School has a high-profile media presence, using blogs, news stories,
 press releases and social media to attract coverage in print, online and broadcast media in Wales,
 the UK and internationally (see section 4). Dumangane, Felstead, Mannay, Morgan, Power,
 Renold and Smith have all published articles on topical educational issues in the Conversation.
 Education researchers have given presentations in Welsh at the annual National Eisteddfod on a
 range of findings on ‘growing up in Wales’ from the WMCS. We have also contributed to Cardiff’s
 Public Uni and Sci-Screen series, which provide a forum to discuss our research with a diverse
 audience. In 2018, researchers spoke at the Hay Festival on young people’s political education
 and the issues of ‘fake news’. In 2018, researchers (Barrance & Dumangane) spoke to school
 children about our research on friendship networks as part of the ESRC Festival of Social Science.
 While Covid-19 meant the cancellation of 2020 public engagement events, including planned
 presentations at Hay Festival and the Eisteddfod, colleagues’ research on young people’s
 experiences of lockdown (Taylor) and the challenges of homeworking (Felstead) has continued to
 receive significant media coverage at home and internationally. This has included media
 appearances on the BBC National and World News as well as press coverage in the main UK
 newspapers, as well as overseas news agencies, such as Forbes and Reuters.
 2. People
 2.1       STAFFING STRATEGY
 As part of a multi-disciplinary School, researchers in education benefit from a lively and stimulating
 research environment where they are exposed to the latest ideas across the social sciences. This
 enables colleagues to enhance their careers and leads to strong career progression both within
 the School (e.g. Lloyd and Souto-Otero to Professor; Mannay to Reader) and beyond. During this
 REF period, early career researchers (ECRs) have moved to key posts in other universities (e.g.,
 Baker to Bristol University; Dumangane to York University; C. Evans to Swansea University; Fox
 to Brunel University; Tannock to UCL IoE; Watermeyer to Bath and then Bristol University;). Senior
 staff have also moved to key positions of influence (e.g., Fletcher to head up the British Heart
 Foundation in Wales; Holland to the influential role of Children’s Commissioner for Wales).
 During the REF period, three senior professorial colleagues in education have retired (Hadfield,
 G. Rees, T. Rees). Rather than replace like with like, the School has a recruitment strategy of
 attracting ECRs (see Section 2.3) to future priority research areas. In order to support these ECRs,
 alongside their more senior colleagues, the School offers bespoke mentoring and staff
 development in addition to the career-development opportunities provided by the University.
 2.2       STAFF DEVELOPMENT
 In 2015, the School undertook a major review of its research needs. A key component was a
 survey in which staff were invited to identify what support they would find beneficial to enhance
 their research productivity. Based on the survey, the following actions were implemented:
       •    Revitalising ‘grass roots’ research activity through encouraging the formation of new
            research groups which would provide a forum for the discussion of specialised interests
            and new ideas.
       •    Building a stronger collective ‘School’ research identity through dedicating annual lectures
            for inter-disciplinary presentations.
       •    Supporting staff publications through regular designated ‘writing weeks’, which were kept
            clear of School commitments, providing short-term cover for teaching to facilitate the
            completion of writing commitments, as well as support for workshops and journal ‘clubs’.




                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Increasing the number of staff submitting grant proposals through one-to-one consultations
        with colleagues to identify future projects, setting aside funds for proposal development
        and building in greater mentoring and peer review for proposals.
    •   Improving research management through the appointment of three Co-directors of
        Research, with designated responsibility for publications, proposals and impact.
 Close attention is given to the development needs of staff, irrespective of career pathway or
 seniority. For example, three senior female colleagues have participated in ‘Aurora’, Advance HE’s
 leadership development initiative for women. Eight have taken advantage of the University’s
 Leadership and Management Development Programme for Research Team Leaders, and two
 staff have completed the University’s Developing Leaders training course. All staff remain up-to-
 date with a wide range of research-related matters (such as research integrity, information
 security, unconscious bias, Welsh language awareness) through short online and face-to-face
 training courses.
 In order to enable colleagues to take forward their research ideas, the School allocates a
 proportion of staff time for research purposes and has its own study leave scheme, in addition to
 the University Research Leave Scheme (see REF5a). As with the University Scheme, all staff on
 T&R contracts are eligible to apply for School Study Leave after five years’ employment and can
 make a case to use the semester’s leave for any research related purpose (see Section 2.5).
 These periods of leave can be enormously productive, practically and intellectually. Renold, for
 example, used study leave to produce five journal articles and the ‘Primary AGENDA’ online
 toolkits for schools, created in association with the Children’s Commissioner for Wales, NSPCC
 Cymru, and Welsh Women's Aid. Stroud used time away from teaching to gather interview data
 overseas across a sequence of three- to five-day case study trips to Norway, Portugal and
 Germany.
 At School level, there is ring-fenced funding for research development, including travel costs for
 conferences and visitors, and seed-corn grants. In total, £277K has been spent on supporting
 attendance at conferences above those funded by external awards.
 The School employs an ‘under-£200’ rule whereby research expenses below this level do not
 need to be pre-approved but can be submitted directly for payment. We feel this builds flexibility
 into the School’s research funding system, allowing short-notice travel (and other expenditure) as
 well as underlining a broader culture of collegial trust.
 2.3 EARLY CAREER RESEARCHERS
 We are returning seven ECRs to Education (Barrance, Bayfield, Elliott, Littlecott, Lyttleton-Smith,
 Morgan, Zhao). Two of these are on T&R pathways, where they benefit from the policy of reduced
 teaching loads to help foster their research independence. On appointment, they are provided with
 a research mentor, whose role is independent of direct line-management, in order to provide
 support in relation to specific activities, such as grant-writing and publication. Mentors undergo a
 training session and then are matched with mentees by the Director of Research.
 ECRs on R contracts are offered the opportunity to improve their long-term employability through
 widening their teaching and administrative experience, which facilitates their recruitment to T&R
 pathways (e.g., Smith and Barrance). R-only staff are included in the decision-making processes
 of the School and University through representation on key School and University committees and
 the dedicated Research Staff Forum (see REF5a). The University has signed up to the Vitae
 Researcher Development Framework and is currently undertaking a review of researcher career
 pathways, led by the Dean of Research Environment and Culture. All ECRs are encouraged to
 apply to the competitive Welsh Crucible and GW4 Crucible Schemes; education staff who have
 attended these since REF2014 and who have benefited in terms of career enhancement include
 Hawkins and Dumangane. In addition, R-only staff have the same access to Research Committee
 funding for conferences, travel and other forms of support as T&R staff, with direct applications to
 the School Director of Research. Over the course of this REF period, the School spent £71k on R
 staff conference attendance and travel above externally-funded support.
 The benefit of our approach to cultivating the next generation of researchers is evident in the
 awards and accolades they receive. Both R. Evans and Mannay have been awarded the

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 prestigious Learned Society of Wales Dillwyn Medal for outstanding research into young people’s
 health and wellbeing. In 2017, Hallett received the Social Research Association Early Career
 Researcher of the Year Award for her impactful research on care-experienced children.
 2.4    TRAINING AND SUPERVISION OF PGR STUDENTS
 Doctoral training is focused on the interdisciplinary ESRC Wales Doctoral Training Centre (DTC),
 and its successor since 2016, the ESRC Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP), a
 collaboration between Cardiff University (the lead institution), Aberystwyth, Bangor, Cardiff
 Metropolitan, Swansea Universities and the University of Gloucestershire. The School led the
 successful bid for the DTP (and its predecessor) and has provided continuous directorship up to
 2020. The School hosts the largest concentration of accredited pathways in the DTP and is a
 major recipient of ESRC studentships, with 29 awards being allocated for education projects.
 During this REF period, 154 PhD students have graduated in the School, 54.5 of whom specialised
 in education and related areas. Ten of these were ESRC-funded collaborative PhDs; partners
 include National Museum Wales, Wales Deanery, Welsh Government and a refugee support
 network. Reflecting the School’s commitment to research collaboration with professions and
 agencies, the School also offers Professional Doctorates (PD), with pathways in Education, Health
 and Social Work. 11 of the 19 students who have graduated from these programmes during this
 REF period were awarded PD Education.
 Doctoral degree completions during the REF period
              2014         2015         2016         2017        2018         2019         2020
  PhD         4.5          9.5          6.5          9.5         6            6            2
  PD          2            1.5          1            2           1.5          2            0.5


 All full-time PhD students are required to complete the MSc Social Science Research Methods (or
 equivalent prior qualifications). Throughout their doctoral training, students also undertake further
 research-capacity development. For example, the ESRC Wales DTP offers activities including an
 annual ‘capabilities and careers’ conference, whilst also facilitating access to external
 opportunities for advanced research methods training, such as those provided by the NCRM. The
 University’s Doctoral Academy additionally organises an annual series of seminars and workshops
 that range from advanced research techniques, to generic issues of career-management,
 strategies for publication, research governance and dissemination. It offers a residential writing
 retreat and funding for student-led interdisciplinary activities, such as seminar series, workshops,
 and public engagement activities. The expectation is that students will take part in a minimum of
 10 days or equivalent professional skills development per year.
 At School level, doctoral students play an active part in Research Centres and Research Groups,
 via seminars and reading groups. Financial support is provided for PGRs to organise their own
 monthly Postgraduate Café. This meets every month to discuss a range of topics related to social
 research, current affairs, politics and culture. The central purpose of the Café is to foster dialogue
 between postgraduates in a relaxed and supportive environment. In addition to postgraduate
 speakers, the Cafe invites speakers on topics of broader interest to PGR students, such as ‘Life
 beyond the PhD’ and ‘Writing for Journals’.
 Recent Education doctoral students’ careers have been developed through the competitive award
 of externally-funded Post-Doctoral Fellowships (Elliott, R. Evans) and several have been
 appointed to university lectureships: R. Evans, Hallett, Slater (all appointed at Cardiff); C. Evans
 (Swansea), Sharley (Bristol), Lewis (Bath Spa); Fensham-Smith (Bedfordshire, now OU);
 Crawford (Birmingham); Yun (Education University of Hong Kong); and Dumangane (York).
 2.5 EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
 The School ensures that senior staff success is not achieved at the expense of less experienced
 staff through an equitable system of workload tariffs as well as provision of mentoring, research
 time and resources to all staff. The School is fully compliant with the Cardiff University Equality
 and Diversity Policy and has a designated Equality and Diversity Sub-Committee which reports to

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the School’s People and Environment Committee. Since 2014, the School has held an Athena
 Swan Bronze level award for gender equality, and has developed an action plan to work towards
 a further application. This entails improving the data available for monitoring gender equality in the
 School via an annual survey which is sent to all academic and professional service staff, as well
 as doctoral students.
 The School ensures that principles of equity and excellence are inscribed in terms of recruitment
 (via gender balanced recruitment panels), and ensuring all Chairs of recruitment panels receive
 EDI and unconscious bias training.
 The 35 colleagues being returned to Education comprise 21 women and 14 men. During the REF
 period, male (8) and female (9) education colleagues in the School have had a 100% success rate
 in gaining promotion. Female colleagues have also benefited from School and University
 Research Leave, for which there is a clear and transparent process for the allocation of funding.
 Current education colleagues benefitting from School Study Leave include Beneito-Montagut,
 Connolly, Moles, A. Rees, Renold and Stroud. Education colleagues benefitting from University
 Research Leave and the University’s Disglair Scheme (see REF5a) include Girvan, Hemming,
 Holland and Lloyd,
 School and University Research Leave success rates by gender
                          School Study Leave applications       University Leave applications
  Male success rate       44% (4/9)                             70% (7/10)
  Female success rate     63% (10/16)                           63% (5/8)


 In relation to race and ethnicity, the number of black and minority ethnic staff in the School, and
 this Unit, is too small for meaningful statistical analysis. The School has undertaken a review of
 its recruitment processes and is currently considering ways forward. In response to the Black Lives
 Matter campaign, WISERD has compiled a portfolio of relevant research on the structural
 inequalities and racism experienced by black and minority ethnic groups. This will be used as a
 foundation to inform research and staffing strategies over the coming years.
 The School follows the University’s REF 2021 Code of Practice, which focuses on inclusion,
 transparency and strong engagement with staff. This has been led by the School’s senior leaders,
 who undertook REF-specific equality, diversity and inclusion training aligned to their REF roles.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1   INCOME
 During the REF period, the School attracted external funding amounting to over £53M, of which
 over £25M was awarded for education research, an increase of 60% from the previous REF
 period.
 A key factor in our strategy for generating income has been the development of a critical mass of
 interdisciplinary expertise within Research Centres, all of which are underpinned by a research
 and business plan to ensure sustainability and each has a full-time Director and a core team of
 dedicated research, administrative and technical staff. Seven of these Centres undertake
 significant amounts of education research. Examples of their major education awards are:
 1. CASCADE: £2.5M infrastructure funding from Health and Care Research Wales to support
    the development of a public health response to children in need of protection; £525K award
    from the Big Lottery Fund to evaluate the Confidence in Care initiative; £155K from the ESRC
    for the longitudinal analysis of a retrospective electronic cohort to gauge the impact of being in
    local authority care on children’s futures; £296K from the Welsh Government to look at care-
    experienced students’ experiences of higher education; Welsh Government awards to look at
    child sexual exploitation (£286K); ‘county lines’ and child criminal exploitation (£216K) and
    looked-after children’s use of social media (£166K).
 2. DECIPHer: Funding to evaluate interventions for public health improvement (Welsh
    Government £2.5M, MRC £1M); MRC funding for School Health Action Research Partnership

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    (£372K); Safe-Sex and Relationships in FE (£129K); and the development of teacher training
    to prevent alcohol misuse in secondary schools (£115K). UK Government funding to trial the
    Talk to Frank drug prevention (£490K) and smoking prevention (£258K) programmes in
    secondary schools; National Institute for Health Research funds to improve the mental health
    support and training available to secondary school teachers (£354K); ongoing funding from the
    Welsh Government for biennial School Health Research Network (SHRN) Survey. In 2020,
    together with colleagues in the School of Medicine, DECIPHer was awarded £10M from the
    Wolfson Foundation for a Centre of Excellence in Adolescent Mental Health.
 3. WISERD: £1.09M funding for education-focused projects within the two successive ESRC-
    funding Civil Society Centres; £2M ESRC funding for ADR-Wales; Welsh Government funding
    for the WISERDEducation Multi-Cohort Study (£246K) and the evaluation of the Foundation
    Phase Flexibility Pilots (£119K); Exploration of the Successful Futures for All curriculum
    initiative (HEFCW £125K). In collaboration with the Universities of Oxford, Edinburgh and
    Queens (Belfast), WISERD also received an ESRC Large Grant (£2M) in 2019 to explore
    jurisdictional differences in school exclusions.
 4. CUREMeDE: In addition to core funding, projects include: evaluation of broad-based medical
    education (£257K Academy of Medical Royal Colleges); optimising skill mix in dentistry (Welsh
    Government £167K); helping GP-practice-based pharmacists improve their skills (Health
    Foundation £95K) and enhancing skill mix in community pharmacies (Pharmacy Research UK
    £60K).
 5. WEDL: Recently established in 2019, WISERD Education Data Lab has matched ESRC and
    Welsh Government funding of £500K dedicated to administrative and survey data. In 2020,
    WEDL was awarded £17K from the Nuffield Foundation to compare cognitive skills and
    education attainment across the UK and £50K from Sêr Cymru to analyse Hwb Platform data
    (the national digital infrastructure for school students) to study online learning during the
    pandemic.
 Over the current REF cycle, education researchers outwith Centres have also brought in
 significant grant income (nearly £3M). Major awards include: Felstead’s ESRC- and WG-funded
 Skills and Employment Survey (£1M); Brown, James, Lloyd and Souto-Otero’s project on Digital
 Transformation and the Future of Work: Reimagining Education, Skills and Employability, funded
 by the Singapore Government (£800K); James’ ESRC-funded project on Processes and Practices
 of Governing in Further Education Colleges in the UK (£185K); Girvan’s Educational Robotics for
 STEM project (European Commission, £175K); and Moles and Mannay’s British Academy-funded
 project on Creative Heritage and Imagined Futures (£238K).
 3.2 INFRASTRUCTURE
 The School provides a robust administrative infrastructure. The School’s Director of Research
 serves on the Senior Management Team and is advised by the School Research Committee which
 meets monthly during term-time and includes representation from Research Centres and contract
 research staff. The Committee reviews research grant data, provides feedback and decisions on
 grant applications, and provides opportunity for collective oversight of funding decisions as well
 as drafting the School’s research strategy. In addition, the School also benefits from:
    •   A Research Office, with 4 FTE administrative staff supporting academic colleagues in
        preparing, costing and administering research bids. The office also performs a horizon-
        scanning function, distributing intelligence about new research opportunities;
    •   A Graduate Studies Office (3 FTEs) supporting PGR recruitment, training, assessment and
        progress-monitoring, and manages doctoral training;
    •   Fifteen professional services staff within the School’s Research Centres.
 Through these staffing commitments, the School has invested over £3.5M since 2014. In addition,
 since the last REF, the University’s introduction of Colleges means that the School is now also
 able to draw on the support of a dedicated Marketing and Communications Officer, Publicity and
 Information Officer (supporting academic research dissemination); and a Web/Graphic Design
 Officer (maintaining the School’s web presence). University level support is outlined in REF5a.

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.3 FACILITIES
 Education researchers benefit from access to state-of-the-art facilities. In addition to those outlined
 in REF5a, the School has a rolling programme of IT investment, spending £276K above core
 University provision on equipment and software since 2014.
 Each Research Centre has a dedicated building, with the facilities needed to undertake
 specialised research. In addition, colleagues are able to apply to the University Research
 Infrastructure Fund for support. During this REF period, the University allocated over £500K to
 education staff for the provision of electronic tablets (Power) and Empatica wrist-bands (Taylor)
 to enable data collection, as well as funding for boosts of the UK Skills and Employment Survey
 (Felstead). Of particular value for education research is the ADR-Wales Secure Data Facility,
 made possible by over £2M ESRC- and Cardiff University-matched funding, which enables
 researchers to access, link and analyse large scale administrative datasets, such as the National
 Pupil Database.
 The capacity of our Research Centres to sustain and enhance their research activities and income
 is being supported by SPARK (directed by Taylor), which is the first dedicated social science park
 in the UK. SPARK will be based in a new multi-million building which is due to be completed in
 Autumn 2021. A core design feature of SPARK is its co-location of research centres and a range
 of stakeholder partners, including the Office of National Statistics and civil society organisations.
 The major research themes for SPARK will be children and young people, mental health and
 wellbeing, sustainability and futures, artificial intelligence, public service delivery and the
 foundational economy. In addition to bringing researchers together, SPARK facilities include an
 exhibition area and a visualisation lab. These facilities and co-location will enable our researchers
 to provide imaginative and robust responses to the challenges facing contemporary society,
 including how best to educate children and young people and open up new horizons throughout
 the lifecourse.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1   RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS AND PARTNERSHIPS
 Education research at Cardiff is advanced through the development of collaborative relationships
 and strategic partnerships with a) the academic community within the UK and internationally; b)
 government bodies, authorities and agencies at local and national level; c) professional education
 organisations and institutions; and d) civil society actors and organisations. The interdisciplinarity
 of the School enables researchers working in education to connect with partners beyond the ‘usual
 suspects’ and reach out to academics across disciplines and key stakeholders in other welfare
 sectors.
 4.1.1 Academic Collaborations
 As mentioned, CASCADE, WISERD and DECIPHer bring together expertise across Wales
 (particularly from Aberystwyth, Bangor, Glyndwr, South Wales and Swansea Universities) and the
 UK (e.g. Universities of Bristol, Edinburgh, Oxford and Queens University, Belfast). Taylor is on
 the Centre for Longitudinal Studies Strategic Advisory Board and is the Country Representative
 (Wales) for the Society for Longitudinal and Lifecourse Studies (SLLS). These collaborations are
 strategically important for research in devolved areas of administration such as education and
 social care. These UK-wide research collaborations not only combine and strengthen levels of
 expertise but also make possible ‘home international’ comparisons across jurisdictions, facilitating
 rigorous system-level analysis.
 International collaborations in Europe and beyond are fostered through formal and informal
 mechanisms. Formal Memoranda of Understanding exist at University and Research Centre level
 with: Aarhus University, Denmark; Beijing Normal University, China; École Normale Supérieure
 (ENS) de Lyon, France; KU Leuven, Belgium; Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, Germany;
 Social Sciences University of Singapore and the Institute of Adult Learning, Singapore; and the
 University of Namibia. These collaborations have led to the development of shared teaching
 programmes, publications and research, such as Souto-Otero’s Building Singapore’s Talent
 Pipeline project.

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Education researchers also collaborate on other international projects. For example, WISERD
 runs Wales’ contribution to the Jacob Foundation’s Children’s Worlds Survey which covers nearly
 40 countries. DECIPHer contributes to the World Health Organisation’s Health Behaviour in
 School-Aged Children Study and the Propel Center for Population Health Impact Canada. Girvan
 partnered with colleagues in the Vienna Technical University, as well as higher education
 institutions in Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Greece and Malta, to lead the UK component of the EU-
 funded Horizon 2020 project Educational Robotics for STEM (ER4STEM).
 Colleagues also enjoy collaborations with individual researchers overseas. Examples of these
 include Beneito-Montagut’s collaborations with the Open University of Barcelona, Universidad de
 Salamanca and the University of Bremen; Power’s visiting research fellowships at the ENS, Lyon
 and Walkerdine’s work in Latin America. These relationships are sustained through study leaves,
 visiting fellowships and travel bursaries.
 Further evidence of our international links can be seen in international invited presentations over
 this REF period. These include keynotes at: the Academy of Social Sciences, Beijing (Brown); the
 United Nations Headquarters, New York (Renold); University of Minho, Trinity College, Dublin,
 University of Helsinki (all Power); Martin Luther University, Halle/Leipzig; Keynote for New
 America policy colloquium, Washington DC; Technische Universität, Berlin (all James).
 4.1.2 Partnerships with government bodies, authorities and agencies
 Our education researchers work closely with a range of authorities and government agencies.
 Given Wales’ devolved responsibility for education, health and social care, many of these
 collaborations are with the Welsh Government and the Senedd.
 For example, WEDL is co-funded by the Welsh Government and has already produced reports
 relating to attainment gaps; and the impact of GCSE early entry for pupil- and school-level
 outcomes; and, more recently, the impact of lockdown on children and young people’s access to
 education. Partnership also informs the WMCS as each year colleagues in WISERD consult the
 Welsh Government, Estyn, HEFCW and other organisations, such as Qualifications Wales, on the
 questions they wish to see included in the following year’s data sweep.
 In addition to co-funded partnerships, colleagues collaborate with the Welsh Government and its
 associated agencies through secondments (e.g. Felstead and Scourfield, both to the Welsh
 Government), as well as positions on various advisory boards. For example, Murphy sits on the
 National Obesity Strategy Board and the Curriculum Review Implementation Group; Hawkins on
 the National Exercise Referral Scheme Advisory Group and the Joint Ministerial Task and Finish
 Group on a Whole School Approach to Emotional Wellbeing and Mental Health. Taylor is a
 member of the Wales Index of Multiple Deprivation 2019 Education Domain Group for the Welsh
 Government and is a member of the Welsh Government Foundation Phase Excellence Network
 Steering Group. Taylor is also a Member of the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales
 (HEFCW) Student Opportunity and Achievement Committee (SOAC). Barrance sits on the
 Advisory Board for Qualifications Wales and has undertaken projects on children’s rights with the
 Children’s Commissioner for Wales. Power sits on the Education Workforce Committee’s
 Research Forum. Lloyd acts as advisor to Welsh Government on their skills utilisation pilot
 projects. Colleagues regularly provide oral and written evidence to the Senedd: for example, Lloyd
 to Welsh Assembly Equality, Local Government and Communities Committee; Murphy to the
 Health, Social Care and Sports Committee; Bayfield to the Welsh Government Ministerial Group,
 Outwith Wales, collaborations have involved Souto-Otero working with the UK’s Office of the
 Deputy Prime Minister on higher education credit systems, as well as providing evidence to the
 OECD Trends Shaping Education. He has also liaised with the European Commission on the
 impact of Erasmus on higher education, as well as with the Austrian Presidency of the Council of
 Europe on the future of Vocational Education and Training.




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1.3 Partnerships with the professions
 Researchers in education and related areas enjoy close partnerships with professionals.
 DECIPHer undertakes the biennial survey for SHRN, working with schools to support young
 people’s health. DECIPHer also supports agencies in other countries, particularly on monitoring
 of young people’s health and evaluation of health education initiatives. For example, during the
 REF period, they have delivered short courses on ‘Developing and evaluating complex
 interventions’ in a number of different locations, including the Queen Rania Foundation, Jordan,
 and the Karolinska Institute, Stockholm.
 WISERD, through the WMCS, also works closely with schools and teachers, providing regular
 feedback on student perspectives and making datasets available for teachers working with
 students studying the Welsh Baccalaureate.
 CASCADE has established Exchange, an all-Wales social care organisation that enables
 practitioners, service users, and researchers to share expertise and experience. Of particular note
 is their partnership with Voices from Care, a group of care-experienced young people who advise
 on research projects from design to dissemination. Their insights have enabled CASCADE to
 develop a range of resources for teachers and social care professionals delivered through radio
 and audio-visual channels.
 Mannay and Power have also worked closely with museum professionals, through their respective
 roles on the Amgueddfa Cymru/National Museum Wales/Cardiff University Steering Group and
 Research Advisory Committee. Mannay also sits on the Wales Millennium Centre Learning
 Advisory Board to support those working in the arts.
 CUREMeDE also plays an important role in supporting the work of medical and dental
 practitioners. In addition to providing resources for UK professionals, CUREMeDE researchers
 provide guidance to medical educators worldwide, including briefings and presentations in Europe,
 USA, Canada, Australia, and Taiwan.
 4.1.4 Partnerships with civil society organisations
 In addition to providing research evidence and advice to government agencies, colleagues are
 keen to inform, and be informed by, the work of civil society organisations, from campaigning
 groups to think tanks and charities. For example, Lloyd presented her research on pay and skills to
 the Labour Party Policy Review Symposium in 2014, as well as contributing to an IPPR
 Roundtable on the skills system. Walkerdine authored a publication on Political Mindfulness for
 the Labour Party.
 Smith sits on the Advisory Board of the Race Alliance Wales, Taylor is Chair of the Institute of
 Welsh Affairs (IWA) Education Group and acts as an advisor to the Carers Trust Wales.
 Collaborations with charities include CASCADE’s collaborations with the NSPCC, WISERD’s work
 with SNAP Cymru and the Wales Council for Voluntary Action. Power is on the research panel of
 the Sutton Trust.
 4.2   CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE RESEARCH BASE
 In addition to supporting the research development of its own colleagues, the School is actively
 engaged in ensuring excellence and sustainability in the field of education more generally. It does
 this through contributing to peer review processes for journals and grant funders, and supporting
 the work of learned societies.
 4.2.1 Peer review
 Within the UK, in addition to wide membership of the ESRC Peer Review College, significant UKRI
 roles include: Chair of the ESRC Research Grants Assessment Panel B (Power 2016-); ESRC
 International Public Policy Observatory Panel (2020); UKRI Future Research Leaders Panel
 (Power 2018-), ESRC Future Research Leaders Sift Panel (Power 2014-2015); MRC Social and
 Policy Health Unit Advisory Board (Murphy); MRC Mental Health Cohort Advisory Group (Murphy);
 ESRC Capability Committee and MRC/ESRC/AHRC Adolescence, Mental Health and the
 Developing Mind Strategic Advisory Board (both Taylor).



                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International contributions include: Norway Research Council Grants Panel (Lloyd and Power);
 the Netherlands Research Council Grants Review Panel (Power); the Swedish Research Council
 Educational Sciences Grants Panel (James); and the Hong Kong University Presidential Post-
 Doctoral Fellowship Scheme (James). James is also the current chair of the Education Sub-Panel
 for REF2021 and Power is a member of the Education Panel of the Hong Kong RAE 2020.
 Hawkins is a Board Member for the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF)
 funding initiative on ‘Healthy Lifelong Child and Adolescent Health’.
 4.2.2 Publications
 Four education-relevant academic journals are currently edited by researchers within the School.
 James is editor of British Journal of Sociology of Education, Girvan co-edits British Journal of
 Educational Technology, Walkerdine is editor of Subjectivity and Mannay co-edits Qualitative
 Research. Until 2016, Power, Taylor, Girvan and Connolly edited British Education Research
 Journal, the flagship journal of the British Educational Research Association (BERA). In addition,
 during the REF period, colleagues have been members of the editorial boards of over 50 education
 journals.
 Other editorial responsibilities include a range of handbooks and book series. Mannay is editor of
 the University of Wales Press series Gender Studies in Wales. Power is co-editor of Routledge’s
 series Foundations and Futures in Education. Beneito-Montagut is co-editor of the SAGE
 Handbook Digital Societies, and Smith is editor of the Brill Encyclopaedia of Critical Pedagogy.
 4.2.3 Learned Societies
 During this REF period, five education colleagues have been elected Fellows of the Academy of
 Social Sciences (AcSS) (Brown, Felstead, James, Power and Walkerdine) and six have been
 elected Fellows of the Learned Society of Wales (LSW) (Brown, Felstead, Morgan, Power, Taylor
 and Walkerdine). These senior staff contribute to the work of the societies. For example, Rees
 and Power serve on the Scrutiny Committee for the LSW, and Power for the AcSS. Mannay, Fox
 and R. Evans have both been awarded LSW medals in this REF period.
 During the REF period, James, Power and Smith have also served as elected Council Members
 for BERA where they have worked to promote the publications and prospects of ECRs.
 4.3   WIDER CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ECONOMY AND SOCIETY
 In addition to research-focused collaborations and partnerships, education researchers in the
 School seek to use their experience and expertise for the wider public good.
 Members in the School are actively engaged in the University’s wider civic mission. In 2019,
 Mannay won the University’s Excellence in Civic Mission Award for her work in supporting care-
 experienced youngsters. Additionally, Taylor and Power have been supporting the University’s
 campaign to encourage University staff to become school governors in Wales. This involved
 collecting data through surveys and interviews and developing a new website, in partnership with
 Governor Cymru Services, to aid knowledge transfer among governors. The campaign increased
 the number of University staff serving as governors by 75%.
 Colleagues also use their experience and contacts for the benefit of a range of charitable bodies
 through acting as trustees. For example, Barrance is Advisor to Plan International on Girls' Rights
 in the UK and a trustee of Play Wales. Power is a trustee of the Bevan Foundation, a research-
 driven think-tank that seeks to examine the root causes of inequality, injustice and poverty in
 Wales and develop practical solutions.
 Concern with improving the conditions and prospects of the disadvantaged underpins much of our
 contribution to wider society. This is evidenced via CASCADE’s award from Bright Starts in 2019
 for facilitating the placement for a care-experienced young person.
 Colleagues also contribute to general public debate about education. Taylor presented a public
 lecture on the challenges of Wales’ proposed new national curriculum. Power has taken part in
 debates organised by the U3A on the merits and drawbacks of grammar schools; Lloyd has given
 presentations to the Education and Human Rights Commission and various trade unions, both
 within the UK and Europe, about the implications of robotics for the knowledge economy. We also

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 regularly give presentations on research at the Eisteddfod (Barrance & Scourfield), the annual
 Welsh-language cultural event, and the Eisteddfod Urdd (Barrance), its youth equivalent.
 Brown’s work on graduate employment has been widely covered by the BBC and featured in the
 Daily Mail and Western Mail. Felstead’s research on skills appeared in the Metro, the Daily Mail
 and the New York Post. Other topics covered by the BBC, ITV and Channel 4 include school
 league tables (Power), the costs of the ‘gap year’ (Souto-Otero), ‘looked after’ children (Mannay),
 sexual exploitation of young people (Hallett), sex and relationship education (Renold) and young
 people’s health (Morgan). Power has appeared twice on Radio 4’s Thinking Allowed to discuss
 young people’s charitable intentions and student aspirations. We also received significant
 coverage of our Covid-related research in recent months, with media appearances and
 international press coverage of the challenges of Covid-19 for children and young people (Power,
 Taylor) and for homeworking (Felstead).
 Looking forward, Cardiff’s education researchers remain committed to working with other
 researchers and stakeholders to address the enduring challenges of how to foster the education
 and wellbeing of all citizens from early childhood to adulthood. There is little doubt that the severity
 and scale of these challenges has been exacerbated as a result of Covid-19. Through partnership
 working, and with the completion of our flagship SPARK building, we believe that the School of
 Social Sciences provides an environment that will enable us to continue to make a difference
 through strengthening the rigour, relevance and reach of our education research.




                                                                                                 Page 17
