Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Liverpool

 Unit of Assessment: UOA2 Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1A. Introduction
 Our UoA2 academics work collaboratively across disciplines to address pressing local, national
 and international public health needs. Our overall aim is to improve the health, wellbeing and
 life chances of societies across the globe, by conducting applied health research which is
 scientifically robust, and practice and policy relevant. Our impressive academic appointments
 and our development of cross-sector research partnerships have led to substantial increases in
 funding and research outputs, with notable impacts on policy and practice.

 1B. Unit Organisation and Structure
 Our Unit has 43.4 FTEs (46 academics), who work in the Institute of Population Health (IPH).
 IPH sits within the Faculty of Health and Life Sciences (FHLS). In 2019, a restructure brought
 our Unit together physically and created four cross-faculty directorates to strengthen the
 infrastructure and powerfully support our work. The new structure has enabled greater cross-
 institute working and a more seamless integration of research and teaching (Figure 1).




 Figure 1: The Faculty of Health and Life Sciences structure from 2019.



                                                                                         Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 UoA2 staff are thus now co-located in three complementary departments (highlighted in red in
 Figure 1), each supporting a research group.


 Research Groups
 We have organised our research activity into three interdisciplinary research groups:

    •   Health Inequalities
    •   Primary Care and Wellbeing
    •   Trials and Methodology

 These groups reflect the priorities of our key stakeholders and partners - NHS, national and
 international. The groups also align with the University’s research themes ‘Starting well, living well
 and ageing well’ and ‘Digital Health’.


 1C. Unit Research and Impact Strategy
 Our three strategic priorities in the REF2014 submission were: identifying and supporting areas of
 international excellence, developing partnerships, and retaining and recruiting internationally
 recognised researchers.

 Building on the REF2014 priorities, our current strategy comprises five strategic principles:

    1. To foster a fair, inclusive, and supportive interdisciplinary research environment for all staff
       and students at every career stage.
    2. To develop a diverse and sustainable funding base, with growth in awards to enhance our
       infrastructure and resources.
    3. To invest and build on our unique strengths, with a particular focus on data science.
    4. To employ best practice around research integrity, ethics, and open data.
    5. To develop partnerships with end users to enhance the societal impact of our research.

 These principles thus underpin our Unit’s overall aim: to improve the health, wellbeing, and life
 chances of societies across the globe.


 1D. Delivering our Research & Impact Strategy
 Our Research Groups
 Health Inequalities
 Barr, Capewell, Collins, Fleming, Gladstone, Harris, Kierans, Kypridemos, Maheswaran, Mathur,
 McHale, O'Flaherty, Pope, Taylor-Robinson, Whitehead & Wickham.

 We aim to improve health and reduce health inequalities locally, nationally, and globally, through
 the study of the determinants of health and wellbeing, and evaluation of the policies that impact
 on them. Strategic investment has expanded our capabilities in health economics (Collins,
 Maheswaran), policy modelling (Kypridemos), psychology (Wickham) and epidemiology (McHale,
 Schlueter). In recognition of their achievements, key staff members have also been promoted to
 chairs (Barr, Gladstone, Kierans, O'Flaherty, Pope, Taylor-Robinson). We have thus built an

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interdisciplinary critical mass delivering impactful research across three linked programmes: policy
 research on the social determinants of health; non-communicable disease (NCD) prevention and
 food policy; and energy, air pollution and health.

 Primary Care and Wellbeing
 Brooks, Byrne, Dowrick, Gabbay, Lloyd-Williams, Noble, Perkins, Van Ginneken, Williams &
 Young.

 We aim to improve primary care and the wellbeing of populations by producing knowledge of
 theoretical, practical and policy significance, with a focus on depression, long term conditions,
 severe mental illness, palliative care and marginalised communities. We have made strategic
 appointments (Williams, Van Ginneken) to build further capacity in primary care. Based on our
 studies of the structural, organisational and psychosocial factors that shape people’s access to
 services, their care needs, treatment decisions and outcomes, we develop and evaluate
 interventions, from community level initiatives and randomised control trials (RCTs) of complex
 interventions through to policy developments.

 Trials & Methodology
 Bodger, Boland, Bonnett, Buchan, Burnside, Dodd, Donegan, Frith, Gamble, Geary, Garcia-
 Finana, Higham, Hill, Kolamunnage-Dona, Rodgers, Schlueter, Tudur-Smith, Williamson, Wilson
 and Woolfall.

 We aim to improve population health by informing practice and policy through the design and
 delivery of world-class clinical trials, high quality epidemiological research and the synthesis of
 evidence in areas of strategic importance, supported by the development and advancement of
 underlying methodologies.

 We lead the Liverpool Clinical Trials Centre (LCTC, Director: Gamble), which integrates our two
 internationally renowned Clinical Trials Units. The establishment of the MRC-NIHR Trials
 Methodology Research Partnership (£460K, Williamson, Tudur-Smith) builds on the achievements
 of the MRC North West Hub for Trials Methodology Research (Williamson, Gamble, Tudur-Smith
 £1.3M UoL, £1.6M total).

 We have made key appointments to support our strategic expansion in the area of health data
 science (Buchan, Rodgers), and established the new Department of Health Data Science to
 support interdisciplinary research and further strengthen capacity. Funding successes include the
 Health e-Research Centre (Buchan, Capewell, Williamson, £4.9M MRC/NIHR) and Civic Data
 Cooperative (see Box overleaf).


 Interdisciplinarity
 Our Unit’s research is built on multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary working, and includes 12
 academic and clinical disciplines: anthropology, bioethics, biostatistics, dental public health,
 evidence synthesis, epidemiology, health psychology, informatics, paediatrics, primary care,
 public health and sociology. Our Unit publishes in an even wider range of disciplines (Figure 2).




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 2: Topic analysis for all University of Liverpool UoA2 publications in the REF period. Each
 dot represents a distinct SciVal topic in which we have published; dot size indicates the number
 of publications in that topic (Source: SciVal).




                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We have been successful in winning substantial funding for collaborative initiatives that
 involve all three research groups, catalysing further interdisciplinary research (Box below).

                                         C-GULL will be the first major UK birth cohort for
                                         over a decade (£5.2M, Wellcome Trust - Taylor-
                                         Robinson, Williamson, Buchan, Rodgers, Fleming).
                                         Launching in 2021, C-GULL brings together citizens,
                                         researchers and clinicians to harness the power of data
  linkage and modern, intensive phenotyping to study the connected determinants of child
  health and NCDs. It will recruit 10,000 babies born in the Liverpool City Region and their
  families. C-GULL will be a rich research resource with exciting opportunities for add-on studies
  and links with the existing Danish National Birth Cohort, Born in Bradford and ALSPAC
  cohorts.

                                 Liverpool Civic Data Cooperative (CDC): The UK’s first CDC
                                 will link anonymised health and care records across the city
                                 region in a secure environment, building a substantial new tool
                                 for health research. With a £5M grant from Liverpool Combined
  Authority (Buchan, Rodgers, Williamson, Fleming, Barr, Frith) reflecting buy-in at the highest
  levels of regional policymaking, the CDC will complement C-GULL, and enable large-scale
  natural experiments of international significance.

                                               The ARC North West Coast (ARC NWC) (£9M,
                                               NIHR, 2019-24, Director: Gabbay) brings together
  a network of 61 health and social care partners across the region (Clinical Commissioning
  Groups, borough councils, NHS Trusts, charities and third sector organisations), and a well-
  established public adviser forum, to collaborate and deliver excellent applied research. It has
  a focus on health inequalities (Barr), informatics (Rodgers) and PPI (Frith). This builds on the
  success of the Collaborations for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care (CLAHRC)
  2014-19, also led by Gabbay.



 Our interdisciplinary research is further strengthened by interdisciplinary training programmes (see
 4D) and by University-funded initiatives including The Centre for Humanities and Social Sciences
 of Health, Medicine and Technology (Director: Kierans) and the Translational Research Access
 Programme Fund.


 A Vibrant and Diverse Research Environment Underpinning Success
 People: While the overall number of FTEs in the Unit have remained stable, we have strategically
 recruited the brightest external talent, and have ensured career progression for existing staff. Our
 registered PGR headcount has increased by 22%, from 67 in 2013/14 to 82 in 2019/20, and 104
 PhD students have graduated (completion rate 80%). In recognition of our work on gender
 equality, we gained an Athena SWAN Silver Award in 2016.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Funding: Our income has increased by 28% since the start of the REF period (detailed in Section
 3). We have led a number of significant new initiatives, including C-GULL, the CDC and an NIHR
 Global Health Research Group (Clean-Air Africa). In addition, renewed funding has been won for
 several large initiatives and centres of excellence, including: WHO Collaborating Centre,
 membership of NIHR’s School for Public Health Research, NIHR CLAHRC & NIHR ARC NWC,
 MRC North West Hub for Trials Methodology Research, and MRC/NIHR Trials Methodology
 Research Partnership (Figure 3).


                                       Income over the REF Period
 £12,000,000



 £10,000,000



  £8,000,000



  £6,000,000



  £4,000,000



  £2,000,000



         £0
                 2013/14        2014/15     2015/16   2016/17       2017/18        2018/19         2019/20
           Health research funding bodies                Health research funding bodies (income-in-kind)
           Research Councils                             UK Govt./LAs/Health and Hospital Authorities
           Charities                                     Other
           EU govt bodies                                Industry


 Figure 3: Research Income by income source 2013/14 to 2019/20


 Publications: We have published 1,323 peer-reviewed outputs over the REF period with 9% of
 our outputs having an Altmetric Attention score exceeding 100. These outputs have an average
 field-weighted citation impact score of 4.3 for papers with international co-authors, and 2.8 overall,
 with 20.1% of the outputs being in the top 10% most cited publications worldwide (field-weighted;
 source: SciVal).

 Enhanced infra-structure: Since 2014, we have invested over £20M in new buildings and
 facilities, redevelopment, and digital infrastructure capability (detailed in section 3B).

 Partnerships: We work with a wide range of partners locally, nationally and internationally,
 including co-authoring papers and reports with partners based in over 100 institutions across five
 continents (see Section 4).




                                                                                                        Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Unit-Wide Growth and Success since 2014
 Our achievements demonstrate the success of our five strategic principles (Figure 4).



   To foster a fair,
    inclusive and         To develop a
                           diverse and         To invest and                              To develop
      supportive                                                   To employ best
                           sustainable          build on our                           partnerships with
  interdisciplinary                                               practice around
                       funding base, with    unique strengths,                           end users to
       research                                                  research integrity,
                        growth in awards     with a particular                           enhance the
 environment for                                                  ethics and open
                           to develop          focus on data                           societal impact of
     all staff and                                                      data
                       research resources         science                                our research
 students at every     and infra-structure
     career stage



                                                Invested in                             We work with
     Awarded                                    £10M data            Our multi-           over 100
   Athena SWAN            Doubled our                               disciplinary
                         UKRI research            centre                                organisations
       silver                                                      unit supports         across the
                         funding since                              researchers
                             2014                                                           globe
                                                                        from 9
                                                 Combined             academic
    Innovative                                     £10M            disciplines &
   Tenure Track                                programmes              4 clinical
   Fellow (TTF)                                for Civic Data        specialties         5 large-scale
      scheme                                    Cooperative                             collaborations
                            A diverse            & C-GULL                               with local and
                             funding                                                        national
                            portfolio                                                     partners to
                           made up of
                                                                    Founding            reduce health
    Developed a          local, national
                                               Recruited the      member of the          inequalities
       highly                  and
    commended             international          brightest             UK
    mentorship               funders             external          Reproducibility
      scheme                                      talent             Network
                                                                                           Our WHO
                                                                                         Collaborating
                                                                                         Centre Policy
                           Major new                                                      on Research
     Designated            initiatives                              Developed
                                              Created a new             the                on Health
   leads for staff          including
                                               Department           pioneering               Equity
      and PGR             ARC NWC &
                                                of Health             COMET              redesignated
     disability &           Clean-Air
                                               Data Science          Initiative            in 2015 &
      wellbeing               Africa                                                          2020




 Figure 4: UoA2 Research and Impact Strategy 2015-2020: Exemplars of progress




                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1E. Supporting Impact


 Since 2014, we have invested heavily in each step of the impact ‘pipeline’, increasing the range
 and scope of support year-on-year. Our strong impact culture is now supported by a dedicated
 Impact Officer who works closely with researchers. FLHS holds regular ‘Impact Matters’
 seminars and ‘Making an Impact’ workshops, where colleagues can share best practice and
 build capacity. We have been awarded HEIF (Higher Education Innovation Fund) funding and
 Impact Accelerator Awards competitively to further develop impact-focussed activities, building
 on awarded research grants. The success of these initiatives is demonstrated by the strength of
 our four Impact Case Studies (Figure 5 below), the additional impact case studies being returned
 in other UoAs (Williamson UoA10, Frith UoA30) and substantial additional impacts detailed in
 Section 4.

  Case-study summary                                    Internal funding       Impact Officer
                                                                               time allocated
  Informing public investment for health equity:        £7,730                 1 month
  Assessing government policy impacts on health,        – Interviews with
  poverty and inequality (Impact case:                  local policymakers
  UoL48HealthEquity, Whitehead, Taylor-Robinson &       and
  Barr)                                                 parliamentarians
  Equitable access to clean energy for the prevention   £7,580 - Travel to     1.5 months
  of non-communicable disease (Impact case:             Cameroon
  UoL65CleanEnergy; Pope)
  Food Policies & Disease Prevention – the IMPACT       None required          2 months
  model (Impact case: UoL49IMPACTmodel;
  Capewell & O’Flaherty)
  The Malawi Developmental Assessment Tool              £15,770                4 months
  (MDAT): A cheap, globally accessible, open-access     – Collection of
  child developmental assessment tool enabling          feasibility data and
  robust investments to improve child outcomes          travel to Malawi
  (Impact case: UoL50MDAT; Gladstone)



 Figure 5: How we supported our four UoA2 Impact Case Studies


 Public Engagement
 We deliver a wide-ranging public engagement (PE) and Public and Patient Involvement (PPI)
 programme coordinated by a Faculty Public Engagement Team (2.6 FTE). This includes support
 incorporating PE/PPI into research and developing PE/PPI projects; PE & PPI funding, and an
 annual showcase event (both funded by our Wellcome ISSF). Exemplars have been showcased,
 winning a Faculty Research Impact of the Year Award (Pope’s Clean-Air Africa, Winner 2016) and
 a Faculty Public Engagement and Involvement Award (Harris’s RETURN dental care inequalities
 project, Winner 2019). The importance of impact is also recognised and commended in staff
 annual personal development reviews.




                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1F. Positive Research Culture
 Open Research
 Liverpool has powerfully shaped the Open Research agenda; Our UoA2 staff have led
 international consensus-based guidelines for Data Sharing (Tudur-Smith, MRC) and Statistical
 Analysis Plans (Gamble, Williamson) published in JAMA, including a webinar distributed through
 the UK Reproducibility Network. Our evidence-based guidance for sharing individual participant
 data from publicly funded clinical trials (Williamson) is now endorsed by the major UK funding
 bodies (UKRI, MRC, Wellcome Trust, NIHR), and the UKCRC-registered Clinical Trials Units
 network, and is referenced in the NIHR Clinical Trials Toolkit. A new online system is under
 development to facilitate the sharing of data from Liverpool Clinical Trials Centre trials.
 We exceed Open Access (OA) publication requirements by publishing via open access platforms
 such as medRxiv. The percentage of articles published as gold open access has risen
 substantially, from 54% in 2014 to 92% in 2019, supported by University funding (£200k to ensure
 open access compliance for 124 articles that have not been covered by the funder). Our Liverpool
 Elements online tool now optimises OA by providing a one-stop system for recording and
 managing outputs to the Institutional OA Repository, and enables staff to monitor and optimise
 compliance, working with researchers to resolve non-compliant publications.
 Our Unit also promotes compliance with the UKRI Concordat on Open Research Data including
 making software and coding available open source e.g. Kypridemos & O'Flaherty’s IMPACTNCD
 model. The Research Data Management team is a recent University investment which provides
 valuable advice, tools and support to help Liverpool researchers manage and share their data and
 comply with University and funder policies.


 Integrity, Ethics and Standards
 The University of Liverpool was one of the first 12 academic members of the United Kingdom
 Reproducibility Network (UKRN), a peer-led consortium which coordinates reproducibility efforts
 across the sector, by investigating the factors that contribute to robust research, providing training
 in research integrity and data management, and disseminating best practice. It includes
 representation from research councils, major journals and 47 local academic networks
 (Williamson).

 All the Unit’s research complies with the University’s research ethics, governance and integrity
 policies.

 FHLS’s three research ethics committees are tailored for studies not covered by NHS research
 ethics approvals. Frith chairs the IPH Faculty Research Ethics Committee, which has been
 commended by the University for its review quality and fast turnaround.

 The University provides a suite of online courses to give researchers an essential understanding
 of responsible research practice:
     • All researchers complete the Epigeum Research Ethics and Research Integrity online
        courses.
     • The cutting-edge one-week clinical trials course, organised by Liverpool Clinical Trials
        Centre (LCTC), includes sessions on reducing research waste, integrity and reporting
        standards.



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Our PhD students are required to attend compulsory training workshops that focus on
        principles of data management, reproducible research, ethics and open science.
    •   Research Ethics Drop-In sessions further support researchers in making robust ethics
        applications.


 1G. Strategic Objectives 2021-2025


 Building on our substantial accomplishments during this period, we are confident of our
 ability to sustain and enhance our thriving research environment into the future:

 We have made significant advances against our research and impact strategy between 2014-
 2020 (Section 1C). Building on our existing strategy, we have refined and agreed our strategic
 objectives over the next REF period to 2025:
     • Maintain and enhance engagement with policymakers and clinicians to translate research
         evidence into more effective public policy and service provision.
     • Establish a new Centre for Health Economics.
     • Further develop our portfolio of data assets and methods, including via C-GULL and the
         Civic Data Cooperative.
     • Establish a Masters in Data Science to build capacity and grow PhD activity.
     • Invest £700k in PhD studentships to increase capacity in three priority areas – primary
         care, data science and health economics (see Section 2.B)




                                                                                       Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People
 2A. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 Introduction and Principles
 Our Unit has 43.4 FTEs, comprising 46 individuals: 22 professors, 3 readers, 9 senior lecturers, 9
 lecturers, and 3 research fellows. Seven of these 46 are classed as early career researchers
 (ECRs).

 Two of our strategic principles (Section 1C): “To foster a fair, inclusive and supportive
 interdisciplinary research environment for all staff and students at every carer stage” and
 “To invest and build on our unique strengths, with a particular focus on data science” have
 particularly informed our staffing strategy for the period.

 Since 2014, we have
    • majored on the development of staff at all levels, including a suite of measures to meet the
        needs of ECRs and clinical academics,
    • promoted and retained excellent researchers through robust, criterion-based processes,
    • recruited strategically to bolster key areas and support succession planning,
    • enhanced our policies for ensuring Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI), and
    • actively aligned our approach with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
        Researchers.


 Staff Development for All
 Staff Development is centrally co-ordinated and delivered by the Staff and Academic
 Development Academy (The Academy) which offers a wide range of courses, coaching and
 facilitated ‘action learning’ with peers.

 Since 2014, we have progressively improved the quality and utility of our annual professional
 development reviews via mandatory training and regular feedback sessions for reviewers and
 senior management, thus promoting a continuous quality evaluation cycle. Heads of Department
 (HoDs) agree personalised development plans and ensure equity of workload (Concordat
 Principles 2, 3, 4, 6).

 All HoDs are trained through the University Leadership Framework Programme, which is
 recognised by the Institute of Leadership and Management. In 2019, 43 staff joined the
 Leadership@Liverpool programme led by Advance HE and funded by a Wellcome ISSF award.


 Developing Early Career Researchers and Fixed-term Researchers
 We endorse and amplify the Concordat principles via multiple Institute initiatives to meet the needs
 of our fixed-term researchers and ECRs.

 Networking
 Our ECR Leadership Network provides a valued community forum for ECRs. This includes social
 events where ECRs and senior academics come together to exchange ideas, network and learn
 about each other’s work in a relaxed atmosphere (summer picnics, historic guided walks, and,
 since March 2020, online events).


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Training and Development
    • Our IPH Institute Careers Coaching Scheme supports the development of both fixed-
        term researchers and core-funded female researchers. Identified by The Academy as an
        exemplar of best practice, this scheme has been rolled out across the University
        (Concordat Principles 3, 4, 5, 6) and is now delivered online.
    • IPH runs regular seminars to support ECRs in grant writing and preparing fellowship
        applications.
    • IPH has provided funding for ECRs attending 21 conferences (17 UK, 4 international)
    • All departments run regular research seminars where ECRs are encouraged to present.

 ECR and Returners Fund
 Since 2017, the University has provided competitive seed funding for ECRs and those returning
 to research to produce preliminary data, travel to help make collaborative links, and to gain
 experience as a grant-holder. We also competitively award Wellcome ISSF funds to ECRs (see
 3A). In 2018, Sara Ronzi was funded to explore household air pollution at the University of Buea.
 She is now PPI lead for Clean-Air Africa, Visiting Lecturer at Buea and secured an ESRC Festival
 of Social Sciences engagement grant.

 ECR Career Paths
                                                  Showcased in the Times Higher Education
                                                  (panel opposite), our Tenure Track Fellow
                                                  (TTF) scheme enables ECRs to pursue
                                                  independent research careers by reducing their
                                                  administrative and teaching roles. Since 2014,
                                                  three new TTFs have progressed to tenured
                                                  positions, winning £1.6M in funding, further
                                                  demonstrating our supportive environment
                                                  (Concordat Principles 1, 2, 3):


      ECR                                        TTF Status
      Sarah Donegan                              Now Tenured
      Adam Noble                                 Now Tenured
      Kerry Woolfall                             Now Tenured
      Laura Bonnett                              Current
      Brendan Collins                            Current

 We also provide bridging funding for contract researchers between fixed-term contracts, for
 example those waiting to hear the outcome of postdoctoral fellowship applications (Held, Sharkey,
 Taylor, Wilm, Wickham, Smith). This represents invaluable support at a critical time for ECRs
 developing an independent research career.




                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                 Bridging Funding Case-Study: Dr Sophie Wickham, Research Fellow in
                 Public Health, was appointed as a postdoctoral researcher in 2014. She was
                 mentored by Barr and Taylor-Robinson and awarded a Wellcome Trust
                 Small Grant (£5,000) in 2015 to develop statistical and data management
                 skills, to prepare for a Wellcome Trust Fellowship on child and maternal
                 mental health and health inequalities. IPH provided bridging funding to
                 support the development of her fellowship application, successfully awarded
  by Wellcome in 2016.



                  ECR Careers Case-Study: Dr Kerry Woolfall joined in 2010 as a Research
                  Associate. Supported by IPH staff (Young, Gamble, Frith) she applied
                  successfully for a Wellcome Trust Post-Doctoral Fellowship in Bioethics in
                  2014. She then secured substantial research funding, a Tenure Track
                  Fellowship in 2015 and was appointed as a Senior Lecturer in 2017.




 Our Unit is submitting seven ECRs. Since 2014, these staff have received a total of £882k funding:

  Staff name               Date of first              Funding scheme
                           independent contract
  Laura Bonnett            2017                       NIHR Post-Doctoral Fellowship,
                                                       then TTF
  Helen Brooks             2017                       IPH Institute
  Brendan Collins          2018                       TTF
  Chris Kypridemos         2018                       IPH Institute
  Philip McHale            2020                       MRC Training Fellowship
  Daniela Schlueter        2019                       IPH Institute
  Rebecca Wilson           2018                       HDR UK


 Promotion, Retention and Strategic Recruitment
 Our robust, criterion-based academic promotion processes explicitly recognise and reward
 staff achievements. Since 2015, a panel of senior academics help prepare and support staff
 applying for promotion or tenure. This has proved successful, with 10 promotions to
 Professorships, 7 to Readerships and 12 to Senior Lectureships.

 We have recruited strategically since 2014, making 28 new academic appointments: 5 at
 Professorial level, 17 at Lecturer/Senior Lecturer/Reader level and 6 ECRs. The demographic
 profile of our Unit is now well-balanced across junior, mid-career and senior colleagues, ensuring
 a clear pathway for succession planning. Most unit staff are on permanent contracts, with seven
 on fixed-term contracts linked to ongoing fellowships.




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Our strategic recruitment in data science has been very successful (examples in box below).

                     Strategic Recruitment Case-Study: Prof Iain Buchan, Chair in Public
                     Health and Clinical Informatics, joined in 2018 as part of our strategy to
                     boost data science. He has since won awards exceeding £10M, and co-
                     created and won a further £11M. These include infrastructure funding for
                     a Civic Data Cooperative (CDC) and Combined Intelligence for
                     Population Health Action platform (CIPHA) which is supporting local and
                     national COVID-19 responses. Buchan has taken on significant
  leadership roles: Executive Dean of the Institute of Population Health, and Director of Digital
  Strategy and Partnerships for Liverpool Health Partners.

                      Strategic Recruitment Case-Study: Prof Sarah Rodgers, Professor
                      of Health Informatics, was recruited in 2018 to further boost our data
                      science expertise. She specialises in evaluating natural experiments
                      and non-randomised intervention studies using anonymised linked
                      administrative and health datasets. She now leads ARC NWC’s Care
                      and Health Informatics theme, is a Co-Investigator on the C-GULL study
                      and leads an NIHR-funded study on how access to outdoor spaces
                      affects mental health and wellbeing.



 Developing and strengthening our clinical academic career paths
 Since 2014, Liverpool Health Partners (LHP), has helped to integrate University and wider NHS
 resources and coordinate health research across Merseyside (see Section 3B).
 We provide specific support and mentoring at each stage of the HLS Faculty’s integrated clinical
 academic training pathway: recruitment, research, training and development. This is co-ordinated
 by our Clinical Directorate ICAT team, reflecting local, regional and national priorities, and
 strengthened by our recently appointed Director of Clinical Academic Development. Our
 Annual Review of Competency Progression (ARCP) is considered an exemplar by Health
 Education England, and is now being trialled in other locations.
 This tailored support for Academic Clinical Fellows (ACFs) has led to 88% of ACFs progressing
 to PhD training, (far above the national average of 50%), with 100% of 20 NIHR ACFs progressing
 to Wellcome or MRC PhD studentships.

 Our Academic Clinical Lecturers (ACLs) receive additional support through protected academic
 time. Our new, three year, senior clinical fellowship scheme (co-funded by University and NHS)
 to support the development of externally funded, intermediate-level clinical fellowships now
 facilitates the retention of talented ACLs to senior clinical academic posts.

 Within Public Health, our Health Inequalities Research Group has particularly focused on support,
 building a cadre of outstanding fellows well-placed to become independent research leaders. Two
 clinical lecturers have gained Fellowships (McHale, 2020-24, MRC Clinical Research Training
 Fellowship and McPherson, 2015-20, Wellcome Career Development Clinical Research
 Fellowship). A Speciality Registrar on an academic placement was awarded a NIHR Doctoral
 Fellowship (Barr, 2010-2015), which then served as a springboard to a Senior Clinical Lectureship,
 then chair in 2019.

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                          Clinical Academic Careers Case-Study: Prof David Taylor-
                          Robinson was appointed as a Senior Clinical Lecturer in 2014. He
                          was awarded successive MRC fellowships (Population Health
                          Scientist, then a Centenary Award) and was mentored to develop
                          a successful MRC Clinician Scientist Fellowship (2017-22), a first
                          in public health. This prestigious award led to his promotion to chair
  in 2017. He now leads a productive and rapidly expanding research group.


 We have substantially increased our staff in academic general practice to build capacity and
 ensure succession planning, with five staff newly recruited or promoted since 2014. Professor
 Nefyn Williams joined in 2018. We thus now have four Professors (Gabbay, Williams, Lloyd-
 Williams, Dowrick), one Academic Clinical Lecturer (Van Ginneken), two Academic Clinical
 Fellows (Rylands, Harvey) and a clinical fellow (Ali). The fellows are mentored by senior staff and
 are employed clinically at Brownlow Health, the most active research practice in the area and a
 member of ARC NWC. We have a well-developed clinical research ‘hub and spoke’ system across
 the Central Liverpool Primary Care Network.



                              Strategic Recruitment Case: Dr Nadja van Ginneken is an
                              NIHR Clinical GP Lecturer appointed in 2015 as part of our
                              efforts to build capacity in Primary Care. She has since won
                              several research grants (from NIHR and Liverpool CCG
                              Research Capacity Fund) spanning adult and children’s mental
                              health, and coronavirus. She described the ACL post as “ a
                              fantastic stepping stone to further develop my research career
                              in primary mental healthcare, whilst still maintaining my clinical
                              work in general practice.”


 Academic Careers in Trials and Methodology
 The Liverpool Clinical Trials Centre (LCTC) provides tailored trial training and support to NIHR
 Trainees. Between 2014-2020 LCTC have supported:
    • 4 NIHR Clinician Scientist awards
    • 3 NIHR Clinical Trial fellowships
    • 2 Career Development Fellowships
    • 1 Senior Research Fellowship
    • 1 NIHR Advanced Fellowship
    • 9 NIHR Doctoral Fellowships

 These have resulted in several large EME grants (Miller, Flohr) and promotions (e.g. Perry was
 promoted to Professor in Orthopaedics following his Clinician Scientist Award).




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Sabbaticals and Exchanges
 The University’s Research Leave Policy enables all academic members of staff to take time to
 further their research. During her sabbatical leave in 2018, Kierans produced a highly rated
 monograph, with promotion to a chair in 2020.
 Our ECR placements have provided policy interface experience via our WHO Collaborating
 Centre. Two PDRAs and six Registrars worked on the WHO Europe Health Equity Status Report
 Initiative, including three placements at the WHO Venice Office (2017-19), plus exchange visits
 by researchers from Venice and Moscow.

 Our collaborative funding applications with local authorities and CCGs also create policy
 placements and secondments for our PhD students and ECRs. Three PhD students had 3-month
 placements in 2019/20 in public health, planning and children’s social care departments, and a
 further PDRA was seconded to Liverpool CCG.


 2B Building the best possible environment for our Research Students
 Recruitment and Successful Completion
 Since 2014, UoA2 staff have supervised 104 doctoral students. Our PGR headcount has
 increased from 67 in 2013/14 to 82 in 2019/20, with average doctoral completions per FTE
 increasing from 1.5 to 2.3. Over 80% of our PhD students submit within 48 months. Our 2017
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey showed 90% overall satisfaction, and all measures
 were within the sector’s top quartile.
 Growing Our PGR Numbers
 To sustain and grow our research groups, IPH provides substantial match-funding of studentships.
 Since 2014: £127K in student fees (20 students), £367K in student maintenance (17 students), an
 additional £202K (22 students) in student fees, and £526K (18 students) in student maintenance
 committed up to 2023/24. We have also won NIHR Technology Assessment Reviews grants to
 support 10 staff to pursue higher degrees (3 PhDs already completed). We recruit students
 according to EDI principles, facilitated by staff training and monitoring, (see section 2C); 22% of
 our PGRs come from BAME communities.
 Postgraduate Oversight and Monitoring
 All UoA2 staff have undertaken The Academy’s supervisor training. Each student has an annual
 Independent Progress Assessment Panel review to ensure that they receive optimal
 supervision and support. Clinical MD/PhDs undergo academic and formal Annual Reviews of
 Competence Progression.
 Integration and support of post-graduate students
 Crucially, our PhD students are represented on all our Institute and Faculty PGR committees.
 They are also given diverse opportunities to participate in Faculty academic life
 (https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/pgr-development/offering), including:
     • Presenting at Annual Institute PGR Research days, PGR Poster days and prizes.
     • Leading the Institute PGR Society (journal clubs, networking and ‘drop-in’ coffee sessions).
     • Communication Skills and Outreach Activities facilitated by a dedicated Public
          Engagement Officer, (see section 4C).
 Moved online from March 2020, these activities are now further supported and resourced by Prof
 Sanderson, FHLS’s new Dean for Postgraduate Affairs.



                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Doctoral Training and Placements
 Coordinated by The Liverpool Doctoral College, our Institute doctoral training infrastructure
 provides a suite of training development, and helps postgraduate researchers progress into their
 post-doctoral careers:

 •   Since 2014, seven ESRC DTP students have enjoyed 19 subject-specific and thematic training
     pathways within IPH; notably the Health and Wellbeing pathway (lead Lloyd-Williams) and
     Advanced Qualitative Methods Course (lead Kierans).
 •   Training programmes successfully building multidisciplinary cohorts of students within the
     MRC HTMR and MRC/NIHR TMRP doctoral training programmes
 •   NWC CLAHRC (12 PhD studentships) research training in public involvement and health
     inequalities research.
 •   EU Marie Curie MIROR (Methods in Research on Research) Innovative Training Network: a
     multidisciplinary joint doctoral training programme, to improving the quality of health research
     (€3.9M, 2016-20). Five PhD fellows have enjoyed secondments which enhanced their skills
     and provided extensive networking opportunities (BMJ, NICE, Cochrane, Novartis, and
     European Clinical Research Infrastructure Network).


 Preparing Students for Future Careers
 Alongside core research training, we prioritise transferable professional skills (business,
 entrepreneurial and communication skills), and broad scholarship skills (networking, knowledge
 dissemination, demonstrating impact and public value). Over 90% of our PhDs/MDs are employed
 or in further study within 6 months of graduating.


 2C. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 IPH is committed to providing an inclusive environment which recognises and values people's
 differences and supports all staff and students in maximising their potential to succeed.
 Since 2014, IPH has taken substantial initiatives to promote EDI:

     •   Promoting an inclusive culture. All our staff benefit from policies and activities led by
         the University as a member of the Athena SWAN Charter, Stonewall Diversity Champion,
         Disability Confident and Time to Change.
     •   Compulsory Equality and Diversity training and Unconscious Bias training ensure
         that all staff are aware of their rights and responsibilities around all protected
         characteristics (Concordat Principle 6).
     •   Gender-balanced panels for recruitment and promotion, where all have received
         equality and diversity and unconscious bias training.
     •   Guaranteed Interview Scheme means we invite to interview all disabled applicants who
         meet the minimum role criteria.
     •   Our University Race Equality Charter application, including the new ‘Research in an
         Inclusive and Sustainable Environment’ (RISE) Project.

 We have embedded EDI principles into our all our procedures and work, appointing specific leads:
    • IPH EDI Lead (Hussain).
    • Disability Lead (Hill)
    • PGR Disability Lead (Kypridemos)
    • EDI departmental lead and BAME staff network representative (Hassan).

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Our IPH Silver Athena SWAN Charter Award reflects robust systems for analysing our practices
 and culture and ensuring gender equality of opportunity for all our staff and students. 62% of UoA2
 Category A staff are women, with 10 female Professors acting as role models and mentors (Figure
 6):



                             100%

                             90%

                             80%

                             70%
    Proportion Female:Male




                             60%

                             50%                                                                        Male
                                                                                                        Female
                             40%

                             30%

                             20%

                             10%

                              0%
                                    Research Fellow   Lecturer   Senior Lecturer   Reader   Professor

 Figure 6: UoA2 gender balance by job category.


 Since 2014, the number of women on management committees and senior management teams
 has consistently increased (7 out of 8 committees now meet or exceed this).

 The recruitment and development of the next generation of women research leaders is further
 supported by our IPH infrastructure:
    • IPH Leadership and Mentoring Lead (Woolfall)
    • Aurora Women in Leadership Programme (3 UoA2 participants)
    • Springboard Programme (5 UoA2 participants).




                                                                                                        Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Employment Flexibility and Support
                                                     Since 2014, IPH has developed a Family
                                                     Friendly Guide, given to all staff during
                                                     induction (figure). All staff can now access a
                                                     range of family friendly options ( maternity,
                                                     paternity, adoption and shared parental
                                                     leave;        Keeping-in-Touch           days;
                                                     compassionate, domestic and personal
                                                     leave). The University’s flexible working
                                                     policy empowers individuals to vary or
                                                     adjust their pattern of work based on their
                                                     personal circumstances, including working
                                                     from home. Since 2014, 100% of change of
                                                     work pattern requests from IPH staff have
                                                     been approved.
 Family Friendly Advisors (10 in FHLS) and support networks including the Carer’s Network,
 Parent’s Network and ECR Network provide information, guidance and mentoring for staff.
 Staff and students can also access a milk expression room.

 Our Institute covers the costs of maternity/paternity leave for postdoctoral and fixed-term contract
 staff, and our return-to-work rate after maternity leave is 100%. Around 1/5 staff then choose a
 reduced hours contract. We also organise free childcare for open days and conferences.


 Campus Accessibility
 The Waterhouse Building, housing most UoA2 staff, is fully accessible. The University estates
 management policy on accessibility is embedded in all planning and construction. Our disability
 access guides to campus highlight accessible toilets, accessible parking spaces and accessible
 easy routes. Our Computer Services Department also provides a wide range of accessibility
 software and hardware for staff and students with disabilities.


 Wellbeing
 University Wellbeing Week is organised annually with activities for staff and students including
 sports, meditation and craft sessions. Staff can use three days of ‘Liv to Give’ leave annually to
 volunteer for charitable causes of their choice.

 Initiatives to support the wellbeing of postgraduate researchers (PGRs) include:
     • IPH PGR Wellbeing Scheme Staff Advocates (van Ginneken, Thomas), coordinated at
          a Faculty level by a Wellbeing Advisor for PGR students (Kenyani).
     • A peer-to-peer PGR Wellbeing Ambassador scheme. Ambassadors (five in IPH)
          complete a range of training modules including Mental Health First Aid and offer
          signposting support and run wellbeing events.
     • Our Buddy System links new PGR students with a 2nd or 3rd year PhD student.
     • Highlighting the UoL Report and Support Tool for reporting harassment or bullying.
     • An online training module for supervisors on how to support student mental health and
          wellbeing (launched 2019).



                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Comprehensive PGR student induction includes signposting to University wellbeing
        services, disability support, student societies, faith organisations, and the LGBT network.

 To support IPH staff:
    • The Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) - a confidential counselling and
       information service to assist with personal or work-related problems.
    • A trained Mental Health First Aider (van Ginneken) and Wellbeing Lead (Day).


 EDI in REF Processes
 We have ensured that EDI considerations transparently underpin all our REF processes including:
    • Mandatory EDI and bias training for all,
    • Incorporating the University’s REF Code of Practice into every stage of our UoA2
       submission,
    • Ensuring diversity of the UoA2 team,
    • Involving ECRs and all staff in scoring outputs,
    • Continuous monitoring for any bias in proposed returns, and
    • Feedback to staff.




                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3A. Research Income
 Overview
 Our Unit’s third strategic priority is ‘to develop a diverse and sustainable funding base, with
 growth in awards to develop our infrastructure and resources’.
 During this REF period, our average annual grant expenditure per eligible FTE has substantially
 increased by 36%, from £153K in REF2014 to £208K now.

 We have thus built a large portfolio of new awards totaling £53M (up from £47M in REF2014)
 including:

    •   UK Government / NIHR £38.3M (up 68% from £22.8M income in REF2014)
    •   RCUK £6.5M (up 94% from £3.4M)
    •   UK Charities £3.4M (up 20% from £2.9M)
    •   EU and international funding agencies £4.6M (up 40% from £3.3M in REF2014)


 Major and Prestigious Grant Awards
 Notable grants exceeding £500k awarded to UoL during the REF period are summarised below:

  FUNDER                                              Senior Investigator   UoL     Grant Total
  & Project Title                                                           Total
  Production of Technology Assessment                 Boland                £5.6M   £5.6M
  Reviews (TARs) for the NIHR
  ARC North West Coast                                Gabbay                £3.5M    £9M
  RETURN: Interventions to reduce inequalities        Harris                £2.2M   £2.4M
  in the uptake of routine dental care
  NIHR Gastrointestinal Health Protection             Barr                  £1.5M   £4.6M
  Research Unit
  ISDR: Introducing personalised risk-based           Byrne, Garcia-        £1.3M   £2.1M
  intervals in screening for diabetic retinopathy     Finana, Williamson,
                                                      Gabbay
  CLEAN-AIR(Africa): NIHR Clean Energy                Pope                  £1.3M   £1.9M
  Access for the prevention of Non-
  communicable disease in Africa
  DexEnceph: Dexamethasone in Herpes                  Williamson            £1.1M   £1.1M
  Simplex Virus Encephalitis Randomised
  Controlled Trial.
  RDS: Research Design Service for North West         Gabbay                £1M     £4.9M
  England
  CASTLE: Changing Agendas on Sleep,                  Tudur-Smith           £1M     £2.3M
  Treatment and Learning in Childhood Epilepsy
  COPE: The Carboprost or Oxytocin                    Gamble                £1M     £1.8M
  Postpartum haemorrhage Effectiveness Study
  Phase IIb, randomised, double-blind, placebo-       Williamson            £1M     £1.6M
  controlled, multi-centre trial of infliximab with



                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  transcriptomic biomarker & mechanism
  evaluation.
  CF-START: Cystic Fibrosis Anti-                   Williamson          £1M     £1.5M
  Staphylococcal Antibiotic Prophylaxis Trial
  North West Research Design Services (Phase        Gabbay              £0.9M   £3.7M
  2).
  SAVER - Sodium valproate for epigenetic           Young               £0.9M   £1.1M
  reprogramming in the management of high-risk
  oral epithelial dysplasia
  BESS: Bronchiolitis Endotracheal Surfactant       Woolfall            £0.8M   £1.7M
  Study - Efficacy and mechanism of surfactant
  therapy in infants with life threatening
  Bronchiolitis:
  LiLaC 2: Liverpool and Lancaster Universities     Whitehead           £0.8M   £1.6M
  Collaboration for Public Health Research
  ROAM: Radiation versus observation following      Gamble              £0.8M   £1.4M
  surgical resection of Atypical Meningioma: a
  randomised controlled trial
  AZTEC: AZithromycin ThErapy for Chronic           Gamble              £0.7M   £2.1M
  lung disease A randomised, placebo
  controlled trial of azithromycin for the
  prevention of chronic lung disease of
  prematurity in preterm infants
  DREAM: A RCT Desensitisation to cow's milk,       Williamson          £0.7M   £1.6M
  in children with Allergy to cow's Milk
  FEMUR III: A multi-centre RCT and economic        Williams            £0.6M   £2.3M
  evaluation of a community-based rehabilitation
  package following hip fracture
  PREVAIL-Preventing infection using antibiotic     Gamble              £0.6M   £1.9M
  impregnated long lines
  TEMPEST: Randomised, double-blind,                Dodd                £0.6M   £1.9M
  placebo-controlled, phase 2 evaluation of the
  efficacy and mechanism of trientine in patients
  with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
  WorkHORSE: Health Outcomes Research               O'Flaherty          £0.6M   £0.6M
  Simulation Environment
  Civic Data Co-Operative                           Buchan              £4.7M   £5.3M
  Health North, Connected Health Cities             Bodger              £1M     £4.7M
  Treating common mental disorders in               Hill                £0.6M   £1M
  Congolese refugees in Uganda and Rwanda:
  Development of New Mathematical Sciences          Williamson          £1.8M   £2M
  Capabilities for Healthcare Technologies
  RenalToolBox: Developing novel tools and          Garcia-Finana       £1M     £4.5M
  technologies to assess the safety and efficacy
  of cell-based regenerative medicine therapies,
  focusing on kidney disease
  PIDS: Population level Interventions to improve   Capewell            £1.2M   £1.2M
  diet and reduce Social inequality
  HERC: Health e-Research Centre                    Buchan, Capewell,   £4.8M   £4.8M

                                                                                        Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                                    Williamson
  North West Hub for Trials Methodology             Williamson             £1.3M    £1.6M
  Research
  Tackling inequalities in child health:            Taylor-Robinson        £0.9M    £0.9M
  Harnessing data to improve lives.
  TRIM: Development of a novel blood test to aid    Garcia-Finana,         £0.8M    £0.8M
  the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis             Byrne
  Brain architecture and function at epilepsy       Garcia-Finana          £0.6M    £0.8M
  diagnosis: markers of pharmaco-resistance
  and cognitive dysfunction
  TOPS: Timing of Primary Surgery for Cleft         Williamson             £1.2M    £7.1M
  Palate
  C-GULL: Children Growing up in Liverpool          Taylor-Robinson,       £4.7M    £5.2M
  Birth Cohort and CityLab Linked Data              Williamson

 Figure 7: Grants exceeding £500k awarded to UoL during the REF period


 Externally-funded personal awards for outstanding researchers totalled £2M in the REF
 period, increasing from £1.5M in REF 2014:

  Funder                Scheme                                   Academics            Total value
  Medical Research      Clinician Scientist                      Taylor-Robinson      £900k
  Council (MRC)         Clinical Research Training Fellowship    McHale               £205k
  Wellcome Trust        Society & Ethics Fellowship              Wickham              £211k
                        Senior Investigator                      Buchan, Dowrick,     £500k
  NIHR                                                           Williamson
                        Post-Doctoral Fellowship                 Bonnett              £180k
 Figure 8: Externally-funded personal awards

 Realising high quality outputs and impacts from grants
 Our research funding has enabled us to produce highly cited and impactful papers.
 For example: Taylor-Robinson ‘Austerity, sanctions, and the rise of food banks in the UK’, BMJ
 Online, 2015, has been cited 130 times with a Field-Weighted Citation Impact of 16.5 and an
 Altmetric score of 1,594, (within the top 5% of all research outputs scored by Altmetrics);
 The COMET Handbook: Version 1.0; Trials, 2017, has been cited 400 times, with a Field-Weighted
 Citation Impact of 24.5.


 Strategies for Generating Income
 People: We have invested in staff recruitment to build critical mass, expertise and sustainability
 in our three research groups. We have gained 27 new academic members of staff since 2014 (see
 Section 2). Buchan and Rodgers’s academic leadership in health data science has secured over
 £20M research income since 2018.

 Pump priming funds: In 2016, the University was awarded a third Wellcome Trust Institutional
 Strategic Support Fund (ISSF) award, (£2.5M over 5 years). This provides seed-corn research
 funding for newly-appointed ECRs. For instance, having received a total of £58K ISSF support,


                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 two ECRs have then independently won substantial external grant funding from prestigious
 schemes, including NIHR Health Technology Assessment (Woolfall, £616K) and the MRC
 Health Systems Research Initiative (Brooks, £32K). Both were subsequently promoted to Senior
 Lecturer in 2019. (Section 4A summarises our other seed funding schemes).

 Strengthening proposals: Our extensive peer-review process starts with informal discussion
 with university mentors sharing experience of relevant funders and schemes (e.g. the University’s
 ESRC review panel) progressing to peer-review panels of senior staff providing mock interviews
 and constructive feedback applicants.
 The University’s Research and Partnerships Development Team provide additional support for
 major grant applications (managing complex bids, arranging peer review, arranging and
 conducting mock interviews). For instance, they contributed to the successful C-GULL and ARC
 NWC bids winning a total of £14M.

 Leveraging additional funding: Each of our substantial recent awards, (including ARC NWC, C-
 GULL, HDR UK and MRC/NIHR TMRP and CDC), brings major opportunities for catalysing further
 related research and grants. For instance, previous birth cohorts have successfully leveraged
 funding for add-on studies at many times the value of the original grant award. This represents a
 further, new opportunity for UoA2 as the rich C-GULL and CDC data become available.


 3B. Infrastructure and Facilities
 Our substantial investments since 2014 have exceeded £20M, including:
 • £2.5M Waterhouse Building refurbishment, creating new office space allowing co-location of
    UoA2 staff.
 • £1M Farr Institute wing refurbishment (part-funded by MRC).
 • £10M data centre for large-scale data storage and computational analysis.
 • £7M Sherrington Building refurbishment to provide a modern hub for teaching and research.


 Joint Research Service with NHS Partners
 Our University is a founding member of Liverpool Health Partners (LHP). This consortium
 includes our local NHS Trusts, CCGs and Universities (Figure 10, see section 4B). LHP facilitates
 clinical research collaborations across academic and clinical settings, rapidly translating research
 outputs into clinical benefits for patients. The SPARK (Single Point of Access for Research &
 Knowledge) service co-locates Research and Development teams from all LHP members to
 provide seamless administration for clinical research. Buchan is director of Digital Health for LHP.


 Creating the new Liverpool Clinical Trials Centre (LCTC)
 Up to 2018, University of Liverpool had two outstanding clinical trials units (CTUs) - the Liverpool
 Cancer Trials Unit (LCTU) and Clinical Trials Research Centre (CTRC). They were the only North
 West CTUs to be awarded and sustain full UKCRC Registration in recognition of their sustainable
 infrastructure and strong track record in delivering high-quality clinical research as judged by an
 international panel. Following an external review, the two units were merged in 2019 to form the
 single, fully integrated Liverpool Clinical Trials Centre (LCTC), bringing together 120 clinical
 research staff to provide world-class governance and support of clinical trials (Director:
 Gamble). This merger was underpinned by core investment from the University, plus very
 substantial NIHR CTU infrastructure funding, generating around £7M annually.



                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Trials Methodology Research
 The Liverpool-led MRC North West Hub for Trials Methodology Research has received over
 £2M MRC investment (2014-18). Liverpool also set up and leads the broader MRC-NIHR Trials
 Methodology Research Partnership (£460k). This interdisciplinary research collaborative aims
 to facilitate and accelerate the translational process, through the development of new and
 improved approaches for the design, conduct and analysis of clinical trials. Key achievements
 include the COMET initiative (see Section 4E), six funded PhD studentships in Liverpool, and two
 postdoctoral posts in trials methodology.


 Evidence Synthesis Expertise
 Liverpool Reviews and Implementation Group (LRiG) sits at the heart of evidence informed
 decision-making for the NICE technology appraisal programmes. Since 2014, LRiG has provided
 evidence reviews underpinning over 20 national guidance projects, produced 15 NIHR
 monographs, published 12 Cochrane reviews and won NIHR Technology Assessment Reviews
 grants to support 10 staff to pursue higher degrees. In 2016, the University funded an Academic
 Lecturer in Evidence Synthesis to further extend capacity.


 Research Design Service NW (RDS NW)
 Embedded in UoA2, RDS NW was renewed in 2018, with £5.5M funding from NIHR (Gabbay,
 Frith, Williamson, Young). This provides much-valued research methodology support and advice
 across the Unit and beyond.


 Computer Services and Informatics Facilities
 The University has recently invested £10M in a new primary state-of-the-art campus data centre,
 providing centrally-managed space to house project-specific hardware and work closely with Net
 NorthWest. Our researchers have free access to the High Throughput Computing service
 (HTC), and High-Performance Computing (HPC) capabilities via a central computing cluster.

 Our established strategic computing partnerships include:
    •   The Bede flagship supercomputer is specifically designed around solving digital health
        challenges. Echoing the world’s fastest systems, Bede will be the UK’s first supercomputer
        to improve AI inference.
    •   The STFC-funded Hartree Centre gives researchers excellent access to petascale HPC,
        HTC, hyperscale storage, data analytics clusters (rested, streaming and predictive),
        cognitive computing platforms, software development expertise and visualisation suites.
    •   The N8 Computationally Intensive Research Digital Health Lead group gives access
        to advanced infrastructure, training courses and software tools (including Python for Web
        Scraping for Digital Health, and an Introduction to Reproducible Analyses in R).
 Our recently appointed, inaugural Head of Research Computing for FHLS is building a Faculty-
 wide Research Computing strategy, investment plan and service delivery roadmap to enhance
 future provision and further expand our data science capabilities.


 Benefits in-Kind
 The NIHR CLAHRC and ARC NWC have provided £11M in benefits in kind. This funding
 represents the collaborative research resources spent by NHS and local authority partners co-
 producing research and implementing the findings as part of the CLAHRC and ARC programmes.

                                                                                          Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4A. Collaboration
 We work in partnership with numerous governmental and non-governmental organisations
 locally, nationally and internationally.

 As a civic University in one of the UK’s most deprived regions, local collaboration is a top priority
 for delivering research, creating impact, and serving our local communities.
 Locally, we work with Liverpool Health Partners (LHP) to develop our regional partnerships
 including NHS Trusts, CCGs, and HEIs (Figure 9). Nationally with DHSC and Public Health
 England. We also work with a wide range of UK and international HEIs, and industry partners such
 as GlaxoSmithKline. Furthermore, many of our researchers are members of the NIHR School for
 Public Health Research (SPHR) and the Public Health Research Consortium (PHRC).




 Figure 9: Map of Liverpool Health Partners (LHP) members

 Our international partnerships include WHO, EU, LMIC government ministries of health and
 energy (Cameroon, Malawi and Liberia); professional organisations (e.g. American Heart
 Association, European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology), and international NGOs
 (e.g. La Isla Network, Global LPG Partnership).

 We increased our international collaborations throughout the REF period. Outputs involving an
 international collaborator rose from 36% in 2014 to 47% in 2020. The reach of our international
 collaborative research is now substantial, as demonstrated by a Field-Weighted Citation Impact
 of 4.30 for papers with international co-authors (Figure 10).




                                                                                              Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 10: Outputs since 2014 involving co-authors in international collaborations.


 University Support for Collaboration
 The University’s Research, Partnerships and Innovation Directorate supports and manages
 collaborative relationships with strategic partners, advises on financial and contractual issues and
 facilitates impact and knowledge exchange.

 There are University funding schemes to support collaborations:
    • Translational Research Access Programme Fund fosters new interdisciplinary
        collaborations to advance translational research. UoA2 academics have been involved in
        three funded projects, winning a total of £290k, including a new collaboration with UoA1
        entitled ‘Electronic health record data for improving outcomes in cardiovascular diseases’
        (Fleming, 2019).
    • Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund UoA2 teams have received
        £40,000 to grow collaborations (see section 3A.3).
    • The Hugh Greenwood Legacy Fund supports collaborative child health projects with
        Alder Hey Children’s Hospital. Gladstone awarded £60,000 for a feasibility study to support
        parents of babies at high risk of cerebral palsy.
    • Public Policy QR Strategic Priorities Fund (launched 2019) funds collaborative research
        that supports evidence-based policy making. Barr secured a £19,000 statistical and
        computing methods award which enabled collaboration with Liverpool CCG on
        interventions for at-risk populations.
    • Overseas Development Assistance (ODA) Research Seed Fund (From 2016): This
        provides up to £10,000 pump priming grants for research with Low-and-Middle-Income
        Country partners, relationship-building through travel and pilot studies, and enhancing
        subsequent applications to external ODA funding schemes. In 2020, £12,000 was awarded
        to Pope and Giebel to support COVID-19 projects in Cameroon and Uganda respectively.




                                                                                             Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These pump-priming schemes have led to several large UoA2 collaborative awards:



                   Seed Funding Case-Study: Prof Melissa Gladstone secured £10k from
                   the ODA Research Seed Fund for a feasibility study on interventions to
                   support at-risk neonates. That led to winning a £200,000 MRC Mental
                   Health grant with the College of Medicine in Malawi. This also contributed
                   to our Impact Case Study (see section 1E).



                                      Seed Funding Case-Study: Prof Daniel Pope secured
                                      £2,000 in 2015 from the ODA Research Seed Fund for
                                      overseas travel to build partnerships, and £6,000 in
                                      2016 from the Knowledge Exchange and Impact
                                      Voucher Scheme on ‘Implementing the WHO Air
                                      Quality Guidelines for Household Air Pollution’.
                                      This scoping work led to two Cameroon studies (£0.5M,
                                      CDC & NIH), and the CLEAN-Air (Africa) Global Health
                                      Group (£2.5M, NIHR, 2018-22) grants built on the
                                      network he has grown across Africa. Pope was awarded
                                      a personal Chair in 2018 and he is now applying for an
                                      NIHR Global Health Unit.



 4B. Longstanding Collaborations and Policy Engagement
 Our research informs policy and public health practice by engaging with policy environments at all
 levels from local to global - delivering the right evidence in the right place at the right time to
 change practice and promote public health.
 Working with nine local authorities and Liverpool City Region Combined Authority, we can
 shape city and regional public health policy. We have partnerships with local SMEs specialising
 in web and mobile application development and clinical data science related services, including
 Citrus Suite (mobile health technology), and AIMES (secure storage and analyses of sensitive
 NHS and Social Care datasets). Our large collaborative awards and successes built on local
 partnerships include ARC NWC, C-GULL, and the CDC (see section 1D).

 Our extensive civic and regional policy engagement since 2014 includes:
    • Membership of Liverpool Health and Wellbeing Board (Taylor-Robinson, Barr; 2019-
       current); Children’s Trust Board (Taylor-Robinson)
    • Liverpool as a UNICEF Child Friendly City Steering group (Taylor-Robinson)
    • Citywide Strategy Group for Fairness and Tackling Poverty (Taylor-Robinson)
    • Cheshire and Merseyside Directors of Public Health (CHAMPS) resource allocation in LAs
       (Barr, Taylor-Robinson, Whitehead)
    • Advising Liverpool City Region, Lancashire councils and the Northern Health Science
       Alliance on maximising the health equity impact of economic strategy (Barr, Wickham)




                                                                                            Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 National Research Collaborations since 2014
 Our UK partnerships are facilitated by NIHR collaborative structures, and the N8 collaboration
 between eight northern research-intensive Universities. These include:
    • MRC/NIHR Trials Methodology Research Partnership (See Section 3B)
    • LiLaC (The Liverpool and Lancaster Universities Collaboration for Public Health Research)
       is one of 8 institutional members of the NIHR School of Public Health Research. LiLaC’s
       mission is to produce evidence on effective actions addressing the upstream causes of
       health inequalities.
    • One of six members of the NIHR Public Health Policy Research Unit: a collaboration
       conducting research of relevance to the DHSC (funded by the NIHR Policy Research
       Programme 2010-19, and 2019-2024).
    • The Health Foundation’s Networked Data Lab - a network of UK teams working together
       on key issues in health and care using linked datasets.
    • HDR UK spans academia, healthcare, industry, charities, plus patients and the public,
       working together to develop and apply cutting-edge approaches to clinical, biological,
       genomic and other multi-dimensional health data to address the most pressing health
       needs.
    • Through MRC HTMR, MRC-NIHR TMRP and COMET we collaborate with major national
       organisations (Health Data Research UK, ABPI, UKCRC CTU Network, NICE) and
       international organisations (The Global Health Network, Society for Clinical Trials (US),
       ECRIN (Europe), HRB TMRN (Ireland), and CDISC (US).
    • Our Trials & Methodology group is the hub for statistical support to multiple Cochrane
       Collaborative Review Groups (Epilepsy, Infectious Diseases, Cystic Fibrosis, Pregnancy
       and Childbirth, and Neuromuscular Diseases).

 National Policy Engagement since 2014
    • DHSC Technical Advisory Group (TAG) of the Advisory Committee on Resource
        Allocation for the NHS (Whitehead, Barr);
    • PHE Health Inequalities Board (Whitehead);
    • Parliamentary Select Committees and All-Party Parliamentary Groups oral evidence
        (Barr, Capewell, Pennington, Taylor-Robinson, Whitehead, Wickham);
    • Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health committees (Taylor-Robinson);
    • DHSC/DWP Joint Work and Health Unit workshops and consultations (Barr, McHale,
        Whitehead);
    • Cabinet Office consultations on work and disability (Whitehead);
    • Northern Health Science Alliance and N8 (Wickham, Barr, Taylor-Robinson);
    • Clinical Priorities Advisory Group, NHS England (Frith);
    • Royal College of Physicians Ethics Committee (Frith);
    • Secretary of State for Transport's Honorary Medical Advisory Panel on Driving and
        Disorders of the Nervous System (Tudur-Smith).


 International Collaborations since 2014
    •   WHO: Collaborating Centre for Policy Research on Determinants of Health Equity -
        https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/population-health-sciences/departments/public-health-and-
        policy/research-themes/who/ (Directors: Whitehead, Barr, Pope).




                                                                                        Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Kenyan Ministry of Health: We partner this Universal Health Coverage initiative to train
        130,000 community health workers across Kenya in 2021 using our new training manual
        on health, prevention and household air pollution (Pope).
    •   COMET (Core Outcome Measures in Effectiveness Trials) (see section 4D below).
    •   WHO: Liverpool Reviews and Implementation Group has ongoing collaborations (since
        2018) on global food advertising policies and indoor pollution in LMICs.


 International policy engagement since 2014
    •   Scientific Advisory Group (SAGE) WHO EURO Health Equity Status Report (Chair:
        Whitehead; Lead researcher: Barr);
    •   WHO global technical guidelines committees (Taylor-Robinson, Pope, Dowrick);
    •   International Network for Research on Inequalities in Child Health (Taylor-Robinson,
        Wickham).


 4C. Wider engagement with diverse communities and the public
 Public Engagement
 Our vibrant outreach programmes are co-ordinated through our research groups and supported
 by the Faculty Public Engagement Grant Scheme and Public Engagement training events
 for staff and students.
                                 Activities since 2014 have included six Pint of Science and
                                 Science in the Café events (Frith, Perry, Bonnett). Held in
                                 local pubs and cafes, these scientific presentations and
                                 discussions showcase and build engagement with University
                                 researchers. Four family-friendly Meet the Scientist events in
                                 the Liverpool World Museum have presented research in fun,
                                 accessible ways to stimulate children’s interest in STEM
                                 (Harris, Bonnett). Our Public Engagement Mentoring
 Scheme supports ECRs to gain confidence in this public engagement work (Bonnett).
 Public and patient involvement (PPI)
 All our work is informed by robust PPI, underpinned by a dedicated PPI Committee.
 Furthermore, we are leaders in developing methodological expertise in PPI (Woolfall, Young,
 Williamson, Frith), notably:

    •   The PIRRIST study (2015) to enhance Recruitment and Retention in Surgical Trials
        subsequently informed national approaches and generated UK guidance on best
        practice in PPI. (Woolfall).
    •   METHODICAL Study for Patient and Public Involvement in Clinical Trials
        https://bit.ly/3mGl3WZ (MRC funded, PI Woolfall). This involved key stakeholder groups
        and identified 16 priority topics for future research.
    •   COMET’s People and Patient Participation, Involvement and Engagement (PoPPIE)
        Working Group supports meaningful patient involvement in every Core Outcome Set, and
        has dramatically increased patient participation in outcome-setting from 15% to 93%
        http://www.comet-initiative.org/Patients




                                                                                        Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  PPI Case Study: Neighbourhoods for Learning (NsfL)
  In collaboration with 9 Local Authorities, Barr established NsfL in 10 deprived areas. Over 70
  residents worked as equal partners, identifying priorities for action, co-developing and
  implementing solutions to improve neighbourhood system resilience, evaluating impacts, and
  co-authoring 14 academic papers with ARC-NWC/CLAHRC researchers. Other outputs include
  films, drama workshops, art events and community gardens. A key WHO report cited NsfL as
  an ‘inspirational example’ of creating resilient communities.




 4D. Contributions to the Economy and Society since 2014
 These extensive collaborations and policy engagements have enabled us to deliver significant
 impacts locally, nationally and internationally.
 Locally, the Inquiry into Health Equity for the North of England - Due North programme of
 knowledge translation (Chair: Whitehead, evidence papers: Barr, Taylor-Robinson) led to
 protection of investment in local children’s services, and Liverpool joining the UNICEF child
 friendly cities programme. Our data-driven policy modelling tools embedded in local civic
 health systems, (including the Place Based Longitudinal Data Resource, Rapid Intervention
 Causal Evaluation (RICE) tool and our WorkHORSE Health Outcomes Research Simulation
 Environment) support Local Authorities and CCGs across the North West in the rapid
 identification, evaluation, and implementation of effective public health interventions (Barr,
 O’Flaherty, Taylor-Robinson).

 Nationally, our work has led to changes in NHS resource allocation policy (an additional
 £1billion going to more disadvantaged areas). Our evaluations of major welfare reforms (Work
 Capability Assessments, Universal credit and child poverty alleviation) have informed debates in
 Parliament, the Work and Pensions select committee, all-party parliamentary groups and Chief
 Medical Officer roundtable events, subsequently leading to changes in national welfare policy.

 Internationally, our work demonstrating the devasting health consequences of indoor air pollution
 has led to the development and implementation of WHO Indoor Air Quality Guidelines (Pope,
 Bruce). We have also demonstrated that population-wide food and tobacco control policies are
 powerful, rapid, equitable and cost-saving (using innovative modelling techniques, empirical
 evidence and policy analysis - Capewell, O’Flaherty, Kypridemos). This evidence has informed
 guidance from Public Health England, NICE, the Department of Health, and WHO, leading to
 health promoting public policies on salt, sugar and transfats. Our WHO Collaborating Centre Policy
 Research on Health Equity (Whitehead, Barr) powerfully informed the WHO Europe Health
 Equity status report recommendations, subsequently endorsed by the 93rd Regional Assembly.

 Our impactful clinical trials include a portfolio of trials in infection (CATCH: Gamble, Woolfall;
 PREVAIL: Gamble; BASICS: Gamble) and in children with epilepsy emergencies (EcLiPSE –
 Woolfall, Gamble) or severe uveitis (SYCAMORE: Williamson).


                                                                                           Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Our £1.6M consultancy income since 2014 reflects collaborations with over 80 organisations
 (including Astra Zeneca, European Brain Council, FujiFilm, GSK, Global LPG Partnership,
 Mondelez, Proctor & Gamble, UNICEF, and Unilever).

 Our interdisciplinary impact is evidenced by two additional REF Impact Case Studies submitted in
 other UoAs: Williamson’s on COMET (UoA10 Mathematical Sciences), and Frith’s on information
 giving in fertility treatment using egg and sperm donors (UoA30 Philosophy).


  Responding to National and International Priorities: COVID-19 Research

                                             Our recent interdisciplinary research addressing
                                             the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic has
                                             been rapid and strong
                                             https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/coronavirus/research-
                                             and-analysis/
                                             UoA2 secured funding including:
                                             • LHP Consortium Strategic Research Fund
                                             supporting a series of social science studies into
                                             behavioural responses to COVID-19 (Gabbay,
                                             Frith, Young, Kierans)
                                             • UKRI Covid Award on ethical allocation of care
                                             for non-Covid patients (Frith)

  We have provided expert input at national policy level via Collins (COVID-19 modelling for
  Welsh Government; SAGE papers on Non-Pharmaceutical Interventions) and Barr (SAGE
  Inequalities Subgroup).
  We established CIPHA, the world’s first Civic Data Cooperative and Analyst network (Buchan).
  Embedded in the Cheshire & Merseyside Integrated Care System, this provides near real-time
  intelligence across NHS, local authority and public health data.




 4E. Contributions to research disciplines since 2014
 Developing guidelines and resources for researchers
    •   COMET (Core Outcome Measures in Effectiveness Trials) has established international
        standards for harmonising outcomes across clinical trials. COMET has led to key
        policy and societal impacts, endorsed by NICE, the Health Research Authority, the
        pharmaceutical industry and government funders in the UK, US, Belgium, Germany and
        Ireland (http://www.comet-initiative.org/COSEndorsement).
    •   Liverpool Clinical Trials Centre (Section 3.B) as an established track record in delivering
        high quality clinical trials, advances in methodology and supporting the UKCRC network.
    •   IBD-Control Questionnaire (Bodger): a patient-reported outcome measure endorsed
        internationally by ICHOM and widely used in UK / European Inflammatory Bowel Disease
        registries (IBDREAM, Netherlands) and clinical studies (e.g., PREdiCCt, NIHR
        Bioresource, VEST, Takeda)


                                                                                           Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   CONNECT is the first study to explore family and clinician perspectives on research without
        prior consent in emergency situations. CONNECT guidance has now informed the design
        of eight clinical studies and has been included in an NIHR Clinical Trials Toolkit and HRA
        resources.


 Training and Capacity Building, including Interdisciplinarity
 Our MRC Skills Development Fellowship postdoctoral scheme for quantitative early-career
 training (http://liverpoolmrcsdf.uk/, >£1M, lead Williamson) funds seven fellows in a unique
 interdisciplinary programme which combines mathematical science, computer science and
 biostatistics. Williamson and Tudur-Smith also oversee a cohort of 20 MRC-funded PhD students
 in the HTMR Network, plus a cohort of 30 PhD students in the new MRC-NIHR TMRP doctoral
 training programme.
 Our university-wide Doctoral Training Network in Artificial Intelligence (AI) for Future Digital
 Care is developing and applying AI solutions to health and well-being (Garcia-Finana).
 Our University-funded, interdisciplinary, Centre for Humanities and Social Sciences of Health,
 Medicine and Technology (Director Kierans) brings together public engagement with critical
 scholarship to enhance understandings of medical, scientific and technical practice.


 4F. Indicators of wider influence
 Empowered by substantial collaborations, grants, outputs and impacts, our academics enjoy wide
 national and international influence as committee chairs/members, reviewers, fellows, speakers
 and prize-winners.
 Surveying our Category A staff in 2019/20:
     • 48% have engaged with policymaking bodies,
     • 40% have engaged with industry through research or advisory capacities,
     • 33% have served on a Government advisory board, or as a parliamentary expert,
     • 75% have served on professional bodies or learned societies,
     • 40% have served on national or international grants committees,
     • 40% have served on journal editorial boards, and
     • 64% have participated in conference organization.


 International Visiting Professor roles
    •   Dowrick – University of Melbourne,
    •   Frith – University of Hong Kong,
    •   Higham - Yonsei University College of Dentistry, Seoul, S. Korea,
    •   Taylor-Robinson – University of Copenhagen,
    •   Whitehead – Karolinska Institute.

 Learned Societies, Prestigious Research Bodies and Health Organisations
    •   Capewell – President, UK Society for Social Medicine (2015 & 2016); Vice President, UK
        Faculty of Public Health (2015-2018).
    •   Higham - President of the Cariology Group of the International Association for Dental
        Research 2019-21.
    •   Whitehead – Advising UN Special Rapporteur on the Right to Health. Member of Council
        of the Academy of Medical Sciences (2020-2023)



                                                                                           Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Prestigious Awards and Prizes
    •   Bonnett - Rosalind Franklin Award Lecturer for physical and mathematical sciences,
        British Science Festival, 2018; Twenty in Data & Technology, Women in Data, 2019.
    •   Dowrick - George Abercrombie Award for special meritorious literary work in general
        practice, 2017; Commissioner for Lancet/World Psychiatric Association Commission on
        Depression (2018-2020); WONCA Fellowship (2020).
    •   Harris - Giddon Award for Distinguished Research in the Behavioural Sciences,
        (International Association for Dental Research, 2014).
    •   Williamson - Bradford Hill Lecturer, 2017; Cochrane-REWARD prize, 2017 (for
        COMET); Elected to the Academy of Medical Sciences, 2018.
    •   Williamson and Gamble - Cochrane Collaboration Bill Silverman prize, 2017.
    •   Whitehead - Damehood (DBE) 2016 for services to Public Health and health inequalities
        research; Alwyn Smith Prize 2018, UK Faculty of Public Health, for ‘the most outstanding
        contribution to the health of the public’; and RCP “Women in Medicine” celebratory
        exhibition 2018: one of the 26 “most influential women in medicine” today (see Case study
        below).


                       Wider Influence Case-Study: Dr Laura Bonnett, TTF in Medical
                       Statistics, works on the development of clinical prediction models for
                       people with chronic conditions, and has informed DVLA’s regulations
                       around epileptic seizures. Bonnett was recognised as one of Women
                       in Data’s 2019 Twenty in Data & Technology, was awarded the
                       British Science Association’s Rosalind Franklin Award Lecture,
                       2018 and was named as the Royal Statistical Society’s William Guy
                       Lecturer, 2020.


                           Wider Influence Case-Study: Prof Dame Margaret
                           Whitehead, W.H. Duncan Chair of Public Health. An
                           internationally renowned authority on health inequality, she was
                           awarded a Damehood (DBE) in 2016 for her long-standing
                           contribution to the understanding of health inequalities. She
                           received the UK Faculty of Public Health’s Alywn Smith Prize
                           2018 for ‘the most outstanding contribution to the health of the
                           public’; also recognised as one of the Royal College of
                           Physicians’ “most influential women in medicine today”.




                                                                                          Page 34
