Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Anglia Ruskin University

 Unit of Assessment: 12 Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure

 The unit conducts influential research that advances healthcare, prosperity, and infrastructure
 design and resilience. Our research has evolved and developed significantly since the last
 assessment exercise, with alignment to university, UK and international strategic priorities,
 strengthening our focus on providing technological solutions. We have built the reputational
 foundation of an applied industry-relevant research unit, with a focus on sustainable and efficient
 engineering design and solutions, and responsibility for transferring knowledge and best practice
 to address societal challenges.

 The 15.6 FTE staff in the submitting unit are based in the Faculty of Science and Engineering
 across two schools - the School of Engineering and the Built Environment (EBE) and the School
 of Computing and Information Science (CIS), and manifests in two research clusters,
 Engineering Analysis and Computing Applications. The cross-cutting and permeable nature
 of our structure supports research performed across the following main areas: engineering
 analysis, simulation and tribology; medical engineering; electronics and telecommunications;
 applied computing, artificial intelligence and cybersecurity.

 The Engineering Analysis Cluster, led by Prof. Shirvani, focusses on the use of nonlinear finite
 element analysis to simulate and address a wide range of engineering phenomena and
 problems. Areas of work from this cluster include blast simulation and heat transfer,
 computational fluid dynamics, tribological simulation using genetic algorithms, non-contact
 surface temperature measurement and intelligent sensor protection against explosion, digital
 manufacturing, digital twins and product re-engineering (Shirvani, Butt, Mebrahtu, Asadi,
 Ramezanpour). Other prominent topics include state-of-the-art research in musculoskeletal,
 vascular diseases and medical devices (Martay, Hillstrom), rehabilitation support using gaming
 technology (Sadeghi) and electronic systems design for telecommunications (Yousef).

 The Computing Applications Cluster, led by Prof. Cirstea M., has a particular focus on how
 computational modelling, artificial intelligence (AI) methods and smart technologies can be used
 to improve people's lives and increase productivity. Particular themes within this cluster include:
 digital systems modelling and design methods (Cirstea M., Cirstea S., Zhang), applications of
 computing methods to vision and hearing science (van der Linde, Cirstea S, Maktab), assistive
 technologies, auditory displays and non-linear dynamics (Vicinanza, Cirstea S), semantic web
 and knowledge representation, distributed computing, cyber and information security, data
 platforms, deep learning, data analytics and optimization (Luca, Zarrin, Maktab, Vicinanza).

 The clusters are inter-related and reflect a collegiate research community of shared interests
 and goals, as shown in Figure 1.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                  Figure 1. Research areas and inter-relation of research clusters

 Development of the Research and Impact Strategy 2014-2021

 The unit has seen a substantial growth in research activity over the current REF period which
 has occurred as a direct result of decisions made following REF2014 where the feedback
 encouraged us to develop a more focussed research strategy which connected well to the
 university strategy. We have successfully achieved the main strategic aims for this period as
 described at the time of REF2014.

 Aim 1. Sustain overall growth of the unit in research outputs, research income, proportion of staff
 applying for funding and registered number of PGR students.

 The unit has doubled in size from 8 to 15.6 FTE in the REF cycle, through targeted strategic
 investment in new staff over the last 5 years. Of the 8 FTE submitted to REF 2014, all but two
 are also submitted to REF2021, evidencing the sustainability and cohesion of the submitting
 unit. Additional staff are at the early to mid-part of their careers, demonstrating our commitment
 to grow a new generation of researchers. Butt and Luca have been promoted to Reader and
 Principal Lecturer respectively (both retitled Associate Professor) and have gradually expanded
 their portfolio and leadership. The number of research outputs has grown from 100 in 2013 to
 approximately 200 in 2020. The research income has more than doubled from £1.4 million in the
 REF2014 period to £3.2 million in the REF2021 period and the proportion of staff applying for
 funding has increased from 70% to 100%. The number of PGR students has increased from 28
 in 2013 to 37 in 2020, with the number of completions growing from 24 to 34.

 Aim 2. Establish or further develop key relationships with stakeholders regionally, nationally and
 internationally, and focus our research towards providing innovative solutions that stakeholders
 could not achieve alone.

 The unit has developed strong relationships with stakeholders and has provided solutions to
 market focussed problems, evidenced by a number of major research projects. For example, in
 the FP7 project REVIVAL, Shirvani and Ramezanpour worked with international industry
 partners and other universities to validate a novel autonomous and reversible inflow control
 valve which prevented unwanted water and gas entering the oil production pipe, thereby

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 increasing significantly oil production efficiency and benefitting the oil industry. In a disaster
 management H2020 project, RECONASS, Shirvani collaborated in the development of a
 building health monitoring device to determine building safety and rehabilitation after an
 explosion, earthquake or fire. Propelair was an H2020 project in which Shirvani and
 Ramezanpour, working with a local SME, developed parts of a close-coupled toilet flush system
 capable of saving billions of litres of water. Cirstea S collaborated in the EU FP7 ECHO2ECO
 project which developed novel low-cost acoustic absorbers for public spaces and Hillstrom and
 Martay developed computational methods for surgical corrections of arthritic knees with Arthritis
 UK funding. Zhang has worked with partners at Cardiff University, UCL and the European Space
 Research and Technology Centre (ESTEC) to develop novel metamaterial components in the
 mm wavelength range for astronomical applications and THz communications, expected to lead
 to the production of many successful devices for on ground-based telescopes and for future
 satellite instruments. The research in the FPGA case study facilitated the commercialisation by
 Siemens AG of novel controllers for railway signalling through “system-on-chip” solutions, the
 commercial value to Siemens totals millions of pounds annually.

 A new direction of research initiated by Vicinanza applies data science and programming
 techniques to areas such as non-linear dynamics and biomechanics, in collaboration with
 University of Exeter, Auckland University of Technology and Cardiff Metropolitan University.
 Initial outcomes included a high impact paper in Scientific Reports. The clinical use of these new
 metrics led to another international collaboration with University Hospital Geneva.

 Auditory display and sonification research, led by Vicinanza in collaboration with NASA since
 2015, aims to create auditory displays based on space science for the general public, for
 example, a series of ringtones based on Mars weather simulation downloadable from the
 Pleiades Supercomputer.

 The unit has also collaborated on the UK-India Education and Research Initiative project
 (Yousef) and two Erasmus Mundus partnerships, SMARTLINK and FUSION (Cirstea S), which
 all aim to foster international cooperation between European HEIs and those in emerging Asian
 countries through the promotion of mobility at all levels of study.

 Aim 3. Enhance knowledge exchange, including increased use of Knowledge Transfer
 Partnership (KTP) and Knowledge Exchange Embed Partnership (KEEP) mechanisms.

 The unit has won a large number of knowledge exchange projects over the reporting period. The
 Faculty has employed a commercial manager and has been instrumental in the development of
 University’s central knowledge transfer team which now supports this activity and helps units to
 grow the knowledge transfer portfolio. The unit has engaged in 12 research projects and 41 (36
 KEEPs, 5 KTPs) knowledge exchange programmes with over 70 companies, almost trebling the
 income resulted from UK-, EU- and non-EU industry, commerce and public corporations from
 £298k to £777k. These projects enhance the business performance of collaborators and provide
 demonstrable impact. For example, a range of healthcare focussed knowledge transfer projects
 led by Luca, in partnership with Lane Data Solutions and AT Technology Services Ltd,
 transformed business systems through the enablement of secure mobile data access.

 The unit has engaged widely with initiatives that engender sustainability of the discipline and
 enhance international cooperation by facilitating transfer of knowledge and best practice in
 training the next generation of researchers. Shirvani, Mebrahtu and Butt have collaborated with
 partners from five EU countries in the Erasmus+ GIENHAS project which focusses on bringing
 HEIs and SMEs together by employing innovative methodologies for research and development
 that include industrial PhDs and setting up observatories for research. Butt and Mebrahtu
 collaborate with the Business School in the ERDF Growin-4.0 project which, working alongside
 SMEs, aims to improve skills and competencies to raise innovation levels through extensive
 networks that combine knowledge and new approaches.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Aim 4. Increase our bidding for international research funds, especially for Horizon 2020 calls,
 enabling collaboration with non-academic partners who will directly benefit through their
 participation.

 We have actively engaged in conversations with businesses and SMEs across EU and have
 worked with Ixion – a company providing bidding support to develop proposals for EU-funded
 calls. These efforts have resulted in eight large EU-funded projects, increasing more than six
 times the amount of income from European government bodies (Horizon2020, European Space
 Agency, ERDF) from £230k in the REF2014 period to £1,446,535.

 Aim 5. Promote and disseminate our research accomplishments by organizing research
 conferences and through media appearances.

 Members of the unit have chaired and hosted major conferences on industrial electronics and
 informatics and cyber-security (OWASP AppSec 2014, INDIN2015, ISIE2017) and have
 contributed to organising many other international conferences (IECON2018/19/20,
 ISIE2018/19, OPTIM2014/15/17/19/21). Our academics have made numerous media
 appearances on high profile outlets including BBC News/Radio 4, Naked Scientist, Discovery
 Channel, CNN. Vicinanza has a regular presence at NASA events and the Supercomputer fair in
 the USA, where he gave a guest plenary talk on converting Voyager data to music. He
 presented at the European Consortium for Supercomputing section on remote sensing in space
 research, Moon exploration and space weather, and organised and delivered four distributed
 concerts by pioneering the fastest audio-video link technology in the world, streaming a 4K video
 at 800 Mb/s, across the USA. For the last few years Vicinanza has been regularly invited to
 CERN, where he organised a hackathon, performed live music based on data generated by the
 Large Hadron Collider and was a speaker at the CERN Open Days in 2019, event attended by
 more than 70,000 people.

 The unit focusses strongly on translational research and knowledge exchange projects with over
 50 projects in total conducted with more than 70 companies/SMEs. For example, as part of the
 Government’s National Cyber Security Strategy, funding from Innovation to Commercialisation of
 University Research (ICURe), promoted our BotProbe, designed to extract from big data the
 data that matters in threat intelligence. The recently secured Cyber-Protect project sponsored by
 the Home Office, evaluates the most effective and impactful ways to motivate the long-term
 adoption of cyber-security measures amongst key stakeholders at risk of cyber-attack.

 The unit disseminates its research to end users and potential beneficiaries through presentation
 and publication with organisations such as IEEE (Cirstea, M.) and I MechE (Hillstrom).
 Beneficiaries of the research include the Sankara Nethralaya Eye Hospital and the Faculty of
 Low Vision Care, Elite School of Optometry, Chennai, India (Cirstea, S) and the Hospital for
 Special Surgery, New York (Hillstrom).

 Interdisciplinarity

 The essence of our work is application, particularly the application of engineering and
 computing, to a wide range of disciplines. It is therefore vital that we conduct interdisciplinary
 research in collaboration with colleagues from other faculties, institutions and industry. Much
 research is carried out in the ARU priority area of Medical Technology and Devices, including
 collaboration with the Medical Technology Research Group (MTRG, UoA3) and the Vision and
 Eye Research Institute (VERI, UoA3). This is exemplified by: the work of Martay and Hillstrom
 on medical devices for musculoskeletal and vascular applications; Hillstrom also led
 interdisciplinary research on biomechanics applied to orthopaedic surgery in collaboration with
 Essex hospitals and the New York Special Surgery Hospital; Hoque-Tania and Oghaz’s
 development of hand-held diagnostic devices, Cirstea, S. and van der Linde’s work on the
 psychophysics of visual impairment and its interplay with hearing; Sadeghi-Esfahlani’s use of
 virtual gaming for rehabilitation of patients.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Van der Linde, in collaboration with colleagues from Psychology (UoA4) and VERI, developed
 computer models to study the human visual system and neuropsychological testing, and Vicinanza
 collaborated with Sports Science (UoA24) on sonification in the training and rehabilitation of
 athletes. The Unit worked with the Policing Institute, Eastern Region (PIER, UoA21) and the
 Metropolitan Police High Tech Crime Unit on protection methods against cyber-attacks through
 increased data/internet security.

 Knowledge exchange activities exemplify some of our best interdisciplinary work. The Digital
 Health Care KTP carried out with AT Technology Services applied machine learning and data
 fusion algorithms to a business intelligence platform enhancing efficiency and productivity in
 patient health management. A KEEP+ project was conducted with Lane Data Solutions to
 develop an IT solution providing an instant messaging service for UK healthcare professionals.
 On other KTPs we worked with MG Electric to develop an AI-aided pump for laryngectomy
 patients and with Bertrandt Ltd and the Business School to develop an innovative
 Virtual/Augmented Reality capability to enable the company to widen its core expertise and
 create new services. The KEEP+ with Prime Accounting developed accounting software for the
 trading of perishable goods.

 As a result of these strong links through cross-faculty research projects, many interdisciplinary
 projects for doctoral candidates have emerged and are co-supervised across a variety of
 disciplines, including Medicine, Vision, Psychology, Built Environment, English Language and
 Literature.

 An Open Research Environment

 The unit satisfies REF open access requirements and has engaged with the university’s open
 access fund to publish over a third of our papers via the Gold Route and in online-only journals.
 Colleagues in the unit are expected to have an ORCID account, and an open research workshop
 was organised by van der Linde to enable colleagues to create ORCID, Research Gate and
 Publons accounts. Individually, 94% have LinkedIn and ResearchGate accounts and use
 university and personal media streams including Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram to
 promote their research. Code is shared on the public repository Open Science Framework.
 European Union funded projects are promoted through project web sites including REVIVAL,
 RECONASS, GIENAHS and Propelair. Unit members engage with Open Access requirements
 through ARU’s repository - ARRO - and with the Library Research Services Manager around
 issues of copyright.

 All members of the submitting unit of assessment subscribe to the Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity and have successfully completed the Epigeum Research Integrity (Concise)
 course. The unit’s research projects, including PGR projects, are reviewed at the appropriate
 level within the university ethics processes. Analysis of research results is peer-reviewed or
 duplicated by collaborators, and methods and findings are shared and debated internally in
 regular research seminars. Support for less experienced unit members is provided by the
 established members, and a peer review process (Cirstea, S., Cirstea, M., van der Linde,)
 critically appraises grant proposals prior to submission.

 Data protection is also a pre-requisite and all staff have received GDPR training and implement
 it in all of their research activities.

 Priorities over the next REF cycle

 Now that the Unit has established itself as a centre of excellence for applied engineering
 research, our focus over the next few years will be on achieving critical mass in areas where we
 can add most value in responding to societal and economic need. Reflecting on our
 development over the last five years, the key theme to emerge is AI and Engineering for
 Sustainability. This aligns well with the Four Grand Challenges identified by the UK Government
 and with regional industrial strengths in advanced engineering (Essex) and data science

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Cambridgeshire). We will focus on growing our existing teams and regional and international
 collaborations and seeking the highest-impact industry partnerships.


 Strategic Objectives

 To establish an international reputation in interdisciplinary research in AI and Engineering for
 Sustainability through strategic investment and growing critical mass.

 The extraordinary challenges of the climate emergency and ecological breakdown must become
 central to engineering, and sustainability will be the focus of engineering research at ARU. We
 will prioritise and pursue research projects which will investigate the environmental efficiency
 and sustainability of processes and products and their impact in space and time. We will use our
 expertise in engineering analysis, AI and big data to develop sustainable design, life cycle
 analysis, pollution prevention, energy efficiency and materials management. Sustainable
 engineering requires an interdisciplinary approach, which the structure of our unit exemplifies,
 and we will focus on adding value, working with businesses and designing products with societal
 benefits.

 We will continue to invest in medical engineering and, through collaboration with the Medical
 Technology Research Centre (MTRC), we will develop novel biomedical technology solutions
 and AI systems for healthcare.

 To act as a catalyst between regional industry strengths in data science and advanced
 Engineering to significantly increase knowledge exchange.

 Research activities will continue to be informed by and engaged with businesses, collaborators
 and stakeholders identified by the unit supported by the Research and Innovation Development
 Office (RIDO). Key stakeholders include AT Medics, CERN, NASA, Home Office, Teledyne E2v,
 ARM and Samsung. Growing such collaborations, and recruitment through targeted
 appointments will maximise the social, economic and cultural impact of our research. Aligned
 with the UK Government Industrial Strategy, research areas to be developed include
 sustainability, AI and Cybersecurity. Growth in relationships with key stakeholders will be
 achieved in a number of ways: continued engagement with repeat business derived through
 established relationships with collaborators; via engagement with umbrella networks such as
 Cambridge Cleantech, a network of over 300 organisations interested in clean technologies, and
 the Oxford-Cambridge ARC, supporting economic growth in the East of England; development
 of a new commercialisation pipeline working with our Partnership Development Manager.

 Leverage institutional and external investment for a new Advanced Engineering and AI for
 Sustainability Research and Development facility.

 The greatest value of our unit will be in fully realizing the synergies between engineering and
 computing, for example enabling interconnectivity between technologies in smart cities (e.g.
 vehicles and smart appliances). The unit is committed to additional strategic investment for staff
 and infrastructure supported by QR, institutional funds and investment from industry, to develop
 this area over the next REF period.

 In part, this aim will be achieved through involvement of the unit in the recently funded £16.47m
 Manufacturing and Materials Research and Development Centre which will be housed on our
 new Peterborough campus. The centre - a partnership with Cambridge and Peterborough
 Combined Authority and Photocentric - will drive the manufacture of materials that will help
 achieve a Net Zero economy. In parallel, we will seek further external investment to develop an
 Advanced Engineering and AI Research and Development Centre on our Chelmsford campus
 over the next five years. Collectively, the two centres will serve to provide materials,
 technological, and software solutions to support the green recovery, create jobs and train the
 next generation of engineers.

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Work towards achieving gender balance within the unit by 2027.

 Through initiatives such as the Women in Engineering programme, we aim to achieve gender
 balance by 2027 at all academic levels, from technicians to professors.

 Double our research income and activity over the next REF period by building upon existing
 strategic partnerships (e.g. CERN, NASA, AT Medics, ARM) to realise regular staff and student
 exchange programmes and research opportunities.

 New research business will also be sought through existing relationships which have been
 developed by other areas of university activity, for example Degrees at Work and Degree
 Apprenticeships and external speakers at seminar series. The number of staff members in the
 unit is expected to grow by 50% over this period, alongside a significant increase in affiliated and
 visiting staff.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 The unit’s staffing strategy, aligned with the university strategy ‘Designing our future 2017-2026’,
 stimulates research activity that enhances our profile, professional visibility and overall esteem in
 engineering analysis and applied computing.

 The research staffing strategy aims to attract, retain and reward staff who undertake competitive
 research and knowledge transfer activities aligned to the unit’s research themes. Implementing
 this staffing strategy has led to the unit’s doubling in size, from 8 FTE in 2014 to 15.6 FTE in
 2020. This growth has been achieved by investing strategically in the development of existing
 staff and in new permanent academic positions to support existing areas of strength
 (engineering modelling) and to develop others (AI, data science, cybersecurity). The SRR staff
 complement includes 2 research active professors, 7 readers/principal lecturers, 5 senior
 lecturers and 2 lecturers. Three of these are early career researchers (ECRs). Non-research
 lecturer practitioners (5.7 FTE) have been employed over this period to ensure that research
 time in the unit is protected. QR funding has also been invested strategically in 3 post-doctoral
 positions and in 7 PhD studentships.

 We have sought to develop a nurturing research culture where new staff are mentored and work
 with more experienced colleagues on larger research projects with external exposure. We also
 facilitate exchanges with academic, business and industry partners through various routes
 including honorary fellowships and academic visits. The research culture is enriched by 4 visiting
 Professors, including one sponsored by the Royal Academy of Engineering (S Kear), 3 Emeritus
 Professors and 4 honorary visiting research fellows. In the REF census period, the unit has
 hosted 4 visiting academics: Prof. Sergiu Dascalu, University of Nevada (November 2017), Dr. J.
 Zhou and Dr. L. Zong, both from Shaoyang University (August 2017), and Y. Zhan, Hubei
 University of Technology, China (March 2018).

 Starting with probation, and then at the yearly appraisal, every member of the unit reviews and
 defines their research plans in the strategic context for the upcoming year and the resources
 required. Research and external income generation are key criteria of the promotion scheme
 and approximately 50% of the unit’s academic staff have been promoted during the REF period.
 Research activities are also rewarded through faculty and university awards, such as: Dean's
 Award for External Income Generation (Shirvani, 2014), ARU Innovation and Knowledge
 Exchange Award (Shirvani, 2015), Dean's Award for External Profile Raising (Vicinanza, 2020).

 Research activities are allocated time resources formally through the Academic Work Balance
 Model. Established academics have a stepped research time allocation in their AWBM, which


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 increases in proportion with external income from research grants and may be up to 100% of
 their time in a given trimester.

 The recruitment and support of high calibre ECRs is a very important thread of our research
 staffing strategy. ECR time allocation is aligned to the ARU ECR Charter and amounts to a
 minimum of one day per week every trimester to develop research ideas, outputs and funding
 bids. They are supported by a research mentor either from the unit or the wider institutional
 community. Guaranteed funds (£2,000 over 5 years) are allocated to each ECR to support any
 aspect their research, including networking and community building, conference participation or
 equipment purchase. Additional support is provided for ECRs in output preparation and
 submission and bid writing.

 All members of the unit engage with the ARU Researcher Development Programme through
 their Individual Research Plan and Personal Development Plan revisited at appraisal. This
 programme includes face-to-face, online and external development opportunities. All academics
 have a mentor allocated on appointment and development support is available to all and
 includes funding for conference attendance and travel to enable collaborations and networking.
 All academic staff can apply for the university sabbatical scheme and 4 sabbaticals have been
 awarded through a competitive process, resulting in 1 PhD and 3 journal papers. Over the
 period, 5 academics benefitted from significantly reduced teaching load in one trimester so they
 could focus their research. The university organises writing retreats, with 5 unit staff attending in
 the REF period, resulting in a number of papers and funding bids. RIDO offers regular training
 and networking activities.

 Academics are encouraged to apply for external funding and are supported through proposal
 peer reviews by experienced colleagues and costing and risk assessment through the faculty
 Business Development Manager and RIDO. The faculty Projects Team ensures post-award
 project management support.

 All staff participate in regular research strategy days, where priorities, themes and milestones
 are discussed. Following training for new PGR supervisors, academics are included in PhD
 supervisory teams and in appropriate PGR monitoring processes. Staff also have competitive
 access to the Undergraduate Research Placement scheme, which allows them to employ an
 undergraduate student for up to eight weeks for research support. Members of the unit benefit
 from 3-4 such placements every year, some in co-supervision with other units.

 Where research leave is required in support of funded projects or other work, the leave is
 supported through the schools in which the submitting unit resides. The school “back fills” the
 post using project funds if allocated, QR funds or other revenue as required. In total 4 such
 periods have been taken resulting in the successful completion of a research project and
 development of a new funding bid. Leave in support of impact is also encouraged within the unit
 and QR or school funds are used to support it (travel, accommodation, data gathering).

 Research students

 The unit’s PGR community has increased from 28 (24 completions) in REF2014 to 37 in 2020
 with 34 completions during the census period. Since REF2014 the unit has awarded 10
 studentships, 7 funded internally and 3 sponsored through funded research (Erasmus Mundus
 programmes FUSION and SMARTLINK). Most PGRs are self-funded. All join projects which
 support strategically identified research areas ensuring a critical mass in each subject area and
 an excellent doctoral experience.

 Postgraduate research students are supported and monitored through a variety of mechanisms.
 Their primary point of contact is their supervisory team, comprising at least two supervisors. The
 research proposal, upgrade of candidature and annual monitoring processes are undertaken by
 senior researchers independent of the supervisory team and mock vivas are offered.
 Progression of the unit’s PGR candidates is directly monitored by the Faculty Director of

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Students and the Deputy Dean (R&I). PGRs benefit from dedicated school and faculty
 PhD offices with computers, kitchen and social space to encourage interdisciplinary exchanges
 of ideas and debates.

 There are a number of mechanisms for the support and integration of PGR students. In the
 census period, 4 PGR Graduate Teaching Assistants and 6 PGR Associate Lecturers have been
 appointed, giving the opportunity to develop teaching/communication skills and become part of a
 wider academic community.

 Research students are fully involved in the thriving research culture of the unit and have multiple
 opportunities to disseminate their work and develop presentation skills at a wide range of events,
 such as Annual Faculty and University PGR Conferences and internal research seminars and
 PGR Days. Within the unit, hosting schools are committed to fully support each PGR student to
 attend and present at one international conference during their studies and the Faculty offers
 writing retreats specifically for PGR students.

 We provide a rich and positive researcher development environment, where PGRs benefit from
 the mandatory Doctoral School training programme, as well as unit-specific development events,
 like the OWASP series of research talks and meetings with industry. PGRs are offered the
 opportunity to work with academic staff in organising conferences and running events (e.g.
 INDIN2015, OWASP series), and payment for administrative help is offered.

 As testament to the unit’s staff development during the assessment period 7 PGRs and 5 post-
 docs have gone on to take up academic posts at ARU and other national and international
 institutions, with the remainder going into a range of industry and other professional roles.
 Destination institutions include University of Oxford, UCL, and Royal Holloway University of
 London. One particular success saw a PhD graduate progress to an academic career with ARU
 from lecturer to reader, before continuing with a Professorship at New York University.

 Equality and diversity

 The unit is proudly diverse with members coming from all over the globe. 30% of the unit are
 women, comparing favourably with the sector-wide proportion of women in engineering
 occupation (12%) (Engineering UK Report, 2018). However, we continue to work to improve this
 and strategic objectives have been set to work towards gender balance by 2027.

 To support all the women in our Schools we have developed a Women in Engineering
 programme with dedicated mentoring and placement opportunities for students with companies
 such as Leonardo, GSK and Network Rail.

 In addition to the institution becoming a member of Athena SWAN in 2012, and achieving a
 renewed institutional Bronze Award in October 2018, members of the submitting unit contributed
 to the successful Bronze Award achieved by the Faculty of Science and Engineering in 2019
 (Cirstea S, Luca).

 The unit is actively engaged with embedding our university’s Valuing Diversity and Promoting
 Equality Statement through staff recruitment, support and training. Advertisements for posts are
 written to draw in as wide an applicant pool as possible and have been amended in the light of
 the Athena Swan institutional Bronze Award. Amendments include removing the need for travel
 which may preclude those with caring responsibilities from applying.

 Career progression for members of the submitting unit, whether full-time, part-time or fixed-term,
 is essentially identical. Roles are subject to a rigorous grading process through the Human
 Resources team to ensure equity and transparency. The appraisal process is compulsory for all
 staff and all can seek regrading through the HR processes.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To engender an inclusive environment that welcomes staff with young families or other caring
 responsibilities, the unit is increasingly adopting “agile” and flexible working to accommodate
 family routines. Internal conferences and seminars are scheduled at child friendly hours and in
 accessible buildings or online. Staff on maternity leave (1 in current REF period) have been
 supported through the Keep In Touch days and an institutional £4,000 fund to ramp up their
 research upon return is available.

 Everyone in the submitted unit must undertake equality and diversity training and comply with
 our Valuing Diversity and Promoting Equality Statement. We ensure that research meetings and
 events are not scheduled at times of spiritual relevance for colleagues (e.g. Friday lunchtime).

 Staff wellbeing is a priority of the unit and the institution is a Mindful Employer meaning we offer
 information and support to staff experiencing stress, anxiety, depression or other mental health
 conditions. Members of staff (2) and PhD students (1) who experienced mental health issues
 have been supported through phased return to work and close support from their line
 manager/supervisor. The unit takes special care to ensure equal access to infrastructure to
 colleagues with physical (1) or mental health needs such as provision around the workstation
 and a buddy system.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding and strategies for generating research income

 Since 2014 the unit has attracted research funding from diverse sources, ranging from small
 grants to multi-million-pound programmes, to the value of £3.2m. This approach has helped
 reduce the risk of dependence on any one type of funder and has enabled all members of the
 unit to play their part. ECR researchers have engaged with the Faculty “escalator programme”
 where funding application skills are developed (Maktab, Zarrin). The unit seeks funding for a
 wide range of innovation voucher, knowledge transfer and exchange programmes, which
 facilitates the development of strategically important engagement with businesses, industry and
 the users of research directly leading to impact (e.g. Glazing Vision, SeeClear, Calex
 Electronics, i-Dash, AT Technology Services, TR Control Solutions). The unit also actively seeks
 out larger grants and has been particularly successful in EU programmes where our expertise
 can be brought to bear. Examples include REVIVAL, an FP7 project with an EU contribution
 1.158M Euro which is the subject of one of the case studies for this submission, and the Horizon
 2020 projects RECONASS, EU contribution 4.26M Euro, and Propelair, EU contribution 1.3M
 Euro. To broaden the research base, funding for exchange programmes has been won from UK-
 IERI (Yousef) and the EU: Erasmus+ (GIENAHS), Erasmus Mundus (FUSION, SMARTLINK)
 and an Erasmus exchange programme with the National Technical University of Athens (Asadi).

 Going forward, the unit will build upon this success by developing “strategic compacts” with blue
 chip multinational organisations to grow the significance, reach and impact of its research. We
 will strengthen our links with CERN using their summer placement programme as a vehicle for
 developing research partnership opportunities. More broadly, we will continue to diversify
 income streams via an increasing emphasis on the application of AI and Engineering
 approaches to areas such as the developing world (e.g. GCRF), prosperity (e.g. Innovate UK)
 and healthcare (e.g. NIHR), seeking partnerships with major players such as Samsung AI,
 Nvidia.

 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

 In the second half of the current REF cycle (2018), the unit took possession of new laboratories
 within the ARU Science Centre on the central Cambridge Campus. This £45M facility, developed
 with strategic input from the unit, allows academic and research staff and students to come
 together in one central location, facilitating cohesion and further critical mass. State of the art
 accommodation includes an electronics laboratory, an internet of things laboratory and a
 cybersecurity laboratory. These latter enable, for the first time, dedicated attention to areas of

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development which will be central to the growth of the unit going forward. The Electronics
 laboratory includes a range of Electronic Design Automation packages,
 FPGA/DSP/Microprocessor boards, embedded system boards, simulation software, an optical
 3D scanner, electrical machines and drives test bed, solar panels, renewable energy converters
 and a small wind turbine. These facilities allowed, for the first time, collaboration with companies
 such as the leading IP technology provider ARM. Additionally, a psychophysics and
 electrophysiology laboratory (including eye tracking and EEG equipment) allows unit members
 to conduct interdisciplinary research on brain computer interfaces and usability testing with
 ARU’s Vision and Eye Research Institute and School of Psychology and Sports Science.

 On the Chelmsford campus, a wide range of equipment relevant to medical engineering is
 available, including mechanical testing equipment (Instron 8874, Bose ElectroForce
 Biodynamic), force and pressure measurement devices (AMTI, emed-x, Pedar) and a movement
 analysis system (Vicon). The simulation and testing facilities enable the evaluation and
 improvement of different surgical practices, implant designs and rehabilitation and treatment
 methods for different pathologies (joint disease, venous ulcers, gait abnormalities). The
 engineering analysis team benefits from laboratories supporting mechanical and electronic
 engineering with industry-standard software for design, finite element analysis and
 computational fluid dynamics, low flow rate atomizers, a tensile testing machine, a scanning
 electron microscope and rapid prototyping facilities. Modelling is central to the projects of the
 unit - facilities available include computational modelling and simulation packages (Abaqus,
 ANSYS, MIMICS, CATIA, OPNET, HYPERWORKS, LS-DYNA, PAMCRASH) used for research
 related to vehicle structure and impact barriers during crash tests.

 Infrastructure, facilities and expertise are utilised in relation to impact in a number of ways.
 Research expertise is used to support translational research and knowledge exchange.
 Companies assisted through such knowledge transfer projects include Lane Data Solutions Ltd
 (Luca), whose business systems were transformed through secure mobile data access,
 increasing operational efficiency and sustainability, or Eclipse Veterinary Ltd. (Luca) who
 achieved similar mobile and web-based solutions applied to the veterinary domain,
 demonstrating the cross-discipline nature of such applications.

 Two KEEP projects with Glazing Vision (Luca) led to a real-time web-based software platform,
 replacing company’s carbon-heavy sales and costing system. The result was an environmentally
 friendly, digital platform that can be utilised by sales staff away from office to generate
 quotations using a portable device. The company has recently expanded internationally, and the
 software supports all their product pricing and configuration requirements, removing the need to
 contact UK offices. The integrated real-time nature of the application has reduced its carbon
 footprint by saving on multiple commutes to the office and on printing.

 A current project with AT Technology Services Ltd. (Luca) applies AI, particularly machine
 learning, fusion and optimisation algorithms, to existing business intelligence data to enhance
 efficiency and productivity in patient health management and to detect critical health trends.

 The impact for the beneficiaries is often of such significance that they return for further research
 support: i-Dash (data centre solutions), Calex Electronics (smart sensor based embedded
 control solutions), Glazing Vision (business systems), SeeClear.

 Collaborative and cross HEI use of infrastructure is core to the research of the unit and has
 been enabled by international programmes. For example, Yousef, working with the Indian
 Institute of Information Technology and Management (IIITM) in Gwalior, India, led a UK-IERI
 funded project on development of Mobile Ad-Hoc networks (MANET) where hardware and
 software facilities were shared, while academics and PGRs undertook exchanges of up to three
 months. Further, Yousef co-supervised a Newton-Babha funded student with IIITM on usability
 of smartphone touchscreens for blind users.



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Work on the Erasmus+ project GIENAHS (Grasping Innovation in Europe through a closer
 iNterAction between HEIs and SMEs), brings together HEIs and SMEs, who share facilities and
 boost research through innovative methods such as industrial PhDs and observatories for
 research. An Erasmus agreement with the National Technical University of Athens (NTUA),
 2018, facilitated three staff mobilities and two PhD co-supervisions. Asadi used NTUA’s crash
 test facilities for experiments, which generated joint publications.

 Future development of strategic compacts will facilitate growth in collaborative use of
 infrastructure. We are developing a strategic compact with TWI Ltd, a world leading research
 and technology organisation, also involving the Faculty of Business and Law. Working with TWI
 will enable access for TWI to our research specialists, and our access to TWI’s National
 Structural Integrity Research Centre, and further global facilities through TWI member
 organisations.

 Arrangements around benefits in kind are fully supported by the unit. For example, the unit
 supported the relationship between Hillstrom and the Hospital for Special Surgery (HSS) in New
 York – a leading USA hospital for orthopaedic surgery. HSS provided data sets for medical
 engineering modelling and hosted Hillstrom to model surgeries on cadavers. Vicinanza uses
 NASA space exploration data and supercomputing facilities at NASA and CERN for sonification
 research.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships, and engagement with stakeholders

 As set out in the REF2014 objectives, the unit has strategically established ‘key relationships
 with stakeholders regionally, nationally and internationally’ in order to ‘focus our research
 towards providing innovative solutions that stakeholders could not achieve alone’ and has further
 developed ‘existing partnerships, to ensure maximum benefit for all parties’.

 Much of the research undertaken includes external partners as co-authors/collaborators from
 universities, public institutions and businesses worldwide. These strategic collaborations help
 maximize our research outputs from our relatively small research base, through involvement in
 more projects and reaching extended equipment, facilities and information. Such collaborations
 were supported through hosting visiting academics (Prof S Dascalu, Prof E Monmasson, Dr Y
 Zhan) and PhD students (R Etz, T Patarau) or joint PhD supervisions with other universities
 (Imperial College, Urmia University (Iran), University of Sheffield) or companies (Jaguar
 Landrover, LMK Thermosafe).

 The unit engages with and contributes to relevant professional organisations: international
 (IEEE, IET, Audio Engineering Society, OWASP, European Simulation Society - EUROSIS),
 national (BCS, IMechE, IISP, (ISC)2) and local (Cambridge Wireless, Cambridge Network), for
 disseminating research outputs, forging collaboration and raising profile. Thus, we maintain
 currency with technological developments, reach relevant funding opportunities, and develop
 aspirational industrial or academic collaborations at the highest level of relevance, visibility and
 impact. Our staff coordinated 3 major conferences: IEEE International Conference on Industrial
 Informatics INDIN2015 (260 delegates from 45 countries, co-chaired by Cirstea M); IEEE
 International Symposium on Industrial Electronics ISIE2017 (Cirstea M general co-chair);
 OWASP AppSec Europe (2014) (ARU host/organiser).

 The unit organises monthly OWASP cybersecurity events (Cambridge campus) attracting 100-
 200 participants, including contributions from industry, BCS Special Interest Group on
 Cybercrime Forensics, IISP and (ISC)2. We also hosted British Computer Society seminars
 (Cambridge, Chelmsford). Cirstea S. organised periodic IET talks in Cambridge, and Campbell
 served as Chapter head for Audio Engineering Society, Cambridge Section, organising regular
 events. Mebrahtu organised regular events as a member of the IET Essex Committee.


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ramezanpour organised engineering seminars as vice-chairman of the South Essex IMechE
 committee.

 Research collaboration within the framework of large EU/international projects (RECONASS,
 REVIVAL, Echo2eco, FUSION, SMARTLINK) led to over 10 publications and 4 exchanges of
 research students. These projects also produced a US patent and an EU patent application,
 both developed by S Cirstea; Shirvani had two UK patents approved and seven design rights.

 Staff have engaged actively with industrial partners in over 40 knowledge exchange projects,
 delivering the innovation agenda of businesses and of funding bodies such as ERDF, Innovate
 UK and local authorities. The projects have enhanced the unit’s research culture through internal
 research talks and engagement of postgraduates. Several projects generated repeat business (i-
 Dash, Glazing Vision, Calex Electronics, LMK Thermosafe, Propelair/Phoenix, SeeClear),
 consolidating benefit and widening impact.

 Contribution to the economy

 Our contributions to the economy and society are demonstrated through multiple industrial and
 interdisciplinary collaborations under three themes: medical and healthcare applications,
 sustainability technologies, and cybersecurity.

 In healthcare, we have conducted projects to develop technological platforms for health and
 disease self-managing using mobile technology, with a focus on cardiovascular disease and
 hypertension. As part of a KEEP+ project we developed a secure social networking app for
 health professionals and through a KTP we developed a data analytics framework for
 preventative medicine in GP practices.

 Innovate UK has funded sustainable technology projects where members of the unit have
 designed a low-cost modular solar power system using Total Internal Photonic Absorption
 (TIPA). Other Innovate UK projects focussed on the development of an adaptive learning
 framework to enable reduction of defects in buildings and developed a real-time weather
 prediction app to enable cycling and walking trips around Peterborough. Other sustainability
 projects include a KEEP which developed low-energy domestic power systems whilst a further
 KEEP addressed the optimisation of maps for smartphones.

 In cybersecurity, a collaborative project with the Department for Work and Pensions for the
 detection of botnets contributed to eCentre (Cybercrime Centre for Excellence Network for
 Training Research and Education) and in the development of cybercrime guidance for the
 Metropolitan police. The Botprobe project has developed a new technique that significantly
 reduces the volume of traffic to be analysed in botnet threat detection systems and the Innovate
 UK Risk2click project developed a plugin to reduce risk and empower internet users.

 Public engagement

 Public engagement supports our mission to ‘apply our collective and individual creativity to
 conceive and develop new ideas, implementing them for the benefit of the communities we
 serve'. Members of the unit strive to bring the results of our work closer to the community and
 demonstrate the wider benefits and societal relevance. Our staff have engaged with the Science
 Festival (Chelmsford and Cambridge) and Science Week (Cambridge), offering talks and
 demonstrations on subjects such as applications of sonification to space exploration data, smart
 devices, testing AI algorithms and games for safe cycling training. These bring science and
 engineering closer to the local community aiming to inspire youngsters towards STEM careers.
 Hillstrom gave a TEDx talk (Aachen University, 2018) on the application of engineering
 principles to resolve medical problems, primarily in osteoarthritis. RECONASS project outcomes
 (on post-disaster construction recovery planning) were widely disseminated via social media and
 three end-user group workshops (more than 100 organisations). Butt's research featured in


                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Metal Working World Magazine (2016). Martay published biomechanical resources on forums
 including Biomech-L and http://www.articlesbyaphysicist.com.

 Vicinanza presents regularly at NASA and CERN Open Days (2019 audience reached 70,000)
 and conferences with his work on sonification, including of Voyager spacecraft magnetometer
 and plasma detector, Earth CO2 monitoring, Mars surface sonification. As National Coordinator
 for the UK for the ‘Scientists for a Day’ programme, Vicinanza organises and delivers activities at
 NASA and CERN annually (https://cds.cern.ch/record/2286501). He organised talks and
 demonstrations at Supercomputing2019 and PRACE (Consortium for Supercomputing in
 Europe), where he talked about remote sensing in space research, Moon exploration and space
 weather. Vicinanza also leads an interdisciplinary project, “Yellowstone’s Geyser Music” which
 joins technology and art to create music from scientific measurements, to explore and
 communicate to a wide audience the unique Yellowstone’s geothermal features (eventually to
 become public exhibition at the Natural History Museum in London). Another public engagement
 of Vicinanza showcases the digital reconstruction of the epigonion (antique harp) he realised
 using mathematical modelling - exhibition on Science in Ancient Greece hosted by the London
 Science Museum. This digital reconstruction has already been used by musicians of the
 Conservatories of Music of Salerno and Parma in concerts and featured in classical music CDs.

 The unit has benefitted from press attention and has engaged with the public through topical
 interviews with: BBC News/Look East, CNN, Discovery Channel, BBC Radio 4, BBC Radio
 Cambridgeshire, national daily papers and international magazines. The EU-funded project
 RECONASS featured on the breaking evening news of TV4 channel in Sweden after the
 successful pilot test.

 Contribution to sustainability of the discipline

 Our staff make significant contributions to discipline sustainability, supported by the schools
 through co-funding, project management and time allocation. Unit members gave plenary
 tutorials to IEEE conferences (M Cirstea – IECON2019) and keynote presentations (Butt -
 International Conference on Open Source Systems and Technologies 2019, Essex 3D Printing
 week organised by the Knowledge Transfer Network) and published a high number of journal
 and conference papers, responding to national and international priorities.

 We have contributed to the development of researchers through two large Erasmus Mundus
 projects (FUSION, SMARTLINK) and an international programme funded by UK IERI and
 Newton Fund that allowed academic exchanges with Asian institutions. We have engaged with
 the UK and EU agenda on reducing the carbon footprint of businesses through our contribution
 to over 30 Low Carbon KEEP projects, while supporting small and medium size enterprises to
 become sustainable through digital innovation (major UK/EU priority). The Erasmus+ project
 GIENAHS and ERDF’s Growin-4 both contribute significantly to the discipline.

 Zhang is part of a collaboration with Cardiff University, UCL, Mullard Space Laboratory and
 Stockholm University, responding to the European Space Agency (ESA) priorities on the next
 generation of instrumentation for space exploration. ESA awarded 600k Euro to the project to
 demonstrate the performance of large low‐loss anti‐reflection‐coated lenses for refractive
 telescope optics at cryogenic temperatures.

 Staff have disseminated their work in high calibre journals such as: Frontiers, Scientific Reports,
 IEEE Transactions in Industrial Informatics/Electronics, IEEE Transactions in Antennas and
 Propagation, Expert Systems and Applications, Optics Express. Two papers featured on the
 issue front covers (Hillstrom, Journal of Orthopaedic Research, 2019; Butt, Journal of Designs,
 2020) and one book chapter was selected in Top 10 Contributions on Bioinformatics & Systems
 Biology (2018). A third of our papers are published via “Gold route” open access making use of
 over £15k of the University’s open access fund.



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff are active members of Editorial Boards for leading journals. Cirstea M is Associate Editor of
 the IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics and was Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions
 on Industrial Electronics. Van der Linde is on the Associate Editor Board of Quantitative
 Psychology and Measurement (specialty sections: Frontiers in Applied Mathematics and
 Statistics, Frontiers in Psychology), and on the Editorial Board for Paladyn: Journal of Behavioral
 Robotics. Shirvani is member of the Journal of Bioengineering & Biomedical Science’s editorial
 board. Butt was Guest Editor for Applied Sciences for the Special Issue "Current Topics in
 Process Systems Engineering’. Hillstrom was invited Guest Editor for “Journal of Functional
 Biomaterials”. Yousef is associate member of the Editorial Board of the International Journal of
 Systems Assurance Engineering and Management. All unit members are active reviewers for
 many journals (Scientific Reports, Neurocomputing, IEEE Transactions on Industrial
 Informatics/Electronics, Proceedings of IMechE, Optics Express, IEEE Access). Butt received
 the 'Top Reviewer Award' for being the third most prolific peer reviewer on Publons for the
 Journal of Materials (2017).

 Our significant contribution to the research base is also demonstrated through our staff
 membership of grant review panels and pools of reviewers, such as: Italian Ministry of University
 Education and Research programme PRIN2017 (Cirstea S); The Croatian Science Foundation
 (HRZZ) (Cirstea S); Netherland’s Organisation for Scientific Research NWO VIDI funding
 programme (Cirstea S); Technology Agency of the Czech Republic (Butt); Newton Fund (Luca,
 Ramezanpour). Cirstea M was a referee in the engineering assessment panel for Aalto
 University Research Art and Impact Assessment RAI2018 (Finland). Shirvani is member of the
 advisory boards of the Engineering Department at Urmia University (Iran) and at Nottingham
 Trent University Business School.

 Staff have received recognition for their professional standing. Cirstea M became Doctor Honoris
 Causa and Zhang and Sadeghi both achieved Chartered Engineer status. Most staff are fellows
 or senior fellows of the Higher Education Academy.




                                                                                            Page 15
