Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Coventry University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA12 Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Overview

Coventry University’s Engineering submission is the result of massive institutional investment in
research since REF2014, from which Engineering has been a major beneficiary. The investment
has allowed an increase in the submission size of nearly four times, to 120.4 FTE. It has helped
us develop into a focused and ambitious research unit that has delivered increased research
income, publications, PhD numbers, and delivered significant impact through our collaborative
and externally-facing approach.

We are returning 127 staff (headcount): 29 professors; 20 associate professors, 51 assistant
professors, 25 lecturers (Grade 7), and two assistant lecturers. Our staffing is therefore well-
balanced between early-career, mid-career, and experienced, world-class researchers. 94
staff in this submission have joined the Institution in the current REF period.

The Unit’s research spans the Engineering disciplines, from materials engineering, fluid
dynamics, cyber-physical systems, data verification and security, and bio-enhanced engineering,
to transport design and control systems, energy storage, vehicle electrification, construction, and
applications of artificial intelligence. The breadth of our research themes has increased significantly
since REF2014. A strength of the Unit is its foundation on Coventry’s expertise in research at the
nexus between fundamental engineering and applied research. Our Engineering research is
carried out collaboratively and at scale through a suite of new partnerships and Institutes such as
the Centre for Advanced Manufacturing and Engineering (AME), the Centre for Connected and
Autonomous Automotive Research (CCAAR), and the Centre for Applied Low-Carbon Propulsion
Systems (C-ALPS) – as well as through the numerous embedded connections with partners from
industry and other third-sector institutions which are initiated and maintained by individuals and
groups within the Unit, including with TWI and TÜV-SÜD NEL.

The vision for Engineering research at Coventry is to:
   • identify key scientific (local and global) challenges to which we can contribute and deliver
       economic, societal, and policy impact.
   • make world-leading contributions in our areas of Engineering expertise.
   • develop tools and methods that can solve critical engineering problems, in an inter- and
       trans-disciplinary way, with our stakeholders and beneficiaries.
   • apply our innovations in real-world settings and translate high-quality science and
       knowledge to the users and beneficiaries of our research.
   • ensure that our research focuses on improving the lives and experiences of people and is
       fully aligned with Coventry’s mission of “Creating Better Futures”.
   • evaluate our impact and open new lines of enquiry for co-creation of future technologies
       with our stakeholders.

In driving our research, we foster a supportive culture and a firm commitment to continuously
develop all our staff and research students so that all our engineers achieve their potential.
                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The Unit’s research interests span the following cross-cutting and overlapping themes:
   • Theme 1: Computer Science and Statistical Methods for Engineering applications:
      advanced artificial intelligence and data science methods applied to cyber-physical
      systems, Internet of Things (IoT), industrial systems, autonomous vehicles, and non-
      intrusive health monitoring.
   • Theme 2: Future Mobility: Future mobility concepts; design practice; human factors;
      design ergonomics; connected and automated mobility; systems security and 5G; transport
      safety; system modelling and simulation.
   • Theme 3: E-Mobility: Energy storage; electronics; motors and drives; systems integration;
      hydrogen.
   • Theme 4: Manufacturing and Materials: Digital and industry 4.0, metrology; advanced
      manufacturing processes; intelligent and adaptive systems; people-centred productivity;
      sustainable manufacturing; manufacturing business models; functional materials; structural
      integrity; mechanical properties; modelling and predictive methods.
   • Theme 5: Fluid Mechanics and Flow Measurement: Optimisation of thermo-fluid
      processes; multiscale modelling of reactive and multiphase fluids and systems; modelling of
      respiratory air flows; modelling of carbon capture and storage processes; diagnosis and
      control of industrial flows; multiphase flow in oil and gas systems.
   • Theme 6: Low-carbon Building Materials and Advanced Technologies for Energy
      Supply and Use Reduction: Use of natural materials in construction; technologies for
      carbon capture; materials and technologies for on-building energy generation; modelling of
      energy use for optimisation and minimisation of carbon footprint.

The Unit’s submission draws from seven of the University’s Research Centres – all newly
established since the last REF submission. Four of the research centres are led directly from
within this Unit and are central to the submission, and there are strong inter-disciplinary links
with the other centres. The research capacity of the Centres that are at the core of this
submission, at census date (inclusive of Post-Doctoral Research Assistants and research
students), was as follows:

   •   The Institute for Future Transport and Cities (IFTC) (Themes 2, 3, 4, 6); 131 strong, with
       26 professors and 105 early and mid-career researchers. This is the University’s largest
       research centre. The Centre aims to tackle the fundamental issues that challenge the
       development of new technologies for transport, energy, manufacturing, and their supply
       chains. It delivers the Engineering science needed for the transition to hydrogen-powered
       vehicles, using novel battery technologies, developing new structural and manufacturing
       concepts for automotive and aerospace systems, and operating in a connected
       environment that is secure from cyber-attack.

   •   The Centre for Data Science (CDS) (Theme 1); 20 strong, with five professors and 15
       early and mid-career researchers (two staff from this Centre are returned in UoA3 Allied
       Health and one staff member to UoA10 Mathematical Sciences). Research in CDS
       drives step changing solutions for real-life, complex problems in industry, society, and
       nature. With impending threats from climate, pandemics, or civilisation collapse on the
       global scale, prediction is in the spotlight as never before. Analyse, simulate, and
       predict: these scientific strands are at the core of the mission carried out by CDS by
       harnessing data and computational sciences to create cutting-edge mathematical,

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       computational, and statistical models. The methods developed by the centre’s researchers
       find applications in very diverse areas such as flow characterisation, prediction and
       measurement, equipment condition monitoring, health data analysis, disease and climate
       modelling, industrial and socio-technical cyber-physical systems, phase transitions and
       critical phenomena, and digital humanities.

   •   The Fluids and Complex Systems Research Centre (Theme 5): 31 strong, with five
       professors and 26 early and mid-career researchers (16 staff returned in UoA10 and 10
       staff in UoA12). With core themes of flow measurement and the Engineering applications of
       fluid mechanics, the Centre gathers physicists, experimental fluid dynamicists, and
       numerical modellers who combine expertise to identify, understand, and optimise
       fundamental problems in industrial and natural processes.

   •   The Built and Natural Environment Research Centre (Theme 6): 17 strong, with five
       professors and 12 early and mid-career researchers. Initially established as the Centre
       for Low-Carbon Buildings, the Centre hosts research that covers building materials and
       structures, sustainable buildings, and systems aimed at addressing drivers of sustainability
       and climate change.

Research vision and leadership is provided by Centre Directors. Theme leads within the Centres
are responsible for strategy development and provide thought leadership to their research teams,
working with centralised support services and communities of practice in operations delivery and
management, project support, impact, and training and development. Each of our research themes
has developed its own working strategy, aligning with the University Research Strategy. This
allows us to emphasise theme-specific skills and capabilities, plans for resource development, and
shape routes to achieve common KPIs, with regular overall progress review by research centres’
management.

1.2 Major achievements

With a strategic investment in 51 new core research staff and 43 research associates in our
centres, a significant growth in the Unit’s post-graduate community (from 46 completions over the
entire period of REF 2014 (General Engineering), to an active cohort of 181 at census date for this
REF), and a research income of over £37M, the Unit is delivering a large and diverse submission.

As a consequence of Coventry’s research and impact strategy, the Unit reports a step change in
our research intensity, volume, and thematic diversity, as well as significant developments in our
research infrastructure, research governance, staff support, and alignment of our research with
societal and Engineering challenges, globally and locally.

We present a vibrant, young Unit with state-of-the-art research infrastructure. The Unit has
benefited from over £70M infrastructure investment – all devised and delivered to the research
base in the past 6 years. The strategic infrastructure is designed to enable us to scale-up even
further from the current outstanding Engineering research activity by 2030: growing from the
present delivery base, to further the reach, volume, and impact of our research.

The Unit has a profile for innovation in the Engineering disciplines as well as at the interface
between Engineering and Computer Sciences, and more broadly intra- and trans-disciplinary

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research. An example is our participation in the EU NOMAD project for non-destructive evaluation
of damage in nuclear power-plant materials, where artificial intelligence techniques are being
applied to inform a materials integrity problem. Another example is the technical leadership we
provide in the EU DOMUS project, which aims to radically change the way in which vehicle
passenger compartments and their respective comfort control systems are designed, so as to
optimise energy use and efficiency while keeping user comfort and safety needs central. To
achieve this, the Unit’s Machine Learning (and Reinforcement Learning in particular) innovations
are core to cabin simulation strategies, thermal modelling, and HVAC control.

In the scoping of their research, our staff promote the conversation between basic Engineering and
its applications to real-life, complex problems, with the support of our research delivery partners:
industry, charities, governmental and non-governmental organisations, society and the public at
large. Our research is thus impactful and robustly anchored in well-specified problems of relevance
to the UK’s economy and our society. We evidence this through the range of Impact Case Studies
we submit, many of which have arisen from research undertaken solely within the current REF
period, indicating the close relationship between our research and its application domains.

Over the REF period, we encouraged and supported our researchers to grow new collaborations
internally and externally, with colleagues from neighbouring disciplines, and those with deep
understanding of the problem domains we are exploring. We sponsor staff, and early-career
researchers (ECRs) in particular, through travel grants, and recognise within our research culture
the value of real-life research, as well as the difficulties of cross-domain and cross-sectorial work.

We enabled researchers to spend time based in the facilities and research teams of our industrial
partners and academic collaborators through both providing them with time and via co-location.
Indeed, as described later, we initiated new research centres with new buildings and infrastructure
where our researchers work alongside their industry counterparts (see Sections 3 and 4), and
where we have been focussed on placing our researchers in the best location to deliver our
research: for example, on the sites of partners such as Unipart Manufacturing, HORIBA MIRA,
NEL, and TWI. We believe this leads to relevant and impactful discoveries that will be adopted in
the practice context. Our strategic partnerships presented in Section 4 support us to deliver
research excellence with impact in materials science, advanced manufacturing, fluid mechanics,
design and future transport, and powertrain technologies for low-carbon vehicles (evidenced in
many of our Impact Case Studies). Furthermore, our collaboration portfolio extends to
organisations that help us bring society, local economy, and global challenges into our research
focus; we work with governmental and international bodies, NGOs, and standards organisations to
root our research in well-specified problems.

The Unit’s growth has been the outcome of strategic, sustained investment, backed by a robust
recruitment strategy (elaborated on in Section 2) that focused on securing thought leaders for the
strategic research themes on the one hand and recruitment of ECRs on the other. To this effect,
we recruited 76 ECRs/MCRs (mid-career researchers) and 18 professors into the Unit in the REF
period, to bring critical mass to our key research themes. We invested in the development of our
staff, raising capability for the ECRs and promoting them appropriately, and supporting MCRs on
their journey to professorship.

The step changes undertaken in all aspects of the Unit over the REF period, alongside the
sustained commitment to developing our research infrastructure and our strategic long-term

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
collaborations, means that we are yet to see the full impact of our strategy, but we proudly describe
here a unique story of investment, growth, and success that has been driven by firm Institutional
commitment and the creation of a high-performing research culture built on quality, collaboration,
and impact.

1.3 Research Position relative to REF2014

For the Engineering research areas, Coventry’s Research Strategy has enabled the Unit to be
much more ambitious than the plans detailed in REF2014, providing us with investment, in staff
and infrastructure, to increase the scale and reach of the University’s aspirations while building on
the University’s existing expertise in transportation, manufacturing, fluid mechanics, and data
science.

In REF2014, the University submitted 18.7 FTE to General Engineering and 13 FTE to Computer
Science. This has increased by nearly four times, to 120.4 FTE (127 staff), in this single UoA12
REF2021 submission. All of the researchers returned in the present submission are members of
one of the Research Centres listed previously, and have significant responsibility for research.
This growth in the research staff base has led to growth across all research KPIs. Our research
delivery has been building throughout the seven-year period of the REF and continues to grow as
our 2014 Research “Excellence with Impact” strategy fully bears fruit. The Unit’s commitment has
been to: consolidate and develop a world-leading research profile in some of the pre-2014 areas
and many new ones; develop researchers at all stages of their career, especially ECRs; champion
partnerships with experts across disciplinary boundaries and in collaboration with institutions and
organisations worldwide; generate significant grant income; and produce a diverse range of
outputs.

Some of our achievements are listed below and supporting detail follows in Sections 2-4.

   1. There has been a rise in the quality of our research as evidenced by the number of papers
      in the top 25% of journals by SNIP (subject-normalised impact per paper) from 34.9% to
      64.3% from 2009 to 2019 (source: SciVal).
   2. The Unit delivered across a portfolio of 370 grants (value to Coventry of £54.8M) during
      the REF period, of which 290 (value to Coventry of £41.2M) were awarded in the REF
      period.
   3. The Unit has been directly funded by 49 industrial funders over the period, including
      Jaguar Land Rover, Airbus Group, FEV, HORIBA MIRA, to a total of £5.5M.
   4. We engage with a diverse and prestigious range of funders including intergovernmental
      and charitable bodies such as NATO, the US Air Force European Office of Research and
      Development, Lloyds’ Register Foundation, the Royal Society, British Council, and the
      Royal Academy of Engineering.
   5. Our £70M investment has enabled the Unit’s researchers and Post Graduate Researchers
      (PGRs) to deliver our varied research portfolio sponsored by national and international
      funders.
   6. Our impact has been realised with national and international companies and organisations
      including General Electric, the US Air Force, BAE Systems, Jaguar Land Rover, and Rolls-
      Royce.



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   7. Our PhD programmes are varied, inclusive, and scientifically competitive; 57% of our
      current PGR population are overseas students and 52% of our awards in the period were
      made to international students; funding for our PGR programmes spans industry, research
      councils, and international governmental sources.
   8. Our ECRs have had considerable success winning both First Grant and New Investigator
      Awards.
   9. Our research portfolio is diverse and balanced across sponsors and nurtured by the
      strategic collaborations through our international regional hubs in Dubai and Singapore
      and Coventry-based institutes (National Transport Design Centre (NTDC), AME, CCAAR,
      Centre for Advanced Low-Carbon Propulsion Systems (C-ALPS)), as well as the
      University’s impact-oriented Research Strategy.

Building on our achievements and significant investment in infrastructure, we expect the next
period to return, at scale, research with excellence and impact, commensurate with the current
and newly achieved Unit size.

Our Engineering research ambition and the capacity to deliver it is evidenced further by the
strategic high-profile and large projects and funded national capability strands in our REF period
portfolio. Some examples are as follows:
    • The AME, with £7.9M of HEFCE Catalyst funding, to establish a unique University/industry
        partnership for research, teaching and knowledge exchange, for which we won a Queen’s
        Award for Higher Education in 2019.
    • A cohesive suite of projects that grow the UK capability in Connected and Automated
        Mobility research including: the £26M CCAV-funded project TIC-IT to create a unique in
        the UK facility to research verify and validate future connected and autonomous vehicles
        in a controlled environment; the £2M CCAV/Innovate UK funded PARK-IT project to
        research bespoke and realistic, controlled parking environments to test and support the
        development of current and future connected and automated parking solutions.
    • MATUROLIFE – a £6M European H2020 project, with Coventry lead, taking a multi-
        disciplinary approach across Engineering, Design, and Health disciplines to develop
        assistive wearable technologies for the ageing population.
    • H1PERBAT and H1PERCHAIN, funded by the Advanced Propulsion Centre, £14M
        (combined) projects, working with industry in support of the drive towards net-zero, to
        develop the technology and associated supply chains and to design and manufacture
        battery packs and modules for electric vehicle production.
    • Sustainable Building Futures, supported by a £2.6M European Regional Development
        Fund grant, to establish an industry-focused Centre of research expertise in low-carbon
        building technologies.

Our partnerships are strong and well embedded into the research landscape, practice and
infrastructure. From the Unit’s 2,760 papers published in the period, 1,410 involve international
collaborations and 263 were co-authored with corporate partners.

1.4 REF Period Impact Strategy

Coventry has responded to the emerging impact agenda with the strapline for our new Research
Strategy being ‘Excellence with Impact’. This sets out the University’s commitment to fund

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research that makes a ‘real-world difference’. As an ambitious and innovative Unit, our research
has indeed made a tangible difference to the world we live in. Coventry’s Engineering researchers
have become known for delivering research that makes a significant contribution to global
challenges, promoting and achieving real change.

The desire to make a tangible difference is regarded as an integral part of the research process:
the culture of impact creation and development has been fully embraced and embedded into the
Unit and is supported by the University’s Research Services team through a dedicated team of
Research Impact Officers. As previously mentioned, a major feature of our impact strategy has
been partnering with leading external organisations and groups, both in the UK and internationally,
in a range of areas and sectors as evidence by our Impact Case Study portfolio. We support
impact acceleration where appropriate, and build portfolios of research that strategically increase
the technology readiness levels of our innovations with trusted partners. Co-location with impact
partners has and will continue to be a significant avenue for delivering impact in Engineering.

Professor Mike Blundell, for example, has undertaken 20 years of research into the modelling of
tyre behaviour to support computer-based design simulation, which involved collaborations with the
automotive and aerospace sectors, including Jaguar Land Rover (JLR). The main impact is a
reduction in overall tyre test duration and substantial efficiency savings now firmly embedded in the
design and development process at JLR – one of our long-standing partners in the co-production
of research questions. Dr Svetlana Aleksandrova has successfully worked with industrial partners,
such as Unipart and JLR, building effective collaborative relationships which have resulted in
society and industry-relevant research that can be translated for uptake within the automotive
industry. Her work on efficient exhaust system design has become key in the development of the
new generations of transport as it directly affects emissions of greenhouse and toxic gases and
particulates.

Global manufacturers and distributors of surface and interfacial science measurement equipment
have used Dr David Waugh and Professor Jonathan Lawrence’s findings on the importance of
droplet volume on analysing wettability and adhesion properties of liquids on porous media to
increase their commercial offerings to clients in the ink-jet printing industry. Our Unit’s science is
thus responsible for new products that have been developed as a direct result of the
implementation of the research findings.

Our research is recognised to build joint infrastructures with our strategic partners: Airbus is
progressing the application of laser peen technology through to implementation in manufacturing,
maintenance and repair as a result of our Unit’s work by Professor Michael Fitzpatrick.

The innovative analytical approach on the Team and Collective Training Needs Analysis (TCTNA),
championed by Dr John Huddlestone, has resulted in new relationships with the armed services in
the UK that has been commended at the highest levels in the Royal Navy and Royal Air Force for
its utility in shaping collective training specifications. With researchers in our Unit being recognised
amongst the UK’s and world’s leaders for human factors research, Professor Don Harris’s
investigations to develop single-pilot flight deck concepts have been hailed as a key technology for
UK strategic funding by the Aerospace Technology Institute (ATI), the Department for Business,
Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS), and InnovateUK. His work influences national research
policy, covering new ground in the development of design concepts and flight deck technologies



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and has involved end-users with whom we have developed and grown our working relationship
over the last REF cycle.

Through our strategic collaboration with HORIBA MIRA we have created environments to simulate,
test and evaluate the security and safety of connected and autonomous mobility. This strategic
approach has resulted in the creation of a doctoral centre with research questions developed with
HORIBA MIRA that address the critical Engineering challenges and meet future business needs.
The Centre provides a pipeline of talent to support growth in the connected and autonomous
mobility sector. We have developed a world-class physical infrastructure for research test and
validation, and a pipeline of collaborative R&D.

Across the Unit, we continue to produce impact in the UK and globally as evidenced by all our
Impact Case Study narratives. More generally, we utilise a variety of conventional and innovative
pathways to impact, including responses to legislative pressure and building on our existing
partnerships, through to the identification of new stakeholders and seeding challenge-led research
questions with end-users. These approaches stand us in good stead in anticipation of the next
REF cycle and over the coming years.

Further to impactful research, the Unit made a commitment to interdisciplinarity over the period.
This is partly evidenced by the large number of grants we hold that cross discipline boundaries.
For example: the EU REWAISE: REsilient WAter Innovation for Smart Economy project brings
together expertise across the water and manufacturing science and technology domains; the
EPSRC EnergyREV crosses discipline boundaries with economics, environment science,
computer science, Engineering and political sciences; Professor Andrew Cobley’s MATUROLIFE
project has been co-designed and is co-led by Professor Louise Moody (Health Design and
Human Factors), and so on.

Many more examples exist in the Unit’s portfolio, and we estimate at least half of the projects we
deliver on are inter- or trans-disciplinary. Furthermore, appointments were made to our
Engineering research base, from other disciplines (e.g., Ergonomics – Professor Paul Heriotts
working with the Engineering team in the National Transport Design Centre at Coventry). The
inter-disciplinary culture that we support and reward enables us to react better to global
challenges, frame meaningfully wider and deeper research questions, and eventually draw
solutions that encapsulate and consider the eco-systems around our technological innovations.
The approach accelerates and diversifies impact and creates positive feedback loops for our
researchers.

1.5 Future plans and strategic aims

Over the next REF period Coventry University will continue to deliver its research through
challenge-based centres. Our research centres have been recently clustered into a number of
challenge-based Institutes targeted at addressing some of the grand challenges. Whilst
engineering research will be based predominantly in the Institute for Clean Growth and Future
Mobility, and the Institute for Mathematical, Physical and Computational Sciences, we will make a
significant contribution to the other institutes (Health & Wellbeing; Sustainability, Equity &
Resilience; Peace Security & Social Justice; and Creative Cultures). We will work to design, test
and validate technological solutions that will be readily deployed and adopted by the public.
Towards this aim we will create multi-disciplinary teams that bring together physical scientists that

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
can use simulation tools to select potential solutions in the virtual world; engineers with the
necessary physical assets to build, prototype, and evaluate these technologies in the physical
world; and social scientists to ensure that the technologies will be adopted in a sustainable and
economically viable manner. To accelerate this process and ensure impact, we are creating a
number of innovation districts: those relevant to engineering include Clean Growth, Cultural and
Creative, Health and Wellbeing, and Mobility. Anchored by the University, these areas will bring
together companies to connect with start-ups, business incubators, and accelerators. Based in and
around Coventry they will exploit the physical assets of the University and the proximity to housing,
retail, and office spaces to promote an urban innovation ecosystem.

For example, the Institute for Clean Growth and Future Mobility will tackle the challenges facing
mass adoption of autonomous transport and electric vehicles by bringing together the physical
assets we have at CCAR, CALPS and AME – along with our partner companies – to create the
Mobility Innovation District in Coventry. This will focus on establishing the innovation supply chain
required to see the mass deployment of electric mobility and autonomous vehicles. In Health and
Wellbeing we will work with medical practitioners and biological scientists to develop technologies
that will keep people out of hospital for as long as possible and in hospital for as short as possible.
Part of this will be a planned joint venture between the local council, hospital, and University to
create a city-centre diagnostic centre. This will include a research laboratory where, among other
things, data science and artificial intelligence will be deployed to accelerate the diagnostic process.
In the Institute for Sustainability, Equity, and Resilience, based at Ryton Gardens, just outside the
City, our engineers will work with human and physical geographers to solve issues around the
sustainable supply of food, water, and accommodation to people in both the developed and
developing world. In Peace, Security, and Social Justice, our cyber-physical engineers will work
with data scientists and social scientists to create safe and secure urban environments. In the
creative space, we will work with the art and design community around the digitisation of the
creative processes. This will include motion capture in dance research, the application of digital
tools to accelerate the design process, digital curation, and the use of augmented reality in
articulating our history.

From a discipline perspective many of these challenges will see a need to increase our expertise in
the digital space (data science, artificial intelligence, simulation, cyber security, digital twins and
sensors) and our Research Institute for Mathematical, Physical, and Computational Sciences will
grow accordingly. Our Materials Engineering activity will be focussed towards the energy sector
from battery chemistry through to structural integrity. In Manufacturing we will focus on
sustainability and productivity. Finally, growing the number of researchers working at the interface
between electrical and mechanical engineering will be critical to solve the challenges of e-mobility.

1.6 Open Research

Building on our commitment to research that is open and accessible and that maximises reach and
impact, our staff use a variety of dissemination avenues and formats. Our software, data sets,
bespoke research tools, hardware designs, and research products are developed under open
licences and disseminated appropriately and in line with funder and partner requirements. IP
knowledge pervades in the Unit, and IP training is part of the Unit’s package of support for ECRs
and PGRs. This knowledge informs our methods and our approach to Open Access, and has been
key for developing confidence for researchers to publish under open licences.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
An increasing number of projects within the Unit are depositing their data sets on common
repositories such as Zenodo, figshare, Github, Kaggle and arXiv. Staff deposit software extensively
(Github and Zenodo) with full downloads available for pre-products and practitioner tools (such as
Professor James Brusey’s Cogent House: a system for energy and environmental monitoring in
homes; and Dr Jonathan Nixon’s Renewable Energy Recommendation Tool: a software
application that supports decision making for humanitarian energy investments). Over the next six
months we will move our open data and open software to the University’s data management
repository.

Our researchers use a variety of modes of dissemination and make use of open channels for
sharing non-standard research (including practice-relevant research) through blogs, white papers,
and policy briefs. Some of the Unit’s projects have practitioners and policy-makers at the core of
their impact stakeholders group, and thus briefing papers, white papers, and working papers are
very common. Examples here are the EPSRC EnergyREV, the Innovate UK Pilot Auto Runway
Taxi System (PARTS), the EPSRC HEED, and many more.

Wherever possible, we publish as Open Access, including workshop proceedings and any other
resources emerging from funded projects: for example, in the EU H2020 SC-Square Project (Dr
Matthew England), proceedings of three workshops were published Open Access using the
CEUR-WS Workshop series.

We believe engaging with the public, and especially outreach, sits firmly at the core of our research
dissemination approaches: the EPSRC HEED project (Nixon and Professor Elena Gaura), for
example, worked with Futurum to produce educational resources for 15-to-17-year-olds that were
disseminated to over 600 schools.

Our commitment to a culture of Research Integrity is demonstrated by a robust process of
supporting researchers to conduct ethical research. Ethics Leads in all centres are members of the
Faculty Ethics Committee, which reports to the University Research Committee. They provide
regular clinics to support staff and PGRs in planning, delivering, and monitoring research to ensure
adherence to relevant ethical, legal, and professional standards. Ethics is not only core to how the
Unit’s research is carried out with integrity, but is also the specific focus of research enquiries and
funded research, promoting a principle of ‘ethics in practice’. Research that is carried out with
those who may be vulnerable through experiencing marginalisation, impairment, ill-health, or
precarity from other disabling conditions, employs methods that foster researching with the
participants, through co-design and participatory research (for example, research by Brusey,
Gaura, Nixon, Harris). We believe in and adhere to the EPSRC Principles of Responsible
Innovation (AREA), and support our researchers at all levels in embedding impact into their
research at onset – through training, impact champions, and open forum discussions with research
stakeholders.



 2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy

To support the growth of the Engineering research mission, there was a large increase in the
staffing base of the Faculty and the Unit’s research Centres and Institutes, alongside a transition

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
from fixed-term staff employed only to support teaching, to staff fully engaged in both teaching
and research. Highlights of this included recruitment of over 70 new lecturers in 2015 alone.

The approach to the increase in the research-active staff in our new research centres has
been threefold:
   • Appointment of new, senior staff to act as group leaders, to develop strategy, and
       provide mentorship for career-young researchers.
   • Appointment of career-young researchers, supported by programmes of development
       in all of the VITAE areas.
   • Supporting the transition to significant, independent, responsibility for research for our
       ECRs and developing research skills across the Faculty academic base.

The strategy has led to significant critical mass (as evidenced by the size of our submission),
excellence in research, and positively asserted scientific leadership in all of the key
Engineering areas that we wish to further support, strategically for the Unit, into the next REF
period.

We intended and achieved a balanced staffing portfolio for the Unit overall, with 27 ECRs, 71
MCRs, and 29 professorial staff. Alongside the many external appointments, six staff were
promoted internally to professorial positions during the REF period (Brusey, Cobley,
Professor Eshmaiel Ganjian, Professor Shuli Liu, Professor Vasile Palade, Professor Siraj
Shaikh).

Each of the key Unit themes have now strong leadership from their professoriate and a raft of
ECRs that are thriving in the groups. Our research infrastructure and environment meant that
we have been able to recruit excellent ECRs and leaders of research, with visionary ideas
and potential. For the ECRs, our programmes of training mean that they progress rapidly to
achieve research independence and establish leadership in their research specialism. This is
evidenced through 14 ECR promotions where research was a major criterion.

2.2 Staff Development

The Unit’s staff benefit from support and development through three complementary
pathways:
   • An Institutional layer of developmental programmes provided through our ReCAp
      (Research Capability and Development) function of the Doctoral College, which covers
      development for all career stages – from PhD to Professor.
   • A Unit-specific layer of training and development activities that brings discipline focus
      and specificity to general programmes above (on base skills).
   • A group-specific layer that ensures mentoring, one-to-one support for ECRs, and
      career progression support for all researchers, regardless of their stage in their journey
      to professorship.

Overall, the development programmes available to staff:
   • cover all aspects of the VITAE framework.
   • are fully grounded in the Engineering discipline practice and excellence benchmarks.
   • provide routes and methods to embrace trans-disciplinary research.

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   are tailored and delivered with staff’s priorities for development in mind.
   •   are informed by outstanding research leaders and capability development leaders in
       the Institution and elsewhere.

Our support for early-career researchers’ development has been based on two key principles:
   • Train: comprehensively cover key research skills, funding success, impact, and
      leadership and management of high-performance research teams.
   • Sponsor: ECRs competitively secure their first internal grants – with equipment, travel
      and networking grant categories – available every year with ECR-ring-fenced
      competitions; in addition to dedicated PhD studentships and other forms of internal
      grants (described below).

For example, new researchers are comprehensively supported in the process of producing
their first major bid. Training is cohort-based, over a 3-month programme to allow for peer-to-
peer learning and supporting the emergence of peer networks. Alongside specific theme
sessions focused on Track Record and Impact Pathways, the programme includes mock-
RCUK funding allocation panels using previously submitted bids, champions and mentors
talks, extensive feedback on writing, support to identify partners for the intended bids, and 1:1
buddying for first submissions. This has been a successful approach: 66% of the First Grant
bids from our Unit’s ECRs were successful over the period 2016-2017 (when the intensive
training programme was first delivered), which is significantly above the national average. Other
grants-oriented support comes in the form of sponsor-specific bid writing day events for UKRI, EU,
Leverhulme and other QR funders, interactive workshops with funders, and grant surgeries.

The substantial range of programmes for ECRs include those aimed at developing strong lead
supervisors for PhD programmes, and rapidly increasing supervisory capacity. Programmes
specifically designed for ECRs are:
   • Designing PhD Programmes: bite-size/day-long workshops covering topics from
        research ideas formulation to enrolment of students.
   • Becoming a PhD Supervisor: year-long programme with follow-up in year 2 and
        refresher training. This program runs annually in the Unit, to help support ECR
        transition from “supervisee” to “supervisor” and further, transition from supervisory
        team member to Director of Studies (DoS). It features a diverse set of activities over
        the year, from Institutionally mandated modules, to shadowing experienced DoSs, to
        seminars with external speakers and experienced supervisors on supervision best
        practice, PhD programme research design, support seminars for identifying funding
        and collaborators, student recruitment support activities, support with supervision tools
        development, and so on.
   • A suite of bite-size events on PhD supervision best practice in Engineering,
        complementing the provision from the University’s Doctoral College.

As shown previously for ECR grant awards, we complement the above ECR training with
sponsorship through ring-fenced schemes that:
   • provide funded trans-disciplinary PhD research studentships across themed global
      challenges – for example focused on the GCRF and COVID recently.
   • further support for the ECRs’ journey to become Directors of Studies through the
      Trailblazer scheme.

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Training and support extends to experienced supervisors, with training update requirements
mandated and dependent on the number of students completed, recent supervisions, context for
supervision (UK and abroad, Coventry and elsewhere). We recognise that supervisory practice is
continuously evolving and best practice sharing is an important element in all areas of PGR
education – from sources of funding identification, to new methods for research, training trans-
disciplinary students, and embedding impact into co-funded programmes with industry.

Across the Institution, staff at all levels, upon training, have access to internally half-funded
studentships. These are of value to our ECRs in securing their first funding from an industrial
collaborator. On top of the significant investment in PhD programmes, the University has further
committed to sustainability by funding 44 50-50 Coventry-plus-industry funded studentships that
will recruit in 2021 and 2022. For the Centre for Data Science, for example, these include two 50-
50 studentships to support collaboration with the Agency for Science, Technology and Research
(A*STAR) in Singapore, and two 50-50 studentships to support ongoing research with industrial
collaborators on the EU DOMUS project in thermal comfort in vehicles (such studentships help
support the Centre’s continued interest in automotive AI, and connections with the automotive
industry).

Throughout the academic year, a large variety of shorter programmes and individual activities
covering general research skills are also available to ECRs, MCRs, and all research staff and
PGRs. These include:
   • publishing strategies and developing 4* research, facilitated by external members of
       previous REF panels.
   • impact training and best practice on building impact into research from the proposal
       stage through to delivery.
   • “Shut up and write” weekly sessions, creating co-writing environments for staff and
       PGRs.
   • Best Journal Paper annual competitions and training for journal reviewers.
   • monthly Research Strategy surgeries for staff at all levels.
   • a Summer Research Internship programme, with students from across the globe,
       including China, India, South Africa and France (250 awards were made to PIs to
       research with undergraduate and master students, for eight weeks each).
   • an International visiting scholar scheme to send/host researchers to/from overseas for
       up to one term, running throughput the REF period.

The Unit’s research environment, staff expertise, and the vibrant research culture is also shared
with our Undergraduate and Post Graduate Taught student population through the Summer
Research Internship Scheme. The scheme has funded over 200 students (2014-2019) to
undertake 8 weeks of paid research over the summer on specific projects led by the Unit’s staff.
Students acquire a taste for research and develop transferable skills, while supervisors have the
opportunity to conduct feasibility studies, investigate adventurous tester research questions, or
set up new experiments.




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.3 Support mechanisms, training and supervision of PGRs

2.3.1 Recruitment and funding for PhD students

186 PhD awards were made over the period. Of these, 52% were overseas students. Many
students had an external supervisor and/or an industrial partner with their programme (contributing
either staff time and facilities in-kind, or with cash contributions towards the fees and stipends for
the programmes). The census date PhD student population for the Unit is 181 students, with 57%
being overseas students and the rest UK/EU. The Unit has been awarded, and is finalising
recruitment processes for, 13 GCRF studentships (that support trans-disciplinary teams of ECRs to
supervise students/project within the GCRF remit), and 13 Trailblazers studentships that support
ECRs to learn to supervise in joint mentor-ECR supervisory teams.

Over the period, the Unit had a mixed model for funding PhD students, with almost all of our
students receiving funding from one or more of: our Institution; UK sponsors; international
agencies; and national and international programmes. Over the REF period the University has
invested £9.6M of internal funds (including QR) into supporting PGRs, including schemes to fully
fund (fees and bursaries) or part-fund, including the provision of fee waivers. Our approach has
enabled us to bring in external funding for PhDs of over £2M to the Unit over the period, with PhDs
partnered with a wide range of organisations. In particular:
    • Industrially funded PhD programmes: this avenue for funded research by industry has been
        historically a strength in Engineering at Coventry. In this REF period, we diversified the set
        of industrial sponsors and considerably increased the number of funded PhDs: 18 industrial
        partners funded 47 students, leading to significant and impactful research (evidenced, for
        example, in the Impact Case Study ‘Efficient Processes to support Tyre Modelling in
        Vehicle Design’, Blundell). Industrial sponsors include: Airbus Group, HORIBA MIRA, FEV
        UK Ltd, Rio Tinto Alcan, IDIADA, TÜV-SÜD NEL, and TWI through the National Structural
        Integrity Research Centre.
    • 10 UKRI and EU funded studentships, including participation in EU COFUND, Marie Curie
        and ITEM programmes.
    • International agencies with a considerable number of students sponsored: Niger Delta
        Development Commission, Royal Embassy of Saudi Arabia, Petroleum Technology
        Development Fund (and others with fewer students); these build on strong international
        links with governments and their agencies, at times from Master’s programmes base
        (notably most of our PGRs in the Construction and Environment thematic area progress
        from MSc courses and maintain their funding).

Staff in the Unit are also leading joint PhD programmes with international partners in cotutelle
models, including a wide range of global institutions, including Deakin University and Macquarie
University, Australia; University of Warwick; A*STAR (Agency for Science, Technology and
Research), Singapore; University of Cergy-Pontoise, France; University of Shanghai for Science
and Technology, China; University of Massachusetts, USA; Universitas Indonesia; Paris Saclay
University, University of Lille and University of Grenoble, France; and National University for
Science and Technology, Pakistan.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.3.2 PGR support

The Institutional support for PGRs is outstanding and covers comprehensively the student life-
cycle. The Unit’s PGR population benefited from the numerous development opportunities
deployed through our Doctoral College, as documented in the Institutional statement, alongside a
sustained set of support actions and activities deployed specifically in the Unit’s respective centres
and catering for Engineering research students’ needs.

Pastoral support is delivered by dedicated Research Degree Leads (RDL) in the Unit’s thematic
groups and Centres, with each RDL looking after 20-30 PGRs. The RDLs are concerned with both
the students’ academic progress as well as their well-being, integration into the cohorts, and
access to the facilities they require to conduct their research.

Locally, students self-organise and run seminar series, with internal and external speakers, open to
all of the Unit’s staff and students. Our longest-running seminar series is in the fluids area (where
students from both UoA10 and UoA12 have successfully held a bi-weekly seminar series
continuously since 2016). In other groups, the students run reading clubs to proof each other’s
thesis chapters and papers prior to submission. “Shut up and write” events, organised by PGRs,
are common across the Unit and supported and encouraged by staff and RDLs.

Across the Unit, we have consistently deployed a number of impactful activities:
   • Thesis bootcamp: this is an annual four-day event run by the programme’s creator – Dr
       Peta Freeman (https://www.petafreestone.com/thesis-boot-camp/). This award-winning
       intensive writing programme for late-stage doctoral researchers is offered to 25 of the Unit’s
       PGRs.
   • Free proofreading of papers and theses for all students in the Unit, hassle-free and
       accessible at all stages of the programme.
   • A PGR career progression events series focusing on career futures, choices, preparation
       for academic and industrial careers, gaps identification for skills development, etc.
   • An annual PGR symposium with posters and verbal presentations depending on the
       student’s programme stage, with feedback provided by industry and academic topical
       scientists.
   • Access to hourly-paid teaching opportunities in all subject areas that are part of Unit’s remit.
   • We have made a concerted effort and have taken positive action to treat our PGRs in all
       regards as our Unit staff – whether it comes to access to facilities and labs, support for
       conferences, annual budget for consumables for each PGR, and open participation in all
       researcher and capability developments organised for the Unit’s staff. This has led to many
       close-knit teams of PGRs and supervisors working together with industrial collaborators
       and easing the transition of PGRs post award to either industrial or academic posts. For
       example, 25% have gone on to secure research assistant/fellow posts, 41% have secured
       assistant professor/lecturer posts and 18% have roles in industry.

2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

Issues relating to equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) are at the core of many of the decisions
about recruitment of staff and students across Engineering, and EDI is embedded throughout role
allocation and promotion across all the centres which make up this submission. With some of the


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
largest centres within Coventry University, we take seriously the effect our staff and student
population demographics has across the Institution.

Figure 1: Diversity and inclusion: Ethnicity (staff)
 90%
 80%
 70%
 60%
 50%
 40%
 30%
 20%
 10%
  0%
                   BAME                              White
               UoA 12         Sector - General Engineering


Source: Coventry University UoA12 data, Coventry University People Team, 31st July 2020,
Advance HE, 2018/19

The BAME researcher community in Engineering is 54%; significantly above the sector average of
15%. This more-than-threefold proportion reflects the global reach of the research community and
is as a result of recruitment which looks to source the best talent regardless of where this is. The
PGR demographics follow on from this, providing the Unit with an equally diverse and vibrant
research community.

Figure 2: Diversity and inclusion: Ethnicity (research students)

 80%
 70%
 60%
 50%
 40%
 30%
 20%
 10%
  0%
                    BAME                               White

            UoA 12         Sector - Engineering & technology

Source: Coventry University UoA12 data, Coventry University People Team, 31st July 2020,
Advance HE, 2018/19

Our BAME population of PhDs is 68%, again, considerably higher than the sector average for
Engineering of just 24%. The diverse community and rich environment this creates is nurtured and

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
maintained through robust policies and procedures to ensure we maintain this favourable position
amongst our peers.

The leadership team within the centres in the Unit is representative of the diverse demographics.
We recognise that our Unit still has much to do, to raise awareness of EDI issues and maintain fair
treatment. We intend to continue to work hard to raise our standards further in this area. EDI is a
standing item on the current Faculty Research Committee and a new senior-level research
leadership team is looking at EDI across all aspects of research in the Institution.

Across the sector, we all have a long way to go regarding female representation in Engineering
and particularly in leadership roles. For our Unit, role allocation and leadership development
decisions within the Centres are regularly reviewed, with working groups tasked with working
alongside People Team representatives when devising processes for recruitment as well as
promotion and recognition.

We encourage women to hold leadership roles – and aim to maintain a higher female:male ratio in
these posts than is representative across the Unit's staff cohort. For example, the REF submission
for Panel B is led by our Associate Dean for Research, Gaura; and Professor Xiang Zhang leads
the Materials group. Further, in our new research structure, Gaura holds a leadership role within
the Strategic Research Leadership Team, as the Director of the Institute for Mathematical,
Physical, and Computational Sciences, and remains a strong advocate for women in science and
in particular as an EPSRC Women in Engineering Champion.

More generally, we actively encourage our female staff to take advantage of the support provided
by the University. A good example of this is the Advance HE Aurora programme – a sector-wide
leadership development initiative for women which we support staff to attend – including providing
the time and fees. It is designed to help address the under-representation of women in leadership
positions in the sector and we feel is very important for Engineering in particular. The motivational
outcomes we have observed have had a very positive effect on the Unit – with attendees making
use of their training and networks to help embed improved practice in supporting women to
achieve leadership roles in our centres. This commitment applies at all levels. Gaura has
completed the Executive Development Programme at Oxford University’s Saïd Business School’s
– Women Transforming Leadership Programme – with the aim to focus on articulating challenges
and exploring solutions specifically for women in leadership roles. Bringing such learning back to
Coventry is seen as key – not least as an example of the University’s commitment to support
female researchers in leadership roles.

Coventry has established the Women in Research Network – a cross-institutional group which was
set up by the Engineering Unit. The aim of the group is to build a more inclusive and equal
research environment by offering an informal space to share experiences and ideas. This group
has grown in strength and even through the pandemic has maintained meetings – with our most
recent network meeting having a presentation from Professor Cath Noakes who is a member of
SAGE.




                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

The overall investment into research equipment and facilities for this UoA since 2014 has been in
excess of £40M. All the Centres have benefited from the investment. We have invested in
specialist equipment in support of specific areas of strategy, plus more general investment to
ensure that we have “well-found” laboratories that underpin our entire research base. A significant
portion of the investment has been directed in support of our major translational centres, where
we work closely with industry to drive the impact of our research.

Key investments have been:

   1. The Institute for Advanced Manufacturing and Engineering (AME), with a new building
      and equipment in 2014, and current (2020/21) expansion of the facility (total investment
      >£8M of which a quarter is dedicated to research). This flagship initiative launched the
      Centre for Manufacturing and Materials in 2014, providing the new research teams with
      state-of-the-art facilities to underpin research in manufacturing technologies ranging from
      advanced welding to materials characterisation, with investment in industry-leading 3D
      printing, advanced robotics, control systems, world-class metrology and metallurgy labs,
      and state-of-the-art digital technologies. AME has received over £8M of funding and is
      currently also undergoing an expansion by 60%, investing in the latest advanced
      manufacturing equipment, including additional resource for lasers in manufacturing. The
      investment, among other things, has allowed the development of new component designs
      for the automotive industry (e.g., our Impact Case Study on the development of new
      exhaust systems that has delivered reduced weight, faster design and production times,
      and significant fuel and carbon savings); and supported our work on surface Engineering
      technologies (leading to two further Impact Case Studies in the current REF, one on lead-
      free bearings, and one on aerospace repair technologies).

   2. The Centre for Applied Low-Carbon Propulsion Systems (C-ALPS) (total investment
      >£18M). The building housing this new Centre provides 40,000 sq ft of research and testing
      space, with over £6M of the latest electrified powertrain and thermodynamic engine test
      beds. C-ALPS boasts one of the world’s few publicly accessible facilities for the prototyping
      of batteries, specifically pouch cells and cylindrical cells, to near commercial quality. The
      21700 cylindrical format that is very topical and used by Tesla can be made in the C-ALPS
      facility. C-ALPS also has a battery cycling lab with the capability to test coin cells, multiple
      cell formats and modules; two electronics labs, one focused around sensors and low-
      voltage devices, and the other around high-voltage and power electronics. In the former we
      are designing and building advanced sensor arrays. The latter has a 3m2 EMC chamber.

   3. The National Transport Design Centre (NTDC) (total investment >£7M of which almost
      two-thirds is dedicated to research), including a purpose-built, class-leading, fully
      functioning design studio that mirrors that found in industry and is a unique facility within
      academia. By using the latest Simulation and Virtual Reality innovations and combining it
      with traditional physical prototyping, the NTDC has pioneered a new ‘mixed-reality’ driving
      ‘buck’, which creates complete mixed-reality scenarios for designers and engineers, who
      enjoy a fully immersive experience to explore, assess, research, and develop new areas of


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       transport design. A state-of-the-art Driver-in-the-Loop driving simulator is being
       commissioned now to support future vehicle research into electrified and automated driving
       technology.

   4. Connected and Autonomous Vehicles: The collaboration with HORIBA MIRA is a
      strategic co-investment (total value >£30M) into a shared facility located at HORIBA MIRA’s
      site in Nuneaton. In addition to a vehicle workshop for preparation of research vehicles and
      office space for researchers, the University has co-invested in the development of the part-
      CCAAV funded ASSURED CAV (Highway) proving ground. This is a first-of-its-kind
      ‘ecosystem’ for developing connected and autonomous vehicles (CAVs) consisting of:
      • A high-speed facility enabling autonomous vehicles to be tested at the limit of
           controllability – specifically designed for performing scenario-based testing, the facility
           will enable the testing of driving scenarios such as traffic merging and lane-keep-
           assist, to be conducted to international regulatory protocols.
      • Urban environments where vehicles will experience pedestrians and cyclists, complex
           junctions, and on-street parking.
      • An ultrafast 5G mobile private network, supported by Vodafone, which will allow
           vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure communications to be verified, as well
           as testing infotainment and cybersecurity.
      • An extensive portfolio of digital replicas where simulated testing can be scaled,
           reinforcing physical testing. It can also be accessed virtually so technology can be
           tested from anywhere in the world.
      • An on-site network of campus roads complemented by a 300km network of adjacent
           CAV-enabled public roads equipped with a range of intelligent transport systems
           enabling real-world road trials.

In addition to this major investment in support of key activities and partnerships, we have invested
over £8M in general “well-found laboratory” equipment to support our key research themes in
areas ranging from materials engineering to multiphase flow measurement, including:
    • the establishment of a new Residual Stress characterisation facility, with investment of
        over £1M in equipment for experimental stress analysis.
    • growth of the University’s mechanical testing facilities, again with investment of over £1M
        plus the design and commissioning of a new dedicated laboratory, in the Beatrice Schilling
        Building that opened in early 2020.
    • materials characterisation, with over £3M invested in microscopy, X-ray diffraction, and
        nano-test capability.
In addition to the capital expenditure, the TRAC expenditure allocations to research staff and
infrastructure exceed £45M for Engineering at Coventry since 2016-17 alone.

Access to equipment is by open booking system. All researchers are able to access any item of
equipment subject to being trained, including safety training, and with the approval of their
supervisor. We do not operate an internal charging system, to allow for the highest level of
flexibility and to maximise use of the facilities that we have invested in.

In the current REF period, our significant and flagship grants portfolio diversified (in theme
and funder), with some key successes being:



                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   The £1M EPSRC-funded Humanitarian Engineering and Energy for Displacement (HEED)
       project, led by Gaura, combining Coventry’s long-standing theme of Humanitarian
       Engineering with research into energy efficiency and energy poverty.
   •   The £2M Lloyd’s Register Foundation International Joint Research Centre in Nuclear
       Safety (£0.5M at Coventry), led by Lancaster University in collaboration with Fitzpatrick
       at Coventry, Harbin Engineering University, and the University of Tennessee, a broad
       research project covering aspects of nuclear safety from materials for future systems to
       machine learning techniques for operational monitoring.
   •   The €7M HARVESTORE EU project (€400k at Coventry, led by Professor Alexander
       Chroneos), for the development of beyond-state-of-the-art technologies in the field of IoT.
       Our “μ-harvestorers” will be able to collect and store energy from heat and light at the
       same time, in order to serve a whole family of new-generation portable devices.
   •   The £5.9M EPSRC-funded New Wire Additive Manufacturing (NEWAM) grant (£694K at
       Coventry, led by Zhang), a team of nearly 50 researchers from Cranfield (lead),
       Manchester, Strathclyde, and Coventry, focused on the process innovation, process and
       material modelling, quality control and assurance, and structural integrity of additive
       manufactured materials and parts.
   •   TIC-IT, £4.8M to Coventry, Innovate UK, described further in Section 4, is a facility built on
       HORIBA MIRA’s 750-acre proving ground, creating a purpose-built realistic, safe
       environment for testing Connected and Autonomous Vehicles (CAVs) up to the limit of
       their operability. This is critical in ensuring consumer confidence in the technologies. The
       test environment will be unique, enabling a wide range of CAV driving scenarios to be
       tested.
   •   Advanced Propulsion Centre “Gyrodrive” award, £1.7M to Coventry from TSB
       (https://www.apcuk.co.uk/case_study/gkn-gyrodrive/). Partnering with GKN Hybrid Power,
       GKN AutoStructures, S&S Windings and Alexander Dennis Limited, to develop a
       Gyrodrive sytem solution, optimised for buses to use a high-speed flywheel made of
       carbon fibre to store the energy generated as the bus slows down, providing fuel savings
       of 25%.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Collaborations

Our research collaborations have made rapid impact on their discipline research areas, and
economic impact through the partners with whom they work.

The strategy for each of our new Research Centres has been developed with a strong external
focus, to ensure that there is a route to impact for the research produced. The success of this is
evidenced by the fact that, despite the rapid growth in research in Engineering since 2014, we
have been able to submit nine Impact Case Studies, none of which is a continuation from REF
2014. All show economic and/or societal impact:
    • Development of a Comprehensive National Test Facility for Connected and Autonomous
        Vehicles, Professor Andrew Parkes.
    • Influencing Single-Pilot Aircraft Research Strategy, Professor Don Harris.
    • Recycling E-Waste though Bioleaching: Turning Motherboards into Gold (and other
        Precious Metals), Professor Sebastian Farnaud.

                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Efficient Processes to support Tyre Modelling in Vehicle Design, Professor Mike Blundell.
    •   Using wettability science to enhance industrial processes, Dr David Waugh.
    •   New exhaust system design for reducing transport emissions, Dr Svetlana Aleksandrova.
    •   Development of Lead-free Engine Bearings, Professor Andrew Cobley.
    •   Team and Collective Training Needs Analysis (TCTNA) application in military training, Dr
        John Huddlestone.
    •   Application of laser shock peening in aerospace applications, Professor Michael
        Fitzpatrick.

Our researchers have a global network of academic and industrial collaborators. Specific examples
of the UK collaborations that underpin our impact strategy and that we have previously described
are as follows.

The AME, our partnership with Unipart Manufacturing in Coventry, was established in 2014, and its
success was recognised by the award of a Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher Education in
2019. AME is an excellent example of the University being highly proactive in building strategic
partnerships at the local, regional and international level, helping to meet the long-term strategic
needs of regions including skills shortages and to benefit wider society.

The AME building is located not at the University, but at the Unipart Manufacturing facility in
Coventry.

AME describes itself as the “UK’s First Faculty on the Factory Floor”. It has developed a distinct
model that brings together academia, industry and R&D directly within a single purpose-built
facility, to address the key research questions challenging the industry, and to deliver industry-
ready graduates.

AME has already delivered over £7M of externally funded projects, that have led to:
  • Unipart securing a new fuel rail project for the Ford Fox engine.
  • the production of a lightweight exhaust system for Aston Martin.
  • most recently the order to supply battery energy storage systems for the first ever fully
     electric Aston Martin – the Rapide-e.

In addition, Unipart have formed two technology-based joint ventures – Metlase with Rolls-Royce
and H1PERBAT with Williams Advanced Engineering. The H1PERBAT project was established to
build a high-performance, low-volume, flexible battery capability in the UK. It started as a
consortium of organisations including Unipart, Coventry University and Aston Martin, led by
Williams Advanced Engineering with funding from the Advanced Propulsion Centre. In 2018, it
progressed to the formation of a joint venture company (H1PERBAT) between Williams and
Unipart, with a new factory being built on the Coventry site close to the AME. The AME’s role going
forward will be to develop the skills and capabilities required for the future, both for H1PERBAT
and for the broader electric vehicle supply chain. Unipart has already contributed over £17.9M
towards the commercialisation of new technologies, in addition to a further £5.6M towards student
scholarships and product research and development.

Located at the University's Technology Park, the National Transport Design Centre, NTDC, was
launched in 2017 as a hub for technological innovation, not just exploring the future of transport
and the insights behind design, but also the development of design itself and the tools used,

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
identifying novel applications for both new and existing technologies. It encompasses incubator
space for regional, national, and international businesses to increase their competitiveness,
productivity, and performance by entering collaborative partnerships enabling the embedding of
new knowledge and the delivery of solutions, which are led by business and supported by
University expertise.

The NTDC brings together creativity and innovation by understanding factors which influence
vehicle, transport system and infrastructure design: for example, to visualise and develop future
vertiports to enable urban air mobility, in an initiative in collaboration with Urban-Air Port and
Hyundai Air Mobility, which will result in live demonstrations for Coventry City of Culture 2021. We
recently supported the Uber Elevate initiative to develop flying taxis: the resulting Coventry
University eVTOL design was based on user-centred design principles as well as meeting strict
Engineering constraints. The Centre employs a particular focus on user-centred design, by asking
the questions that are often overlooked: for example, how can we ensure that disabled people gain
maximum benefit from the push for autonomous transport?
(https://theconversation.com/autonomous-cars-could-revolutionise-transport-for-disabled-people-if-
we-change-the-way-we-design-137684)

The CCAAR, a collaboration between HORIBA MIRA and Coventry University, launched in 2016,
builds on existing collaborative activity between the two partners, including work with other leading
industry players to test connected vehicle technology in real-world conditions; a project exploring
how connectivity will help drivers reach their destinations more efficiently and conveniently; and
wide-ranging doctoral research activity exploring, amongst other things, technologies that make
journeys safer, cleaner, and smarter, as well as the development of more resilient cybersecurity
systems within modern vehicles. CCAAR is at the heart of many industry-leading research projects
and specialist areas include vehicle connectivity, automotive cybersecurity, traffic simulation and
modelling, human factors, and design.

Highlights have included some of UK’s largest CAV projects, including:
   • Trusted Autonomous Parking (Park-IT) – a £2M initiative to develop a multi-storey car
       park, on-road parking bays, and parking lot environments within Horiba MIRA’s CAV urban
       driving environment, allowing increasing complexity of use cases for parking scenarios. It
       will investigate V2X communication connectively for efficient communication and parking
       assistance. The facility will be supported by a ‘digital twin’ so users can create and run
       parking scenarios using simulation techniques in the virtual world.
   • The Trusted Intelligent Connected Autonomous Vehicle consortium (TIC-IT), is part of
       the national strategy to establish the UK as a global-leading centre of excellence for the
       development, testing and commercialisation of CAVs and as such is a core part of the CAM
       Testbed UK Ecosystem. It is a £26M project part funded by CCAV (UK Government) for the
       establishment of a world class Connected and Autonomous Vehicle testing facility.

At the National Structural Integrity Research Centre (NSIRC) (hosted at TWI in
Cambridgeshire), Coventry has established a steady-state cohort of 10-15 PhD research students.
Furthermore, a joint Innovation Centre in Fatigue and Structural Integrity was launched in
2020, a partnership between TWI and Coventry University, aimed at combining our complementary
skills and experience in delivering industry-led research and development in the areas of fatigue
and structural integrity. NSIRC students benefit from studying for their PhD in an industrial setting,



                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and the Innovation Centre will provide a focus for the research activities as our research base
grows further at TWI in the next five years.

In partnership with German automotive company FEV, the Centre for Applied Low-Carbon
Propulsion Systems (C-ALPS), a combined £50M clean mobility research centre, launched in
2019. The Centre combines FEV’s industry-leading Engineering expertise together with our
academics’ world-class research in battery storage, hydrogen fuel cells and power electronics. The
Centre already has a cohort of 10+ PhD students and a project portfolio of >£2M from EPSRC,
IUK, and APC.

The National Engineering Laboratory, now part of TÜV-SÜD group, partners with Coventry in
the area of flow measurement and AI methods in complex and multiphase systems, with
applications ranging from oil and gas monitoring through to hydrogen refuelling stations. Coventry
partnered with NEL on their successful bid to Scottish Enterprise to build their new £16M
Advanced Multiphase Facility. Operating at pressures up to 150 bar, the facility offers
measurement capability far exceeding anything currently available in the world to replicate
extreme production conditions. NEL is linked to the Centre for Fluids and Complex Systems and
the CDS and has seen, in the REF period, our first cohort of EngD students graduate, all of whom
were based at NEL’s laboratories in East Kilbride.

4.2 Wider influence

Members of the Engineering Research Centres have a strong external profile. We encourage,
support, and reward academic and scientific citizenship, and participation in professional networks.
We bring about opportunities for our staff to face externally through all relevant means of
engagement. We encourage staff to be ambitious, to thrive through partnerships with peers and
industry, as well as become astute in the policy context surrounding their areas of research.

Consequently, our researchers are called upon by numerous national and international award and
grant-funding institutions to support decision making. 14 staff are working with 48 awarding bodies
supporting their peer review process and respective grant award panels. These include UKRI, the
European Commission, The Royal Society, NSERC, Royal Academy of Engineering, Science &
Technologies Facilities Council (STFC), and various other national bodies across the globe (The
Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (TNO), the Swiss National Science Foundation
(SNSF), and so on).

Furthermore, our staff serve in the EPSRC College of Peers, the Future Leaders EPSRC College
of Peers, and have supported the UK National Commission for UNESCO with their competitive
award of UNESCO Chairs and IEEE awards (for example the award of Distinguished Lecturer
positions). 23 staff serve on a variety of boards (such as for the European Association of Aviation
Psychology (EAAP)), the Lloyd's Register Foundation Advisory Council, the International
Federation for Information Processing (IFIP) Board, Instinctive Computing Lab Advisory Board, and
specialist boards at Carnegie Mellon University).

The Unit’s leading contribution to the sustainability of the discipline, within the UK and globally, is
evident through staff members taking up a variety of prestigious roles. 45 staff serve on editorial
boards of 130 peer-reviewed journals (some prestigious examples are: IET Journal of Engineering,
IEEE Sensors, Cognitive Computation, IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems,

                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Neurocomputing) and guest edit Journal Special Issues in leading journals (IEEE Transactions on
Fuzzy Systems, IEEE Sensors, Journal of Manufacturing Systems, Applied Sciences, Applied
Ergonomics, Encyclopaedia of Automotive Engineering, Nanomaterials). Many colleagues receive
commendations for excellent contributions made to the discipline.

Staff are actively engaged with public dissemination of our research, through schools’, lectures,
general interest public lectures, participation in events such as the Big Bang Fair and British
Science Festival, and interaction with the media. The University partners with The Conversation,
and members of the Unit have published articles in the REF period on subjects from nuclear
energy to driverless cars to smart cities to cybersecurity.

Staff have co-chaired and organised a variety of conferences over the period, including notable
events such as IEEE Mechatronics (ICM), IMechE Lightweight Body Structures, IEEE e-Business
Engineering (ICEBE), IMechE Brakes, IEEE Machine Learning and Applications (ICMLA), IMechE
Vehicle Ride and Handling, Engineering Psychology and Cognitive Ergonomics (EPCE), SENSOR-
COM, SIMBIO-M, Symbolic and Algebraic Computation (ISSAC), and Laser Peening and Related
Phenomena (ICLPRP). Our staff are routinely asked to deliver tutorials, workshops and keynotes
at worldwide conferences; serve as external examiners for PhD theses in the UK and
internationally; and support progression panels for other universities.

We take pride in our staff’s external university appointments and support them with travel grants
and time release to fulfil their honorary roles. 22 staff hold visiting professorships and 12 ECRs are
Visiting Fellows to six UK and 11 international institutions.

Our leadership in the field is demonstrated through the awards received by staff for their world
leading contributions to science; examples here include Professor Kevin Warwick receiving
Honorary Doctorate awards from Saints Cyril and Methodius University of Skopje, Edinburgh
Napier University, and Galgotias University, India. Warwick also delivered the Morgan-Botti
lecture, Cardiff, and the Paul B. Baltes Lecture, Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences and
Humanities. Zhang received the Helmholtz Fellowship and Fitzpatrick was awarded the Tom Bell
Surface Engineering medal. 14 other staff members have received a variety of awards for their
work. Equally we recognise the value of our industrial collaborations through Honorary Doctorate
awards by Coventry University to senior industry figures in our discipline areas.

More generally, we believe in sharing best practice in supporting our staff and ECRs in their
journeys from PhD to professor and have been able to contribute substantially to capacity building
in a number of countries around the globe, over the period. With funding from the British Council,
we supported hundreds of young STEM researchers in Chile, Brazil, the Philippines, India, and
Vietnam. We worked with governments to help devise their strategies for research-force growth
and training in Vietnam and the Philippines, and ran a series of Annual Research Summer Schools
in the Philippines, 2014-2019 to support the country’s ECRs and PGRs to become internationally
competing researchers in the area of IoT. Here, we trained 250 young researchers and enabled
the host University to become a national Centre of Excellence for Sensing and the IoT.

Our Institution is a member of the Women’s Engineering Society (WES) and we support our
colleagues to become champions and mentors. For example, Gaura is an EPSRC champion for
Women in Engineering and a WES role model in their “She’s an Engineer” initiative
(https://www.wes.org.uk/content/shes-engineer-elena-gaura). We celebrate our women’s


                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
achievements through annual awards on the International Women’s Day and encourage all the
Unit’s women to participate – by nominating or being nominated. Furthermore, we actively work
towards closing the gender gap in Engineering and more widely in STEM. We do so with all
opportunities opened by our varied collaborations and international engagements and, at times,
through dedicated programmes. Gaura and Brusey teamed up with the British Council (with
funding from the Newton Bhabha Fund (https://www.britishcouncil.in/programmes/higher-
education/newton-fund) and in partnership with the Indian Institute of Science Education and
Research, Pune) to help retain and promote women in science by targeting those who are making
a transition from education to scientific careers. Over 200 women in science were trained in 2018,
with numerous evidenced success stories.

4.3 Other Contributions and Esteem

Finally, our senior staff are strongly externally engaged and have been recognised in many ways
for the quality of their research and their personal impact. In addition to the various activities listed
in Section 3, the list that follows indicates this, although it is not exhaustive.

Professor Michael Fitzpatrick CEng CSci FIMMM is the Lloyd’s Register Foundation Chair in
Structural Integrity and Systems Performance. He is an STFC-appointed Non-Executive Director of
Diamond Light Source plc, the UK’s National Synchrotron Radiation Facility. He has been a
member of the EPSRC College for 15 years. He was awarded the Tom Bell Surface Engineering
Medal of the Institute of Materials, Minerals, and Mining in 2020 “in recognition of excellence and
outstanding contribution of an individual in surface engineering”. He is the Materials Engineering
Section Editor for the IET’s Journal of Engineering.

Professor Elena Gaura is the Associate Dean for Research in the Engineering, Environment and
Computing Faculty and has been responsible for the research and researcher support and
development strategy and infrastructure for this UoA, over the REF period, at Coventry University.
She is a member of the EPSRC College of Peers and the Future Leaders College. In 2018 she
was added to the VC’s Roll of Honour for her work with women in science. She routinely serves on
British Council Newton Fund, EPSRC GCRF and H2020 grant award panels. Elena is an Honorary
and Adjunct Professor at Deakin and Macquarie universities, Australia.

Professor Kevin Warwick is Emeritus Professor in Computer Science. In the current REF period
he has been the recipient of four Honorary Doctorates: Kingston University (DSc, 2014), Edinburgh
Napier University (DTech, 2015), Sts. Cyril & Methodius University, Skopje (DSc, 2015), Galgotius
University, India (DLett, 2020). He has been elected to European Academy of Sciences & Arts
(2014), inducted into the International Academy of Systems and Cybernetic Sciences (2018), and
is an Honorary Fellow of Cybernetics Society (2020). Notable Lectures include: Sir Hugh Cairns
Memorial Lecture to Society of British Neurological Surgeons, London (2014), Paul B. Baltes
Lecture to Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences and Humanities (2017). TV – 10 entries on
imdb in that period: includes ‘How the NHS changed our world’, BBC2 Documentary (2016),
‘Ancient Aliens’, History Channel (2016 and 2018).

Professor Xiang Zhang was appointed as a Helmholtz International Fellow in 2016. She has
served on funding selection panels on Helmholtz International Labs (2018), Helmholtz European
Partnering (2019, 2020), and Empa Swiss Federal Laboratories for Materials Science and
Technology (2018). She is a member of the Royal Aeronautical Society’s Structures & Materials

                                                                                                 Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Specialist Group, and is an Associate Editor for the Journal of Aerospace Engineering.



Professor Jonathan Lawrence holds six patents relating to the novel use of lasers and laser
materials processing. He has served on funding selection panels for Ontario Research Fund (2014,
2016), A*Star (2015-16), National Research Council Canada (2015-20), Austrian Science Fund
(FWF) (2018) and Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) (2018). He is Editor-in-Chief of
Lasers in Engineering and the International Journal of Laser Science.

Professor James Brusey is a Professor of Computer Science with the CDS at Coventry
University, leading on AI for the IoT. He serves as an editor for IJDSN and is a regular funding
panel member for the UK National Centre for the Replacement Refinement and Reduction of
Animals in Research, FCT Portugal, and the Academy of Finland.

Professor Vasile Palade is Professor of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science. He is an IEEE
Senior Member, the Chair of the IFIP Working Group on Computational Intelligence TC12.9, and
member of the Technical Committee on Machine Learning of the IEEE SMC Society. He has
chaired several conferences during this REF period (IEEE ICMLA 2015, IEEE ICMLA 2017, IEEE
CIFEr 2014, CIMA 2016). He is an Associate Editor for several journals, such as IEEE Trans. on
Neural Networks and Learning Systems, Knowledge and Information Systems, Neurocomputing
(2014-2019), International Journal of Artificial Intelligence Tools.

Professor Petar Igic is Professor in Power Electronics. In 2016, his research team received the
esteemed NMI University Research Group of the Year Award, the award that "specifically
promotes departments and teams that demonstrate excellent liaison and partnership with industry"
and "celebrate the year’s key electronics innovations, people and companies from across the UK
and Ireland”.

Professor Siraj Shaikh FBCS CITP CSci is Professor of Systems Security. He is a Visiting
Professor at Nebrija University (Spain). He served as a Royal Academy of Engineering (RAeng)
Industrial Fellow (2015) on automotive cybersecurity with HORIBA MIRA. He is co-founder and
Chief Scientist at CyberOwl, which is a spinout from his research on early warning systems for
threats targeting cyber-physical systems. He is on the Advisory Board of Project ASLAN, which is a
global open-source self-driving software community for low-speed environments.

Professor Kuo-Ming Chao is a co-founder and editor-in-chief of Service-Oriented Computing and
Applications – a Springer journal to promote and influence the research in the area. He is the chair
of the IEEE Computer Society Technical Committee on Business Informatics and Systems.

Professor Nigel Jennett CSci CPhys MInstP is Professor of Materials, Mechanics and
Measurement. Throughout the REF period he has served as a co-opted UK Expert on the top-level
Metrology committee for Hardness, CIPM CCM-WGH (International Committee for Weights and
Measures, Consultative Committee for SI unit of Mass - Hardness Working group). He is the chair
of British Standards Institute committee (ISE/101/5 Indentation Hardness testing) and Head of UK
delegation to International Standards Organisation committee ISO/TC 164/SC 3 – Metals,
Hardness Testing. He is Convenor of ISO/TC164/AG1 Mechanical Testing of Materials - Advisory
Group on Uncertainties and ISO/TC 164/SC3/AG1 Hardness Uncertainties and is a UK Expert
member of: ISO/TC164/WG1 Mechanical Testing of Materials – Terminology and Symbols; ISO/TC

                                                                                            Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
164/SC 03/WG 04 "Revision of ISO 14,577 - Metallic materials - Instrumented indentation test for
hardness and materials parameters"; ISO/TC138/SC1/WG4 "Plastics piping systems for
underground drainage and sewerage"; and CEN TC155 WG26 Systems for storm water
management. He is Associate Editor for Philosophical Magazine and Philosophical Magazine
Letters. He is a member of the International Organising Committee International Conference series
‘IIW’ (Instrumented Indentation Workshop) and was International Chairman of Versailles Project on
Advanced Materials and Standards TWA22 “Mechanical properties measurement of thin films and
coatings” from 1998 until its completion during this REF period.

Professor Richard Dashwood is Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research) and is responsible for the
research mission at Coventry University. During the current REF Period he was the Chief
Technology Officer for the WMG High Value Manufacturing Catapult (HVMC) leading activity at the
University of Warwick and coordinating collaborative work across the seven HVMC centres. He
was a member of the UK Automotive Council Manufacturing Technologies Group, an Advisory
Board Member for the Knowledge Intensive Product Realisation project at Jönköping University,
Sweden, and chaired the Strategic Advisory Board for the Designing Alloys for Resource Efficiency
(DARE) EPSRC project based at Sheffield University. He is a member of the IOM3 Advanced
Sheet-metal Forming Committee, the ICSAM International Advisory Board, Associate editor of the
Encyclopedia of Automotive Engineering, and a member of EPSRC peer review college.

Professor Don Harris is Associate Dean for Research and Professor of Human Factors. Between
2014-2017 he was the independent Human Factors Advisor to the National Air Traffic Services,
Safety Review Committee and currently is engaged as the Human Factors advisor on the
Aerospace Technology Institute advisory committee for whole aircraft. Until 2016 Don was Visiting
Professor and consultant advisor to the Institute of Aerospace Science and Technology, Shanghai
Jiao Tong University, PR China and was also a visiting academic in the Department of Aeronautics
and Astronautics, National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan. He has been Chair of the Engineering
Psychology and Cognitive Ergonomics International Conference Series since 1996 (now in its 25th
year).

Professor Barrie Johnson is a research professor at both Coventry and Bangor Universities, and
has held honorary chairs at Exeter and Changsha (China) universities. He was one of the first
elected members of the Learned Society of Wales, is a past Industrial Fellow of the Royal Society,
and has held two research fellowships awarded by the US Department of Energy. He has twice
represented the International Atomic Energy Authority in South America, acted as an instructor at
international workshops and given numerous invited, keynote and plenary talks. His research has
been featured in many media outlets and was highlighted by Scientific American as one of “10
World Changing Ideas”.

Professor Manus Henry is Professor of Flow Measurement at Coventry University; Director of the
Advanced Instrumentation Research Group at the Department of Engineering Science, University
of Oxford; and the Head of Laboratory at the Scientific Research Laboratory of Equipment and
Systems Self-Validation, School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, South Ural State
University, Chelyabinsk, Russia. He serves on the BEIS National Measurement System
Programme Expert Groups for Flow Metrology and for Digital Metrology, and as a panel member
for EMPIR. He has been the Associate Editor for the Flow Measurement and Instrumentation
Journal since 2008, becoming Chief Editor in January 2021. He has over 130 granted patents (54
of which were granted since January 2014), mostly in the fields of self-validating sensors and flow

                                                                                           Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
metering. He was a member of the OxVent team which won the 2020 Global Challenge E&T
Innovation Award for the development of a low-cost mechanical ventilator.

We support our ECRs to build external networks, achieve academic recognition and kick-start
collaborations, on the way to becoming future leaders. ECRs are supported in bidding for external
fellowships and can access funding to spend time at collaborating institutions. Examples include:

   •   Dr James Griffin to Deakin University, Australia, supported by an Endeavour Executive
       Fellowship grant from the Australian Government.
   •   Dr Pratik Shukla to the University of Malta, supported by a grant from the Malta Research
       Council; plus another placement to Vellore Institute of Technology, India.
   •   Dr Mostafiz Rahman to Queensland University of Technology, Australia.
   •   UK collaborative fellowships including Dr Matthias Foo to Warwick and Dr Matthew
       England to Bath.

Summary

In conclusion, this submission returns an Engineering Unit that has transformed since 2014. The
scale of the sustained Institutional investment has allowed us to initiate new areas of research at
scale, in partnership with national and global collaborators and partners. We continue on a strong
upward trajectory, supported by a robust Institutional strategy, and with world class researchers
who have been recruited in the last seven years and for whom we have provided mentoring,
support, and development. We are proud of the achievements that we have delivered in a relatively
short period, and look forward to continued success post-REF2021.




                                                                                          Page 28
