Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Derby

 Unit of Assessment: 34- Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and
 Information Management

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and background
 This Unit of Assessment (UoA) brings together colleagues in the School of Humanities and
 Journalism most of whom are located within the College of Arts, Humanities and Education. The
 interdisciplinary UoA includes colleagues in English Literature, English Language, Journalism,
 Media Studies, Publishing, History, American Studies, Creative Writing and Postcolonial Studies.
 The UoA’s Research Strategy has been determined by the imperative to build on interdisciplinary
 strengths and expertise around overarching Research Themes of Identity, Culture and
 Representation in response to increasingly complex societal challenges around objectives such
 as the need to foster development and re-invigorate civic cultures reflecting UoD’s civic agenda
 and the Strategic Framework.

 To optimise our research achievements, underscore our international focus and reflect the vibrant
 multicultural, multi-ethnic and globally interconnected character of modern Derby we have adopted
 a Derbyshire: Local to Global Strategy of nurturing concentrations of expertise to take maximum
 advantage of our socio-cultural, civic and economic milieu in a national and global context and
 serve as a stimulus and resource for pursuing research focussed upon identities, cultures and
 representations. This milieu includes our proximity to the Derwent Valley Mills World Heritage
 Site (DVMWHS), access to the rich resources of City and County museums and archives including
 the internationally-renowned Joseph Wright Collection and Study Centre and World
 Collection Gallery at Derby Museum, Derby Theatre (acquired by UoD in 2009), Derby
 Arboretum (1840) the first Victorian urban public park, and the National Forest in Derbyshire,
 Leicestershire and Staffordshire developed since the 1980s around ancient woodlands and new
 planting to foster regional economic regeneration. We also have a concentration of major country
 houses and historic estates nearby such as Chatsworth, Kedleston Hall and the Peak District
 National Park (1951), the first British national park to be established. Moreover, Derby’s striking
 industrial and manufacturing development is evident from the Silk Mill and Derwent Valley mills
 which helped drive the Industrial Revolution and the oldest continuously operational railway works
 in the world, Rolls Royce, in Derby since the Edwardian period, Royal Crown Derby China
 dating back to c1750, Toyota and Bombardier. In fact, Derby is one of the few British cities whose
 economy still substantially depends upon manufacturing industries and associated technologies.
 These opportunities have helped attract immigrants to the vicinity, especially from the 1950s, and
 Derby has thriving Irish, Eastern-European, Asian, Middle Eastern and Afro-Caribbean
 communities.

 Following the establishment of the College of Arts, Humanities and Education in 2017, a Research
 Strategy for the School of Humanities and Journalism and a major research investment plan was
 devised by Elliott, (Research Lead from 2016) in coordination with colleagues in Arts and
 Education supported by PVC Dean McLay, the Head of School, Hodge and colleagues, which
 saw sustained investment in research capability between 2018 and 2020.

 Inspired by the substantial economic, cultural and social opportunities afforded by our locality,
 region and international and interdisciplinary research interests, the Plan focused upon providing
 support for colleagues to undertake academic investigations and produce high-quality outputs.
 The Investment Plan made a series of appointments to optimise research culture including a
 Research Impact Officer for Arts and Humanities (Barker), three post-doctoral researchers with
 Enlightenment expertise in English, Publishing and History and a Research Administrator for the
 School (Selden).

 The success of the Strategy and earlier initiatives is evident from the number and variety of high-
 quality research publications produced by the UoA such as monographs, the range and depth of

                                                                                             `Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 community impacts as evidenced by our three Impact Case Studies on Enlightenment, Irish
 Diasporas and Urban Parks and Tree Places (REF3), the close and fruitful interdependency of
 research and teaching, the number of doctoral degrees awarded between 2014 and 2020 (12)
 and research income obtained in the period (£287,000), all of which has helped build a sustainable
 future. The number of colleagues entered in the UoA for REF increased from 24 in 2014 to 32 in
 2020 (27.6. FTE). The proportion of Humanities and Journalism staff who hold SRR is now 43%
 which is above the University’s strategic aim for 30% of staff to be active by 2020.

 Major research projects undertaken by UoA members have included interdisciplinary, international
 studies of gender and society such as the AHRC-funded ‘The Birth Shock’ Project (2013-18) led
 by Hogan, Professor of Arts and Health, which employed films and arts-based methods to change
 understanding and behaviours surrounding pregnancy and the transition to motherhood and to
 produce academic publications and training resources such as a suite of films. International
 studies of identities and social cultures in the UoA have included analyses of Jewish, Irish and
 Indian diasporas by Heywood, McCrory, McMahon, Godsmark and Allwork whilst, Williams
 has researched language and identities in Australian English using sociolinguists and discourse
 analysis. Equally, colleagues such as Holloway, Campbell, King and Philo in American Studies
 have examined the relationship between identity formation, literature, culture and landscapes in
 North America culminating in studies such as Campbell’s monograph on critical regionality (2016).

 The UoA’s interdisciplinary international approach to research is also evident from Elliott and
 Hudson’s collaboration with colleagues in history, geography, English and psychology at
 Nottingham, Nottingham Trent, Goldsmiths, University of London, Manchester Metropolitan and
 Oxford Brookes universities to develop the AHRC funded Centre for Hidden Histories of the
 First World War (2014-17) based at Nottingham University which investigated subjects including
 the British army’s multi-national, multicultural character and the long-term impact of the War upon
 diasporic communities.

 Research monographs published by UoA colleagues include Godsmark’s book on Indian
 citizenship, community and democracy (2018), Allwork’s study of holocaust remembrance
 (2015), King’s study of Cormac McCarthy’s literary evolution (2016), Whickman’s book on
 Shelley, blasphemy, politics and creativity (2020) and Kasule’s collaborative study East African
 Theatre and Performances (2021, COVID-19 delayed). The rich range of other outputs produced
 by UoA members includes books of poetry such as Clegg’s Cazique (2018) and Buckner’s
 Downshifting (2017), broadcast media like McMahon’s radio programmes, exhibitions such as
 Cheeseman’s collaborative productions for Bloc Projects Studios and Gallery, Sheffield (2017-
 18) and performances and theatrical works like Kasule’s Walukagga Omuweesi (2017)
 commissioned by Bakayimbira Dramactors, a Ugandan performance group.

 Thematically, the School and UoA’s Research and Impact Strategy is aligned with the University’s
 strategic plans as summarised in REF5a, especially the imperative to enrich civic society, the
 locality and region, and increasingly, international spheres by increasing the proportion of world-
 leading and internationally excellent research by embedding research engaged practice and
 informed teaching to create a high-quality learning environment; Developing professional and
 academic partnerships to provide solutions to social and industrial challenges by delivering
 academic expertise, knowledge and innovation; Providing a supportive, encouraging and
 sustainable research culture through structures and leadership. The School’s research and impact
 strategies have been supported by the University’s Research, Knowledge and Exchange Office
 (URKEO) constituted following the REF2014 submission (REF5a, 2.1), with additional capacity to
 enable researcher development, facilitate external funding applications and support research
 project management.

 We firmly believe that integrating interdisciplinary research with teaching and engagement beyond
 the academy brings major and lasting rewards for all involved. The focus upon our overarching
 research themes of identity, culture and representation and our Derbyshire: Local to Global
 strategy has helped foster local, regional and national partnerships with community, cultural and
 governmental organisations such as Derby and Derbyshire Museums, Derby Local Studies

                                                                                             `Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Library, Derby and Nottingham City Councils and the DVMWHS resulting in co-produced
 original research and richer public engagement with academic research evidenced by our three
 Impact Case Studies and the examples provided below. Underpinning our Research Strategy is
 the conviction that enthusiastic engagement in high quality research and external engagement
 gives academics authority as intellectual experts, inspires students and colleagues and is integral
 to successful academic life and teaching, enhancing the UoD’s reputation and helping to forge
 and deepen links with external partners and businesses. We passionately believe that research
 stimulated by our focus upon Identity, Culture and Representation and the Derbyshire: Local to
 Global strategy has contributed to a thriving academic culture which reaffirms an inspiring vision
 of intellectual investigation as a motor of social improvement that makes a difference, offers rich
 opportunities for collaboration, engages the public, enriches the student learning journey and
 transforms lives.

 1.2 Unit structure
 To coordinate and support research focussed upon the three key themes summarised in Table 1
 below, the Unit is arranged around one Research Centre: ‘Identity, Culture and Representation’
 (ICR) with an Eighteenth-Century Research Group and a recently instituted Journalism
 Research Group within it which operate by planned and responsive approaches to the
 development of key areas of expertise amongst colleagues. This coherent and sustainable pooling
 of research interests enhances the thematic strands, energising the development of the research
 environment, and nurturing collaborative work. Our organisational structures provide intellectual
 foci to facilitate disciplinary and interdisciplinary strengths, while supporting staff, managing the
 structured coordination of relevant research-related events such as regular seminars, symposia
 and conferences, and distributing funding to targeted projects for specific outcomes.

 Chaired by Hudson until 2018 and subsequently by Whickman, the ICR Research Centre reflects
 the focus of much of our research upon critical analyses of identities, including civic and diaspora
 identities and our work upon the role and status of different forms of culture and how these are
 represented in literature and the arts. It has members from across the College and the University,
 including PGR students and Early Career Researchers (ECR), whose research overlaps and
 coheres around our key themes. Chaired by Elliott, the Eighteenth-Century Research Group
 examines many aspects of culture and society between c1660 and 1830 taking advantage of
 opportunities presented by our Derbyshire: Local to Global strategy such as the rich resources
 available in local libraries, archives and museums (see Section 1.1). Critical discussions at
 meetings have enabled members to improve the quality of their publications and respond to the
 peer-reviewing process. In 2018 and 2019 for instance, there were presentations by Whickman
 (Shelley and religion), Harley (material culture and the 18thc labouring population), Gowrley
 (Horace Walpole and the Strawberry Hill collections) and Lafford (poetry and health of John
 Clare).

 To strengthen research cultures in Journalism, which recruits well for undergraduate and
 postgraduate students but only had one academic colleague with a doctorate Ebel, the REF-
 Investment Plan funded a Graduate Teaching Assistantship in Journalism with doctoral bursary
 (Wood, appointed 2018) and a Professor of Journalism was appointed in September 2020
 (Steel), whilst Perch, Head of Discipline and other colleagues are working to achieve our MRes
 qualification (see Section 2.2 below). Led by Steel, Ebel and Wood, the Journalism Research
 Group investigates the media dimensions of ethics and regulation, censorship, political
 communication and trauma and news work. Other key themes being explored are regional news
 and sustainability, historical analyses of the press, digital platforms and audiences and finally,
 pedagogy and journalism.

 The School’s research is guided by the University’s Research Ethics Policy and Code of Practice
 and supported at College level by an infrastructure providing the ethics and management
 processes. Regular meetings between Heads of Discipline and Research Leads identify issues
 that feed up to the College Research Committee (CRC) and College Research Ethics Committee
 (CREC) as required which report to the PVC Dean and University Research Committee (URC).


                                                                                              `Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Encouragement and support for research in the college is also provided by the University
 Professorial Council (UPC).

 All research activity in the School is aligned to the three overarching ICR themes with associated
 sub-topics led by the ICR Research Centre:

 Table 1: Identity, Culture and Representation sub-topics and researchers
                        Sub-topics                           Researchers
                        Gender,        power,       bodies, Larsen, Hogan, Gowrley,
                        Enlightenment                        Marsden
                        Conflict, memorialisation            Allwork, McLay, Hudson,
                                                             Elliott
  Identity
                        Colonialism, postcolonialism, McCrory, McMahon, Kasule,
                        language, communities                Neuhaus, Godsmark, Allwork,
                                                             Buckner, Clegg, Heywood,
                                                             Hudson, MacMahon, Penry
                                                             Williams
                        Print, publishing cultures           Feely,   Harley,  Watkins,
                                                             Marsden, Cheeseman
                        Material, economic cultures, Harley, McIlvenna, Larsen,
  Culture
                        Enlightenment                        Marsden
                        Heritage                collections, Larsen, McIlvenna, Feely,
                        interpretation                       Allwork
                        Science, health, medicine, Elliott,           Larsen,   Lafford,
                        Enlightenment                        Gowerly
                        Landscapes,           environment, Campbell, Elliott, Barker,
                        literary, artistic cultures, place- Hudson, Holloway, Lafford,
  Representation        making, music history and King, Penry Williams, Callow,
                        cultures                             Watkins,   Philo,   Tullett,
                                                             Whickman


 Our three ICR themes, which develop from the range of UoA research across the disciplines,
 provide intellectual foci and enable staff support, the structured coordination of relevant research-
 related events (seminars, symposia and conferences), and distribution of funding to targeted
 projects for specific outcomes.

 1.3 Research and impact strategies
 UoA and School Research and Impact Strategy and vision has been determined by the
 University’s strategic aims, the requirements of our society, local and regional communities, the
 needs of students and our expertise concentrations. Staff research stimulates learning by
 demonstrating how enquiry leads to new knowledge and understanding which has shaped our
 impact strategy and brought economic, social and cultural benefits to Derby, the East Midlands,
 nationally and internationally. In coordination with the Research Leads (Elliott and Whickman)
 and academic colleagues, the Research Impact Officer (Barker) works across the School to
 gather evidence of impact and support research culture whilst Allwork (URKEO) and has played
 a major role with Barker in helping to develop our three impact case studies and maximise
 impacts.

 The UoD Innovation and Research Strategic Priorities (2020-2026) (REF5a, 2.3) sets targets
 for research engagement and scholarship and expects all staff to produce specific outputs
 monitored through their Development and Performance Review (DPR). Our UoA research and
 teaching objectives articulated at School level align with the UoD’s Learning and Teaching
 Strategy based upon three core pillars: (1) student employability, (2) teaching quality and (3)
 research in the curriculum which ensure that students undertake activities including formal practice
 placements, real-world learning and work-based projects. Key actions against each of the strategic
 areas targeted by the UoA’s Research Plan are summarised below:

                                                                                               `Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1. Fully integrating research and teaching:
 The Research Leads for the UoA have overall responsibility within the School for embedding
 research into the teaching portfolio supported by Hodge, the Discipline Leads for Humanities and
 Journalism: Neuhaus and Perch, professorial colleagues and senior researchers. Our
 pedagogical Research Strategy capitalises upon the diverse socio-economic community of UoD
 students, typical of post-1992 universities, including a relatively high proportion of mature and part-
 time students with current or previous careers. Most come from the Region and already have
 strong links with its social and cultural life and are therefore a less transient body than at
 universities with wider national intakes.

 Our focus on student-centred research and engagement has enhanced impact opportunities,
 fostered pedagogical innovation and enabled students and academics in partnership to take
 advantage of rich regional archival, material and industrial archaeological resources in partnership
 with community and heritage organisations. One example of our research-led teaching approach
 is the leading role we have played supporting the East Midlands Centre for History Teaching
 and Learning. Larsen, for example, was Centre convener (2017-2019) when it was hosted by
 UoD. Another is the annual Public History Conference organised by Larsen and Whitehead in
 which undergraduate history students have organised, promoted and led annual themed
 conferences since 2008. Pedagogical impacts have included publication of an essay collection on
 the First World War written by students based upon conference presentations edited by Larsen
 and Whitehead, Popular Experience and Cultural Representation of the Great War, 1914-1918
 (Newcastle, 2017).

 The pedagogical Research Strategy’s effectiveness is equally evident from the development of
 our MA in Public History and Heritage led by Feely and McIlvenna in partnership with Derby
 Museums and Derbyshire County Record Office (who co-designed and co-assess the
 modules), in which students undertake research projects and dissertations in partnership with
 varied cultural and heritage organisations. Likewise, the number of undergraduate students who
 have published their research or disseminated it to public audiences and proceeded to doctoral
 study at UoD and elsewhere including Tonks, Schoppler, Knight, Pyne, Banks and Roe. Banks
 for instance, was winner of the Royal Historical Society/ History Today Undergraduate
 Dissertation Prize (2015) for her research on First World War British military service tribunals
 which drew upon local archive materials. Her essay was published in History Today (2016) and
 she is completing a doctorate at UoD on the subject. Likewise, after pursuing her degree and
 masters at UoD, Tonks is completing a doctorate at Birmingham University on ancient Egyptian
 iconography and British material culture, c1830-1930.

 2. Fostering collaboration and building partnerships
 The UoA’s positive and meaningful relationships with professional and external academic partners
 has made a striking contribution to the UoD’s strategic intention that research, knowledge creation
 and innovation be focused on making practical, positive differences to people’s lives – regionally,
 nationally and globally. Particular UoA and School strengths are our wide-ranging relationships
 and collaborative partnerships with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences.

 The range of UoA professional and academic partnerships with colleagues in other universities
 are a particular boon, which feeds strongly into teaching, research and staff development. For
 example, McIlvenna has collaborated with King’s College, London and Kingston University to
 develop a Wellcome Trust-funded project on professional health in the Victorian Post Office.
 Likewise, Cheeseman works closely with colleagues at Sheffield University where he is an
 Honorary Senior Research Fellow in the School of English. Kasule’s book on African performance
 and theatre was co-authored with Okagbue of Goldsmiths, University of London whilst Hudson,
 an authority on Balkan history, is a long-standing member of international academic research
 networks including the European Non-Territorial Autonomies Network and the Annual
 International Conference on European Integration Committee hosted by University American
 College Skopje, North Macedonia. Whickman and Lafford collaborated with colleagues at
 universities across the region and beyond to re-launch the Midlands Romantic Seminar as a
 forum for interdisciplinary research into Romantic studies.

                                                                                                `Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Partnerships with organisations associated with the DVMWHS have been sustained between
 2014 and 2020. History team members including Elliott and Feely serve on the DVMWHS
 Research and Publications Committee which engages in historical, heritage and industrial
 archaeological activities that further academic study, support public engagement with the region’s
 history, promote international engagement with other United Nations World Heritage Sites, and
 publishes studies which further these objectives through its Educational Trust.

 Led by Knight of Trent and Peak Archaeology, the DVMWHS prepared a Research Framework
 document supported by English Heritage to guide the production, direction and funding of future
 research. Elliott was invited to serve on the Research Framework Steering Group which
 included representatives from community groups, professionals, heritage bodies (eg. the
 Arkwright Society), businesses, local government organisations and other stakeholders and
 oversaw consultation meetings at UoD and other regional locations which informed production of
 the Framework. Larsen and Elliott authored and co-authored five of the articles in the publication
 (D. Knight ed., Derwent Valley Mills: World Heritage Site Research Framework, 2016).

 The civic dimensions of research-based partnerships supported by UoA members are equally
 evident from UoA colleagues holding board membership positions at City and regional level
 including Derby Theatre and Derby Museums and Galleries Trust (McLay, 2018 – present).
 Likewise, Derby Irish Centre were partners in McMahon’s ‘Voices of the Irish Diaspora’ oral
 history film which received funding from the Irish Government and contributed to the Impact Case
 Study on Irish Diasporas co-authored with McCrory (REF3, 34-3). To highlight the UoD’s
 partnership with the annual Buxton International Festival, Larsen was invited by Festival
 organisers to present her research on ‘Women and politics in Georgian England’ at the Buxton
 Pavilion Arts Centre (2019).

 The success of the UoA’s pedagogical and Derbyshire: Local to Global research strategies
 combined with its collaborative public engagement is evident from the formation of Peregrine
 Press at the UoD led by Hodge, drawing upon his extensive experience as Managing Director of
 leading non-fiction publishers Carnegie Publishing Ltd. Peregrine Press was created to provide
 opportunities for direct professional experience for undergraduate and postgraduate students in
 Publishing and to further UoD, UoA and School research, civic and public engagement objectives.
 In 2020 for instance, Peregrine Press published Nottingham’s Victorian Green Spaces co-edited
 by Beckett and Elliott based upon the results of an AHRC funded community history project
 (REF3 34-1: Urban Parks and Heritage). In 2017, Peregrine Press published The Derby
 Yearbook which was produced and edited by Brown and other publishing students
 commemorating the fortieth anniversary of Derby gaining city status in 1977. The Book features
 chapters on the city’s history and culture from local, national and international perspectives (eg.
 on the Hindu and Sikh diaspora communities) written by students, Hodge, Elliott and authors
 from local organisations and businesses including Derby Cathedral, Derbyshire Federation of
 Women’s Institutes, Derby Book Festival, Royal Crown Derby, Derbyshire Wildlife Trust, Derby
 Multi-Faith Centre, Déda (Derby Dance Centre), Artsbeat, the Scottish Battlefields Trust, Derby
 Festé, Quad Arts Centre and City Council.

 Another example of the fruitfulness of our long-term research-based partnerships and
 collaborations is our contributions to the British Academy funded Being Human Festivals in
 2019 and 2020. In partnership with Derby Local Studies Library and Derby Museums and led
 by Elliott, Barker and Whickman, the School received a grant of £1,000 from the British Academy
 to undertake a programme of Being Human events in November 2019 including a public exhibition
 co-curated by Barker and Elliott with Henchliffe and Young from Derby Local Studies Library
 entitled the ‘Moonstruck Philosophers’ based upon Elliott’s Derby Philosophers book (2009) and
 a series of guided walks.

 Led by Feely, building upon this, the School received a further £5,000 from the British Academy
 to be a Being Human Hub in October and November 2020 in partnership with Derby Museums,
 Derby Local Studies Library and Derbyshire County Record Office. The Hub celebrated the
 humanities by exploring the Festival theme of ‘New Worlds’ and Derbyshire’s rich global heritage

                                                                                             `Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 was brought to life by a programme of events exploring how ‘new worlds’ have been drawn,
 described, mapped and collected, informed by UoA team expertise. Through digital illustrated
 talks, draw-alongs, public performances and museum takeovers, the festival celebrated the map,
 the museum and the archive. Events included a series of podcasts: ‘Global Derbyshire in 10
 Objects’ in which researchers including Feely, Allwork, Godsmark, Larsen, Gowrley and Elliott
 with archivists, curators and participants collaborated to explore the global connections of
 collection items. There were online creative workshops on mapping, collage, journaling and
 performance and a flash fiction competition, whilst a digital archive of Derby and Derbyshire was
 created and augmented during the Festival. With partners including Young of Derby Local Studies
 Library, the team recorded interviews on ‘Postcolonial Derby’ for BBC Radio Three’s
 Freethinking programme presented by Shahidha Bari, first broadcast on 12 November 2020.

 3. Maintaining momentum and planning for the future
 To maintain research momentum in the School and UoA, the team have identified six key Strategic
 Research Priorities going forward inspired by the UoD’s Innovation and Strategic Priorities for
 Research (2020-2026) (REF5a, 2.3); our three overarching ICR research themes and the
 Derbyshire: Local to Global imperative.

 The first priority is to continue expanding our capability to create knowledge and deliver innovation
 by targeting specific areas of research potential and growth (such as Journalism), increasing the
 number and diversity of professors and associate professors and recruiting new colleagues with
 strong track records in research outputs and research income generation.

 The second research priority moving forward is to continue growing innovation by advancing our
 knowledge through public, private and third sector partnerships to enable innovation and create
 impact, building upon the successes of the ICR Research Centre and Eighteenth-Century and
 Journalism research groups, increasing our public visibility and deepening our achievements in
 research informed pedagogical innovation.

 The School and UoA’s third research priority is to achieve even greater regional impact by working
 with partners and stakeholders to tackle social, environmental and economic challenges, taking
 advantage of our socio-economic milieu, continuing to develop our research on the history and
 cultures of civic life and identities. This will help arrest the decline in trust in civic institutions and
 associated disengagement from civic life and contribute to future research directions. To achieve
 this, we are employing interdisciplinary research to explore civic cultures in contemporary societies
 and historically via methodologically varied, innovative and transformative approaches,
 addressing questions of civic agency and identity, the legitimacy and accountability of civic
 institutions, contested civic norms and the negotiation of civic spaces (see Sections 1.1 and 1.3).
 The fourth strategic research priority is to continue empowering graduates and enabling our
 students to engage in impact driven research and knowledge exchange by increasing the number
 of doctoral researchers and proportion of academic colleagues with doctorates and creating new
 ‘PGR Discipline’ roles to aid supervision processes and facilitate recruitment.

 Our fifth research priority going forward is to continue nurturing ecosystems for the UoD and
 partners to commercialise their ideas, for example, by increasing external research funding
 applications.

 The sixth priority is to continue improving performance, efficiency and effectiveness of the
 processes and management of research risk to provide more opportunities for protected time for
 research, writing, support and peer review and funding applications. This is being achieved by
 continuing to develop new and existing successful collaborative partnerships to generate and lead
 funded research opportunities, increasing the significance of research events and conferences,
 increasing the number of visiting speakers, fellows and professors to raise our profile and fostering
 staff expertise and skills in impact and research funding applications.




                                                                                                    `Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy
 To further the research and impact plans summarised above, major investments have been made
 in staff and staff support in the School of Humanities and Journalism and the UoA. Within the UoA
 there are 27.6 FTE / headcount 32 staff with significant responsibility for research, 24 of whom
 have PhDs and 6 of whom are ECR. Taken together these measures at University and College
 level have helped us increase the number of staff submitted for the UoA long term from 14 in 2008
 to 24 in 2014 and 32 in 2020 (27.6. FTE). In total, 43% of Humanities and Journalism staff are
 determined as having SRR, exceeding the UoD’s REF2021 staff submission of 30%.

 The UoA is led by Elliott (2008-present) and ICR Chair, Whickman (2013-present). Other Key
 staff co-ordinating School research include: McLay, PVC Dean, Hodge, Selden, Research
 Administrator and the Professoriate. Hogan is Professorial Fellow, Institute of Mental Health,
 Nottingham, a member of the International Advisory Board for the International Health Humanities
 Network and a Senior Fellow, Royal Society of Public Health; Hudson (1994-2020, now
 Professor Emeritus); Kasule (1993-present); Campbell (FT, 1992-2015, PT, 2015-present).
 Research leadership and support is also provided by Cheeseman, promoted to Associate
 Professor in January 2018 and Allwork, a historian (URKEO). Ebel, Wood and Steel (Professor
 in Journalism) are building research momentum in the discipline (see Section 1.2).

 Our Post-Doctoral Researchers: Lafford (Aug 2018 – present), Harley (July 2018 – present),
 Gowrley (June 2019 – present) and Barker (July 2018-April 2020) have been instrumental in
 nurturing a thriving research culture through their enthusiasm, publications, presentations,
 teaching, mentoring of doctoral researchers, research-funding applications and other activities
 such as Social Media Engagement. Likewise, the late Belsey, our Visiting Professor in English
 and Professor Emeritus, University of Swansea, provided enthusiastic support and
 encouragement to research culture and teaching provision in Humanities. Best known for her work
 on Shakespeare and critical theory, Belsey’s book Criticism (2016) was dedicated to students of
 English at Derby, thereby acknowledging the stimulation she received from UoD students in
 preparing her book, Tales of the Troubled Dead: Ghost Stories in Cultural History (2019). Her work
 and ideas have had a major impact upon the English undergraduate and postgraduate curricula
 and the relationship between Belsey and Humanities at Derby is underscored by the bi-annual
 lectures she gave to English students and her ICR presentations on ghosts and ‘Shakespeare and
 the Real’.

 Engagement in research and scholarship is supported by DPRs, Workload Planning and
 Monitoring processes implemented by the Discipline Leads Neuhaus and Perch. Programme
 Leaders sustain the centrality of research in teaching and learning across their programmes, and
 funds are provided annually on a competitive basis to support research activities and enable
 teaching buyout to make time available (see Section 2.2 below). These colleagues contribute to
 the College and School’s strategic direction supported by the ICR Research Centre and undertake
 important leadership and/or management roles, helping to facilitate external collaborations with
 public and private partners, research funders and organisations such as government agencies. All
 staff are encouraged to take part in the development opportunities summarised in Section 2.2
 including ECR mentoring, teaching buyout and Fellowship Development Schemes. These
 measures underscore our commitment to supporting the development, retention and career
 progression of talented researchers. The mixture of senior, mid-career and ECR colleagues within
 the UoA and opportunities and encouragement for career progression through mentoring helps
 build capacity supported by structures such as the Enlightenment and Journalism research
 groups.

 2.2 Staff Development
 The School, ICR Research Centre and UoD are fully committed to equality and diversity which is
 reflected in research development and REF planning. The University has invested decisively to
 support research and encourage those from under-represented groups and ECRs to achieve its
 Athena SWAN and Equality and Diversity ambitions. Research Strategy helps implement the

                                                                                            `Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University’s Equality and Diversity policies to support greater gender equality and encourage more
 BAME colleagues to apply for promotion through mentoring programmes, the Gender Equality
 Network and other initiatives (REF5a, 3.1).

 All colleagues are strongly encouraged to embrace research opportunities through the University’s
 DPR, regardless of their degree of previous engagement with academic research. Elliott, as
 Research Lead works closely with staff in URKEO to ensure a robust and enriched framework of
 support for research-active or research-interested staff and students.

 URKEO activities include a programme of researcher development (REF5a, 3.4.3), an ECR
 Forum, annual staff research and PGR conferences, monthly ‘research cafes’ for staff and PGR
 students, and support and guidance for external funding applications. Training programmes
 include writing workshops and retreats, introductions and advanced classes on research methods,
 masterclasses on impact, grant-finder and grant-writing workshops, and training sessions on
 employing social media for research.

 The University supports ECR development through the ECR Forum and associated funding
 (£25,000 in 2018/19). Barker for example, was awarded £1,908 in 2019 to support research output
 development. Monthly lunchtime Research Cafés provide a relaxed space to encourage
 networking and share research findings, stories and approaches on how to overcome common
 challenges and access further help. New colleagues are often invited to share details of their
 research, to introduce them to other university researchers and facilitate internal cross-disciplinary
 interactions and collaborations. The Cafés have regular attendances of over 30 people and over
 170 different researchers attended these sessions in 2018-19. In March 2019 for example from
 our UoA, post-doc Harley presented on domestic production and the Industrial Revolution whilst
 in May 2020, Allwork presented on her experiences co-editing The Jews, the Holocaust and the
 Public: The Legacies of David Cesarani for Palgrave Macmillan.

 UoA colleagues have collaborated with colleagues in other disciplines and colleges to support
 research including contributing teaching and research expertise to the cross-University research
 training scheme, the MRes in Social Sciences and Humanities led by Nunn and Cayli in the Social
 Sciences, which includes modules taught by Humanities and Journalism staff. This course
 provides support for more experienced staff and a route into research for those without previous
 experience. Students who have progressed satisfactorily can transfer from this onto the second
 year of the doctoral programme if they choose. The UoD’s Centre for Excellence in Learning
 and Teaching co-ordinates the DELTA: Pathfinder scheme, which provides support for
 colleagues to gain professional recognition for teaching and learning skills by gaining Associate
 Fellowship, Fellowship or Senior Fellowship of Advance HE.

 The School of Humanities and Journalism promotes sustainability and continuity of staff and a rich
 research environment by maintaining a healthy balance of ECRs, mid-career and experienced
 colleagues by supporting and investing in staff colleagues at all career stages, retaining close
 connections with former colleagues and fostering a community of visiting and emeritus professors.
 Of the 32 colleagues (27.6 FTE) being entered in our UoA, 11 (34%) are women and 21 (66%)
 are men and we are aiming to bring this closer to parity for future REF submissions and to
 encourage more women into senior research positions. Our internal REF audit panels consisted
 of two men and one woman whilst the external membership of these was equally divided between
 men and women. Likewise, three (60%) of the five post-doctoral appointments made under the
 2017 UoA Research-investment plan were women: Lafford, Gowrley and Barker and 38% of
 internal research-funding awards were given to women in the academic year 2018-19 and 50% in
 2019-20.

 As a post-1992 institution with a large professional teaching element, especially in the College, in
 Journalism and Publishing, staff are encouraged to develop and strengthen their research profiles,
 study for the MRes and gain their PhD. Journalism successes include Ebel’s research on
 (Re)presenting cover girls in the media in collaboration with Bittelbrun of Santa Catarina University
 in Brazil, sponsored by the Association of Journalism Education and the British Academy’s Newton

                                                                                               `Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fund, which was subject of a UK public lecture tour in 2019/2020 that included presentations at
 University of the Arts London and De Montfort, Leicester, Newcastle, West of Scotland, Paisley
 and Edinburgh Napier universities (publication forthcoming).

 Increasing opportunities for ECRs was a major element of the 2017 Research Investment plan
 and the UoA has increased the number of ECRs long-term from 2 in 2008 to 4 in 2014 and 6 in
 2020, which is 16% of the current UoA submission. Most appointments made were ECRs including
 Tullett, Harley, Gowrley, Lafford and Barker. They have all benefited from UoA research funding
 and support provided by colleagues through ICR and the Enlightenment and Journalism research
 groups. These colleagues and other ECRs in our UoA are also members of UoD’s interdisciplinary
 ECR Forum which uses workshops, lectures and mentoring to facilitate shared learning and
 provides opportunities for ECRs to encourage collaboration on projects and provide additional
 financial support.

 Table 2: Support and development activity available to staff, ECRs and PGR students
                                                                   PGR    ECR     Staff
  Module buy out for fieldwork or writing up                              X       X
  Research seed funding                                            X      X       X
  Staff development activity in conjunction with URKEO                    X       X
  Conference and professional event expenses                       X      X       X
  In house events focused on research and networking               X      X       X
  Scoping and development of support plan and expected academic
                                                                   X      X       X
  outputs for next five years
  Encouragement and support to update staff web pages                     X       X
  Funding for research and dissemination through publications and
                                                                   X      X       X
  conferences
  ECR Forum                                                               X

 All staff are encouraged to embrace these opportunities and to engage fully in ICR research culture
 and our guiding themes. For example, as part of the annual DPR process, in discussion with line
 managers and senior research colleagues, colleagues are required to indicate research outputs
 and objectives, which are then monitored at the year end. Within this process, staff are encouraged
 to seek specific internal or external funding support to enable these outcomes to be achievable or
 other appropriate training, such as on PhD supervision. Across the School of Humanities and
 Journalism, there are biannual opportunities for funding to facilitate research and collaborative
 work. This has supported partnership projects with external organisations such as Kasule’s
 research on performing and storytelling traditions and conference presentations in Africa in 2017.

 At College level there are additional opportunities for funded staff development and research
 activities, advertised on an open-call basis. Applications for funding can cover:
    • new research projects that lead to high quality outputs and impact and/or successful future
         grant applications.
    • external research development events or programmes.
    • travel, accommodation, or subsistence for presenting papers or posters at international
         conferences.
    • specialist events to be hosted within the College.

 The UoA has used funds to buy out teaching time to support research, conference participation
 and networking and the REF. For example, Heywood received time to support his research into
 Jewish diasporic cultures. This collaborative, developmental strategy has helped increase
 research capacity, encourage quality outputs, and develop international activities. New staff are
 guided by line managers and mentored by experienced staff in supervision and on research
 projects. Regular ICR research seminars chaired by Whickman encourage staff and students to
 engage with each other’s work and that of guest speakers and provide opportunities for peer
 review. Likewise, Harley, Whickman, Lafford, Gowrley, Larsen and Elliott have all presented


                                                                                           `Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 material in Eighteenth-Century Research Group meetings which has subsequently become part
 of journal articles or books.

 2.3 Postgraduate research community
 Increasing the number of PGR students has been a key priority for the College of Arts, Humanities
 and Education and the School of Humanities and Journalism. There are currently 21 PGR students
 supported by supervision teams and colleagues, Elliott and the ICR Research Centre. The School
 has benefitted from centrally funded doctoral bursary students some of which were obtained as
 part of the Research-Investment plan (2017) which was intended to support PGR provision across
 the REF cycle. The School was awarded a full doctoral research bursary focussed on History,
 Heritage and Community in the Derwent Valley by UoD after a competition which is currently
 in progress. UoA colleagues have also increased their doctoral supervision experience by
 supervising and examining students in other universities. For example, McIlvenna co-supervises
 a doctoral research student based at King’s College, London as part of a Wellcome Trust funded
 collaborative project working with the Postal Museum, London: ‘Addressing Health: Morbidity,
 Mortality and Occupational Health in the Victorian and Edwardian Post Office’ in partnership with
 Kingston University and University College, London. Likewise, colleagues are doctoral examiners
 at other institutions (see Section 4.1).

 Our increasing academic research profile supported by media engagement and other activities,
 number of outputs and growing research income has helped attract PGR applications and the
 PGR community currently has 21 PhD students in Humanities and Journalism. During the REF
 assessment period there were 17 completions of which 5 were PhD by publication and distance-
 learning students. The other 12 completions included theses on Japanese gardens in Edwardian
 Britain (Schoppler), Victorian elite women’s correspondence (Flint), horses in the First World War
 (Flynn), conflict in the Niger Delta and corporate social responsibility (Nwankwo) and faith brands
 in the religious development of East Midlands churches (Hodder). Additionally, the School has
 increased taught postgraduate provision through a general MA in Humanities and separate
 masters courses in Publishing, History and Heritage and other subjects, which facilitate interface
 between staff, PGR and undergraduate research, fostering a thriving research culture and
 encouraging progression to doctoral study.

 The School has a range of support mechanisms for the training and supervision of PGR students,
 overseen by Elliott and Whickman supported by the College Research Committee and following
 University processes as detailed in REF5a, 3.4.5. A dedicated online management system, PhD
 Manager tracks and supports student progress, facilitating interface between students,
 supervision teams and the Postgraduate Research Office, with specified time allocations for
 supervision meetings. PGR supervision follows clear processes defined in the University’s PGR
 handbook. Our PhD Manager system tracks and manages procedures at each stage, recording
 meetings from both student and supervisor perspectives and facilitating communication between
 all three. PGR Framework Supervision is conducted centrally by research-qualified and
 experienced staff, with advisors on supervision teams mentoring and training colleagues,
 supported by peer evaluation.

 School PGR students have dedicated hot-desk study rooms and regular opportunities to
 participate in professional exhibitions and academic conferences, presenting at ICR seminars and
 engaging in UoD research cafes. One PGR student Knight for example, gave an ICR seminar
 presentation about his research on the history of the National Forest in 2019 whilst Singh, another
 PGR student, formed a Decolonisation Network supported by the UoD and organised a project
 ‘Journey from Home’ which facilitated significant community engagement. Table 2 above outlines
 the range of shared support opportunities provided for PGR students and staff, to encourage a
 collegiate research culture across School and College.

 PGR students engage in an MRes programme launched in 2018 (see Section 2.2 above) which
 provides access to many masterclasses in research methods. Additionally, a series of regular
 workshops are provided for PGR students in the College by experienced doctoral supervisors
 including Campbell, Elliott and McLay which offer support for research methods, thesis writing,

                                                                                           `Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 viva preparation and dissemination. The UoD’s revised Post-Graduate Research Framework
 (2019) governs procedures for induction, training, ethics, recording and auditing of doctoral
 supervision whilst the College Research Committee (CRC), which includes PGR representatives
 supports and monitors PGR progress. Students present work at the annual PGR Conference and
 actively participate in the East Midlands Doctoral Network and 3MT competition, and UoD
 student, Singh was runner up in the regional inter-university competition finals.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Members of the UoA have obtained a total of £287,000 in external research funding. For example,
 Hogan has a strong track record of grant capture and was Co-I in the Creative Practice as Mutual
 Recovery: Connecting Communities for Mental Health & Well-Being (AHRC Communities,
 Cultures, Health & Wellbeing Research Grants, Cross-council Programme) consortia bid of
 £1,203,200.00, with a grant of £213,000 for UoD during the assessment period as co-investigator
 and stream lead, The Birth Project, (2013-18) (AHRC grant ref. AH/K003364/1).

 Other examples of income generation include: McIlvenna as Co-I on the Wellcome Trust funded
 collaborative three-year £759,145 project in partnership with the Postal Museum, London:
 ‘Addressing Health: Morbidity, Mortality and Occupational Health in the Victorian and Edwardian
 Post Office’ in partnership with King’s College, London, Kingston University and University
 College, London, who obtained £25,825 (1/10/2019-30/9/2022). Elliott’s collaborative work with
 Professor John Beckett and the University of Nottingham, secured £77,191 from the AHRC in
 2013-14 and £92,467 (£6,154 to UoD) in follow-on funding from AHRC in 2016. This work
 developed from an AHRC Community Heritage Project Challenge Fund scheme and community
 history project in partnership with a range of government and community associations including
 Nottingham City Council and friends of parks organisations. Elliott was a Co-I and Hudson was
 a member of the supporting Academic Network for the AHRC funded collaborative Centre for
 the Hidden Histories of the First World War in partnership with the universities of Nottingham,
 Nottingham Trent, UCL, Manchester Metropolitan, Oxford Brookes and Goldsmiths, which
 obtained £499,702.26 and a supplementary award of £148,898 (£9,945 to UoD). Before her role
 at UoD, Allwork was employed as Impact Officer for the Centre at Nottingham. On her move to
 Derby, she obtained £4,000 for a FWW project on trauma.

 A range of smaller research grants have also been secured by UoA members and methods are
 used to leverage the money received to have greatest impact. For instance, Whickman secured
 £1,410 from AHRC/White Rose College of Arts and Humanities and the British Association of
 Romantic Studies in 2017. This supported public engagement activities and a John Thelwall
 conference leading to additional research engagement with international academics and local
 archives. Feely obtained £1,000 from the Institute of Historical Research in 2014 as part of the
 Scouloudi Historical Award. Harley’s work on material cultures of the poor secured £1,520 from
 the Royal Historical Society, the Economic History Society and Past & Present in 2019, to organise
 a UoD conference on domestic work. Gowrley has been very successful at winning externally
 funded research fellowships and grants from a range of institutions including Folger Shakespeare
 Library, USA, the Library Company of Philadelphia & Historical Society of Pennsylvania,
 Winterthur Museum, Garden and Library and The Wolfsonian Museum, Florida International
 University, USA. Finally, Elliott and Barker with help from Whickman and Larsen obtained
 £1,000 from the British Academy to lead Being Human events at Derby in 2019, whilst Feely
 obtained £5,000 from the British Academy to lead a Being Human Festival Hub at the University
 in 2020.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaboration and contribution to the research base
 UoA research contributions and peer-recognition of these is evident from the range of fellowships
 and external academic positions held by members, including Cheeseman: honorary senior
 research fellow University of Sheffield (2018- present), Folklore Society Council (2013- present),

                                                                                          `Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 American Folklore Society (2018- present); Elliott: honorary research fellow, University of
 Nottingham (2008- present), member of AHRC Peer-Review College (2017-), reviewer for
 Wellcome Trust; Feely: Research Committee of Royal Historical Society (2014-16); Williams:
 honorary research Fellow at La Trobe University, Australia; Watkins: Chair of the Early English
 Drama and Performance Network, which hosts annual symposium for ECRs working in medieval
 and early modern drama and theatre; Visiting Fellow, Centre for Medieval and Renaissance
 Culture, University of Southampton; Hogan: Professorial Fellow, Institute of Mental Health,
 Nottingham; member of the MARCH Network Disciplinary Expert Group; member of UK Research
 & Innovation funded mental-health network (2018); International Advisory Board for International
 Health Humanities Network (2018-). Hogan gave evidence to the All-Party Parliamentary Group
 on Arts, Health and Wellbeing, Research in Arts, Health and Wellbeing Roundtable Meeting, led
 by Lord Howarth (2016).

 Colleagues are regularly invited to present keynote, plenary and guest lectures, for example:
 Campbell: University of Bergamo (2014, 2016, 2019), University of the Basque Country (2016,
 2018), University of Catabria (2020), University of Texas (2015), University of Toulouse (2014),
 University of Turin (2019), University of Venice (2020); Cheeseman: Arts and Humanities
 Research Council (AHRC), Society for Research in Higher Education (SRHE), British Sociological
 Association (BSA), University of Zurich, University of Tartu, Birmingham City University, Wysing
 Arts and Birkbeck, University of London; Hogan: University of Nottingham (2019), Universidad
 Autónoma de Madrid (2018), The Royal Society for Public Health, Health & Wellbeing (2018),
 Paris-Sorbonne University (2016), University of Sevilla, Spain (2016), Keele University (2016),
 University of Sheffield (2015); Holloway: international Cormac McCarthy conferences at
 University of Warwick (2015), Western Sydney University, Australia (2014) and Free University of
 Berlin (2016), ‘Paradigms of Power’ conference, Qatar Community College, Doha (2015);
 Whickman: Newark Book Festival (2017, 2018), The Erasmus Darwin House Museum, Lichfield
 (2019); Elliott: the Garden History Museum, Lambeth, Royal Geographical Society: Institute of
 British Geographers, Derby Museum, the Buxton Crescent Development Trust (2015-19); Lafford:
 University of York (2019).

 Members of the UoA are external PhD examiners: Campbell: Universities of Manchester (2012),
 Nottingham (2013), Kent (2015), the Basque Country (2017); Cheeseman: University of Sunshine
 Coast, Australia (2020); Elliott: Nottingham (2014), Edinburgh (2018); Hogan: Universidad
 Autónoma de Madrid (2018), King’s College, London (2017), Loughborough University (2015),
 University of Chester (2015), University of Aberdeen (2015), School of Art Institute of Chicago
 (2015); Hudson (University American College, Skopje (2017-18). Kasule was External Examiner
 for the MA in African Literature, School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London (2014
 – 2017).

 Editorial board roles, editorships and guest editorships include: Campbell: Western
 American Literature, and ‘The American Literary West’ series, Portal Editions, Spain, series editor
 Place, Memory, Affect book series (Rowman Littlefield International), manuscript reviewer for
 University of Nebraska Press and Routledge; Larsen: Midland History; Elliott: History: West
 Midlands (2014-16), East Midland History (2017-); Kasule: World Scenography, reviewer Peter
 Lang Publishers, reviews editor, African Performance Review; Godsmark: reviewer for Routledge
 Asian Studies; Hogan: Series Editor for Global Health Humanities (Emerald Press) (2018-), Art
 Therapy (2017-), Journal of the American Art Therapy Association.

 Journal Reviewers include: Mariners Mirror and War in History (McLay); Language and
 Literature (MacMahon); Australian Journal of Linguistics (Williams); Urban History (Harley);
 British Journal for the History of Science, Urban History Review, The Eighteenth Century, Urban
 History (Elliott); Journal of British Studies, Publishing History, Contemporary British History
 (Feely); Journal of American Studies, Western American Literature, Mosaic, Modern Fiction
 Studies, Interventions: Journal of Postcolonial Studies (Campbell). Sims contributes an annual
 essay on ‘Theory on theory’ to the OUP journal The Year’s Work in Cultural and Critical Theory.



                                                                                            `Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Peer recognition for research is also evident from the number of academic prizes awarded to UoA
 colleagues, their membership of judging panels and society committees. For instance, Campbell
 received the first REWEST Federico Eguiluz Award for Distinguished Achievement in Western
 American Literature and Culture (University of the Basque Country, 2018); Kasule: President,
 African Theatre Association (July 2012-present) and panel judge for Wole Soyinka Prize for
 Literature in Africa; Buckner: adjudicator Ver Open Poetry Competition (2018); Hudson: Vice-
 Chair of the European Non-Territorial Autonomies Network (2019–present); Lafford: John Clare
 Society, board member. UoA contributors such as Elliott, McLay and Feely have published
 comment pieces and feature articles informed by their research expertise in the regional press
 and broadcast media. Elliott has been interviewed by the Independent (29/8/2015) Daily
 Telegraph (3/10/2015) and Guardian (27/10/2020) newspapers, BBC Radio Derby and BBC Radio
 Three about the topics of Enlightenment, gardens, public parks and tree places. Likewise, Feely
 has been interviewed by BBC Radio Derby and BBC Radio Three in relation to the history of
 libraries and political history.

 4.2 Public engagement and profile activities
 Much of our research impact has been structured around the Identity, Culture, and Representation
 themes. Here are some examples:

 Identity
 Public facing work on social identities, postcolonialism and diasporas (including creative outputs)
 has included Kasule’s research on African performance and creative outputs, Allwork’s projects
 on the Holocaust and Jewish diasporas; Cheeseman’s research with museums, galleries and
 Heywood’s investigations of Jewish folk and story-telling traditions. Heywood has investigated
 the Marks-Khymberg tradition of Jewish storytelling - a corpus of 3-4,000 narratives preserved
 orally by surviving female members of an Anglo-Dutch Jewish family murdered in the Holocaust.
 The research has had wide social impact through public performance, workshops and teaching
 activities, including seasons of weekend performances and short courses run through House of
 the West Wind, a knowledge exchange partnership with UoD. Heywood has presented his work
 at the George Ewart Evans Centre for Storytelling, University of Glamorgan, University of South
 Wales (7/3/2014) and at the Folklore Society, Warburg Institute, University of London (17/9/2014).

 Culture
 Further examples of UoA staff applying their research expertise to public projects focussed upon
 culture and heritage include Heritage Lottery funded community history work (Harley, 2015
 present) and Arts Council funded evaluation work (Barker, 2014-April 2020). Allwork is a
 member of the Peer Researcher Team for study of the impact of COVID-19 on public engagement
 professionals and the engagement work of universities launched by the National Coordinating
 Centre for Public Engagement; Cheeseman is trustee of Bloc Projects, an arts organisation and
 gallery. Allwork was invited to be a member of the Steering Group for an Imperial War Museums
 project funded by the Museums Association Esmee Fairbairn Collections Fund: ‘Connecting,
 Sharing and Learning – sustaining relationships between collections and older communities during
 COVID-19’ which explored ways to bring the Imperial War Museums Battle of Britain collections
 to older people living in care homes during the pandemic.

 As noted above, Larsen, Feely, Whickman and Elliott work closely on public engagement with
 the DVMWHS and other county organisations including Derby and Derbyshire museums,
 Derbyshire County Record Office and Derby Local Studies Library. For instance, Elliott and
 Barker organised a public conference on ‘Humanities, Heritage and Public Policy’ (July 2018)
 hosted by Derby Museum which included contributors from Derby, Chester, Kent and Dalhousie
 (Canada) universities, Derbyshire County Council and the DVMWHS. Whickman and Elliott co-
 organised the John Thelwall at UoD conference in 2017; Whickman and Lafford have led a re-
 launch of the Midlands Romantic Seminar (2019-present) and Feely and Whitehead co-
 organised the Pentrich Rebellion Anniversary conference (2017).




                                                                                           `Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Representation
 Examples of the public impact of UoA research into representations and experiences of place
 include Feely’s contributions to the Arts Council-funded Great Places scheme for the Derwent
 Valley and the Friends of Friar Gate Bridge (2018 – present); the Urban Parks and Tree Places
 impact case study led by Elliott (REF3, 3-1); talks about gardens and walking by Larsen at
 Derbyshire National Trust properties and public walks around parks, gardens and other green
 spaces such as an Elvaston Castle tour for Derby Walking Festival in 2019 led by Barker,
 Elliott and Buckner with public readings of Buckner’s poetry themed around trees and
 experience of green places.




                                                                                        `Page 15
