 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of the West of England, Bristol

Unit of assessment: 32 Art & Design

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context and Structure
The unit conducts research focusing on the complex and mutable relationships between
established and emergent artistic practices, technologies, communities of practice and their
impacts in the wider cultural and industrial sectors. This is carried out in both scholarly and
applied contexts, most significantly through a sustained body of practice-as-research. Two
University-recognised Research Centres – The Centre for Fine Print Research (CFPR) and the
Digital Cultures Research Centre (DCRC), provide the interdisciplinary foundation for research in
this unit, enhanced by a suite of Research Groups, providing incubation and support for research
activity outside the Centres.

This submission comprises research based in the Faculties of Arts, Creative Industries and
Education (ACE) and Environment and Technology (FET). This vibrant and interdisciplinary
research environment with its loci in creating critical focus and innovative research, informed by
present and past artistic practices, in turn shapes future academic practice. CFPR and DCRC sit
within a broader university environment where “Research with Impact” was prioritised as one of
the four core themes of the UWE Bristol 2020 Strategy.

CFPR undertakes research that spans 19th century historical photo-print processes to 21st
century industrial print technology and fabrication, specifically the properties and performance of
colour, ink, paper, ceramics and glass. More recently CFPR has expanded its applied materials
research into graphene, textiles and the bi-products of agriculture and the paper industry. CFPR
is an internationally renowned leader in its field, bridging the boundaries of arts, engineering and
industry. The team includes interdisciplinary researchers from: art and design, chemistry,
physics, engineering, product design, architecture, computer science, ceramics and robotics.

Led by Parraman, CFPR’s ethos and motivation is in interrogating good design through expert
understanding of materials, fabrication, product design, fine art, imaging and in holistic expertise
and specialisms in artefacts and objects. In 2019 CFPR was awarded £7.7m funding from
Research England’s Expanding Excellence in England (E3) fund for an extensive research
progamme which will include innovative surface print, design and fabrication in 2 and 3
dimensions combining a multi-technology approach to novel materials and processes. Four core
themes guide this programme of work: ‘Novel Print Processes and Materials for Physical and
Tactile Surfaces’, ‘Establishing the Canon of the Artists’ Print from a Practitioners’ Perspective’,
‘Innovative Print Technologies for Reconstructing Historic Reprographic Methods’, ‘Industry and
Transformative Technologies for Practice-led Design’, each developed from established practice
within CFPR’s core activity.

DCRC, led by Rose (submitted to UoA34) but including Mosely, Schuman and Embury from
this unit, has as its core focus the interrogation of established and emergent digital technologies
to create practical approaches to responsible digital futures in the arts and wider creative fields.
In addition to those named above, DCRC supports researchers across this unit, providing critical
and practical space within which to test, iterate and develop practice-based digital research. The
scale and complexity of DCRC’s engagement with the rapidly changing dynamics of the creative
economy led to its swift expansion and the creation of the Creative Economy Lab (CEU) in
January 2017, a complementary, multi-disciplinary research and impact unit supporting a wide
range of research in digital media, economics, geography, urban planning, media industry
studies and arts practice. DCRC is housed in Bristol’s Watershed Media Centre, and offers real-
time cutting edge research opportunities to work with burgeoning technological artistic practices
that test and research the creative economy in situ.



                                                                                              Page 1
 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research Groups, encouraging an active research culture outside of the Faculty’s Research
Centres, include the Visual Culture Research Group (VCRG), a group of cross-disciplinary art
and design practitioners, historians and theorists interested in visuality and visual culture.
VCRG’s purpose is to generate new knowledge and innovative methodologies by putting
practitioners into conversation with writers, critically exploring the relationship between ‘making’
and ‘thinking’, practice and theory and an overarching concern with challenging cultural
representations of under-represented groups.

Document + Location (D&L) generates practice-led research developed by UWE academics
working across different disciplines in response to an interest in specific locations, intersecting
researchers within an Art & Design practice with colleagues in Architecture, exploring the way in
which these locations are communicated and consequently how they are understood.

The emerging Drawing Research Group (DRG) explores the expanded role of drawing across
interdisciplinary contemporary practice, and comprises art and design practitioners from both
academic and technical departments. These groups offer a venue for articulation of research
ideas and an interdisciplinary development space for artistic practice and research development.

Research and Impact Strategy 2014-20
Closely aligned to the University’s Research 2020 strategy, the broad spectrum of research
conducted by UoA staff is integrated through a shared research-with-impact strategy that had
four main aims:
   (i) To produce internationally excellent research that has real world impact and contributes
         to a sustainable economy and society.
   (ii) To enable staff to undertake ambitious projects – developed through partnerships,
         collaboration and co-creation with regional industry and stakeholder networks – as the
         platform on which national and international research-with-impact is based.
   (iii) To support and grow a diverse complement of PGRs, PDRs and Fellowships in order to
         broaden the UoA’s research base and ensure sustainability.
   (iv) To contribute to UWE’s mission to be a locally-embedded civic university with national
         and international reach.

To ensure that activities within the unit exemplified the University’s overarching strategy to
produce world-class performance in selected areas of research that meets the needs of a
sustainable economy and society, and feeds the scholarship and enquiry underpinning our
learning and teaching. (UWE Research Strategy 2020), the unit’s Centres and Groups
prioritised, and continue to prioritise, research that is highly ambitious and collaborative.

CFPR supports individual research and researchers within a broader framework of developing
partnerships and collaborations with industry, artists and cultural institutions and internationally
significant research. Unit researchers are tasked to work with a variety of business, industry,
practicing artists, cultural institutions and civic stakeholders as active partners, responding to
their interests, needs and priorities whilst undertaking rigorous conceptual enquiries in order to
address significant issues for the arts and creative industry sector as a whole. CFPR is tasked
with engaging actively in industrial innovation and public debate, ensuring that their research
informs and is informed by the most up to date knowledge, expertise and thinking.

DCRC supports individual and collaborative research in digital media and creative technologies.
This sits alongside an overarching strategy to encourage staff to undertake ambitious projects to
demonstrate culturally engaged methods and practices developed through collaboration and co-
creation with regional industry and stakeholder networks. This provides a platform for DCRC to
engage with academic, industry, cultural and third-sector partners on a national and international
stage.

Research Groups (VCRG, DRG, and D&L), based within ACE, organise seminar series, invite
talks from a range of academics, practitioners, cultural intermediaries and policy leaders from
across the country and further afield, in order to provide a supportive and stimulating research

                                                                                                 Page 2
 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
environment in which PGR students and postdoctoral fellows sit and work alongside academic
staff, industry leaders and artists. Support for the development of individual and collaborative
projects and production of high quality outputs is provided through mentoring and peer review.
These groupings are outward-facing, encouraging and supporting researchers to build real world
impact into their research activity at every level, beginning with the conception and design of the
research project itself.

Achievement of Strategic Aims during the Reporting Period
During the reporting period, the unit focused on fostering a research culture within its primary
centre – CFPR – and outside of that nucleus through DCRC, Research Groups and individual
practitioners and researchers. CFPR has increased substantially its range of collaborations and
reach into materials development and industrial design, leveraging funded programmes of work
to solidify its position as a leading international centre for interdisciplinary print technology
research.

To encourage staff to undertake ambitious research projects within the wider research culture,
and providing a framework of intellectual rigour, time, and support mechanisms for progression
to larger scale projects, a programme of internal research investment was made available to
academic staff through the REF period, working at a number of scales of activity and career
stages, led both centrally and at Faculty level:
     the Vice-Chancellor’s Early Career Researcher scheme (VCECR), supports outstanding
       early career researchers to undertake preliminary research that can be developed into
       major funding applications and outputs;
     the Vice-Chancellor’s Interdisciplinary Research Challenge Fund (VCIRCF), encourages
       cross-Faculty collaborations in direct response to UWE’s Research Beacons;
     the Vice-Chancellor’s Accelerator Programme for Mid-Career Academics (VCAP), a
       tailored programme to build research skills and confidence, to make new collaborations,
       develop strategic approaches to research, and deliver applications for significant external
       funding.

In addition to these strategic opportunities at University level, the ACE Faculty provides five
competitive schemes – ECR applications are considered separately to ensure parity – that
support the unit’s research: (i) Research Support Time (RST) provides dedicated research time
to complete research projects and generate internationally excellent outputs; (ii) the Research
Collaboration Fund (RCF) provides up to £12,000 to support staff working with colleagues
across UWE, other HEIs and industry; (iii) the Research Impact Fund (RIF) provides money to
further impact activities and gather evidence; (iv) the Research Publicity and Dissemination Fund
(RPDF) enables staff to promote their research inside and outside the academy; (v) the
Research Group Scheme encourages the creation of new research groups around strategically
significant themes and supports the ongoing work of established Groups (for examples of these
awards in the unit, see section 2).

To increase capacity to win external funds for research, the Faculty ran a 6 month pilot
Mentoring Scheme in 2017 led by Professor Jon Dovey for eight ECR and mid-career
researchers, and also invited 11 selected staff to an intensive bid-preparation Summer School in
2019 for emerging researchers. Since early 2020 the Faculty has run a Priority Bidders’
Programme which targets support for researchers who are less experienced in external bid-
writing and planning, and in 2021 a Faculty Peer Support Programme will be launched to provide
1:2:1 peer support to staff who are less-experienced in writing external grant applications,
particularly Early Career Researchers (ECRs).

In order to facilitate take-up of these programmes, a series of research workshops in 2017
brought research-active and new researchers together to consider how creative arts research
could be further articulated and developed within the University. A Manifesto for Arts Research,
published at the conclusion of this series, provided a summary of findings which has been
employed in part to develop the future research strategy outlined below.


                                                                                             Page 3
 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Subsequent to this programme of work, during this REF period, researchers in the unit have
developed foundational activity in print technologies and practices (Chamberlain), colour theory
(Webb), reportage illustration (Embury), the practice of theory in HE Art education (Rintoul),
narrative devices in material objects (Laidler), aging and dress (Franklin), curatorial practice
(Morrissey), and documentary photography (Schuman). A community of artists’ books practice
has been established thanks to the work of Bodman, which has led to the creation of a network
hub - expanding the field of practice and connecting geographically isolated artists in countries
such as Australia, Brazil, Russia and South Africa and public understanding of artists’ books
through participatory projects, exhibitions, publishing and events. Other key initiatives include a
‘realistic physical model (manikin) for simulated medical training in abdominal surgery’ (Huson),
‘Glassworks: an interdisciplinary exploration of digitally aided fabrication’ (Jorgensen); impact
and dissemination through ‘Queer Visibility: Thirty years after Section 28’ (Miles) and reportage
illustration (Embury).

These internally funded projects are designed to encourage external bidding, alongside
publication and exhibition of work. Notable downstream successes that have benefitted from
prime funding under these scheme are Bodman’s development of an international artists’ book
creators network and Nordic Culture Point (2020), Embury’s subsequent publication of
Reportage Illustration: Visual Journalism (Bloomsbury, 2018), and Webb’s award of a Joseph
and Anni Albers Foundation Residency Fellowship (2020).

Both DCRC and CFPR prioritise programmes of outward facing dissemination and impact.
DCRC’s stewardship of the REACT (Research & Enterprise in Arts and Creative Technology)
AHRC Cluster connected researchers from the arts and humanities with many creative
businesses to make new prototype products and services. As a whole, REACT funded over
30,000 hours of work in 53 collaborations between 73 academics and 55 businesses. Within this
unit for example, REACT supported Laidler in work to develop digital tools to extract the colours
from an image and display them proportionally as transpositionally mediated prints, creating a
sustainable commercial output.

Future Plans 2020-25
The unit’s overarching aims for the next REF period are to:
  (i) Increase the breadth, scope and diversity of its externally funded projects, strengthening
        their international reach and ambition.
  (ii) Enhance the scale, range and impact of its collaborations and partnerships with other
        HEIs and creative providers locally, regionally, nationally and internationally.
  (iii) Further strengthen its PGR culture with a particular focus on developing collaborative
        doctorates and building on the legacy of the 3D3 AHRC Centre for Doctoral Training as a
        centre for practice-based research through international collaborations.
  (iv) Further integrate PGRs and PDRs into the unit’s research culture to help ensure
        continuity and sustainability across its research activities with a focus on increasing the
        diversity of its research base.

Alongside these specific aims, UWE Bristol’s own 2030 Strategy identifies four Research
Beacons; Digital Futures, Health and Wellbeing, Sustainability by Design and Creative
Industries; in response to UK Government’s Industrial Challenge Strategy and UWE’s strengths
and capabilities in interdisciplinary research (see Institutional Statement). Three of these four
(Digital Futures, Sustainability and Climate Change Resilience, Creative Industries and
Technologies) speak directly to this unit’s strengths in creative practice and impactful research,
and have seen researchers and groups within the unit benefit from strategic investment towards
the end of this REF period and into the next.

Furthermore, Bidding Action Plans are in place within the E3 programme, aimed at increasing
the international reach of CFPR’s work with selected partners. These respond to the four core
themes within the strategic structure of E3 (see above) and are supported by bidding teams
within E3 comprising Professors, Associate Professors, Research Fellows and Business
Managers.

                                                                                             Page 4
 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Research Groups (VCRG, DRG and D&L) are charged with developing bidding in line with
UWE’s Research Beacons, building early stage networks and developing programmes of work at
a foundational level with a view to grow and sustain their research trajectory. Additionally,
individual researchers are supported through Research Bidding Support, an interventionist
programme of writing and development enabling the design of projects and submission of
funding bids by researchers whose work is situated outside of Research Centres.
Underpinning these aims are a series of Faculty initiatives to support the implementation of
research strategy:
    The ACE Research & Curriculum Group was set up in September 2020 to integrate ACE
       research into curriculum design.
    UWE’s Professional Development Programme for Researchers: Invest in Yourself,
       proposed for 2021 onwards and led by RBI, provides researchers (from PGR to Professor)
       with development/training, from becoming successful independent researchers to gaining
       leadership skills for senior researchers.
    ACE Faculty Peer Support Programme for external bidding is proposed for 2021 onwards,
       assisting in developing early stage ideas into clear and compelling proposals. In particular,
       this programme addresses the need for support for first-time grant applications, especially
       those by early career researchers, and Fellowship applications.
    ACE Priority Bidders programme coordinates RBI support for a priority list of bidders
       (updated annually).

The unit recognises the importance of establishing a mature research base outside of Centres
and, while CFPR and DCRC will continue to provide research leadership through 2021-25, a
staged plan to build research capacity and ambition outside of these Centres is also in place. To
that end, the unit will benefit from a programme of internally-funded researcher development via
doctoral opportunities from 2021-2027. These will be aimed at ECRs within the unit and
comprise 18 doctoral (PhD, DPhil and EdD) opportunities. The focus will be on further
developing a practice-as-research community across the unit, leveraging the Manifesto for Arts
Research (see above) as a tool for good practice and rigorous research performance.

The unit also recognises the important contribution made by non-academic staff within the
institution, and in order to develop its research culture further, particularly amongst practice-led
researchers, staff employed in a technical teaching capacity will be encouraged to bid for
internal funding support alongside their academic colleagues. These funding programmes will
also be opened to Associate Lecturers employed on a permanent basis.

These actions, it is intended, will result in a broader, more diverse base of strategic beacons-
aligned research activity generating excellent research and feeding curriculum development and
teaching, representative of the ambition to grow activity right across the unit and develop new
streams of work.

Section 2. People

Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
The unit’s strategy is to recruit and promote high-achieving researchers at all career stages. This
is achieved by a combination of investment, coaching, and culture development, with a specific
focus on equality, diversity and inclusion. The unit encourages interdisciplinary research,
providing opportunities to form collaborations across subject disciplines and within the broader
University and Faculty structures.

The unit continues to recruit and promote researchers at all career stages as demonstrated by
the addition of D’Agnano, Klein, Karim, and Butler at Associate Professor, and Schuman,
Jorgensen, Rintoul, and Morgan, at Senior Lecturer/Research Fellow, during this REF period.
Also during the period, Johnson, Jorgensen and Parraman were promoted to Associate
Professor, and Parraman subsequently to Professor.


                                                                                               Page 5
 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Investment
Investment in the unit is targeted at all research career stages.

Recipients of the institutional awards noted in section 1 in this unit during the REF reporting
period include: Johnson (2020, VCIRCF) to explore how to support women with learning
disabilities to make infant feeding decisions; Morgan (2020, VCECR) on digital processing for
biomaterial design and Calvet (2020, VCECR) on Surface Scanning; Parraman (2019,
VCIRCF) to re-imagine musical interfaces through printing tactile surfaces in collaboration with
practitioners and Jorgensen (2019, VCAP).

Recipients of Faculty funding through the awards noted in section 1 above during the REF
period include: Chamberlain (2017-20) to develop a body of practice-as-research exploring the
language of etching and brutalist architecture; Laidler (2019-20) exploring print and post-digital
practice; Jorgensen (2018-20) establishing interdisciplinary collaboration in digitally aided glass
fabrication techniques; Rintoul (2018-20) and Johnson (2017-18) outlining the merging of
theory and practice in art schools nationally; Embury (2018-20) establishing internationally
recognised work in reportage illustration; Schuman (2019-20) in post-truth photographic
representation; Franklin (2018-20) addressing the relationship between aging and fashion
design; Morrisey (2017-20) instigating and supporting a national arts curation programme with
the schools sector; Parraman (2017-18) supporting network development in artists’ print
editions. These awards have produced numerous outputs, collaboration, network opportunities
and further external funding awards.

In 2020, inter-faculty collaborative schemes were established to promote cross-disciplinary
research with a longer term goal of encouraging external funding applications for large scale
projects. The Faculty of Health and Applied Sciences and ACE awarded collaborative funding to
Karim for the early detection of hypoglycemia in Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) via graphene-based
wearable electronic textiles, Johnson for exploring the perceptions of health visitors and charity
workers on the use of artworks as a tool to promote discussion with new mothers, Huson for bio-
based antimicrobial food packaging by 3D-printing against high-threat foodborne pathogens, and
Mercier for exploring the role of drawing as a research tool for collecting data in medical
practice. Research Network Funding in 2020 was also awarded to Johnson for Immersive
Visual Cultures, an emergent project addressing the development of innovative approaches to
writing with art as an immersive experience, as opposed to writing about art, in the context of
visual culture pedagogy.

Coaching/Professional Development
Staff who have particularly benefitted from investment and career coaching during this reporting
period include Jorgensen; employed in a New Blood post (50/50 research/teaching) in 2017,
supported through internal funding, he went on to gain an AHRC Fellowship award in 2019, and
was subsequently promoted to Associate Professor in 2020; Morgan; employed as a Wallscourt
Fellow (50/50 research/teaching) in 2018, was mentored by Parraman through UWE’s
Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice, and subsequently won a VCECR award in 2020;
Parraman promoted to Associate Professor (2015) and subsequently to Professor (2016),
mentored by Hoskins to succeed him as CFPR Director, led the successful Expanding
Excellence in England (Research England) award to CFPR in 2019.

The Facuty’s Senior Lecturer Summer School supports early career researchers through the
articulation of their work as suitable for competitive funding. Embury, Chamberlain and Laidler
took part in this programme (2018-19), and all now have externally funded projects in progress.
Bespoke support for external bidding is provided by the Faculty’s Grant Capture Group which
provides individual mentoring toward external grant submission. Morrissey and Embury are
supported in 2020 through this programme. Personal Development Reviews for all staff in the
institution address the development of research interests on an annual basis, and are overseen
by the Associate Head of Department for Research.



                                                                                             Page 6
 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Culture
Within the academic year cycle, an annual Research Celebration Event typically takes place in
June bringing together researchers and projects across the whole ACE Faculty for a combined
research symposium and promotion of the year’s activity. High profile communications within the
Faculty are provided by the University’s internal communications channels, including a weekly
news digest, which has included research-specific editions. CFPR’s 21st Anniversary was
marked by a series of events in summer 2019, inviting researchers from outside the Centre
inside the processes and partnerships that comprise existing and emerging projects. A series of
workshops was convened in 2017 to consider how creative arts research could be articulated
and developed within the University. The Manifesto for Arts Research, published at the
conclusion of this series, provided a summary of these findings and was distributed across the
Faculty and wider University. Research Groups and individuals are also encouraged to develop
visible research outputs. For example, the Drawing Research Group convened its first Drawing
Symposium (2019), including artists and educators from the UK and Europe, building on their
Drawing Review exhibition, showcasing practice within the Faculty (2019).

Research-active staff are further supported by the Faculty’s Associate Dean for Research and
Innovation, its Director of Research and Associate Heads of Department (Research) who
allocate from a pool of £30,000 for conference presentations and operate the competitive
research funding schemes noted above, organizing review panels that scrutinize applications in
terms of research excellence, career progression and alignment with research strategy, liaise
with department heads about workloads and monitor progress and outcomes against agreed
targets.

UWE’s Research, Business and Innovation unit (RBI) provides additional support through
monitoring and disseminating research opportunities and best practice, running a broad range of
research and impact events, workshops and training sessions linked to the Vitae Researcher
Development Framework, as well as supporting bid development and evaluation through the
University’s Peer Review College (including Parraman), and assisting with impact evidence-
gathering.

CFPR and DCRC each recruit visiting fellows and professors to extend their research base.
Visiting scholars and artists have included Anita Taylor (Bath Spa University, 2015), Stanley
Donwood (2016), Sir Peter Blake (2017), Alma Daskalaki (Crafts Council, 2018), Jessica Ho
(Hong Kong Design Institute, 2019), and Joseph Pranfield (National Gallery, 2020) amongst
others from industry and the arts. These scholars play an active role through mentoring staff and
PGRs, providing access to global networks, sitting on advisory groups, and collaborating on
projects, conferences and symposia.

UWE is fully committed to the Researcher Concordat as evidenced by holding the HR
Excellence in Research Award since 2012, and has a Researcher Skills Development
Programme that provides bespoke support for research staff’s career development. UWE also
provides development programmes in Research Leadership and Invest in Yourself, a
programme of workshops designed to hone the skills necessary for a successful research
career. A dedicated Researchers’ Forum for Research Associates, Research Fellows and Senior
Research Fellows provides a venue to exchange ideas and best practice, discuss matters of
common concern and provides a voice for the researcher community (see Institutional
Statement).

Equality, Diversity & Inclusion
Within a broader framework of EDI initiatives, UWE has signed up to the Athena SWAN
principles and currently holds bronze institutional status (since 2013, renewed in the context of
its wider scope in 2017). Athena SWAN at University level includes a priority action to raise
aspirations of women to become research leaders. Activities to achieve this include actively
promoting the Women in Research Mentoring Scheme (WRMS), considering women’s research
careers in the PDR process, monitoring uptake of University investments such as VC ECR

                                                                                            Page 7
 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
awards by gender, and considering unconscious bias and equity in recruiting staff and PGR
students, allocating time and in allocating resources to attend conferences (see Institutional
Statement).

The unit benefits from a series of intervention strategies within the institution, designed to foster
equality of opportunity across all research-active staff. The WRMS (in place throughout this REF
reporting period) pairs women researchers with other more experienced researchers to increase
the number of women in senior roles and enhance the research careers of women. Over 300
mentees have been supported by the institution during this period, including 32 in the unit’s
home Faculty. Specific to 2020, the WRMS has addressed the challenges facing women
researchers recently, partly prompted by the disproportionate impact of COVID 19 and lockdown
on their ability to publish and progress their research careers. This initiative has included Butler,
as Head of School for Art & Design, and Parraman as Professor in CFPR.

The Faculty’s Critical Race and Culture Research Network (CRCRN) brings together
scholars, students, alumni and independent researchers who are engaged in exploring questions
in relation to race and culture within their discipline areas. CRCRN acts as a repository of race
and culture related research studies to act as a database for future reference, and
a solidarity base for scholars, students, alumni and independent researchers to build a visible
presence and research profile of this area of critical study. CRCRN is contributing to Bristol City
Council’s Bristol History Commission, established in 2020 after the events of the summer to re-
examine the history of the city as it pertains to Bristol’s role in the slave trade, Chartism, the
Suffragette movement, and more.

The Faculty has also established an EDI task force (2020), with a specific remit to decolonise the
teaching curriculum.

Within the unit, staff have been identified as having SRR and outputs selected in accordance
with the University’s Code of Practice. This includes selecting outputs based on quality as
determined through a peer review process involving senior researchers and external experts. As
stated in the Code, there was no expectation about the number of outputs any one individual
contributed. Where it was necessary to choose between outputs with the same quality score to
reach the required total, account was taken of the distribution of outputs between individuals and
across the subject areas of the submission.

Research Governance and Integrity
The Faculty Ethics Committee supports staff across the unit adhering to rigorous ethics
processes and preparing ethics approval applications, underpinned by the University’s Code of
Good Research Conduct. Support from this committee provides training and guidance and
addresses conduct with regard to research methodology including work with human subjects,
interview design, GDPR requirements for data storage and maintenance, and public involvement
within creative practice.

Ethics approval is mandated prior to any project’s commencement of such activity, and is
conducted in a transparent, visible process, guided by a number of documentary sources:
    UWE’s Research Governance Record collects all information as to the status of a research
      project in a single place, and provides active guidance and risk management throughout
      the lifespan of all research activity.
    A Research Governance intranet site provides framing advice covering principles, legal
      and regulatory provisions, standards of good practice, policies, guidance, systems,
      management and supervision.
    From January 2021, the Faculty Research Governance Management Group, including
      Parraman and Johnson, will meet quarterly to increase engagement with governance
      across the unit’s research community.
    Processes addressing Research Misconduct are documented, with infringement and
      investigatory procedures clearly outlined in line with UKRIO guidance.


                                                                                               Page 8
 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research Students/Post-Doc Fellows
The unit’s doctoral cohort is largely centred within two streams of activity:
   The Research England–funded E3 programme (starting in 2020)
   AHRC-funded doctoral training programmes.

E3’s funded students are investigating a range of research topics including ‘Cultured Crystals in
Contemporary Jewellery’, ‘Printed Images as Repositories of Gesture’, and ‘The role of Print
Artists in understanding changes in landscape in the Anthropocenic Age’. These map against
core research themes identified in E3 (‘Transformative Technologies for Practice-Led Design’,
‘Innovative and Disruptive Print Techniques’, and ‘Novel Print Processes and Materials’ see
section 1).

Since 2014, funded research scholarships have been provided through the UWE-led AHRC-
funded Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) programme in Digital Design, Arts and Media (3D3).
Over the five years of 3D3’s instantiation, UWE-based students have enjoyed the benefits of the
research expertise and additional facilities at Plymouth and Falmouth Universities including co-
supervision. Through the founding partnership with REACT, (AHRC 2012-16) 3D3 PGR students
have been connected to various SMEs, arts and cultural organisations engaged in emergent
digital concepts, design and media technologies and their international networks. Through the
Student Development Fund, they have undertaken extended training activities including
placements that have developed their practice and enhanced their employability. Using
Consortium Development Funding, 3D3 co-ordinators have organised various seminars,
workshops and training events that have included a focus on research impact, networking,
partnership building, establishing a public research profile and enhancing future employability, IP
and community research ethics. There have been several workshops focusing on Practice as
Research and annual international summer intensives in Berlin, Linz (Ars Electronica), Finland
and Lisbon. CFPR currently supervises 3D3 projects examining ‘City Migration’, ‘3D Woven
Materials’, ‘Inkjet Printing in Textile Design’ and ‘Mixed Filament 3D Printing’.

Participating in the 3D3 consortium reinforced UWE’s reputation nationally and internationally as
a centre of practice-based research. As a result, 3D3 was awarded 12 National Productivity
Investment Fund (NPIF) studentships (6 UWE-based) in 2017, each a collaboration with an
industrial partner that guaranteed training and access to facilities, a variety of internships and
placements and in some instances co-supervision. These students formed an interdisciplinary,
collaborative Design Futures Lab (DFL) the aim of which was to reshape industrial technologies
and processes through embedded practice-based research. These relationships extended 3D3’s
existing industry-academia collaborations through a sustainable and growing network of co-
located incubation spaces, providing collaborating partners with the research capacity needed
for sustained growth, enhancing their economic potential and contributing to an expanding
regional industrial and creative economy. Within this unit, 4 NPIF PhD researchers were
attached to supervisors in CFPR, researching ‘Human-Computer Interfaces’, ‘Data-Driven
Design for Wheelchair seats’, ‘Underglaze Transfer’ and ‘Alternatives to Pixel-Based Colour
Rendering’.

In 2017, 3D3 was awarded further funding to establish six Creative Economy Engagement
Fellowships enabling the consortium to extend its existing engagements and to create the
potential for substantial economic growth and productivity. CEE Fellowships address several
core themes of the Industrial Strategy, combining a focus on sectoral needs in the health,
tourism and heritage industries with enquiries into the uses of emergent immersive technologies
and the changing nature of creative labour. The Fellowships are collaborative and
interdisciplinary, fusing artistic and creative practices with computer and coding skills and,
although mentored and closely monitored, have considerable scope for independent research.
Across the Faculty as a whole, PGR conferences are held annually to encourage best practice
and develop a supportive PGR research culture. The University-wide Graduate School, formed
in 2012, provides robust research governance through a consistent and rigorous framework for
monitoring progression, as well as organising supervisor training and a range of student
workshops and residentials that are mapped to the Vitae Research Development Framework.

                                                                                            Page 9
 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Faculty’s Director of Research administers the PGR study fund, dispersing £15k annually to
support conference attendance, equipment purchase and professional development activity
within the PGR cohort.

The unit continues to recruit and supervise PGR students across all its research themes
including self-funded PGRs researching topics such as ‘Feminist Theory and Dress’, the
‘Expanded Field of Drawing Practice’, ‘Gallery Education and Curation’, and ‘Print Narrative and
Landscape’.

The unit has continued to focus on enhancing the diversity, quality and completion record of its
PGR students and to extend its complement of Post-Doctoral Research Fellows. Two bespoke
taught modules – Research Methodologies and Research Portfolio – have provided a tailored
programme supporting arts and humanities research projects, complementing the generic
training provided by the University’s Graduate School. UWE’s leadership of the 3D3 Centre for
Doctoral Training has created a step change in PGR provision, training, and completions with 12
doctoral awards by 2019/20. Through its reputation as a leading centre for practice-based
creative technological research and training, UWE was invited to be one of two additional
partners in the reconfigured South, West and Wales AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership
(SWW2: 2019-24), led by Bristol University with Aberystwyth, Bath Spa, Cardiff, Cranfield,
Exeter, Reading and Southampton Universities. UWE plays a full part in the recruitment, training
and supervision of SWW2 students.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research Income
In this REF period, unit researchers have been successful in gaining income from a wide range
of funding bodies, including AHRC, EPSRC, KTP, Heritage Lottery Fund, Research England and
the European Commission (Marie Curie). Overall, the unit secured a substantial increase in
external income: from £2.8m over the REF2014 period to £4.6m in this REF period. Total income
secured since 2014 is £11m.

The unit has responded to UKRI’s strategic priorities and spending plan 2016-2024, which states
that: ‘Real World Problems are inherently interdisciplinary. To make progress and for translation
to occur, the expertise of different disciplines must be combined’. Unit staff have been
particularly successful in gaining cross-disciplinary funding that benefits real world applications,
as demonstrated for example by their Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and collaborative
research projects with industry (see examples below).

Funding Strategy
The unit has traditionally focused its efforts with regard to external funding income on the
activities of the CFPR. Here, institutional support (Research Manager 1.0FTE) and capacity exist
and can be leveraged, alongside long standing partnerships, to build bidding and project
management capacity. Inter alia, this has led to CFPR being awarded funding from Research
England’s Expanding Excellence in England (E3) programme to enable a step-change in the
scale and scope of CFPR activities, to capitalise on current strengths and capacity to develop
new and innovative ways of working. This has enabled the centre to significantly scale up its
staffing from 10 FTE prior to the E3 award to over 30 within the project’s scope. Moving forward,
CFPR’s priority is to capitalise on the body of work within E3, and secure external funding to
provide surety for the research centre as the E3 funded period draws to a close. To that end (as
described in section 1, above), CFPR is focused on expanding their funded research portfolio
and capitalising on the staff appointments made through E3, in particular Karim, Klein,
Jorgensen and D’Agnano’s wider connections and experience in industrial collaboration
outside of a traditional arts base.

In order to build capacity outside of CFPR, the unit is the beneficiary of investment annually to
provide workload for research-active staff to develop, prepare and submit external funding bids.
These build on internally funded programmes of work, and include support from RBI teams in

                                                                                            Page 10
 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
order to develop ambition and external funding applications, especially addressing work
originating outside of CFPR’s remit.

Significant grants, in chronological order, awarded during the REF reporting period include:

Bristol and Bath by Design - What is the Value of Design in the Bristol and Bath Region?
(2014-2016) (AHRC and Design Council.) This major research project (£697k), led by Parraman
and Hoskins, undertook a comprehensive analysis of the value and impact of design in the
region. Using quantitative and qualitative methods, the team articulated the social and economic
value of design, in addition to assessing the nature and quality of the regional design networks.
The project created an alternative framework for understanding and evaluating design in the
region. These findings were of benefit to research councils, government, HEIs and industry.
Published findings have been cited by the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial
Strategy.

A collaboration with the universities of Bristol, Exeter and Cardiff (2015 – 2017) funded by the
EPSRC, Re-Distributed Manufacturing and the Resilient, Sustainable City, total value
£491,658 (CFPR £73,500) was led by Hoskins. This project concentrated on the issues of
resilience and sustainability in manufacturing looking at design, logistics, operations
management, infrastructure, engineering systems, geographical sciences, and mathematical
modelling.

Klein (2017) was awarded an EPSRC Manufacturing Fellowship (£1,238,329) for a project on
the reinvention of old printing technologies, such as Woodburytype and Lippmann photography,
in collaboration with the School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Leeds, Hewlett Packard
Enterprises and Siltech Europe.

Jorgensen (2019) won an AHRC/ Early Career Innovation Fellowship to consider ‘Smart
Tooling for Ceramic Profile Extrusion: New Approaches to Industrially focused Interdisciplinary
Practice Based Research’ (£201k). This Fellowship explored how digital fabrication technologies
could be used to establish new approaches with a ceramic profile extrusion technique that
extends conventional capabilities to provide new creative and commercial outcomes. The project
partners were the Centre for Window & Cladding Technology, Wienerberger Ltd, Sibelco UK,
Ove Arup and Partners Ltd.

As noted above, in 2019 CFPR (led by Parraman) was awarded £7.7M from Research
England’s Expanding Excellence in England programme .This progamme will more than
double the scale of current activities, expand the scope and reach of leading-edge research, and
extend the scope of collaborative R&D with multiple industry partners.

Knowledge Transfer Partnerships during the reporting period have addressed the application
of research undertaken in CFPR leading to new opportunities for economic growth. These
include:
     Huson (2018) with Craven Dunnill Jackfield (£184k), to explore ceramic encaustic tile
      production and historic architectural ceramic restorations in order to embed 3D digital
      fabrication technologies combined with traditional craft skills.
     Hoskins and Huson (2015-17) with Burleigh Pottery (£129k) sought to combine digital
      print technologies with 19th century underglaze ceramic printing to retain an industrial
      heritage. The research proved the concept of using digital technology to create rollers and
      flat plates was possible using new methods, and tackled the issue of retaining the art of the
      engraver by adapting and embedding the process into Burleigh’s design and production
      workflow, with a combination of digital and traditional skills. This project was shortlisted for
      the 2018 Times Higher Awards for the Most Innovative Contribution to Business and
      gained a special commendation.

Smaller research awards include:
   Walters (commenced 2014), to explore ‘Bio-Inspired Control of Electro-active Polymers for

                                                                                              Page 11
 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Next-Generation Soft Robots’ (£5k, ESPRC).
     Parraman (2018) an NPIF (£14.5k) funded project with Bristol Legible City, to scope and
      research appropriate methods of tactile map making and maps for the visually impaired
      that could improve their navigation around the city of Bristol.
     Walters (2017/18) to develop multi-material 3D printing for the fabrication of human body
      supports for multiple sclerosis patients, and to investigate postural support systems for
      wheelchair users with MS, to help improve trunk stability and reduce tremor.
     Huson (2018/19) to develop a realistic physical model (manikin) for simulated medical
      training in abdominal surgery, using 3D scanning, 3D CAD and 3D printing technologies to
      fabricate physical components that closely resemble the look and feel of human abdominal
      anatomy.
     Jorgensen (2018/19) for ‘Glassworks’, an interdisciplinary research sandpit to test new
      approaches with Fused Deposition Modelling 3D printing technology and glass investment
      casting.
     Bodman (2018/19) on ‘Artists’ Books in Australia, Brazil and the UK’, considering aspects
      of artists’ books in Australia and Brazil with further links to Australasia and South America.
      This was developed as part of a project to investigate links and histories that have led into
      current practice.
     Laidler and Buxton’s (2014) project ‘Colourstory, to extract colour profiles from artworks
      and transpose to new forms’, was a successful recipient of the REACT support scheme.
     Johnson and Miles, (2019) looked at ‘Greenham Women Everywhere’, an exploration of
      the oral histories of these protests, funded by Heritage Lottery Fund (£5,000).

PGR Training Grants
UWE was a partner in AHRC PGR training awards to the value of £2.3m for the 3D3 CDT (2014-
19), plus £900k for 12 NPIF studentships (2017); £329k for six Creative Economy Engagement
Fellowships (2018-19), an additional £30,243 AI Fellowship (2019); and a further £314,650 for 4
NPIF AI studentships (2018). As a member of the AHRC South, West and Wales DTP (2019-
2024) led by Bristol University, UWE shares in a £9.25m award. In addition, the CFPR’s
international profile attracts an increasing number of self-funded postgraduate students and
currently has 16 PhD students registered.

Other Phd income includes:
   Parraman (2014-18) won a National Gallery AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award for ‘2.5D
     & 3D Image Capture and Printing in the Cultural Heritage Field: Evaluation of current and
     developing technologies, potential applications & practical work-flows’.
   Parraman (2019) also won a Science Museum Group AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award
     with De Montfort University and the National Science and Media Museum for ‘Investigating
     Talbot's Experiments in Photomechanical Printing’.
   Walters was supported by Motivation (a global disability charity supplying wheelchairs to
     developing countries): (£5k) for a PhD Studentship to focus on the development and
     testing of data-driven approaches to the design and digitally assisted fabrication of
     bespoke wheelchair seating and postural support devices.
   In 2017 Parraman, as part of a consortium of northern European universities comprising
     the European Advanced Research School (ApPEARS), was successful in gaining funding
     for the management, supervision, mobility and training environment for 13 PhD posts,
     including two at UWE over 4 years.

Facilities
City Campus is UWE Bristol’s creative and cultural industries campus, made up of sites at Bower
Ashton, Spike Island International Arts Centre, Arnolfini Centre for Contemporary Arts and
Watershed Media Centre, and has seen significant capital investment across all of these sites
over the reporting period. The most substantial investment has been to Bower Ashton Campus
with investment of £7M in new buildings to create a new fabrication centre with state-of-the-art
equipment and dedicated space for CFPR, staff and teaching spaces for undergraduate art and
design courses. Watershed facilities, shared with the Pervasive Media Studio, offer studio space


                                                                                            Page 12
 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of 350m2, largely administered through DCRC.

The E3 grant has allowed the institution to invest in some £500k of new equipment including
equipment for a graphene lab, new robotic arms, laser cutters, and a bespoke 3D printer for
developing next generation 3D printable ceramic powder recipes. New lab space includes:
disruptive print and ink technologies, an open plan testing lab for multi-users, ceramic labs for
development of 3D print materials, a ceramic lab for extrusion tests, a ceramic production
workshop, photographic darkroom and studio, traditional print studio, graphene lab for smart
textiles, totalling 850m2, with an investment of £3.5m from UWE.

City Campus also includes Bush House, which UWE shares with Arnolfini, and Spike Island
where several unit staff have studios. Research staff share office space alongside PGR
researchers who have access to two dedicated rooms with computers and desk space located at
Bush House and studio/seminar space at Spike Island. Arnolfini has been, since January 2019,
a subsidiary Charitable Incorporated Organisation (CIO) of the University, which provides further
opportunities for collaboration between the two organisations. Technical facilities include print,
fabrication and machining equipment utilised by academic staff and research units for activities
spanning both teaching and research: Fabrication: 650m2, Print: 696m2 and Fashion: 229m2.
These facilities are subject to an upgrade and replenishment investment of £1M/annum.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaborations and co-creation are central to the unit’s research; its researchers, within CFPR
and without, have partnered with a wide range of organisations on funded projects, regionally,
nationally and internationally. These include local community groups, SMEs, national institutions
and international R&D companies and organizations. Research is delivered via a network of
well-established partnerships with external cultural and industrial stakeholders brokered by the
Faculty, Department, Centres and individual researchers.

UWE’s City Campus holds formal partnerships with Spike Island, The Arnolfini Gallery and
Watershed Media Centre, through which a significant number of research projects are brokered
and delivered.

CFPR enjoys partnerships with HEIs on a global scale including: Gjøvik University College
Norway, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Linköpings Universitet Sweden,
Conservatoire national des arts et metiers Paris France, Justus-Liebig-Universität Giessen
Germany, Technische Universität Darmstadt Germany, Technical University of Denmark,
Università Degli Studi di Milano Italy, University of Ulster Belfast; Universitat Autònoma de
Barcelona Spain, Université de Reims Champagne-Ardenne, France, Pannon University
Hungary, and AKI (ArtEz) Netherlands, as well as University of Leeds, University of Bristol and
Bristol Robotics Laboratory. CFPR’s current (2020) industrial collaboration base includes: Océ
Technologies (France), Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft (Germany), Barbieri Electronic (Italy), Merck
KGaA (Germany), Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt (Germany), 3D Life Prints (UK),
Bristol Medical Simulation Centre (UK), Stratasys (USA).

Insitutionally, and within the research networks of individual researchers and Research Groups,
partnerships exist with the British Museum, the National Gallery, Royal West of England
Academy, the Victoria and Albert Museum, National Museum Wales, Hauser & Wirth Somerset,
Chapter Cardiff, Bristol Museums, Archives and Galleries, SS Great Britain Trust, Architecture
Centre (Bristol), Martin Parr Foundation, Association of Illustrators, Encounters Film Festival, UK
Crafts Council, West of England Design Forum, National Composites Centre, National Trust,
Rising Arts Agency (Bristol) and Knowle West Media Centre.

Contributions to the discipline during the REF period include exhibitions of artwork produced by
unit staff in:
    London (Saatchi Gallery, 2014), Los Angeles (LA Convention Centre, 2015), Moscow
       (Pushkin Museum, 2014), Vancouver (Emily Carr University, 2015), Michigan (University of

                                                                                            Page 13
 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Michigan, 2014), Dublin (National College of Art & Design, 2014), Bilbao (Techarte, 2019)
      and Milan (Salone de Mobile, 2015) (Jorgensen);
     The V&A, Tate Britain, RWA, School of the Art Institute Chicago, National Gallery of
      Australia Canberra and The Print Centre Philadelphia (Laidler);
     Royal Academy Summer Exhibition 2018, National Print Exhibition (2017,18,19), Krakow
      Print Biennale (2015), Woolwich Print Fair (2017, 2018, 2020) and the London Original
      Print Fair (2018) (Hoskins);
     Eugeniusz Geppert Academy of Fine Art and Design, Wrocław (2019), Felios Foundation,
      Athens (2018), Biblioteca Central Cantabria, Santander (2018), Bodleian Library,
      University of Oxford (2018), Gagosian Gallery, Beverly Hills (2016), The University of
      Newcastle, Australia and Art (2016) and Landscape Museum-Reserve, Moscow (2014)
      (Sowden);
     Messina (Galleria d’Arte Moderna e Contemporanea), Puget Sound (Collins Memorial
      Library), Chicago (John M. Flaxman Library, School of the Art Institute of Chicago)
      (Bodman);
     Berlin Museum of Architecture (2018), Edinburgh College of Art (2016), and University of
      Melbourne (2015) (Banou).

Work produced by unit staff is held in permanent collections at the V&A, the Ashmolean
(Oxford), the Pallant House Gallery Collection (Chichester), Tate Modern, and the Royal West of
England Academy (Bristol) (Chamberlain); Yale Center For British Art, Yale University, and the
International Center For Photography, New York (Butler); the Archival Collection for the Paola
and Marco Frascari Room. WAAC Library, Virginia and the Neohellenic Architecture Archives,
Benaki Museum, Athens (Banou).

Unit staff have curated major exhibitions on Photography; ‘Indivisible: New American
Documents’ (FOMU Antwerp, 2016), “Mixtape” (Riga Photomonth, 2016), JaipurPhoto Festival
(2018) (Schuman); and on Artists Books in Moscow (State Historical, Architectural, Art and
Landscape Museum), Santander (Central Cantabria), London (Centre for Book Arts), Preston
(Artlab Contemporary Print Studios) and Plymouth (Counter Art Book Fair) (Bodman).

Bodman and Sowden co-convene the increasingly popular Bristol Artists Book Event (2015,
2017, 2019), welcoming over 13,000 visitors and 103 exhibitors in 2019.

Morgan was Editor of FutureScan Conference Proceedings and Co-Curated the Textile
Intersections Exhibition (2019), and Intersections: Collaborations in Textile Design Research
Conference and Exhibition (2017), both Loughborough University London; Johnson is an
Editorial Board member and reviewer for Journal of Gender Studies and sits on the Academic
Advisory Group at the Royal West of England Academy; Banou is Co-editor on Charrette,
journal of the association of architectural educators. Parraman is an Editorial board member for
IMPACT Multidisciplinary Print Journal and a technical reviewer for Italian Colour Group
Conference; Embury’s work with reportage illustration is supplemented by his role as Editor in
Chief of Reportager.org, providing an international venue for reportage drawing projects; Karim
is Technical Editor for Textile Today.

Hoskins has been an External Advisor for REF 2021, UCLAN Preston, Invited Expert Peer
Reviewer for AHRC COVID-19 grant applications (2020), Expert Reviewer of applications to join
the AHRC Peer Review College (2019), a Member of AHRC Advisory Board (2015-19), External
Reviewer Polish Research Grants (2019) and EU Research Grants (2018), international
reviewer for Hong Kong REF (2019), international independent reviewer for South African REF
(2015/2019); Jorgensen is also a member of the AHRC Peer Review College (2019-present).

Parraman is Chair of the IMPACT International Multidisciplinary Printmaking Conference (2015-
present), and has held the Chair of The Colour Group of Great Britain (2015-17), and the
Honours and Awards Committee, for Imaging Science and Technology, USA (2014-15);
Hoskins was a Jury member for Krakow Print Biennale (2015); Bodman served on the Scientific
committee for the international colloquium ‘L’oeuvre multipliée au prisme de la collection et de

                                                                                         Page 14
 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
l’archive’, Espace d'art Immanence, Paris, France (2019), and was an invited juror on the ‘turn
the page’ artists’ book event, The Forum, Norwich (2016); Butler sits on the Advisory, Executive
and Review Boards of ‘On The Image’ International Research Network, and the Gallery Board at
Open Eye Photography Gallery, Liverpool; Banou is External Studio Critic at the School of
Architecture, Planning and Landscape (Newcastle University), the Liverpool University School of
Architecture, and the Edinburgh School of Architecture and Landscape Architecture (Edinburgh
College of Art).; D’Agnano is curator of the Immersive Architecture Conference Venice, ‘AR-VR
for Architecture and Cultural Heritage’ and was consultant for Triennale di Milano, as technology
expert for the XXI exhibition - ‘New Craft’; Morgan sits on the Review Board of the IMPACT
Printmaking Journal, and the Journal of Textile Design Research and Practice.

As practicing artists within the unit, Morrissey chairs the arts organisation Foreground, which, in
this REF period has sought to bring the work of Douglas Gordon, Tue Greenfort, Jim Isermann,
Cornelia Parker, Lawrence Weiner and Richard Woods into the everyday environment and
provides opportunities for emerging artists to create work for innovative contexts; Laidler is the
founder, publisher and academic lead for CFPR Editions, a commercial fine art print publishing
studio within CFPR; D’Agnano is the founder and technical director of Tooteko, a creative
enterprise which combines 3D printing and electronic sensors in order to let blind and partially
sighted people perceive works of art; Embury co-created the Topolski Institute Residency
programme (annual, 2013-present) which has hosted 42 graduate students for 3 months each
year. Mahmoodian’s work has been recognised through awards from the Humble Arts
Foundation (2016), Time Magazine (2016), British Book Design Awards (2016), and LensCulture
(2015); Chamberlain’s prints have been awarded The Hole editions publishing award (2019),
the Intaglio Printmaker award (2016), and shortlisted for the Jerwood Drawing Prize (2017), and
the John Ruskin drawing prize (2014); Webb has been invited to the Josef and Anni Albers
Residency, USA, in summer 2020 (now 2021 due to COVID); Huson’s contribution to CFPR’s
KTP with Burleigh Pottery was Highly Commended in the Times Higher Education Awards 2018.

Mosely’s work has been extensively published and critiqued in Atkinson, D (2017) 'Art,
Disobedience and Ethics: Adventures of Pedagogy' (Palgrave Macmillan), Wilson, R. (2015)
'Image, Text, Architecture' (London: Ashgate), Smith, E. (2015) 'The Practice of Place' (London:
Architecture Association Bedford Press), and Stott, T. (2015) 'Play and Participation in
Contemporary Art Practices' (London: Routledge, 2015). Mosely’s projects have won awards
from AHRC, Arts Council England, British Council, Rootstein Hopkins Foundation and Institute
Français, for whom he was named Institute Français Laureate (with Sophie Warren) to the
French Ministry of Foreign Affairs for project ‘Architecture of We’; Schuman has contributed
writings to books including “Aperture Conversations: 1985 to the Present” (Aperture, 2018),
“Another Kind of Life: Photography on the Margins” (Prestel, 2018), “George Rodger: Nuba &
Latuka - The Colour Photographs” (Prestel, 2017), “Alec Soth: Gathered Leaves” (MACK, 2015),
“Vision Anew” (University of California Press, 2015), “The Photographer's Playbook” (Aperture,
2014), and “Storyteller: The Photographs of Duane Michals” (Prestel, 2014).

Karim holds patents on graphene-enabled wearables which are attracting significant commercial
and collaborative research interest.

Finally, Bodman delivered the Inaugural Professor Jonathan Osmond Lecture on ‘The Artist and
the Book’ at ‘Livres d’Artistes, the artist’s book in theory and practice’, Cardiff University, Wales
(2015); Parraman has given invited keynote letters at Colour Appearance Workshop, Color
Imaging Conference, Paris (2019), Guanlan Print Forum, China (2018), Japanese Colour Group,
Tokyo, (2019), Colour Group GB Chairman’s lecture, City University, London (2017) and the
Impact Conference, China (2015); Huson has presented 3D printing techniques and processes
at the Museum of Art and Design, New York (2014), Metropolitan Museum, New York (2014),
Pôle Europeen de la céramique, France (2014), Christies, London (2014), Magdalen College,
Oxford (2016), and Kholer Europe, France (2017); Karim gave an invited keynote at 2nd
International Carbontech Conference and Exposition, Shanghai, China (2019).




                                                                                             Page 15
