Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: King’s College London

 Unit of Assessment: 4

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 The Institute of Psychiatry Psychology & Neuroscience (IoPPN) was founded 100 years ago
 as the “Maudsley Hospital Medical School” to pioneer research in mental disorders and
 neurological disease. In the 1990s (as the Institute of Psychiatry) it became a faculty of King’s
 College London (KCL). In 2016, in recognition of the need for greater integration across
 neuroscience and mental health research, it became the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology &
 Neuroscience (IoPPN) by bringing two basic neuroscience departments (the Wolfson Centre for
 Age-Related Disease and the Centre for Developmental Neurobiology) into the Faculty and
 expanding our Department of Psychology. IoPPN contains virtually all staff returned in UOA4 for
 KCL. Our close partnership with the South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust
 (SLaM), the largest mental health service provider in the UK, is critical to our mission, and we have
 deepened links with acute NHS trusts within King’s Health Partners Academic Health Science
 Centre including with the Regional Neuroscience Centre at King’s College Hospital. With 1362
 members of staff and 585 postgraduate research (PGR) students, IoPPN is the largest centre for
 mental health research in Europe.

 Our mission is to “advance our understanding of the nervous system, neurological disorders and
 mental illness and to improve care for those living with mental health and neurological problems
 both locally and globally through world-class research, education and training.”
 To achieve this, we are organised as the following research groupings (see figure 1):
     Four mechanism-focussed areas in neuroscience led by fundamental and clinical
         neuroscientists: Neurodevelopment; Pain and Sensory systems; Injury and Repair; and
         Neurodegeneration.
     Six clinically-focussed research areas led by academics in clinical psychology,
         psychiatry and neurology, and closely integrated with the National Institute of Health
         Research Biomedical Research Centre at the Maudsley (BRC-Maudsley):
         Developmental Psychology and Psychiatry; Addictions; Mood Disorders; Psychosis;
         Psychological Medicine; and Neurological Disorders.
     Three cross-disciplinary platforms orientated around methodology and impact:
         Biostatistics, Genomics and Informatics; Neuroimaging, Experimental Medicine and Trials;
         and Public Mental and Neurological Health.




                                Figure 1: UoA4 Research groupings

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our clinical research areas link to their NHS partners forming integrated Clinical Academic
 Groups allowing rapid translation and implementation to boost impact. Our Public Mental Health
 grouping drives impact through engagement with policy makers, charities and professional bodies.

 Interdisciplinarity is at the heart of our scientific strategy. Our reconfiguration as the IoPPN
 recognised the need for greater integration of psychiatry, psychology and neuroscience. We are
 home to statisticians, epidemiologists, health economists, computer scientists, imagers,
 geneticists, experts by experience, and social scientists. We enjoy rich collaborations outside the
 faculty, including KCL’s Policy Institute, Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, Law school, and
 departments of Philosophy and War Studies to name a few. This interdisciplinary approach is
 exemplified by the MRC Centre for Neurodevelopmental Disorders (bringing together
 fundamental neuroscientists and clinical researchers) and the ESRC Centre for Society and
 Mental Health (bringing together social scientists, epidemiologists, clinical researchers, and
 experts by experience). We have established expertise in patient and public involvement including
 the Service User Research Enterprise, which supports service users to become researchers.

 During this REF period we have made transformative investments into our infrastructure
 including the Maurice Wohl Clinical Neuroscience Institute (a 6500m2 neuroscience research
 institute), high-end AI computing (DGX-2), the Nikon Imaging Centre, and advanced neuroimaging
 including a 7T MRI scanner and PET imaging centre. We have recruited 17 professors, 28 senior
 lecturers/readers and 39 lecturers. We have increased our commitment to an inclusive research
 culture where staff and students are individually supported, and diversity is celebrated. IoPPN is
 proud to have gained Athena SWAN Silver Awards in 2014 and 2019 and to have contributed
 to our university-wide Race Equality Charter Mark Bronze Award received in 2020. Our
 strategy places diversity and inclusion at its centre with our Vice Dean for Culture Diversity and
 Inclusion (McNeil) contributing to decision-making at the highest level.

 The breadth of our expertise and NHS partnerships allows us to serve as a leading destination
 for the training of the next generation of scientists in clinical psychology, psychiatric and
 neuroscience research. At any one time, we train over 30 Academic Clinical Fellows and
 Academic Clinical Lecturers (psychiatrists and neurologists) and 585 PGR students including over
 70 clinical psychology trainees.

 We act as a “hub” for a number of national and international consortia. In 2017, with 13 partner
 organisations, we established the NIHR Translational Research Collaboration in Mental Health
 which provides a national infrastructure for translational research in mental health. With London
 School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine we run the Centre for Global Mental Health. We also
 lead several large-scale European H2020 and Innovative Medicine Initiative grants, including
 industrial collaborations aiming to identify new diagnostics and treatments for people with mental
 health and neurological disorders.

 We expect our academics to take leadership roles in professional bodies and as government
 advisors to enhance impact. Examples include the Wessely review of the Mental Health Act
 [ICS – Mental Health Act]; Chief Medical Officers’ reports on public mental health; MRC and
 DHSC’s mental health research strategies; and the COVID pandemic response [ICS – Disasters
 and Crises]. International efforts include the EU’s ROAMER project on mental health research
 prioritisation and our work as a WHO Collaboration Centre in Mental Health comprising leading
 contributions to the mental health gap (mhGAP) intervention guide (adopted in 90 countries) [ICS
 - Global mental health gap]. Our researchers have chaired and sat on steering committees and
 NICE Guideline groups [e.g. ICS Perinatal Mental Health].

 Our impact case studies focus on several marginalised groups including people with addictions
 (ICS - Naloxone), victims of trafficking (ICS – Human Trafficking) and people receiving in-patient
 mental healthcare (ICS – Safewards). Much of our research seeks to fill evidence gaps in policy,
 for example our work with Military [ICS – Military Mental Health] and our work on e-cigarettes [ICS
 – E-cigarettes]. Through collaborations with industry we have developed new drugs [ICS –
 migraine] and more effective delivery methods [ICS – Naloxone]. Our research has underpinned

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pioneering and agile approaches in a range of areas that bridge physical and mental health, for
 example in menopause [ICS - Menopause] and eating disorders [ICS – Eating Disorders].

 KCL produces more highly cited outputs (top 1% citations) on mental health than any other
 centre internationally (SciVal) and we have risen from 16th (2014) to 4th (2019) in the world
 for highly cited neuroscience outputs on the same metric.

 1.2 Our response to COVID-19
 Our rapid, flexible and comprehensive response to the COVID-19 pandemic illustrates the
 vitality, breadth and depth of our science and collaborations, our leadership in mental health and
 neuroscience, and our commitment to impact. Rubin and Fear both serve on Scientific Advisory
 Group on Emergencies, SAGE and Rubin is chair of the Scientific Pandemic Insights Group on
 Behaviour, SPI-B, responsible for advising government on behavioural interventions (ICS -
 Disasters and Crises) for which he has received the OBE. The NIHR Health Protection
 Research Unit in Emergency Preparedness and Response (HPRU EPR, Wessely and
 Rubin) has conducted wide-ranging research on the pandemic, including the psychological
 impact of quarantine and public perceptions of health measures taken to reduce the spread of
 the virus. King’s researchers from the HPRU EPR have also contributed to the King’s Policy
 Institute’s series of surveys with Ipsos MORI to assess public attitudes, beliefs and behaviour in
 the COVID-19 pandemic Meanwhile Arseneault, Everall, Hotopf and Wessely were members of
 a working group on COVID and mental health research established by MQ and Academy of
 Medical Sciences (AMS) which wrote an influential prioritisation document published in The
 Lancet Psychiatry leading to a UKRI/NIHR highlighted call. Hatch, Hotopf, Rubin and Thornicroft
 have all briefed parliamentarians on behavioural responses to the pandemic and the impact of
 COVID on mental health and diverse ethnic groups.


 In March 2020 King’s established two funding calls under the “King’s Together” scheme to pump-
 prime COVID-19 research projects, leading to eleven awards to IOPPN, several of which then
 went on to leverage external funding.

 We have demonstrated the impact of the virus on the brain in one of the first neuropathology
 studies that showed evidence that microglia were activated, facilitated by the London
 Neurodegenerative Diseases Brain Bank (Al-Sarraj). Animal work has indicated a likely
 mechanism for anosmia (Grubb) and we are using microRNA approaches to knock down the
 essential RDRP protein (Shaw, DRI £100K).

 Our clinical research studies have addressed the mental health and neurological impacts of
 COVID infection. Hotopf co-chairs the mental health, and Chalder the fatigue working groups of
 the national Post HOSPitalisation PHOSP-COVID study. Breen is co-PI of the Urgent Public
 Health COVID-CNS study (MRC £2.65M), investigating the epidemiology, risk factors and
 mechanisms underlying mental, cognitive and neurological health conditions associated with or
 exacerbated by COVID. Our informatics group (Dobson) has used health records to investigate
 the links between ethnicity, pre-existing health conditions and COVID-19 outcomes, and
 developed symptom trackers for use within hospitals to detect future case surges.

 We are also studying the mental health impacts of the pandemic on the wider population. This
 has included work on mental health of care home residents (Aarsland), the NHS workforce (Urgent
 Public Health study, NHS -CHECK Study, Wessely MRC and Rosetrees £562k with work now
 cited in a Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology Note), those from minority ethnic
 backgrounds (Hatch, ESRC £638k), veterans (Fear, Cabinet Office, £148k), adolescents (Morgan
 MRC, £323k) and wider population impacts (for which Young won an MQ fellowship (£224k)). We
 have investigated experiences of people with mental disorders in relation to COVID (Wykes), the
 impact of COVID on NHS mental healthcare provision (Simpson - through the NIHR Mental Health
 Policy Research Unit), the excess mortality patterns in service users (Stewart) and the impact of
 COVID on ethnic minority groups with mental disorders (Das-Munshi, Health Foundation £170k).
 We have studied the impact of the pandemic on the mental and physical health of over 2000 of

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our university work force in the KCL-CHECK study (Hotopf, Stevelink) using this to tailor
 interventions and messaging by the university. Our work includes public engagement – for
 example Sonuga-Barke led the production of the “Families Under Pressure” videos where
 celebrities present evidence-based parenting advice, now being evaluated in a trial (£500k ESRC).

 Finally, King’s Academic Strategy for 2020-21 documents how we support our research activity
 and staff inevitably disrupted during the pandemic. King’s recognises the uncertainties the COVID-
 19 pandemic has raised for ECRs in career progression and has prioritised efforts to support them
 with funds to extend research projects and PhD studentships. King’s remains fully committed to
 supporting research staff in transitioning to the next stage of their careers.

 1.3 Progress against REF2014 strategy
 Our strategic plans in REF2014 are now realised. The establishment of IoPPN from its
 predecessor, the Institute of Psychiatry, represented a commitment to closer interdisciplinary work
 between discovery and clinical science and neuroscience and mental health research. Our
 neuroscience has benefited from the £50M (UKRI and foundations) Maurice Wohl Clinical
 Neuroscience Institute (opened 2016) which co-locates clinical and basic neuroscientists and
 houses the Dementia Research Institute Centre (£15M). The new configuration of IoPPN has
 resulted in a growth in research funding, including an MRC Centre for Neurodevelopmental
 Disorders.

 We have grown and diversified our Psychology Department by recruiting 12 psychology
 research leaders to launch a new undergraduate psychology degree (already rated 11th in the
 World (Times Higher 2020) and 2nd in the UK (Guardian)). These leaders (including one professor,
 2 readers, and 9 lecturers/senior lecturers) bring expertise in psychological models, information
 technologies and computational methods. Their collaborations across IoPPN have already borne
 fruit – e.g. Byrom established an UKRI student mental health network (SMaRteN, £911k), NIHR
 awarded Hoekstra £4.4M to study autism in low and middle income countries, and Fuhrman has
 gained £300K ESRC secondary data analysis funding. KCL is 2nd in the UK for highly cited
 publications in Psychology (SciVal).

 We have consolidated and expanded infrastructure on clinical informatics and digital health by
 establishing the Centre for Translational Informatics (£10M in refurbished space in partnership
 with SLaM). The CTI brings together university data science with NHS informatics groups across
 King’s Health Partners and Health Data Research UK. The Centre hosts our clinical informatics
 tools (Clinical Record Interactive Search (CRIS) and CogStack) which provide the AI tools to
 interrogate electronic health records, now deployed across multiple sites; and mobile health
 platforms (RADAR-Base) providing an open source, “plug and play” platform for remote sensing
 using smartphones and wearables, now widely adopted outside KCL.

 We have progressed translational research through our partnership with SLaM yielding an
 expanded NIHR Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) with the largest increase in peer-reviewed
 funding of any established BRC (£66M, 23% increase). Our BRC is one of only two that focus
 specifically on mental health. Developed in partnership with service-users and carers, its research
 strategy has four overarching goals: novel therapeutics, translational informatics, precision
 psychiatry and bridging the divide between mental and physical health.

 Our links with industry have expanded – particularly in pre-competitive partnerships and
 consortia with pharma: we lead 25% of all neuroscience European Commission funded
 Innovative Medicine Initiative programmes (including AIMS-2-Trials, Murphy €115M). We have
 established the Centre for Innovative Therapeutics (C-FIT, director Mehta) which provides a
 central link between academics and industry.

 Finally, we have progressed applied health research and implementation science through the
 NIHR Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care (CLAHRC) South
 London and its successor Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) South London (combined
 value £19.5M, 2013-2024). This brings together clinicians, researchers and citizens to improve

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 health and care services, and has influenced policy at local, national and international levels,
 including the NHS five-year plan. Our £7M NIHR Global Health Research Unit produces
 research to strengthen health systems in low and middle income countries.

 1.4 Research strategy for the next five years
 With the appointment of Everall as Executive Dean of IoPPN in 2017, we developed a new
 strategy for 2020-2025. A consultation with our staff, students and wider stakeholders (including
 patients and public), helped establish priorities. At the forefront of the strategy is our commitment
 to supporting and developing our staff, led by the Vice Dean for Culture Diversity and Inclusion
 (McNeill) and the Self-Assessment Team that she chairs. We have strived for culture change,
 matching our expectations for academic excellence with our expectations for support, guidance
 and fairness to ensure all staff can thrive (Section 2). The Vice Dean for Research (Hotopf) is
 also BRC Director and sits on the IoPPN Executive, King’s Health Partners’ Executive and KCL
 Research Committee, providing a line of sight across the university and into the NHS.

 Our research strategy draws on national and international research prioritisation and policy,
 population health need, and funders’ stated intentions, by identifying four major opportunities
 and challenges which we seek to address through our interdisciplinary, collaborative approach.
 It guides future investments and is rooted in producing impact.

 Challenge 1: Discovery neuroscience for patient benefit: We will capitalise on the
 multidisciplinary configuration of IoPPN to harness the neuroscience revolution and build ever
 closer links between discovery and clinical sciences. This will deliver insights into aetiology and
 define mechanisms underlying mental health and neurological disorders, providing new avenues
 to diagnosis, treatment and prevention.

 Challenge 2: Digital innovation: We will harness the digital revolution and use advances in
 data science and AI to drive a paradigm shift in clinical care. By using data to predict adverse
 outcomes we seek to prevent these occurring and, by developing digital therapeutics, we aim to
 close the mental health treatment gap.

 Challenge 3: Improving mental health in young people: Recognising that 70% of mental
 disorders start in the first 25 years of life, we will improve the understanding of, and responses to,
 disorders that emerge in childhood and adolescence, with the aim of understanding risk factors
 and intervening earlier to gain better outcomes, leading ultimately to primary prevention.

 Challenge 4: Addressing multimorbidity: In our aging population multimorbidity is the norm
 and as mental and neurodegenerative disorders make major contributions to multimorbidity, we
 will develop the knowledge base to inform strategies for prevention, treatment and policy.

 The IoPPN strategy identified numerous enabling activities which are covered elsewhere in
 this document, including structures to recognise the importance of open and reproducible science,
 support for early career and established researchers, and the development of partnerships with
 industry.

 1.5 Impact Strategy
 Staff are encouraged and supported to develop research leading to patient and population benefits
 and impact is now built into our staff development, appraisal and promotion process.
 Successful impact is celebrated in our annual Research Festival, where staff and students hear
 about the breadth of our research and where findings have been implemented outside academia.
 We train and empower staff to achieve impact by running masterclasses with the King’s Policy
 Institute, offering mentorship to junior staff from those who have attained impact and continuing
 our short impact fellowships. Our historic links with the NHS, exemplified by the large number
 (73) of academic staff returned holding honorary clinical roles with SLaM and other trusts within
 the AHSC, embed the consideration of impact into our research. We encourage staff to build
 relationships across sectors to accelerate impact opportunities, and to take up roles outside the
 university including secondments to the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology and

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 government committees. Impact is driven by cross-sector collaborations illustrated in table 1 and
 expanded upon in sections 3 and 4.

 Table 1: examples of impact supported by our collaborations across sectors
  Sector         Example of mechanism Example of novel impact
                 for impact
  NHS            NIHR            Biomedical Service models and new treatments for
                 Research Centre at the eating disorders (ICS Eating Disorders)
                 Maudsley
  Patients       Service User Research New guidelines and policy on maternal
                 Enterprise                 mental health (ICS – Perinatal Mental
                                            Health)
  Law-makers     Professional Leadership Review of the Mental Health Act by Wessely
                 by senior academics        (ICS – Mental Health Act)
  International  King’s Centre for Global Strengthening of health systems to include
  Policy         Health                     mental health in Ethiopia and Nepal (ICS –
                                            Global Mental Health)
  Industry       Licencing and Intellectual Work on HCN2 ion channel as a target for
                 Property Office            analgesics leading to £250M out-licencing
                                            deal with Merck Inc & new preventives for
                                            migraine [ICS – Migraine]
  Government     King’s Centre for Military Establishing policy for mental health in
                 Health Research            military (ICS– Military Mental Health)
  Wider Society  Engagement         Fellow, Science-Art collaborations – e.g. “Hooked”
                 Science Gallery            an exhibition exploring addiction and
                                            ‘Modern Slavery’ an exhibition on human
                                            trafficking (ICS – Human Trafficking)

 1.6 Open research environment, sharing of data and reproducibility
 KCL is a signatory on the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) and a
 member of the UK Reproducibility Network. IoPPN researchers have championed open science
 by establishing university-wide groups to raise awareness and influence practice and policy. The
 RIOT Science Club started by Westwood (an IoPPN ECR) provides examples of good practice
 and training in Reproducible, Open and Transparent Research. It is now franchised to four
 institutions and has partnered with the UK Reproducibility Network. In June 2020 we hosted the
 first King’s Open Research Conference, with international leaders in the field speaking (e.g.
 Marcus Manufò, Amy Orben and Dorothy Bishop) attracting >1000 participants. The King’s Open
 Research Group Initiative (KORGI), is an action-oriented committee of senior academics,
 librarians and research staff, seeking to influence policies and procedures to promote transparent,
 accessible and reproducible research. We are enacting recommendations including the
 recognition of good open science practice in appraisal, promotions and hiring practice.

 1.7 Supporting research integrity
 The King’s Research Integrity team provides training in this area via the Centre for Research
 Staff Development and the Centre for Doctoral Studies. Within the IoPPN the Vice Dean for
 Research acts as the Research Integrity Champion, with a network of Research Integrity
 Advisors at departmental level who provide support and advice on best practice and encourage
 early reporting of research misconduct. We have a joint R&D Office for IoPPN and SLaM which
 provides tutorials on research ethics and governance to students and to research teams, and one-
 to-one training for new research staff. Both the Joint R&D Office and the College Ethics
 Committee provide guidance on best research practice, assisting researchers to navigate the
 requirements and ensure that KCL researchers adhere to high standards. Our multiple patient

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and public involvement groups, including the BRC Service User Advisory Group and Feasibility
 and Acceptability Support Team for Researchers, provide a means to ensure protocols and
 materials are understandable to patients and participants.

 Researchers are required to follow regulations and policies related to research (e.g. GDPR, health
 & safety, COSSH), keep accurate records, take responsibility for the trustworthiness of their
 research, and be aware of the ethical obligation to weigh societal benefits against the risks
 inherent in their research. The university has updated procedures for investigating and resolving
 allegations of research misconduct to incorporate the requirement to notify funders at the stage of
 an informal investigation should it be deemed necessary.

 1.8 Review of our research groups

 Mechanisms in Neuroscience
 IoPPN neuroscience research themes span mechanisms from genes, cells and systems, to clinical
 translational research, using diverse technologies such as neural stem cells and brain organoids,
 experimental manipulation of neural circuits, electrophysiology, structural and functional imaging,
 and mathematical and systems biology.

 Clinical translation is at the heart of the IoPPN’s research in this area, as expressed in our strategic
 goal Discovery Neuroscience for Patient Benefit (section 1.4), and including the back-translation
 from discoveries in human research to animal models. It is enabled by expertise and infrastructure
 that ensure a permeable interface between preclinical and clinical research. This cooperation
 between basic and clinical science is being applied in areas such as autism, epilepsy,
 schizophrenia, migraine, pain, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and dementias.

 Translation is assisted by the co-location of basic scientists with translational researchers, within
 structures such as the Maurice Wohl Clinical Neurosciences Institute. This strategy has leveraged
 significant programmatic funding straddling the translational divide within each of the research
 groupings described below. It is further enhanced by strong links to partner organisations
 including NHS trusts – notably the regional neuroscience centre at King’s College Hospital, which
 serves the largest population of any neuroscience centres in England – and the BRC-Maudsley
 and CRF translational research infrastructures (see section 3).

 1.8.1 Neurodevelopment and its Disorders (led by Marín)
 Aims: The group seeks to understand how the brain is built and how deviations from normal
 development impact behaviour and cause disease. Its approach is exemplified by the MRC
 Centre for Neurodevelopmental Disorders which brings together basic and translational
 science and involves the study of neurons derived from human patients with neurodevelopmental
 disorders such as autism, schizophrenia and epilepsy.

 Current work and achievements: The group’s diverse portfolio spans the genetic and
 molecular mechanisms underlying neuronal diversity. It uses animal models focussing on
 mechanisms underpinning brain regionalisation including critical periods for experience
 dependent remodelling of neuronal circuits (Mi Science 2018). Research is now explaining how
 circuits come together to orchestrate coherent responses to the outside world including the
 unravelling of the molecular code behind the wiring of populations of neurons (Favuzzi, Science
 2019) and experience dependent modelling of neuronal circuits (Bergami, Neuron 2015). Work
 on cell biology of neurons and glia is uncovering novel post-transcriptional mechanisms of gene
 expression in neurons (Thomas-Jinu, Neuron 2017).

 The group is home to an MRC Programme Grant (Marín), five Wellcome Investigator Awards
 (Berninger, Burrone, Marín, Houart and Rico), one ERC Consolidator (Grubb) and two ERC
 Advanced Grants (Marín, Rico).

 Future plans:


                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Building the Human Brain: Researchers will work to improve understanding of the
        molecular mechanisms patterning the human brain, how cellular diversity is defined in the
        human cortex and the cellular processes underlying cortical folding with the aim of
        investigating how these relate to developmental disorders.
       Neural circuits in health and disease: Focussing on cognitive functions such as working
        memory, decision-making and attentional switching, researchers will provide a structural
        and functional description of the emergence of neuronal circuits that control cognition,
        using the mouse as a model. This will help understanding of cognitive impairments in
        disorders including autism and schizophrenia.
       3D brain culture: With the Francis Crick Institute, the group are establishing human 3D
        brain culture to understand early stages of human forebrain development.
       Computational methods: The group are strengthening computational methods in
        collaboration with Crick researchers who are establishing a satellite group at King’s.

 1.8.2 Sensory systems, disorders and pain (led by Malcangio)
 Aims: The group aims to understand mechanisms of chronic pain, sensory disorders and migraine
 and to translate mechanistic findings for patient benefit. This is aided by the cross-faculty
 Wellcome Trust PhD Training Programme on Neuro-Immune Interactions in Health and
 Disease, which links basic immunologists (Taams) with translational neuroscientists (McMahon,
 Denk) to understand the relationship between inflammation, pain and mental disorders.

 Current work and achievements: The translational headache research group was
 established in 2014 after the appointment of Goadsby. This group identifies neural networks
 responsible for the genesis and maintenance of headache disorders in humans, back-translate
 these into animal studies using optogenetic and chemogenetic approaches (MRC NIRG, Holland)
 and then identify and test novel therapeutics (Akerman, Brain 2020).

 Work on the neurobiology and pharmacology of pain has determined how cytokines,
 chemokines and ion channels contribute to a wide range of pain states (Clark, J Neurosci, 2015).
 A shining example of this research is the identification of a mechanism underlying chronic pain -
 modulation of nociceptor excitability by the ion channel HCN2 (Tan, Nature 2016). A
 Wellcome Trust-funded project to develop blockers of HCN2 ion channels as analgesics has
 reached the Late Lead Optimisation stage and led to a £250M out-licensing deal with Merck
 Inc.

 The group holds extensive Wellcome Trust funding (two investigator awards (McMahon,
 McNaughton) and two collaborative awards McMahon), and an MRC experimental medicine
 award (Williams). It is also home to a H2020 Innovative Training Network (Malcangio), and a new
 pain research theme of the BRC-Maudsley.

 Future plans:
     Neuroimmune interactions: The group will study this area by leveraging the Wellcome
        Trust PhD Training Programme in Neuro-Immune Interactions, for example to investigate
        how extracellular vesicle release by neurons and immune cells regulate chronic pain
        mechanisms, and to explore communication between sensory neurons and infiltrating
        macrophages in neuropathic and inflammatory pain.
     Ion channels: The group plans to determine the role of the ion channel TRPM2 in
        neutrophil chemotaxis, how ion channels regulate and mediate pain and transduction, and
        how they can regulate the constitutive activity of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). It
        will investigate further the role of the ion channel HCN2 in pathological pain states, such
        as migraine and tinnitus (Steel).
     Unexplained pain syndromes: To identify the pathophysiology of complex regional pain
        syndrome and fibromyalgia the group will elucidate mechanisms of auto-antibody mediated
        pain using molecular, cellular and behavioural methods to identify diagnostic biomarkers
        and candidate therapies (Denk, MRC NIRG).



                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.8.3   The Brain and spinal cord injury, regeneration and repair theme (led by Bradbury)

 Aims: The group aims to develop mechanistic understanding of injury, regeneration and repair
 through preclinical research and to translate this into treatments for spinal cord injury (SCI) and
 stroke in humans. Consistent with wider IoPPN strategy this is achieved through developing
 interdisciplinary collaborations. A central goal of the group is the clinical translation of regenerative
 therapies for disorders of the brain and spinal cord.

 Current work and achievements: Research work on fundamental biology of neural stem cell
 lineage and cell reprogramming (Berninger) has made seminal contributions to the possibility
 of converting brain-resident cells into induced neurons (Karow, Nature Neurosci 2018). Research
 on stem cell technology for building functional neural circuits has shown uses of stem cell-
 derived tissue to regenerate neuromuscular circuits and restore motor function in mammalian
 animal models (Lieberman).

 The group is researching clinically relevant models of disease, injury and trauma (Bradbury,
 Moon, Corcoran) focussing on rodent models of spinal cord injury (SCI) and functions which are
 a high priority for paralysed patients (e.g. hand use). A recent breakthrough demonstrated
 recovery of skilled hand function in rodents using novel gene therapy approaches (Burnside, Brain,
 2018).

 Members of the group are developing pharmacological, cell and gene therapies (Corcoran,
 Lieberam, Moon, Bradbury) and designing and testing novel compounds for first in man studies
 (Corcoran, MRC £2.5M). Researchers have recently demonstrated improved function in the
 impaired arm after severe stroke and belated infusion of neurotrophin-3 (Duricki, Ann Neurol
 2019), a finding with the potential to radically improve motor function following stroke.

 Future plans:
     Gene therapies: Leveraging KCL’s £10M Advanced Therapies Accelerator and the new
        £7M MRC Gene Therapy Innovation Hub, researchers will progress gene therapy
        approaches for spinal cord and brain repair. Through partnering with experts from the
        UK’s Cell and Gene Therapy Catapult and charitable foundations, the clinical translation
        plan will include risk assessment and gap analysis and regulatory meetings to discuss
        requirements for Phase 1 clinical trials.
     Mechanisms of disease and injury: The group will continue mechanistic research on the
        function of TRPA1 in the brain through mouse models which will determine the role of glial
        TRPA1 in regulating brain excitability and glial cell pathology in models of stroke (MCAO)
        and demyelination (LPS injection and cuprizone ingestion). The Bradbury lab is
        collaborating with the KCL Department of Vascular Risk & Surgery (Modarai) to develop
        an in vivo animal model to identify the mechanisms of ischaemic spinal cord injury, which
        is a complication for patients undergoing thoracic abdominal aortic aneurism repair leading
        to lifelong paralysis.
     Cell reprogramming: The group will develop in vivo models to study glia-to-neuron
        reprogramming in order to explore the translational potential of this emerging approach for
        brain and spinal cord repair.
     Neural prosthesis: With a consortium of physicists, engineers and biomaterial scientists
        (UCL, KCL, Cambridge, QMUL) the researchers plan to develop implantable devices for
        restoring function to paralysed muscles. These devices will combine engineering, stem cell
        biology and polymer optoelectronics to create an artificial body-machine interface between
        paralyzed skeletal muscle and an electronic pacemaker-like device.

 1.8.4 Dementia and neurodegeneration research (led by Al-Chalabi)
 Aims: The group aims to understand neurodegenerative diseases, their causes, and their
 relationship with healthy ageing. By translating basic and clinical science its ultimate goal is to
 prevent disease and improve patient outcomes, feeding directly into the IoPPN strategy on
 translating neuroscience for patient benefit.


                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Current work and achievements: The theme encompasses human gene discovery studies,
 mechanistic pre-clinical work at the level of genes, cellular signalling, novel animal models of
 disease, experimental medicine, first in man gene-therapy studies, repurposing trials and applied
 studies to define outcome measures of clinical relevance. The approach is transdiagnostic and
 works with ALS, frontotemporal dementia (FTD), Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) and Parkinson’s
 Disease (PD).

 The group have made several novel mechanistic discoveries including a unifying mechanism
 across multiple neurodegenerative disorders (Miller), a mechanism that contributes to amyloid
 production, tau pathology and neuroinflammation in Alzheimer’s disease (Giese) and identification
 of possible future therapeutic strategies involving RNA aptamers with high/medium-high affinity
 that can strongly ameliorate aggregation of TDP-43 (Shaw).

 An example of the group’s progress in translational neuroscience is the discovery of tens of genes
 causing and modifying ALS, FTD, AD and PD. Some of these are being translated into gene
 therapy trials in ALS. The first patient has been dosed in a trial of Antisense Oligonucleotide
 therapy targeting ALS patients carrying the C9orf72 mutation (Shaw, Al-Chalabi) and a patent has
 been filed for an adeno-associated virus cassette design and vector delivery for gene therapy in
 ALS and FTD, with the aim of changing the course of these diseases.

 Researchers from the group lead two EU consortia on cognitive ageing prevention (DCogPlast EU
 JPI) and progression to AD prevention (CoEN) through lifestyle factors (e.g. diet) and mechanisms
 (e.g. neurogenesis and gut-brain axis) (Thuret). A MRC-funded £1M project is studying the
 mechanisms of neurodegeneration in Down syndrome (Strydom).

 Future plans
     Gene discovery: The group’s discovery science will be focussed on gene discovery in
        neurodegenerative       diseases,      understanding    mechanisms          underpinning
        neurodegeneration such as RNA processing or endoplasmic reticulum-mitochondrial
        interactions, and autophagy dysfunction.
     Role of digestion: Researchers will be conducting studies to understand the role of gut
        microbiota and fat metabolism in brain health.
     Repurposing treatments: Development of repurposed molecules for treatments for ALS,
        FTD and PD, including for symptoms that are not a primary result of the disease, such as
        pain, sleep impairment and fatigue.
     Role of glial cells: The group will study the contribution of glial cells to AD and other
        neurodegenerative diseases.

 Clinical disorders

 The overarching aim of the clinical focussed research groups is to improve the lives of people
 living with mental disorders, addictions and neurological disorder. This is done by increasing the
 knowledge base of the conditions, providing novel treatments and prediction tools, and embedding
 these treatments and tools within healthcare systems. Ultimately the goal is to prevent the
 disorders occurring and the group is working towards this by harnessing interdisciplinary research
 efforts, that range from discovery science (including neuroscience, genetics, cognitive
 neuroscience, developmental psychology, pharmacology, epidemiology and social science);
 clinical science (including clinical psychology and psychiatry, neuroimaging, and clinical trials);
 and data and computer science.

 1.8.5 Developmental Psychology & Psychiatry (led by Simonoff and Sonuga-Barke)
 Aims: As many adult mental disorders have their origins in early life, the research group
 incorporates studies from foetal life through to adulthood. Using population cohorts and clinical
 populations, the group aims to delineate how and when developmental pathways deviate from the
 expected, whether these differences are disorder-specific or general, and what causal
 mechanisms are at play.


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research provides vital insight into how mental health problems develop and into the early
 interventions to address them, helping IoPPN to address its strategic challenge around the mental
 health of children and young people. Through its work with digital interventions this developmental
 psychiatry group is also contributing to our ‘digital innovation’ strategy.

 Current work and achievements: Researchers use study designs that allow them to parse the
 interplay between biological and environmental risk factors to interrogate their independent and
 joint effects. By studying normal populations using birth cohorts (Dunedin Cohort) and
 genetically-sensitive designs (The Twins Early Development Study (Plomin, Eley) MRC £12M,
 ERC/H2020 €3M and e-RISK) researchers have shown that the interplay between environmental
 risk factors (e.g. child maltreatment (Danese, Am J Psych 2017), bullying (Takizawa, Am J Psych,
 2014), air pollution and genes leads to epigenetic and physiological changes in the immune
 system, with long-term impact on physical health (Baldwin, Br Behav Immunity 2018). Research
 on the impact of early adversity on development and disorders, including the English
 Romanian Adoptees Study (Sonuga-Barke, MRC £1.2M) has shown changes in brain volume
 specifically associated with neurodevelopmental outcomes (Mackes Proc NAS, 2020). Through
 links forged with the Centre for the Developing Brain (Edwards, UoA3), the group have completed
 the first population-based longitudinal study of infants at risk for a variety of neurodevelopmental
 and neuropsychiatric disorders (including autism, ADHD and intellectual disability (Nosarti, MRC
 £1M)).

 Translational research includes the EU Autism Innovation Medicine Studies 2 Trials (AIMS-2-
 Trials) programme (two IMI awards, €145M, PI Murphy which represent the world’s largest grants
 in neurodevelopment). Biomarker discoveries have led to a new drug testing policy being issued
 by the European Medicines Agency and findings were accepted by the FDA into their biomarker
 approval process. Translational work includes psychological treatments for anxiety in autism and
 cognitive-neuroscience derived targets for non-pharmacological treatments which researchers are
 now testing. These include real-time fMRI feedback and neuromodulation for ADHD (Rubia MRC,
 £1M).

 Future plans
     Children and young people’s mental health: Investing in research on children and
        young people’s mental health is a key strategic goal and this is done in partnership with
        the NHS (SLaM). The £65M Pears Maudsley Centre for Children’s and Young
        People’s Mental Health is currently under development (opening 2023) and will co-
        locate researchers and clinicians, enabling them to interrogate the mechanisms
        underpinning mental disorders and to test novel treatments.
     Identifying risk factors: Building on research on individual risk factors, researchers will
        develop multi-variable prediction modelling including polygenic risk, neuroimaging,
        cognitive and social indicators. To understand developmental stability and change, the
        group will harness normative modelling approaches in its longitudinal cohort studies.
        The international biomarkers discovery networks will be extended, linking the EU
        (AIMS-2-TRIALS) to the USA (ABC-CT).
     New interventions: Researchers will be developing new drug treatments aimed at core
        autistic symptoms and building up trial methods by testing a battery of objective
        measures for symptoms e.g. using wearables (AIMS-2-TRIALS).
     Digital approaches: The group will harness digital developments and use mobile
        technologies to assist in diagnostic and outcome assessments. Researchers will be
        developing and testing digital interventions such as OPTIMA (NIHR Programme,
        Sonuga-Barke, £2M) which tests on-line parent training as an early intervention for children
        with ADHD.

 1.8.6 Addictions (led by Strang and McNeill)
 Aims: The group aims to reduce the health and societal impact of addictions, particularly to drugs,
 alcohol and nicotine. The research spans epidemiology, qualitative and service user-led research,
 early phase experimental medicine and major trials and implementation studies. The group’s work


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Investigates the onset, development and co-morbidity of addictions, contributing to the IoPPN’s
 strategies around children and young people, and around multimorbidity.

 Current work and Achievements: The research group influences policy and practice at local,
 national and international levels (see ICS naloxone and ICS E-cigarettes) and contributes to
 objective analyses to bring evidence to policy on these misunderstood disorders, including
 strategies for harm minimisation. Since the last REF the research has been consolidated into
 three broad types of addiction – alcohol (Drummond), nicotine (McNeill) and opiates (Strang), with
 smaller groupings working on cannabis and behavioural addictions.

 The disciplinary mix has broadened, including qualitative methods to co-design outcome
 measures with service users (Neale, Drug and Alcohol Dependence, 2016), applied mixed-
 methods research on intimate partner violence (Gilchrist) and expertise in psychology and trials in
 hard-to-reach groups (Marsden). The group has been integrated within local infrastructures,
 with alcohol and smoking elements of the NIHR Applied Research Centre, and since 2016 there
 is a new theme on Lifestyle Substance Use and Harms in the BRC-Maudsley. The group is host
 to the MRC Clinical Research Fellowship programme in Addictions.

 This rationalisation of strategy has led to more programmatic research grant income with several
 grants of substantial value (3 NIHR Programme grants) in contrast to the reliance on small grants
 before the last REF. This has enabled the first large-scale randomised trials in the UK in
 several substance abuse areas.

 Future plans
     Emerging addiction problems: The group will build on success in existing substance-
        defined research to include the growing extent of prescription drug use and the risk of
        an epidemic of drug-related deaths similar to that seen in US. Expertise will be developed
        in behavioural addictions, including gambling, increasingly recognised as a serious
        public health issue, particularly affecting disadvantaged groups. Sharman has been
        recruited to develop this strategy.
     Process of recovery research: The process of recovery from addiction, and its
        maintenance, is under-studied. By securing philanthropic funding and appointing a new
        chair (Cunningham) in Addictions Treatment & Recovery we will conduct trials to explore
        and test treatments and how they interact with recovery processes.
     Service user perspectives: Methodological work will further integrate qualitative
        research and focus on deeper integration of service user and carer perspectives and
        engagement. The group plans to utilise mathematical modelling to identify periods of
        special relapse risk and to develop remotely activated protective interventions.

 1.8.7 Psychosis (led by McGuire)
 Aims: The Psychosis group seeks to understand the epidemiology, causes and mechanisms of
 psychotic disorders and phenomena, with a view to predicting their course and developing new
 psychological and biological treatments and preventive strategies.

 Current work and achievements: Since 2014, the group has secured over £75M in new grant
 funding, which has led to the decision by the Wellcome Trust to select KCL as its Strategic
 Partner for Psychosis. In translational research, the group leads international consortia
 (EUGEI, OPTIMISE, PSYSCAN, and STRATA) and has established a network of consortia to
 standardise research methods and metrics in psychosis internationally.

 Work on the epidemiology of psychosis has explored cultural and ethnic differences, including
 the INTREPID programme which investigates the incidence and impact of psychotic disorders in
 India, Nigeria and Trinidad (Morgan ERC and MRC programmes). Research on high-potency
 cannabis (skunk) and psychosis incidence (Di Forti, Lancet Psychiatry, 2015) has influenced
 cannabis policy (Di Forti, MRC Senior Clinical Fellowship). Work on the reduced life expectancy
 and multimorbidity of people with psychosis has identified targets for prevention (Gaughran,
 BJPsych, 2019).

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Using multiple environmental and biological measures researchers have been working on ways
 to predict clinical outcomes. For example, work in high-risk psychosis groups has demonstrated
 inflammatory markers as potential biomarkers for treatment non-response (Nettis,
 Psychoneuroimmunology, 2019), whilst neuroimaging has shown that antipsychotic response is
 related to glutamate activity (Jauhar, Lancet Psychiatry, 2019).

 Leveraging the IoPPN service user research expertise, the group have conducted research to
 develop new treatments – including cognitive remediation for cognitive impairments, avatar
 treatment for auditory hallucinations (Craig, Lancet Psychiatry, 2018) and the potential impact of
 cannabidiol as a treatment in schizophrenia (e.g. McGuire, Am J Psychiatry, 2018) (MRC/NIHR
 EME 1.8M Bhattacharyya) and for hallucinations in Parkinson’s disease (£1.2M Parkinson’s UK,
 Bhattacharyya).

 Future plans
     Integration with neuroscience research: Leveraging collaborations with the MRC
        Centre for Developmental Neurobiology researchers will back-translate findings from
        human studies, for example by investigating hippocampal GABA dysfunction in rodents
        and endocannabinoid mouse work.
     Precision Psychiatry: The Stratification & Treatment in Early Psychosis (STEP)
       programme (Wellcome £15M), a global multi-centre study in high risk and first episode
       patients, will refine predictive biomarkers for clinical outcomes and treatment response.
       Alongside testing whether a given biomarker can accurately predict an outcome in an
       individual patient, it will assess the practicability of the biomarkers in a clinical setting, by
       developing digital tools that integrate multimodal data and generate an estimate of the
       outcome in question for the individual patient, ultimately to be fed back to clinician and
       patient.
     New treatments and preventive approaches: Our Wellcome STEP funding includes
        three large trials of CBD in high-risk groups, on first-episode patients, and in treatment
        resistant groups. Researchers will further test novel psychological treatments, for example
        the AVATAR2 trial will assess the utility of a computerised intervention for hallucinations
        (Wellcome £3.4M), the ECLIPSE NIHR Programme Grant will demonstrate the utility of
        cognitive remediation in NHS settings (Wykes, 2.2M), and a novel cognitive bias
        modification treatment will be tested for paranoia (MRC DPFS Yiend, £2.5M). This work
        will be further developed with Emsley’s NIHR Research Professorship on clinical trials
        methods in psychosis.
     Prevention: The group has shown the reduction in life expectancy and high physical
        morbidity in people with psychosis and will now work to prevent these secondary harms.
        Evaluations of novel interventions designed to reduce the associated cardiometabolic risk
        will be completed, including health coaching (the ‘Walk This Way’ study, Stubbs) and
        vitamin D supplementation (the D-Fend study, Gaughran). Researchers will assess
        interventions to promote smoking cessation in people with psychosis.

 1.8.8 Mood disorders (led by Young)
 Aims: The group aims to understand the aetiology of mood and anxiety disorders and to translate
 findings from discovery science into novel approaches to treatment and prevention. With the
 recruitment of Young, Zahn and Stokes in 2014 the Centre for Affective Disorders (CfAD) was
 formed, which is developing a pipeline for translational research.

 Current work and achievements: Neurobiology work is using animal and human-cell models
 to study insults that cause depression such as inflammation and stress and therapeutic
 interventions (antidepressants and omega-3) before translating into human experimental studies.
 In genetics, key researchers (Lewis, Breen, Eley) lead the International Psychiatric Genomics
 Consortium groups which have identified loci for major depressive disorder (Howard, Nature
 Neuroscience, 2019), bipolar disorder (Stahl, Nature Genetics, 2019), and anxiety.

 Work on early life risk factors has demonstrated wide-ranging impacts of childhood trauma on
 psychopathology including affective disorders (Lewis, Lancet Psychiatry, 2019). It has also shown

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 that most of those affected received no care, leading to poorer outcomes and greater costs
 (Agnew-Blais, Lancet Psychiatry, 2016).

 In experimental medicine the group is exploiting clinical immunopsychiatry methods in
 individuals at risk of depression (Wellcome Trust consortium £1.6M) and taking a precision-
 medicine approach to understand treatment response to lithium (R-LiNK Young, 8M). The trials
 portfolio has grown substantially, ranging from early to late phase drug trials. For example, Rucker
 (NIHR Clinician Scientist £1.1M) is establishing a programme on psilocybin; Cleare is investigating
 lithium and quetiapine in treatment resistant depression (NIHR HTA £700k) and Hirsch is leading
 work on psychological interventions for anxiety and depression using cognitive bias modification
 (MQ £400k).

 In global health researchers have developed a technological platform to deliver psychoeducation
 for people with depression and co-morbid physical conditions and tested its cost-effectiveness in
 a multicentre RCT in Brazil and Peru (Chibanda, JAMA, 2016) and developed the Friendship
 Bench in which grandmothers provide peer support for those with depressive symptoms (Abas)
 initially in Zimbabwe and now translated to New York City (ICS – Friendship Bench).

 Future plans
     Population health: To inform future prevention the group will explore heterogeneity in the
        manifestations, onset and persistence of affective disorders. They will use highly
        dimensional data (including clinical, neuroimaging, cognitive, remote sensing, genetic)
        collected on large clinical and population cohorts. These include a new wave of the Twins
        Early Development Study (TEDS, MRC, £3M, Eley); the Genetic Links to Anxiety and
        Depression study Breen and Eley), a re-contactable cohort of 40,000 individuals with
        depression and anxiety, and the IDEA study (international study of mood and anxiety
        disorders across low, middle and high-income countries, Mondelli, MQ £1.3M).
     Precision psychiatry: In order to enable personalised treatment approaches, the group
        will seek to better understand genetic, immunological, psychological, and neurocognitive
        predictors of mood and anxiety disorders, response to treatment and prognosis. For
        example, Zahn recently secured £1M MRC funding to develop the prognostic markers of
        recurrence risk in depression.
     Experimental medicine approaches into larger clinical trials: This will use
        pharmacological, psychological, digital, neuromodulation, and neurocognitive approaches
        and will deepen and extend industry collaborations with pharmaceutical companies and
        the digital health sector.
     Improving implementation: The group will foster research on innovative service design
        and delivery with NHS partner organisations. This research will help services reach larger
        difficult-to-engage populations and patients using translational informatics
        (computer/web/app-based platforms for recruitment, assessment and interventions) and
        community cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) workshops.

 1.8.9 Psychological Medicine (led by Schmidt and Moss-Morris)
 Aims: The group studies links between mental and physical health with the aim of integrating the
 two and achieving better outcomes for each. It explores how psychological processes such as
 adherence can impact physical health. This work leverages the IoPPN’s partnerships between
 acute and mental health NHS Trusts within King’s Health Partners. Researchers have
 successfully digitised some therapies and plan to expand this to other areas, addressing the
 IoPPN strategy around digital innovation.

 The group’s interdisciplinary approach aims to develop deeper understandings of processes and
 mechanisms, both biological and psychological, and to test novel treatments. Research covers
 eating disorders, persistent physical symptoms including pain, fatigue and functional motor
 symptoms, perinatal mental health and the mental health impacts of long-term conditions. The
 research includes understanding the aetiology of the underlying disorder.



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Current work and achievements: Researchers have developed psychological models to
 understand maintenance of physical symptoms which is used to develop complex interventions
 – typically based on cognitive behavioural principles, including guided self-help for eating
 disorders (ICS Eating Disorders), workplace-based CBT approaches for menopause (ICS
 Menopause), motivational techniques to improve outcomes in people with high cardiometabolic
 risk, the largest trial of CBT in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) (Everitt, Lancet Gastroenterology,
 2019), and a trial on CBT for dissociative seizures (Goldstein, Lancet Psychiatry, 2020)). Based
 on Moss-Morris & Chalder’s work on CBT for IBS (with Everitt, Southampton), an exclusive licence
 has been granted to Mahana Therapeutics to offer the prescription-only digital therapeutic in adults
 (previously called Regul8 and funded by NIHR, it is now known as Parallel with FDA marketing
 authorisation granted December 2020 to Mahana Therapeutics).

 The group’s pathway to impact includes embedding such interventions within services,
 including trials of education for GPs managing persistent physical symptoms; the development of
 COMPASS – theory-based digital CBT interventions for treating anxiety and depression across
 long-term conditions; and FREED (First Episode Rapid Early intervention for Eating Disorders), a
 multi-award-winning early intervention programme now nationally adopted by AHSNs (ICS Eating
 Disorders). The research has influenced policy for example, addressing evidence gaps in
 perinatal mental health (ICS Perinatal Mental Health), contributing to the English CMO’s reports
 on public mental health and women’s health and leading the influential Lancet Commission on
 physical health of people with mental disorders (Stubbs).

 Future plans
     Multimorbidity: With the appointment of Stubbs (NIHR Clinician Scientist,
        Physiotherapist) and Dregan (Epidemiology) the group will seek to explore patterns,
        pathways and treatment approaches to multimorbidity involving mental disorders. Using
        birth cohorts, UK Biobank and electronic patient records researchers will explore
        bidirectional pathways between mental and physical health outcomes and identify targets
        for treatments (e.g. polypharmacy) to be tested within King’s Health Partners.
     Mechanisms: Building on existing neurobiological explorations of disordered eating,
        researchers will continue to investigate this area with support of the BRC-Maudsley and
        an MRC grant, using data from cohorts of the developing adolescent brain (e.g. IMAGEN)
        to gain novel insights into shared and separate ED/obesity risk, which will then be tested
        in clinical populations. Using mediation analysis of clinical trial data, researchers will
        explore active ingredients of effective treatments for future refinement.
     Digital therapies: Building on the successful commercialisation of an IBS self-
        management platform, researchers will progress a pathway to develop other digital
        therapies. Such approaches are a sustainable way to embed the group’s treatments
        devised within health systems. Researchers are now seeking to establish a framework for
        the development, testing, implementation and commercialisation of digital therapies, many
        of which will be “blended” with routine care.

 1.8.10 Neurological disorders (led by Richardson)
 Aims: Exploiting the close relationship with high-volume clinical services, this group aims to
 undertake experimental medicine, investigate comorbidities, develop innovative remote
 monitoring, and improve clinical services. These aims tie in with the IoPPN strategic challenges
 around multimorbidity, digital innovation and applying neuroscience for patient benefit.

 Current work and achievements: In migraine and primary headache disorders preclinical
 work (see section 1.8.2) identifying calcitonin-gene-related-peptide led to multiple trials (e.g.
 Goadsby, NEJM, 2017) demonstrating efficacy of monoclonal antibodies for migraine prevention,
 leading to FDA and EMA approval (see ICS Migraine).

 In epilepsy, there has been collaboration with industry in using combined TMS-EEG (transcranial
 magnetic stimulation EEG) to show drug target engagement in early-phase trials (Richardson).
 Researchers are exploring the genetic architecture of Rolandic epilepsy and Juvenile Myoclonic
 Epilepsy (Pal), and the heritability of abnormal brain network dynamics in a range of epilepsies

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Richardson). As a means to predict disease, members of the group are using digital biomarkers
 from wearable devices and the “internet of things”. Research is ongoing into the use of
 transdermal nicotine as therapy for sleep-related hypermotor seizures (Pal) and into behavioural
 interventions for sleep disturbance, frequent A&E attendance, and enhanced self-management
 (Noble, PLoS One, 2014).

 For Parkinson’s, researchers are investigating nicotinic therapy for mild cognitive impairment and
 evaluating an intervention for palliative care (Chaudhuri). As a means to enhance mechanistic
 understanding, the group are developing a rich understanding of comorbidities and
 endophenotypes. Researchers have developed new patient reported outcomes of non-motor
 Parkinson’s symptoms (Chaudhuri, Movement Disorders, 2015) and are investigating the
 mechanism of comorbid anxiety, onset and key clinical events in Alzheimer’s (Aarsland, RADAR-
 AD, IMI £4M), Parkinson’s (Chaudhuri) and epilepsy (Richardson, RADAR-CNS).

 Future plans:
     Migraine and primary headache: The translational research will continue to develop
        novel therapies and work with industry partners including Eli Lilly, Novartis and Teva to
        trial therapeutics further developing the work described in ICS Migraine.
     Neurodegenerative disorders: Gene therapy for ALS and FTD, faster multiarm-
        multistage drug trials, and drug discovery in large multinational ‘omics’ datasets will be
        progressed. Re-Neuron, a first-in-disease Phase 1B trial of stem cell transplantation is
        planned in Alzheimer’s (Aarsland). The group will develop a hub for RCTs of cannabinoids
        as a treatment for behavioural and psychological symptoms of neurodegenerative
        disorders, linking to a programme on cannabidiol (see 1.8.7). The group will continue to
        develop preventive strategies initially aimed at unaffected members of families with
        neurodegenerative diseases, based on results of clinical trials.
     Brain and spinal cord injury: To accelerate translation of the group’s exceptional
        preclinical science, a neurosurgery research team will be established to focus on
        translation.

 Systems to drive innovation
 The final grouping of research activities describes the platforms and methodologies we have
 developed to support impactful research. These have been created to ensure our specialisms
 can access the expertise, equipment and support needed to perform research and translate it into
 significant outcomes. By providing hubs of skills in research methods they enable the IoPPN’s
 interdisciplinary approach and bring methodological perspective to the problems their research
 seeks to address.

 1.8.11 Biostatistics, genomics and informatics (led by Dobson and Lewis)
 Aims: The digital and molecular revolutions have brought huge challenges and opportunities in
 the scale and complexity of data available for research. The group aims to innovate across
 disciplines with impactful, academic-led interdisciplinary methodological research, bringing
 together statistics, computer science, bioinformatics, genetics, epidemiology, psychometricians
 and service user researchers. As part of its remit, the group plays an important role in the IoPPN
 digital innovation strategy, harnessing the wealth of data produced across research groups.

 Current work and achievements: In genetics, researchers have supported international groups
 identifying loci through the development of the PRSice software to compute polygenic risk scores
 for disease susceptibility and prognosis (Eusden, Bioinformatics, 2015), now widely deployed
 internationally.

 Longitudinal cohort studies include TEDS, E-Risk, The Dunedin Cohort, and IMAGEN, and
 focus on human development, from cradle to grave – for example, researchers have demonstrated
 the harmful effects of lead-paint exposure in early life on adult health, including cognitive decline
 and poor mental health, work which is cited by CDC in its 2019 toxicological profile for lead
 (Reuben, JAMA, 2017).


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The group has pioneered the use of electronic health records for research, including the CRIS
 and CogStack systems, which provide governance models, technological platforms and AI tools
 to interrogate health records in mental health and acute NHS trusts (Jackson, BMJ Open, 2017).
 Data are enriched through linkages (including health, environment, education, benefits and census
 data) and use of natural language processing to derive structure from narrative records. This work
 is now disseminated nationally via an MRC Pathfinder Award (£1.5M) and Health Data Research
 UK and forms a core component of the London AI Centre for Value Based Healthcare (£10M
 Innovate UK, £16M OLS).

 The m-Health programme, including RADAR-CNS and RADAR-AD (IMI2 €30M), has led to the
 development of a flexible, open-source platform, radar-base.org, for tracking health using
 wearable devices and smartphone technology. This is now being used in multiple research
 programmes internationally. The group works extensively with service users to ensure these new
 technologies are acceptable and to help address potential ethical and regulatory barriers to
 implementation – there is a service-user led governance board for CRIS and extensive service-
 user input to our genomics and m-Health programmes.

 Future plans
     Multimodal phenotyping: Researchers plan to generate knowledge from population and
        clinical cohorts, making data available for research use and providing a 360-degree view
        of an individual’s biology, behaviour, health and environment. This data will be applied to
        predict changes in health states, accelerate new treatment testing and provide better care,
        including novel forms of delivery (e.g. digital therapies and mobile health).
     Using infrastructure for patient benefit: By leveraging links with HDR-UK and the
        London AI Centre, the group will disseminate methods and algorithms developed locally
        and move from observational to interventional research, including targeted trial
        recruitment, supplementary routine outcomes, and embedded emulated trials of complex
        care pathways.
     Disseminating polygenic risk: The group plans to make polygenic risk scores widely
        available for clinical research, for example in the prediction of outcomes in first episode
        psychosis, drug response, suicide risk and educational attainment.
     Predicting outcomes: A prediction modelling group has been established, which will
        expand capacity and develop new models for precision medicine. This will be applied
        across clinical disorders, for example to reduce the impact of multimorbidity by addressing
        physical health outcomes in people with severe mental illnesses.

 1.8.12 Neuroimaging, experimental medicine and trials (led by Williams)
 The translational research platforms for neuroimaging, experimental medicine and clinical trials
 aim to develop new biomarkers and novel treatments. The group includes physicists, modellers,
 engineers, pharmacologists, trialists and health economists.

 Current work and achievements: The neuroimaging data combined with cognitive, biological
 and clinical data, provide the basis for robust biomarkers of disease and prediction of
 response to treatment (Loth, Nat Rev Drug Discov, 2016). The appointment of Moran and Leech
 has strengthened computational neuroscience, complementing our new £12M Wellcome ESPRC
 Centre for Medical Engineering. The group has developed neuroimaging as a powerful
 experimental medicine tool to visualise drug effects on the brain providing insight into drug
 penetration, target engagement, and potential indicators of clinical efficacy. This work is key to
 meeting the IoPPN strategic challenge of translating neuroscience for patient benefit.

 New impactful technologies have been developed, including the first head-only 3T MR system
 (GE Healthcare and Tesla Engineering UK) and silent MR imaging procedures (GE Healthcare).
 These technologies will increase availability and acceptability of neuroimaging.

 The high risk involved in developing drugs for novel targets in psychiatry has deterred pharma
 investment. To address these concerns, the group has developed novel experimental medicine
 paradigms to identify promising signals. These efforts are bearing fruit: since REF2014, 67

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 clinical trials have been initiated in collaboration with industry on more than 30 distinct
 biological targets for a range of neurological and psychiatric indications. Researchers have
 developed methodology for innovative trials and established a corresponding portfolio of trials in
 mental health building on the opportunities provided by new m- and e-health systems. These
 include the development of novel psychological therapies based on empirically validated cognitive
 models.

 Trials capacity has been enhanced with the recruitment of Emsley who was awarded a NIHR
 Research Professorship which aims to build national capacity for efficient evaluation of therapies
 using adaptive designs. Methodologies are being developed to enhance the understanding of
 mechanisms in complex interventions (Landau: MRC £423k), pooling data sources for evidence
 synthesis (e.g. conduct disorders - NIHR).

 Future plans
     Evaluation of therapies: Leveraging Emsley’s NIHR Professorship award, the group
        will progress the development of mental health therapeutics by establishing platforms for
        multi-arm multi-stage trials and Sequential Multiple Assignment Randomised Trials to be
        tested in psychosis and other diagnoses.
     Cognitive Insights: Recent funding from Boehringer Ingelheim (£2M) will enable
        transdiagnostic cognitive task assessment to determine common and distinct cognitive
        impairments in psychosis and mood disorders. These tasks will then be imaged to visualise
        the related brain circuits and inform future treatment strategies.
     Appraisal of technology: The recent, patented innovations to predict treatment
        response in psychosis and silent, motion insensitive MRI will be evaluated in applied
        clinical settings. The intention is to appraise such methods, across the lifespan, in
        challenging patient cohorts ranging from sleeping babies to hypersensitive autistic children
        and older subjects suffering from neurodegenerative conditions such as dementia and
        Huntington’s Disease (£20M CHDI).
     Access to MRI: The group will also be leading a global effort to provide the first low cost,
        portable brain MRI device across 20 countries including India, Pakistan and sub-
        Saharan Africa (£1.5M Gates Foundation).

 1.8.13 Public Mental and Neurological Health (led by Hotopf & Morgan)
 Aims: IoPPN has always innovated in population mental health, bringing together expertise in
 epidemiology, public health, health service research, implementation science, public policy, law,
 social science, patient and public involvement and engagement. With a focus on the public
 health challenges of a changing world, the group studies local and global populations.

 Current work and achievements: The group conducts much of its research in collaboration with
 other universities, the NHS, patient groups, NGOs and government bodies, e.g. WHO, Public
 Health England and Whitehall departments. It is pursued via an array of major awards and
 infrastructures including the ESRC Centre for Society and Mental Health (£6.2M), NIHR Applied
 Research Collaboration (£9M), NIHR Mental Health Policy Research Unit (joint with UCL, £5M),
 NIHR Health Protection Research Unit in Emergency Preparedness and Response (£4M), NIHR
 Global Health Research Unit (£7M) and King’s Centre for Military Health Research.




                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The breadth and interdisciplinarity of the group’s work is reflected in the number of impact case
 studies attributed to its research. Research spans the global increase in people living with
 dementia (Stephan, Lancet Global Health, 2020), the need for evidence for mental health policy
 for veterans (Stevelink, BJPsych, 2018), the communication of novel health risks, from Ebola to
 COVID-19 (Smith, Public Health, 2020), and the role of social media and internet use on self-
 harm. The research has impacted public policy, from informing changes to Mental Health
 legislation (ICS Mental Health Act); to demonstrating that screening for mental disorders does not
 improve outcomes for service personnel returning from war (ICS Military Mental Health); and
 informing public health responses to COVID-19 (ICS Disasters and Crises). Its research has
 systemically changed the treatment of mental health in-patients (ICS Safewards). In global mental
 health, researchers have identified the scale and nature of mental health needs in countries such
 as Ethiopia and Nepal and co-developed place evidence-based programmes with the communities
 (ICS Global Mental Health).

 Future plans
     Mental health and society: The ESRC Centre for Mental Health and Society was
        established in January 2020 to improve our understanding of how social, economic and
        cultural transformations affect mental health. It will explore how policy changes which
        address the social determinants of health, affect the prevalence of mental disorders. The
        intention is to develop an evidence base for future public health interventions and changes
        in social practices and policies that will promote and sustain good mental health.
     Public mental health: Leveraging local and international collaborations a Centre for
        Public Mental Health will be established which will provide a coordinated approach to
        primary prevention of mental disorders and secondary prevention of their longer-term
        harms. The Centre will focus on key transition points across the life course including
        education, occupation and retirement. It will approach each transition from the perspective
        of (a) intersectional understandings of vulnerability and resilience (b) the use of health and
        linked data to monitor trends and digital approaches to provide interventions and (c) the
        contribution of mental disorders to multimorbidity.


 In summary our research groups’ aims coalesce into our core strategic goals, together
 illustrating our interdisciplinarity, our strong collaborations across the globe and our commitment
 to ensuring that our research is impactful particularly in advancing diagnosis, treatment and
 prevention of mental health and neurological disorders.
 2. People
 We work across the IoPPN to make it an inclusive, diverse and supportive environment where our
 staff and students are free to flourish. This is recognised as central to our strategy and a core
 duty of the leadership team. Whilst there is a need to ensure that “top-down” policies, processes
 and procedures are robust, fair and transparent, our philosophy is that culture change, which is
 widely recognised to be needed in HEIs, is most meaningful when there is strong staff
 engagement. We therefore support a series of “bottom-up” initiatives to encourage an inclusive
 and supportive culture.

 Our Diversity and Inclusion Self-Assessment Team (SAT) is led by the Vice Dean for Diversity
 and Inclusion (McNeil) and co-chaired by a social scientist (Hatch). Using an intersectional
 approach, Hatch’s work on the impact of discrimination on mental health (e.g. Wellcome funded
 Tackling Inequalities and Discrimination Experiences in Health Services (TIDES) programme) has
 influenced the development and implementation of our policies.

 D&I representation is built into the main committees and processes, including appointments and
 promotion. At any one time over 100 staff members are directly involved in D&I activities (e.g.
 departmental champions, members of working groups) and these activities are recognised by
 promotion and appraisal practice. We test ourselves against external benchmarks and IoPPN is
 proud to have been awarded Athena Swan Silver in 2019 following a previous Silver award in
 2014. Our goal is to be a beacon of good practice and we aim to achieve Athena Swan Gold
 within the next three years. We have significantly expanded our work around race and race

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 equality, emphasising the imperative that senior leadership set role models, and have contributed
 extensively to the university’s strategy on race equality and our successful Race Equality Charter
 Bronze award (2020). Our REF2021 preparations, in line with our institution’s code of practice,
 recognises the effect that individual circumstances may have on a researcher’s ability to contribute
 to research in our UoA.

 The second main vehicle for staff support is the Research and Innovation Committee (RIC),
 chaired by Eley (2014-2020) and now by Mehta. This group has representation from across
 departments, disciplines and career grades. It oversees a range of initiatives (described below)
 that provide a vibrant culture for researchers. The committee has a “by staff for staff” philosophy,
 taking ideas from its members and developing them into initiatives to support career development
 (e.g. THRIVE – described below). Our annual flagship event is the IoPPN Research Festival,
 which celebrates the breadth of our research and impact and provides our ECRs with the
 opportunity to increase their visibility alongside more senior staff. These are typically attended by
 250 staff members with a similar number viewing the recording. Our processes relating to the
 Concordat are handled at University level and described in the Institutional Environment section.
 We aim to exceed the Concordat standards, and the Centre for Research Staff Development,
 launched in 2016, plays a major part in this.

 A: Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 Academic Performance Framework (APF)
 In order to ensure that the organisation’s expectations are transparent, and diverse contributions
 are recognised, we have developed an academic performance framework. This informs
 recruitment, probation and appraisal, covering education, research, citizenship, management and
 leadership, and dissemination and impact (see Table 2 below). For each academic rank, the
 framework describes the expected performance level in each domain. Whilst it is understood that
 different roles, disciplines and career stages might lead to variations from these ideals, the
 systematic approach ensures processes are fair and expectations are transparent.

 Table 2: Academic Performance Framework Domains

  Domains           Example activities
  Education         Teaching hours, course leadership, feedback and quality
                    assessments from students and peers.
  Research          Grants, grant income (principal and co-investigator), research team
                    leadership, PGR students, research outputs
  Citizenship       Staff development, equality diversity & inclusion activities,
  management and mentorship, widening participation activities, encouraging open
  leadership        science, peer review.
  Knowledge,        Public understanding of science, impacts of research beyond
  dissemination and academia
  impact

 Recruitment policy: We have established processes, including a recruitment tool-kit, to ensure
 recruitment is fair, under-represented groups are encouraged to apply, and appointment panels
 are diverse. Except where we identify a critical gap at senior levels, we prefer to recruit and retain
 “rising stars” rather than senior figures. During this REF period we have recruited 11 King’s Prize
 Fellows from outside KCL (see section on supporting ECRs).

 Probation: All new academics complete a three-year probation period with a probation mentor.
 The APF is used to ensure expectations are set and progress monitored. The probationer has
 guidance and support to meet the expectations of their role, and to allow them to raise issues if
 the environment does not support such progress.



                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Retention: We recognise the challenges faced by early career researchers, particularly with the
 move to independence and transition from post-doctoral positions to lectureships, and other career
 destinations. We aim to meet these challenges with a multitude of offers (described below in
 section on support for researchers). We are addressing the uncertainty that comes from short-
 term contracts for research-only staff by putting in place policies to define the minimum length of
 contracts and ensuring staff with multiple renewals of short-term contracts are moved to
 permanent contracts.

 Appraisal: All academic and research staff complete an annual appraisal with their line manager,
 which uses the APF as its benchmark. This is an opportunity to celebrate success and to reach
 consensus about agreed goals, leading to a joint document which identifies actions for the
 appraisee and the organisation to reach these goals. Expectations are tempered by consideration
 of personal circumstances which might impact performance. The performance and development
 review (PDR) includes a section on promotion, career development and flexible working/retirement
 and family commitments, to ensure the appraiser provides support and advice so the staff member
 can develop and meet their own goals. For clinical academics, a dual appraisal process with NHS
 and university appraisals operates. The university PDR takes account of proportion of time spent
 on clinical duties.

 Mentoring: We have a mentoring offer available for all academic and research staff, via formal
 and informal mechanisms. Aside from probation, mentoring is optional. Uptake of mentoring is
 encouraged and acting as a mentor is recognised in appraisal. Mentors have access to training
 and advice, including “More than Mentoring”, a resource for mentoring people with protected
 characteristics. Our mentoring offer is taken up by 50-60 mentee/mentor pairs each year and
 includes specific programmes for academics, research and technical staff, and schemes designed
 specifically for people with protected characteristics.

 Promotion: The APF provides staff with an explicit framework about expectations for their grade.
 Line managers are required to discuss promotion at annual PDRs. IoPPN holds annual
 ‘Understanding Promotion Workshops’ to support staff who are considering their options for
 academic promotion. Although all academic staff can submit directly to the KCL Academic Staff
 Committee to review their promotions applications, the Faculty convenes a Promotions
 Recommendations Panel each year (prior to the university deadline). This allows applicants to
 submit their draft application which is reviewed by two assessors and discussed at a panel meeting
 where a collective decision is made as to whether or not to recommend that they proceed with a
 formal application to KCL. If the application is not supported, the panel advises on how to
 strengthen it. Data from the last three years show that nearly all applications recommended to
 proceed by the IoPPN Promotions Recommendations Panel have been approved by the KCL
 Academic Staff Committee. Our Panels are trained in D&I and consider formally declared
 circumstances (e.g. maternity/adoption/shared parental leave (SPL), illness, injury, disability, or
 caring responsibilities). An online Promotion Toolkit clarifies the role of the IoPPN Promotion Panel
 and ensures easy access to promotion materials/video and good practice on career development.

 Support for academic and research staff
 Our research environment is supported by the Research Strategy & Development (RS&D)
 team, with a dedicated Research Development Manager and Programme Manager for Industry
 Partnership overseen by the RS&D Director. The team provides advice and support at any point
 of the grant application process, including early-stage horizon-scanning and championing internal
 peer review schemes. They assist in developing large funding bids, strengthening relationships
 with funding bodies and seeking opportunities to accelerate transition from fundamental research
 to application and translation. They work on cross-institution initiatives identifying synergies,
 potential partnerships and facilitating new networks across the University and beyond.

 Supporting early career researchers
 King’s Prize Fellowships provide a launchpad for outstanding postdoctoral researchers
 establishing their independence. It is used both to attract new talent from outside and as a part of
 our retention strategy. The fellowship provides salary and running costs for up to two years,

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 enabling appointees to compete for externally funded personal fellowships. Since 2014, 19
 fellowships have been awarded for research in IoPPN: three are now lecturers, eight were
 awarded intermediate fellowships, one left academia, and seven have yet to complete. Support
 is further provided by the BRC-Maudsley and in 2017 we established four BRC lectureships.
 The BRC’s Early Career Bridging Awards support retention of ECRs facing funding gaps, with
 four awarded per year, and the BRC also provides funding to support research career re-entry.

 We have a portfolio of initiatives to develop our early career researchers which include:
    The IoPPN Postdoc Network provides a voice to the postdoc community, representing
       them on committees and equipping researchers with support for career development, grant
       writing and science communication. The Network actively communicates internally and
       externally via social media channels e.g. Twitter account of over 1000 followers. The
       Network is a founding member of a London-wide network aiming to improve career
       structure for postdocs. Its impact was recognised when it won the 2018 King’s Award for
       Most Outstanding Contribution to the Research Staff Experience.
    THRIVE provides a programme of workshops, group work and networking opportunities to
       support lecturers, senior lecturers and fellowship-holders (107 workshop attendees since
       2015 including 35 in 2019-20). THRIVE covers career development, work-life balance,
       grant-writing and building collaborations.
    Early career research awards are awarded to junior researchers to develop a small
       project arising from an independent research idea (8 awards each year).
    Mock grant reviews where experts review grant and fellowship applications and discuss
       the merits and limitations to give a realistic sense of the process. Attendance exceeded
       100 ECRs per workshop with at least one held every year.
    Proposal writing workshops which include monthly group sessions on grant writing over
       the course of a year. Delegates attend lectures and in groups of ~20 share a draft
       application and receive facilitated feedback from the wider group. Academics of all levels
       and disciplines can attend. Uptake is 60-100 per year with a total of 426 attendees since
       2015.
    Health Faculties Fellowship day: This one-day annual event, aimed at postdocs
       considering their first independent fellowship, includes information from funders, fellowship
       holders and funding Committee members. Within this there are smaller meetings with
       funders and the King's Professional Services teams who support applications. The 2019
       day was attended by 298 ECRs, 11 health research funders and 11 internal Professional
       Services groups.

 Supporting senior academic staff
 The King’s Leading Researchers Programme is a flagship university-wide course to provide
 readers and newly appointed professors with tools to develop their skills as research leaders. The
 course covers topics such as project management and team leadership; generating and
 developing big ideas; taking risks and collaborating across disciplines; and gaining insights
 into funder requirements. The course includes group sessions, bringing together academics from
 across the university as part of a cohort of colleagues, and one-to-one coaching. Alumni include
 Morgan and Hatch who respectively lead and co-lead the ESRC Centre for Society and Mental
 Health and Emsley, who was subsequently awarded an NIHR Research Professorship.

 Senior THRIVE is an IoPPN series of workshops for professors, readers and senior lecturers
 aimed at developing research strategy and skills needed for their senior role. It is biennial and,
 since 2016, has supported 93 academics with workshops on achieving balance between work
 roles, increasing visibility, maximising research impact, leading an international collaboration, or
 partnering with industry.

 Recognition and rewards for research and impact: King’s Recognition Pay Scheme
 recognises outstanding contributions by King’s staff. IoPPN staff are nominated and then
 considered by the IoPPN Recognition Pay Panel. King’s Awards recognise staff achievements
 across the university and the contribution this makes to achieving our Vision 2029. A specific
 award exists to celebrate contributions to D&I activity.

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Succession planning: Our approach to succession planning is to ensure a vibrant culture within
 IoPPN which includes (a) training in leadership and mentoring (described above), (b) rotating
 leadership – since 2018 we have introduced fixed terms for key leadership roles including all heads
 of departments and divisions (c) the introduction of deputy heads of departments with role
 descriptions and specific responsibilities and the recognition of deputy roles elsewhere in the
 organisation to encourage and support mid-career academics to take on new challenges.

 Outreach: The IoPPN is fortunate to be based in a diverse and vibrant inner-city environment.
 Consistent with the wider KCL commitment to Service we encourage staff to engage in multiple
 initiatives to foster better understanding of our research and the nature of mental and neurological
 disorders with our community. The Maudsley Debates provide a forum for controversies in
 mental health to be discussed and regularly attract over 300 attendees with over 7000 followers
 online. Arts in Mind is a week-long festival celebrating innovative collaborations between
 researchers at IoPPN and the creative and cultural sector, with 40 individual projects ranging from
 explorations of neural plasticity, addiction and psychotic experiences. Since 2013, the IoPPN
 Youth Awards have provided opportunities to young people from local schools providing a £50
 book token, mentoring and experience in research. The Awards encourage students to work
 towards attending University and provide opportunities to develop skills beyond research. This
 programme has expanded from two recipients in one subject in 2013 to 30 in seven subjects in
 2019. Meanwhile the ESRC Centre for Society and Mental Health offered virtual work
 placements to 100 local school students per year extending to 400 in 2020/21. The Health
 Inequalities Network (HERON) provides a forum for engagement and research collaboration
 between IoPPN academics and local third sector organisations.

 Integration of clinical academics and NHS-employed active researchers: IoPPN is unusual
 in the richness of its clinical academic posts, largely due to the investment made by SLaM and
 KCH in supporting these positions over many years. This amounts to a recharge of £5.5M per
 year, supporting 72 academics. KCL provides associate status for NHS employed clinicians who
 can hold grants, supervise PhD students and be recognised with academic titles. The clinical
 academic group structures within the NHS Trusts support these NHS academics and help them
 to develop.

 We have a mature training programme for clinical academics, which includes approximately
 20 NIHR Academic Clinical Fellows in Neurology and Psychiatry at any one time. These
 individuals are further supported by BRC Preparatory Clinical Fellowships (three per year), which
 are then followed by 10 NIHR Academic Clinical Lectureships in Psychiatry or Neurology at any
 one time. These individuals are then supported to take up mid-career clinical fellowships. The
 BRC further has an Allied Health Professionals training scheme that encourages
 professionals under-represented in academia, including nurses, pharmacists and occupational
 therapists, to learn more about the research process.

 At the census date the number of clinical academics (Clinical Psychology, Neurology and
 Psychiatry) within our Category A staff was 73 (21%).

 B. Postgraduate Research Students: selection, support, training and supervision
 PGR students occupy a key part of the IoPPN’s mission. We have 585 postgraduate research
 students from over 70 different countries. As well as MPhil/PhD departmental research degree
 programmes IoPPN also offers a Doctorate in Clinical Psychology (including research) and an
 MD(Res) in Medical Humanities. Approximately 20% are self-funded, of whom two thirds are staff
 members who receive a substantial (75%) discount in registration to encourage career
 progression of research staff. A further 12% are funded by the NHS for DClinPsy; 18% UKRI, 8%
 NIHR and the remainder from charities, industry and government (UK and overseas). Each
 student’s progress is carefully monitored through a network of departmental oversight groups
 which aim to identify barriers to successful progress.




                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Process of selection: Potential candidates typically choose projects from those submitted by
 academics to our diverse training schemes and are subsequently selected on the basis of their
 academic potential, including an interview by a minimum of two independent academics.

 Training and supervision: All supervisors must be approved by the Deputy Dean for
 Postdoctoral Studies (Byford) and undertake mandatory training, repeated every five years.
 Students have at least two supervisors, with clear responsibilities set out at the onset of studies.
 All supervisors must go through the IoPPN ‘Guidance for Supervision’ with each new student in
 the first month after registration. This sets out responsibilities of supervisors and students,
 including meetings, communication, time planning, regulations, authorship, intellectual property
 and data storage. Students and their supervisors must consider a training plan which is
 regularly reviewed. Students’ progress (including training) is monitored by departmental oversight
 groups every four months.

 Training for PGR students is offered at University, Faculty, Departmental and Research Group
 levels. At University level, all students have access to the King’s Centre for Doctoral
 Studies which offers face-to-face workshops, online courses and seminars, including
 Communication & Impact, IT Essentials, Data Management, and Writing and Publishing. Students
 are offered meetings with careers consultants or Royal Literary Fund writing fellows. More
 specialised training is offered via our Doctoral Training Centres and Doctoral Training
 Partnerships. For IoPPN students, the most relevant are the Health Sciences Doctoral Training
 Centre, available to all our PGR students, the MRC Doctoral Training Programme and the ESRC
 London Interdisciplinary Social Sciences Doctoral Training Partnership, available to all PGR
 students whose research has a social science focus. In 2019-20 we invested in a new Centre for
 Doctoral Training in Data-Driven Health to support students to develop skills across the breadth
 of data science include Big Health Data (machine learning, novel mathematics and statistics) and
 translating informatics into healthcare practice. At Faculty level, we provide PGR students with
 ‘Bitesize Sessions’, run termly and covering subjects such as Upgrading from MPhil to
 PhD, Progress Monitoring, and Research Integrity. We encourage research students to attend D&I
 related training and events. Our PGR students have access to a range of support around career
 progression with a dedicated IoPPN careers consultant for PGR. We ensure PGR student
 representation at key IoPPN committees such as Institute Management Board, the Research and
 Innovation Committee, and the D&I Self-Assessment Team.

 Submission and completion data for PGR students
 For full-time students our overall submission rate is 97.5% (98.8% completion rate) with a
 submission rate within 4 years of 97.1% (97.0% completion). Rates for part-time students
 are overall 77.8% (72.7% completion) and submission within 7 years 77.8% (72.7% completion
 within 8.5 years).

 C. Equality Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I)
 The IoPPN ED&I Self-Assessment Team (SAT) (described above) drives the implementation of
 relevant action plans (including Athena SWAN, Race Equality Charter, Stonewall) and monitors
 progress. Since 2014, our Self-Assessment Team (SAT) focus has expanded from Gender
 Equality to ED&I. This change was to ensure all barriers faced by all IoPPN underrepresented
 groups are addressed.

 To embed ED&I across the IoPPN community we have introduced Champions representing
 groups of people with protected characteristics, Working Groups and Networks which are open to
 all staff, with over 100 staff and students actively involved. Career progression is supported widely
 through these groups, which also provide opportunities for leadership experience.

 Our commitment to Race Equality was strengthened in 2016 when we established a Race
 Champion role to provide strategic leadership to all Race Equality work. Both the SAT’s Race
 Equality Working Group and the IoPPN Race Equality Network support and raise awareness of
 this work. A Race Equality Action Plan was developed in 2018 following discussion groups with
 students in 2018 and staff in 2020. Since June 2020, we developed a #BlackLivesMatter resource

                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 page, increased the delivery of Race Equality training, held staff and student open fora, introduced
 reading circles and reflective spaces, created peer-support spaces for Black students and updated
 our current Race Equality Action Plan.

 We aim to integrate ED&I into decision making at every level. ED&I Core Team members sit on
 IoPPN committees and panels including the REF Working Group, King’s Equality and Diversity
 Advisory Panel, promotion and senior interview panels, the recognition pay panel, as well as
 IoPPN Faculty committees such as the Institute Management Board (IMB) and Institute Executive.
 ED&I is a standing item every month at all management committees and departmental and core
 area meetings. Gender balance has improved in IoPPN committees: The Institute Management
 Board’s proportion of female staff has increased from 32% in 2013 to 47% in 2020 and our REF
 oversight group is 46% female. We provide opportunities, via our ‘Step into Leadership’
 programme for senior female staff and staff from diverse ethnic groups to gain committee
 membership experience. Our ED&I activity is influential within the wider university – for example,
 McNeill chaired the “It stops here” working group on bullying and harassment and Hatch co-chairs
 the Academic Reference Group for the NHS Race and Health Observatory.

 Training in ED&I
 We have invested in externally provided training in ED&I as a key component of our strategy for
 an inclusive environment. Training is mandatory for senior leaders who are involved in recruitment
 and who are applying for promotion. Training has included sessions on Implicit and Unconscious
 Bias, and Imposter Syndrome, with a current focus on Diversity Matters and Cultural Competency
 which are bespoke sessions centred around King’s and IoPPN ED&I strategies. Focusing on
 Race Equality, we deliver regular sessions that cover Race Equality terminology,
 microaggressions, white privilege and inclusive language. The Race Equality Network organises
 events throughout the year including Black History Month. The Black and Minority Ethnics in
 Psychiatry & Psychology (BiPP) Network was co-founded by IoPPN MSc students and hosts panel
 discussions, talks and workshops.

 ED&I-specific events focus on intersectionality. Our Inspiring Women series including interviews,
 e.g. with Dame Fiona Caldicott and Harriet Harman QC MP. Events in collaboration with the
 Women and Mental Health Special Interest Group aim to engage health professionals and the
 public around challenges to women’s mental health. The LGBTQ+ working group also deliver
 initiatives and events in collaboration such as within the IoPPN’s LGBTQ+ Mental Health Research
 Group and SLaM to deliver an annual conference (attended by 116 people in 2020) and the film
 Through the Rainbow Lens on KCL’s Youtube channel. We further recognise ED&I outside of
 protected characteristics, for example hosting the Class Ceilin,g an event exploring the
 experiences of academics from working class backgrounds.

 Support for parents and carers
 We have developed support systems for parents and carers including parent and carer
 champions. We have developed an online toolkit with links to policies, processes and case studies
 of individuals’ experiences. After noticing a low uptake of paternity and shared parental leave, we
 identified barriers to uptake and improved access to information. During parental leave, staff have
 up to 10 paid ‘Keeping in Touch’ Days for work-related activities without impacting pay. We further
 provide funding to mitigate the impact of career breaks on academic work. Staff can apply for up
 to £10,000 from the King’s Parent and Carers Fund, which provides small grants for staff with
 caring responsibilities to support their research, attend networking and career-development events
 outside working hours. In 2018, nine individuals from IoPPN received support from the Fund.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Due to its strength in interdisciplinary working and forging partnerships, the IoPPN has built a
 sustainable pipeline of funding that draws from diverse sources and supports researchers at all
 stages in their career. By embedding impact in our organisational mindset, we have achieved
 support for research programmes that have benefitted patients, the NHS and the public.



                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 King’s has a range of resources and facilities to enable collaboration and stimulate high-quality
 research. There are several internal university awards that provide pumping to strengthen our
 researchers’ position in successfully competing for external funding. This includes support for
 interdisciplinary collaborations (King’s Together), early career researchers (King’s Prize
 Fellowships), early stage translational research (Challenge Fund, which yields a 10-fold return on
 investment), impact generation (Impact Acceleration Accounts), and commercialisation (KHP
 Accelerator). Our King’s Together awards have supported the creation of several major grants,
 including the ESRC Centre for Society and Mental Health (see 1.8.13), our ESRC collaboration
 on student mental health (SMaRteN) and our Wellcome Trust PhD Training Programme in Neuro-
 Immune Interactions (see 1.8.2).

 Our research capability has benefitted from significant recent investments in our IT infrastructure,
 research management systems and data repository offerings, to improve data access and
 analysis. We have enhanced our professional services support to research including Research
 Development, Library, Strategic Partnerships, Research Integrity and Research Platforms.

 Review of our research income
 The IoPPN has an average annual research income of £58.6M over this REF period. Total annual
 award values fluctuated between approximately £42M (2015/16) and £84M (2017/18) (Figure 2).


                                Awards per year £M
  90
  80
  70
  60
  50
  40
  30
  20
  10
   0
          2014/15       2015/16        2016/17       2017/18        2018/19       2019/20
 Figure 2 - new grant awards per year 2014-2020.


 We have a diverse distribution of our funding sources (Figure 3). Approximately one third of our
 research income is from Government sources (including NIHR, but also including direct funding
 from DHSC, Department for International Development and Ministry of Defence). A further quarter
 of our funding comes from UKRI, principally MRC, and another quarter from research charities,
 principally Wellcome Trust. Another sizeable component (8%) comes from the EU. Our direct
 industry funding (7%) includes collaborations with 99 different industrial partners over this REF
 period ranging across pharma, biotech, digital and creative industries. To give an indication of the
 diversity and scale of our funding, we have over 650 active research awards, with some of the
 most significant described next.




                                                                                             Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                 Income by funding source 2019-20




            Research Councils   UK industry   UK & OS charities   UK government   OS Industry
            EU government       UK other      EU other            OS other

 Figure 3 – income by funding source in 2019-20

 Major Research Centres and Infrastructure Awards led by IoPPN:
 Our research centres and infrastructure awards within this REF period demonstrate the diversity
 and breadth of our work, from fundamental and translational neuroscience (MRC Centre for
 Neurodevelopmental Disorders (CNDD) (Marín, £2.98M); Dementia Research Institute
 Centre (DRI) (Shaw, £15M)) through to structures enabling clinical research, including the
 Maudsley-BRC (Hotopf, £66M) and Clinical Research Facility (Goadsby, £4M). We also have
 established several Units focussed on implementation research, such as the NIHR Applied
 Research Collaboration (Thornicroft, £9M), the NIHR Global Health Unit ‘Health System
 Strengthening in Sub-Saharan Africa’ (ASSET) (Prince £7M) and our NIHR Mental Health
 Policy Research Unit (awarded jointly with UCL and KCL, KCL PI Simpson, £5M)). We are also
 substantially growing our public health research. Our new NIHR Health Protection Research
 Unit (HPRU) in Emergency Preparedness and Response (Wessely, Rubin, £4M) builds on the
 success of the prior unit expanding its remit to research novel technologies, preparedness and
 resilience in collaboration with Public Health England. The Unit and its members have been a
 vital research and knowledge hub during the recent pandemic (see section 1.2). Since its inception
 (January 2020) our ESRC Centre for Society and Mental Health (CSMH) (Morgan, Rose, £6.6M
 has leveraged £1.4M in grant funding (£896k in COVID-focussed research.

 Each major award is accompanied by significant capacity building, allowing us to develop the
 research leaders of the future. For example, the DRI has leveraged philanthropic funding (Van
 Geest Foundation) to create four van Geest intermediate career Fellowships, and ASSET funds
 seven PhD students and six postdoctoral fellows as well as training the health workforce in its
 African partner countries. We have successfully championed training at the neuroimmune
 interface, developing networks between immunologists, inflammation biologists, neuroscientists
 and mental health researchers with the successful award of the interdisciplinary ‘Neuro-Immune
 Interactions in Health and Disease’ Wellcome PhD Programme (Taams, McMahon, Denk)
 which will support 30 students across five intakes (Wellcome £6.3M + £2M contribution from KCL,
 section 1.8.2).

 Alongside our major Centres, we have seen success with large (+£1.5M) personal funding
 awards, (12 Wellcome Investigator Awards (IAs), 4 ERC Advanced, 2 ERC Consolidator, 2 NIHR

                                                                                                Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Professorships). These have both established the research programmes of the
 recipients and accelerated progress into larger programmatic work. Morgan’s ERC Consolidator
 Award enabled him to establish the REACH cohort of 2500 secondary school children, which has
 since been a fundamental cornerstone of the CSMH, which he co-Directs. Equally Hatch’s
 Wellcome (Humanities and Social Science) Investigator Award created the Tackling Inequalities
 and Discrimination Experiences in Health Services (TIDES) study, which delivers important
 studies on those most impacted by COVID-19 (see section 1.2). Marín and Rico’s Investigator
 Awards and Advanced grants build into their Centre (CNDD) as well as their recent MRC
 Programme Grant. McMahon’s Wellcome Investigator Award on Pain Mediators and Mechanisms
 drove a subsequent Wellcome Trust Strategic Award (£5M) MRC Programme grant (£2.7M), and
 his collaboration on European Commission grants (such as IMI-PainCare and ‘Bone Pain’ Training
 Network). Finally, two IoPPN academics (Howard and Emsley) were awarded NIHR Research
 Professorships. Howard has delivered significant impact though this Professorship including as
 Chair of panel for the NICE guidelines on antenatal and postnatal mental health (ICS Perinatal
 Mental Health). Emsley (section 1.8.12) is developing and implementing innovative clinical trial
 methodologies for mental health and, oneyear into his Professorship, he has developed a national
 Mental Health Methodology Group, and is a key Co-Investigator on the AVATAR grant, with
 Garety.

 Since REF 2014 we have enhanced our portfolio of externally funded fellowships significantly,
 now with a portfolio of over 50 from multiple funders over this REF period. This has enabled early
 post-doctoral and mid/intermediate career fellows to drive their research questions and build
 research groups, and senior fellows to enhance their international research leadership. The
 awards complement our research portfolio and our Fellows range from fundamental biology
 (Long, neocortical development mechanisms, MRC, £1.4M), to underpinning risk factors for
 disease (Modinos, Stress in the pathogenesis of psychosis, Wellcome, £1.1M), through to more
 applied research (Downs, remote monitoring in ADHD, NIHR, £1.3M; Salisbury, improving
 mental health of pregnant teenagers in Africa, UKRI, £1.2M). Two new Senior Fellows (2020
 awards, Di Forti and McAdams) build on their prior intermediate fellowships (one clinical and one
 non-clinical) and deliver research on the impact of cannabis use on mental health, and
 intergenerational transmission of mental health problems respectively.

 Finally, we have driven a significant degree of success with collaborative programme grants.
 Examples include AIMS-2-TRIALS (Murphy, two IMI awards, €145M, sections 1.3, 1.8.5, 4).
 RADAR-CNS (Hotopf, EU IMI, €25M, section 1.8.13), the Wellcome Psychosis Flagship, STEP
 (McGuire, Wellcome, £15M, section 1.8.7), MRC Programme funding on treatment resistance and
 therapeutic advances (STRATA, MacCabe, MRC, £4M), clinical trials employing cannabidiol
 (Bhattacharyya, NIHR £1.85M, and Parkinson’s UK £1.21M, section 1.8.7), AVATAR2 (Garety,
 Wellcome, £3.4M, section 1.8.7) and MRC DPFS funding for a programme of work on cognitive
 bias interpretation modification in paranoia (Yiend, section 1.8.7). Continuing in this more applied
 theme, 2020 also sees the award of a £4.4M NIHR global health grant to Hoekstra for research
 with children with developmental disorders and their caregivers in Ethiopia and Kenya (SPARK).
 Wider explorations into arts and health (Pariante (KCL)/Fancourt (UCL), Wellcome, £2M) has
 created SHAPER, which builds on existing work between King’s, UCL and arts partners (Breathe,
 English National Ballet) to examine the implementation of art interventions within the NHS.

 Strategies for generating funding
 To generate funding, we combine “top down” oversight for major calls led by the Vice Dean for
 Research with “bottom up” support for individual researchers to encourage academic
 independence and innovation. Our support mechanisms are described in section 2. Researchers
 have access to a database of previous successful applications.

 For new major calls, we have established a system of task-and-finish oversight groups – in which
 research leaders across diverse methodologies are invited to maximise synergies, foster a culture
 of collaboration, and provide oversight and adjudication if institutional triage is required by funders.
 The Faculty Research Development Manager has the remit of supporting major grants and mid to
 senior fellowship applications and reports to the College’s Director of Research Strategy and

                                                                                                 Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Development who oversees the largest research applications, as well as maintaining relationships
 with major funders, including UKRI, NIHR and Wellcome.

 Recognising the importance of industry funding, we established the Centre for Innovative
 Therapeutics (C-FIT), directed by Mehta (see Section 4 below).

 Scholarly infrastructure
 Patient and public involvement (PPI) is central to our clinical research and we have invested in
 expertise and a network of specialised groups which support research with diverse clinical
 populations. Our strength in this area ensures our research is meaningful and impactful to patients
 and public and, at the heart of our PPI is a commitment to service user-led research. The Service
 User Research Enterprise (SURE) undertakes research that examines mental health services
 from the perspectives of those that use them, explores empirically and conceptually the impact of
 service user involvement in research (in terms of both process and outcomes), and critically
 interrogates how service users have changed knowledge production globally. SURE is the
 largest unit within a university to be predominantly composed of people who have both research
 skills and first-hand experience of mental health services and treatments. SURE develops service
 user researchers through graduate training and provides advice to researchers on good practice
 approaches to involving service users in research. We have a number of other service user and
 carer advisory groups including a Young People’s Mental Health Advisory Group, an Addictions
 Service User group and FAST-R, a national service which provides rapid turn-around on patient
 facing materials and protocols.

 We have exceptional facilities in basic neuroscience. In 2016 we established the Genome
 Editing and Embryology Core (GEEC) facility, to provide state-of-the art support for genome
 editing and transgenic projects. KCL’s six biological services units provide expert in-vivo support
 for all translational animal research. We are at the forefront of imaging research from single
 cells to brain networks and have expanded our imaging facilities (Nikon centre:
 https://nic.kcl.ac.uk) to include a new centre for imaging excellence, complemented by our centre
 for ultrastructural imaging (https://cui.kcl.ac.uk/#) and preclinical animal MRI facility
 (https://brain-imaging.org/) that includes 9.4T MR and novel optogenetic fMRI technology funded
 by a Wellcome Equipment grant, enabling visualisation and manipulation of the nervous system
 from the macroscopic level, all the way through to functional neural networks. This breadth of
 research is complemented by access to the Immune Monitoring Core of the Guy’s and St
 Thomas’ NIHR BRC, providing expertise in flow cytometry, immunology and bioinformatics
 support.

 The Maurice Wohl Clinical Neurosciences Institute (£50M) was opened by HRH The Princess
 Royal in June 2015 and won a RIBA London award the following year. The RIBA description
 stated: ‘The building is an inspiring precedent for scientific research where fluidity and adaptability
 is needed to cater for the ever-changing requirements and technologies in the field… The building
 reflects and enables the most exciting and human aspects of science: care, knowledge-sharing,
 conviviality and the joy of discovery.’ The Wohl building consolidated our clinical neuroscience by
 bringing under one roof 250 researchers previously spread across three campuses. The Wohl
 accelerates our efforts to understand and develop treatments for patients affected by Alzheimer’s
 disease, Parkinson’s, ALS, depression, schizophrenia, epilepsy and stroke.

 Our Molecular Genetics Laboratory has advanced with investments by the Maudsley Charity
 and the BRC-Maudsley. Our facilities provide access and research support from sample
 preparation to bioinformatics support. We offer DNA/RNA extraction from blood and saliva,
 automated blood fractionation, automated sample preparation and normalization. The laboratory
 is a Propel Certified Provider of Illumina's platforms and assays for genotyping, including
 epigenetic profiling. We support immunoassay projects via MSD assays for cytokines and
 chemokines, with robotics and LIMS tracking of samples. Our high-throughput genotyping platform
 is capable of generating GWAS data for ~2000 samples per week on a wide array of Illumina
 bead-chips. We support research groups studying numerous cohorts and phenotypes including


                                                                                                Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ALS, psychosis, responses to psychological therapy, antidepressant drug response, autism,
 ADHD and depression, and for the Human Hereditary and Health in Africa programme.

 Human tissue and sample collections includes the London Neurodegenerative Diseases
 Brain Bank which provides clinically and neuropathologically well-characterised human brain and
 spinal cord tissue to the neuroscience community. The Brain Bank is part-funded by MRC and is
 shared between university and NHS (King’s College Hospital). The Brain Bank includes samples
 from individuals with neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders. The Brain Bank is also part of
 the Brains for Dementia initiative (funded jointly by Alzheimer’s Society and Alzheimer’s
 Research UK to support brain donation and provide brain tissue for researchers).

 Our translational research infrastructure includes the NIHR Wellcome King’s Clinical
 Research Facility (CRF) (NIHR £4M). In 2019/20 the CRF hosted 58 experimental medicine
 studies in people with mental and neurological disorders, providing one of the few sites
 internationally where this type of research can be conducted in people with acute mental disorders
 and with a staffing complement including mental health nursing. Whilst awarded to SLaM it is
 embedded within King’s College Hospital, demonstrating our close working across the AHSC.

 Brain imaging is advanced through our array of MRI and PET imaging facilities. The Centre for
 Neuroimaging Sciences houses three of the latest generation MRI systems capable of
 performing contemporary functional, spectroscopic, anatomical and physiological mapping
 techniques. The Clinical Research Facility (CRF) contains two dedicated EEG suites and an
 identical 3T system for ease of methods translation to experimental medicine. In 2021, the CRF
 will house the first head-only 3T MR system designed specifically for brain imaging
 investigations. The Centre is leading the research and support for the first low cost, point of
 care, portable MRI device and will orchestrate the development and distribution across 20 sites
 in Africa, India and Pakistan. Our formal links to both Invicro and St Thomas’ PET centres (2 PET-
 CT, a PET-MRI and a recently installed 7T MR) allows us to conduct a broad array of molecular
 imaging investigations.

 The King’s Clinical Trials Unit (KCTU) is registered by the UKCRC and receives funding from
 the NIHR. The KCTU supports academic-led trials across KHP and externally, providing expertise
 in statistics, health economics and provides operational support. Currently the KCTU supports 75
 clinical trials in mental and neurological health.

 The new SLaM-KCL Centre for Translational Informatics (CTI) brings together university
 research with NHS IT departments and industry partnerships with the goal of providing the
 components of a learning healthcare system. We secured funding from KCL and SLaM for £10M
 capital refurbishment programme and established Rosalind (£2M, local charities), a hybrid, on-
 premises cloud and high performance computing platform (7,500 compute cores, 60 terabytes of
 memory, and 5 petabytes of storage). The traditional HPC component of Rosalind enables high-
 throughput, large scale and big data analytics and simulation that would otherwise be
 computationally prohibitive, such as bioinformatics, genomic processing, physical sciences
 simulations, etc. The cloud platform offers a relatively new model for research computing that is
 particularly applicable to analytics and data platform services, e.g. for projects such as RADAR,
 and for development, prototyping and staging work for translational projects that interface with
 NHS data sources. In a collaboration between KCL’s London Medical Imaging and AI Centre
 for Value Based Healthcare and NVIDIA our groups will have access to the UK’s most powerful
 supercomputer, Cambridge-1.

 The IoPPN Library is the largest psychiatric library in Europe. It has flexible study space, a silent
 study area and an assistive technology room. It provides high quality, essential support for
 researchers which includes over 700 electronic journals in Psychiatry, Psychology and Neurology,
 over 35,000 books/multimedia items, as well as rare and unique archives.


 Operational infrastructure

                                                                                              Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Joint R&D Office for IoPPN and SLaM supports staff of both the Institute and SLaM in
 delivering clinical research, ensuring that research meets all necessary ethical, contractual and
 regulatory standards before it can begin, working closely with partner NHS R&D Offices within
 KHP as well as the Research Governance, Ethics and Integrity team at KCL. The R&D Office is
 physically based within the IoPPN main building, allowing researchers to receive support from the
 staff in close proximity to other support functions. The R&D Office also manages the preparations
 for the REF submission to UoA4.
 The Research Grants and Contracts Team provides dedicated professional service support for
 all King's staff with government, charity and industry research funding. The Pre-Award Team
 supports the submission of applications as well as formal acceptance of awards and negotiation
 of all funding. The Post-Award Team offers financial support, including day-to-day project
 management, claiming and reconciliation. The Pre- and Post-Award teams are located on each
 campus to facilitate interaction with academic and professional services, offer daily advice and run
 training sessions to share best practice. The International Research Funding Office provides both
 Pre- and Post-Award support for grants from the European Commission and International Funders
 like NIH. This specialist function is particularly important for the large multi-partner collaborative
 awards. The Contracts Team offer specialist expertise for direct industry funding, consultancy
 projects and they negotiate agreements which enable research at King's, but which do not provide
 income, such as material transfer agreements and non-disclosure agreements.
 Since 2019, King’s has deployed a new grants management system, which has improved research
 support and offered a more streamlined approach to grant management. Workshops and training
 sessions were provided during the change and a dedicated ‘Help Desk’ has been set up to support
 researchers and local departmental users as they use the new platform. Over the next year there
 will be further integration with core HR and finance systems, providing a better interface and
 enabling improved tracking of awards from inception to end.
 The King’s Health Partners (KHP) Clinical Trials Office (CTO) was established in 2007 as a
 joint initiative between KCL and KHP NHS trusts to formalise the pre-existing collaborations
 between the partners, to develop their clinical trials potential and to increase the quality and
 delivery of clinical trials including regulatory compliance. The KHP CTO provides a single interface
 for those wishing to conduct trials sponsored by the pharmaceutical industry.
 Technical and support staff
 Our technical and support staff community facilitates the operation of our research infrastructure.
 This skilled workforce, which makes up some 5% of our staff, underpins our essential laboratory
 and biological services, and our specialist expertise in areas as diverse as digital and advanced
 imaging technologies to stem cell and neuronal circuit methodologies. Our staff enable the
 development and maintenance of research infrastructure facilities and also include essential
 expertise in I.T., estates and facilities teams.
 The King’s Centre for Research Staff Development provides bespoke training, mentoring and
 career counselling for technical staff. As part of King’s Professional Strengthening initiative, a
 number of networks have been established, which includes the Technical Services Network,
 bringing together our technical community to share best practice, facilitate professional
 development and provide peer support.
 How infrastructure, facilities and expertise are used in relation to impact
 Our infrastructures, facilities and expertise create a vibrant culture to deliver impact. Our King’s
 Strategic Vision 2029 commits to making the world a better place. We do this not only through
 research and education but also through recognising the importance of international
 collaboration, service to shape and transform, and by being a civic university at the heart of
 London.

 Both the Maurice Wohl Institute and CRF have played important roles in work leading to the
 translation of basic research into the development of drugs for migraines (ICS Migraine) and HCN2
 ion blockers as analgesics (see section 1.8.2). Whilst the CRF and KHP advanced therapies
 accelerator have facilitated research on advanced therapies for ALS, Alzheimer’s and
 improvement of motor function following stroke (see section 1.8.3, 1.8.4 and 1.8.10). The London
 Neurodegenerative Diseases Brain Bank has been central in pioneering work to examine the
 impact of COVID-19 on the brain (see section 1.2).


                                                                                               Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 By overseeing the inception and running of clinical trials, our Clinical Trials Office and Clinical
 Trials Unit help deliver on our translational goals and our links with industry enable final steps to
 be taken in the journey from bench to bedside.

 Our wealth of expertise in links between physical and mental health, together with the
 infrastructure within KHP and the BRC-Maudsley have led to a broad range of impactful research
 exemplified by our impact case studies in menopause and eating disorders. The strength of our
 PPI initiatives, such as SURE, has helped ensure that research has real impact for real people,
 demonstrated by impact case studies such as Safewards and perinatal mental health.

 Our Policy Institute connects researchers with policy makers and we have developed and
 strengthened these connections leading to impactful research such as that seen in many of our
 case studies, particularly in addiction (see ICS E-cigarettes and ICS Naloxone, Through the
 King’s Together funding schemes we have developed collaborative programmes not only joining
 academics from different structures but also policy makers – for example Stevelink’s programme
 on mental health and work links IoPPN, Policy Institute and Department of Work and Pension in
 developing a shared vision of research to address this important issue. Through workshops and
 policy labs, the King’s Policy Institute has helped develop impact strategies for many
 researchers and this has built on their established expertise to produce impact in areas including
 our impact case studies on human trafficking, the Mental Health Act, and the Friendship Bench.
 Funding from the ESRC has supported the Policy Institute’s Impact Acceleration Account which
 provides a route through which IoPPN researchers can access policy expertise in funded projects.

 The Centre for Global Mental Health (joint between KCL and LSHTM) and the King’s Centre
 for Global Health, alongside collaborations in international projects have yielded impact at an
 international policy level and King’s researchers are co-developing mental health programmes
 with communities in Ethiopia and Nepal (ICS – Global Mental Health).

 Our service strategy includes celebrating routes to impact such as collaborations with arts
 organisations. For example, in collaboration with the City of London Sinfonia we have created the
 Sound Young Minds programme which links with the Bethlem and Maudsley Hospital Schools,
 which educate children and young people with severe neurodevelopmental disorders (Marlow).
 Our work on trafficking has also involved public engagement through the art exhibition ‘Modern
 Slavery’ (ICS - Human Trafficking).

 Our IoPPN Research and Innovation Committee (see section 2) has an Impact Subcommittee
 which runs events, including a conference on AI, which subsequently led to a successful King’s
 Together award. Our annual research festival highlights impact, showcasing successful examples
 to colleagues and students. We enjoy close partnerships with local charities (the Maudsley
 Charity and Guys’ and St Thomas’ Charity) which in combination with NHS partners provide
 opportunities for rapid adoption of research by the local community. For example, Cannabis and
 Mental Health is a project funded by the Maudsley Charity which pilots support work by mentors
 with lived experience of psychosis and cannabis use for young adults suffering their first episode
 of psychosis and currently using cannabis.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Our strategy recognises that collaborations are vital to answer the many challenges in
 neuroscience and mental health research. We encourage the formation of interdisciplinary
 networks that can answer important neuroscience and mental health questions that they could not
 do in isolation. We enjoy wide-ranging partnerships with universities across the world. In 2014-
 2020 we published 5464 outputs in collaboration with other universities, representing 44% of our
 total outputs. Most of these collaborations occur organically, forged by individual investigators –
 an initiative that we have always encouraged.

 Researchers in UoA4 played a major role in several high-profile strategic activities led by King’s
 academics in UoA1:


                                                                                              Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Neuroscience is a primary focus of the Wellcome-funded London Collaborative Ultra-high
     field MR System (7T MRI), embedded in St Thomas’ Hospital; Williams (UoA4) is a co-
     applicant/co-director and neuroscience lead.
    IoPPN researchers are a critical part of the Innovate UK London AI Centre for Value-Based
     Healthcare (£10M + £16M to NHS partners), in collaboration with Siemens Healthineers,
     Nvidia, GSK, IBM and >10 SMEs. The Centre uses the IoPPN-led CogStack technology
     (Dobson, UoA4) as a core platform, and the “exemplar pathways” include neurological
     conditions such as headache.
    Neuroscience/neurology is one of four core themes of the Wellcome Medical Engineering
     Centre (£12.4M); this theme is led by Williams (UoA4).
    IoPPN academics lead the Actionable Analytics theme of the Health Data Research UK
     London Centre (£7M) and lead the National Text Analytics Resource Implementation
     Programme.

 Academic Collaborations: National
 KCL is a founding member of the Francis Crick Institute and our basic neuroscientists
 collaborate with Crick investigators and are establishing a reverse satellite to strengthen our
 computational methods (see section 1.8.1).

 Commissioned by the Department of Health and Social Care through the NIHR’s Policy Research
 Call, KCL and UCL lead the NIHR Mental Health Policy Research Unit (£5M), which brings
 mental health researchers, clinicians, service users and carers closer together. The unit provided
 valuable research input to the Mental Health Act review (see ICS – Mental Health Act) and the
 mental health aspects of COVID-19 pandemic.

 Following the 2016 NIHR BRC competition, we founded, with colleagues from across 14 centres
 in England, Wales and Scotland, the Translational Research Collaboration in Mental Health
 (MH-TRC). This provides a mechanism for collaboration between NIHR and similar infrastructures
 in experimental medicine and early phase clinical trials in mental health and has been instrumental
 in providing a mental health research response to COVID-19 pandemic. The BRC-Maudsley
 provides 50% of the running costs. A similar Mental Health Implementation Network of NIHR
 Applied Research Centres has been created, co-led between KCL and Cambridge. KCL
 successfully led a collaborative grant (£1.9M, NIHR, PI: Drummond) to spearhead this work, which
 will identify, prioritise, implement, and evaluate mental health service improvement nationally
 within collaborating ARC regions.

 We lead two of the eight UKRI Mental Health Research Networks including one on violence
 abuse and mental health (Howard and Oram) and another on student mental health (SMaRteN,
 Byron), which engages researchers with broad expertise in education, psychology, social
 sciences, arts and informatics to understand institutional and individual factors impacting student
 mental health. We participate in other such networks – e-NURTURE which explores digital
 technologies and children’s mental health (Sonuga-Barke) and TRIUMPH, focussed on improving
 young people’s mental health (Woodhead, project on LBGTQ+).

 International Academic Collaborations
 While we already have numerous, mature collaborations across Europe, the Americas and Africa,
 over the last 2-3 years we have made strategic investment in engaging colleagues in regions
 where collaborations have historically been harder to establish, in particular in Asia. To achieve
 this, we have invested in key senior managerial figures (including a Vice Dean for International
 Affairs, Dazzan, and a Director of International Business Development, Li) and prominent
 academics (including a Director for the Global Mental Health Centre – Araya). The outputs we
 have returned in UoA4 represent collaborations with co-authors from every continent and most
 countries of the world (Figure 4.)




                                                                                            Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 4: Publications returned within UoA4 by national affiliation of co-authors

 These appointments have allowed us to join up existing, and instigate new, research, education
 and commercial opportunities with international partners. In India we have developed educational
 and research links involving the Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine
 (inStem) and the National Institute for Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), to share
 expertise and build local capacity through a new research platform across clinical and basic
 research in neuroscience and mental health. In Singapore, we have developed a joint PhD
 programme with the National University of Singapore School of Medicine.

 King’s established the King’s Global Health Institute in 2018, directed by Prince (IoPPN). The
 institute is a hub for many international research efforts, including an NIHR Global Health
 Research Unit on Health System Strengthening in Sub-Saharan Africa (NIHR, £7M). Mental
 health is a strong theme of the Institute, which is linked with our Global Mental Health Centre
 (joint with LSHTM) and WHO Coordinating Centre for Research and Training in Mental Health
 (Co-directed by Salisbury (UKRI Future Leader Fellow) and Hanlon (KCL employee based in
 Addis Ababa)), and has developed impactful resources and research, including tools-kits by which
 LMIC can bridge the gap between population need and clinical provision (see ICS Global Mental
 Health).

 We collaborate on many other international partnerships seeing them as a means to further the
 impact and influence of our research. Examples include:
     The ROAMER project was funded by EU Framework 7 as a Europe-wide collaboration of
        research funders, academics, clinicians, service users and carers. The project developed
        EU research priorities (Wykes et al 2015 Lancet Psychiatry) that influenced European
        (Horizon 2020) and UK research funding policy, with the priorities being adopted in the
        NHS Five Year Forward View for Mental Health (2016), the DH Framework for Mental
        Health Research (2017), MRC’s Strategy for Lifelong Mental Health Research (2017) and
        MQ’s Manifesto for Young People’s Mental Health (2016) and Mental Health Research
        Goals (2020).
     IoPPN academics play leadership roles in the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, an
        international collaboration of over 800 international scientists from 150 universities in 40
        countries, leading three of the eleven disorder working groups (Breen (Eating Disorders),


                                                                                            Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Eley (Anxiety), Lewis (Major Depression)) and making substantial advances in identifying
        the genetic component to these disorders.
       We participate in disease focussed consortia, for example in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis
        (ALS). With colleagues from 64 countries across Western Europe, Russia and the Middle
        East we contribute to the ENCALS consortium (https://www.encals.eu/) through
        membership of the Executive Board and chairing the Award Committee (Al-Chalabi). The
        consortium aims to find a cure for ALS and has developed harmonized data collections,
        outcome measures, and an annual international conference, with an aim to support early
        career researchers. Impacts include development of the King’s ALS Clinical Staging
        System, now included in international consensus clinical trials guidelines and FDA
        guidance.
       The transCampus initiative is a partnership between KCL and Technische Universität
        Dresden. The transCampus aims are: stimulating, supporting and enabling collaborations
        in various fields of research and exchange; promoting the sharing of resources and
        promoting transnational projects and knowledge transfer. The mental health group of the
        transCampus (https://transcampus.eu/mental-health) is involved in joint European (H2020)
        and the recent application to establish a German Centre of Excellence in Mental Health
        Research.


 Engagement with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences to develop impact and
 enrich environment

 Communication with potential research participants
 We encourage staff to engage with potential beneficiaries of research from the design stage,
 enabling the testing of the relevance of a research proposal. We have an established culture of
 engaging service users and patients in the design, leadership and conduct of research. We
 work with charities to enable further productive interactions service users and their carers e.g.
 Beat Eating Disorders, McPin, Parkinson’s UK and Black Thrive. In military health, we work
 closely with the veterans groups and the Ministry of Defence to ensure research remains relevant.

 By being embedded in our local south London communities we deliver impact under our
 commitment to service. The REACH programme (Morgan), launched in 2015, is implemented in
 14 schools in south London (ERC funded). Participating schools use mental health awareness
 materials for teacher delivery in PSHE classes; gain additional in-school therapy support from
 students at the IoPPN; and campus visits with a taster lecture.

 The Wellcome Trust and ESRC funded HERON (Health Inequalities Network, Hatch) provides a
 forum for health practitioners, community leaders and researchers to share experiences and
 information and to work collectively towards understanding and reducing health
 inequalities. HERON does this through integrated research and engagement activities; advising
 on and supporting evaluation activities; supporting projects to use various forms of media such as
 art, photography, performance and podcasting. HERON has generated several widely used
 toolkits and resources, including RISE (Research methods In School Education) developed with
 local secondary school students underrepresented in psychology and health related degree
 programmes.

 Engagement with the wider public
 The IoPPN has a dedicated Press & Communications team comprising seven staff with
 expertise in research dissemination, public engagement and knowledge transfer. It creates and
 curates content for digital and social media channels aimed at both internal and external
 audiences. Approximately 60 press releases are issued per year alongside individual pitches to
 select media. The team works closely with the Science Media Centre to provide expert comment
 on new research and evolving science stories and to set up briefings for those stories which may
 be controversial and/or generate extensive press coverage. The success of this was evidenced in
 the COVID-19 pandemic when our researchers provided comment on a range of issues from
 mental health impact on school children to long COVID and the impact of the pandemic on our

                                                                                           Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sleep and exercise patterns. The team run campaigns on specific mental health issues, often with
 our NHS and charity partners, for example the promotion of a series of animated tips giving
 evidence-based advice on parenting during the COVID-19 pandemic, Families Under Pressure,
 which were voiced by celebrities. The Maudsley Charity webpage that hosted the videos has
 received 17000 unique visits and the campaign posts on IoPPN social media channels achieved
 over 20000 impressions. Off the back of the campaign researchers wrote articles for BBC Bitesize
 parents’ toolkit. IoPPN’s presence on social media has seen exponential growth, with Twitter
 followers increasing from 6,800 in August 2015 to 33,400 in August 2020, LinkedIn followers
 almost doubling in six months from 31,900 in February 2020 to 55,152 in August 2020, and
 Instagram and Facebook growing at a steady rate. We provide media training for researchers,
 including advice on promoting research through the media, public engagement, and other formats
 including events and festivals.

 Beyond our professional communication team, we encourage and support academics and
 researchers to participate in public engagement activities. The first exhibition of the Science
 Gallery at the Guy’s Campus was “Hooked” – a series of installations and events informed by
 IoPPN research on addiction and a further exhibition “On-Edge” explored anxiety disorders – with
 33k and 40k visitors respectively. The BRC-Maudsley supports Marlow, a broadcaster and
 researcher, as a Public Engagement Fellow. During this REF period, Marlow has produced 14
 radio documentaries for BBC Radio on subjects that include young people’s mental health, eating
 disorders and self-harm.

 Public engagement is a research activity in its own right. The Time To Change campaign, a
 global anti-stigma programme, has involved IoPPN researchers both delivering the message, and
 monitoring its impact and thereby refining future communications. The campaign was voted as
 one of the greatest public health achievements in the 21st century by the Royal Society for Public
 Health.

 Working with government
 Our research impacts government policy and includes collaborations across several
 government departments. In relation to COVID-19 pandemic, Rubin and Fear are members of
 SAGE with Rubin chairing the Independent Scientific Pandemic Insights Group on Behaviours
 (SPI-B) (ICS Disasters and Crises). Wessely chaired the review of the Mental Health Act which
 was informed by research from our Wellcome Trust Mental Health and Justice collaboration
 (Owen) the NIHR Health Policy Research Unit in Mental Health (UCL/KCL) (ICS Mental Health
 Act). We have a 25 year collaboration with Ministry of Defence which funds the Academic Centre
 for Military Health, in which uniformed officers are seconded to work in KCL on the King’s Centre
 for Military Health Research cohorts and related studies (Wessely, Fear). This collaboration has
 fostered over 500 publications and a recent knowledge-mapping exercise listed 6 KCL
 researchers in the top ten in this field. Research in this area has impacted military policy and
 mental health support for veterans (see ICS – Military mental health).

 We have recently established ground-breaking record linkages between mental health records
 and research data with the Department for Education (National Pupil Database) and the
 Department for Work and Pensions (National Benefits Database), the first of their kind in
 England (Downs, Stevelink). These have allowed us to explore occupational outcomes of
 veterans and will allow mental health outcomes of Universal Credit to be studied. A linkage has
 been achieved with the Department of Justice with military records identifying the impact of
 service on future offending behaviour (McManus).

 Through our expertise in addiction and harm reduction Public Health England have commissioned
 a series of reports on e-cigarettes which have subsequently influenced policy and training for stop
 smoking services in the UK and abroad (see ICS E-Cigarettes).

 Collaborations with Industry
 Our strategic review recognised the pivotal importance of industry collaborations in research and
 the need to engage across a range of sectors including pharma, biotech and digital. The wider

                                                                                            Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 university strategy for industry engagement is described in REF5a. King’s offers a complete
 system from idea through to (well-funded) spinout/commercial licensing. Initial translation is
 supported by “impact accelerator” funding, including our King’s Health Partners Challenge Fund
 (£1M/year, biomedical focus, 23 awards to UoA4 since 2014), alongside resources and expertise
 from the Maudsley-BRC, King’s Policy Institute and more. King’s Research Development support
 researchers to obtain substantive translational funding from UKRI, Wellcome and similar sources.
 Our IP & Licensing team provide dedicated expertise and management of IP protection,
 licensing/spinout and associated commercial/venture fundraising. This team also undertakes a
 series of activities to ensure awareness of commercialisation opportunities. The KHP Clinical
 Trials Office is responsible for overseeing contract negotiations and regulatory scrutiny on clinical
 trials of investigational products.

 Strategic partnerships with leading multinational companies, spanning UoA4 and UoA1/3/5/12,
 including Siemens Healthineers (MRI and AI), Nvidia (AI – King’s is the European Strategic
 partner for AI & health research), Medtronic (surgical engineering for neurosurgery), UCB
 Pharma (cancer, neuroscience) and GSK (functional genomics, advanced therapies). The total
 committed investment across these partnerships is c.£40M.

 Locally, the Centre for Innovative Therapeutics (C-FIT) is directly focussed on the challenge of
 accelerating novel treatments for mental health and neurological conditions by working with
 industrial partners. Led by Mehta, C-FIT was established with KCL funding and the BRC-
 Maudsley in recognition of the importance of industry collaboration. Since 2019 it has showcased
 our research and infrastructure to Janssen, Roche and Boehringer Ingelheim among others,
 leading to a £2M collaborative grant from the latter (see 1.8.12 for details).

 Successes in industry-academia collaboration include:
     IP/Licensing: HCN2 inhibitors: Following discovery of the role of the HCN2 channel in
       chronic pain by McNaughton (see section 1.8.2), King’s and Wellcome licensed the
       resulting IP to MSD. King’s and Wellcome are eligible to receive up to £263 million in
       development and sales milestones, as well as royalties if a drug comes to market. MSD
       will also fund the McNaughton lab for further research on the biological mechanisms of
       pain.
     Spinout: Neurogeneus: Based on Shaw’s work to identify genes linked to amyotrophic
       lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia and focusing on reducing
       accumulation/enhancing clearance of TDP-43 protein, we have set up a spin out company
       to deliver AAV-mediated gene therapy, using a new patented expression vector.
     Joint Venture: Beta Therapeutics & Diagnostics: Collaboration between KCL and
       SEEK Pharmaceuticals applies their technology to enhance bioavailability and
       biodistribution of existing compounds for use across multiple indications.

 Collaborative industry grant funding Another major source of industry engagement is through
 established grant funding mechanisms. We have led 25% of all Innovative Medicines Initiative
 consortia in neuroscience and mental health. These pre-competitive public private consortia
 include funding from major pharmaceutical companies. We currently lead RADAR-CNS (€25M),
 RADAR-AD (€5M), AIMS-2-TRIALS (€115M), and PAIN-CARE (£8.9M). Our work in EU-AIMS-
 2-TRIALS consortium was independently audited by the EU and judged to be the ‘most impactful
 IMI initiative’. We are further involved in the Wellcome Trust Immunopsychiatry consortium, and
 the Innovate UK London Medical Imaging and AI Centre. Our new Doctoral Training Programme
 in Data Driven Health includes 13 industrial partners who are supporting CASE (collaborative
 award) PhD studentships.

 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base

 Editorship: We encourage staff to be involved in academic peer review and editorial duties and
 100 of our academic staff declared editorial activity on journals. A number are editors-in-chief of
 major international journals including, Noble (Acta Neuropathologica Communications), Malcangio
 (Neurobiology of Pain), Sonuga-Barke (Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry), Pariante

                                                                                              Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Brain Behavior and Immunity), Morgan (Social Psychiatry and Psychiatric Epidemiology) and
 Murray (Psychological Medicine).

 Participation on grants committees: Many staff members sit on, or chair, grant funding
 committees. Within Wellcome Trust, for example, eighteen individuals have played a role
 including on the cognitive neuroscience and mental health panel (Eley, Shergill), the Clinical and
 Public Health Committee (Lund), Interview Panel (Lewis), BSIC (Williams), and as an advisor on
 the Mental Health Strategy area (Pariante). In UKRI, Wessely serves on council of ESRC, Maríin
 and Simonoff sit on the MRC Neuroscience and Mental Health Committee, Hotopf on the
 Multimorbidity and MRC Centres and Units Review committee, Bevan on the BMC Major Awards
 Committee, Dazzan and Rubia on MRC Training and Career Development Panels, and Houart on
 BBSRC Panel C. With NIHR, Brown is the Chair of the NIHR/HEE Integrated Clinical Academic
 Doctoral Training Panel, Emsley sits on the Clinical Trials Committee, Howard on NIHR HS&DR
 Panel, and Landau sits on the Advanced Fellowship panel. Members of staff have wide ranging
 roles in charities, notably Eley co-chairs the MQ fellowship panel, Wessely Chairs the Forces in
 Mind Trust grant committee, Richardson sits on the Epilepsy Research UK Scientific Advisory
 Committee. On international funding bodies, Steel and Pastore have both contributed to ERC,
 with Steel chairing the ERC Consolidators Panel.

 Fellowships: Among our current staff we have 19 Fellows of the Academy of Medical Science
 (Arseneault, Caspi, Happe, Hotopf, Howes, Marín, McGuire, McMahon, McNaughton, Moffit,
 Murray, Pickles, Shaw, Sonuga-Barke, Steel, Strang, Thornicroft, Wessely and Williams), two
 fellows of the Royal Society (Murray, Steel), five Fellows of the British Academy (Caspi, Happé,
 Plomin, Sonuga-Barke, Pickles) three academicians of the Academy of Social Science
 (Arseneault, Moss-Morris, Wykes) and two fellows of the American Academy of Arts and
 Sciences (Plomin, Steel). We have 13 current NIHR Senior Investigators (Drummond,
 Goadsby, Hotopf, Howard, McGuire, McNeill, Pariante, Pickles, Simonoff, Schmidt, Stewart,
 Strang, Young) and six emeritus/emerita NIHR Senior Investigators (Garety, Kuipers, Murray,
 Thornicroft, Wessely, Wykes). Thirty academics from IoPPN were named Clarivate Highly Cited
 Researchers, according to the Highly Cited Researchers 2020 list.

 Prizes: Our staff are recipients of prestigious prizes for their research during this REF period.
 Senior staff have been honoured with lifetime achievement awards including Murray
 (Schizophrenia International Research Society Lifetime Achievement Award for 2020); Rutter
 (joint winner of Pardes Humanitarian Prize in Mental Health, 2020); Plomin (BPS Lifetime
 Achievement Award, 2020); Treasure (Academy of Eating Disorders, 2014); Eley (James Shields
 Lifetime Achievement Award from the International Society for Twin Studies 2017) and Garety
 (British Psychological Society Professional Practice Board Lifetime Achievement Award,
 2018). Other prestigious prizes for research include McMahon (British Neuroscience
 Association’s Outstanding Contribution to Neuroscience, 2019); Moss-Morris (British
 Psychological Society Outstanding Contribution to Research 2015); Marín (Prix Roger De
 Spoelberch, 2014); Al-Chalabi (Sheila Essey award for ALS research, 2016); Howard (Marcé
 Medal for research in the field of perinatal mental health, 2014) and Wykes (EPA Constance
 Pascal – Helen Boyle Prize for outstanding achievement by a woman working to Improve mental
 health care in Europe, 2020).

 Leadership roles: Many of our faculty take on leadership of professional bodies. Wessely,
 the first Regius Professor of Psychiatry, was President of the Royal College of Psychiatrists 2014-
 17, and the first psychiatrist President of the Royal Society of Medicine. Arseneault is the ESRC
 Mental Health Champion. Wykes and Dazzan were elected as President and Secretary
 respectively of the Schizophrenia International Research Society, 2018. Steel sits on the Council
 of the Royal Society and serves on their Science Policy Committee and is President of the
 Association for Research in Otolaryngology. Holland and Denk both received Emerging Leaders
 awards from the Medical Research Foundation in 2020




                                                                                            Page 38
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Honours: Finally, we are proud that a number of our academics have received honours including
 Wykes (DBE), Murray, Wessely, Strang and Thornicroft (KBE), Happé, Hotopf and Scott (CBE),
 Rubin and Treasure (OBE).




                                                                                       Page 39
