Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Cardiff University
 Unit of Assessment 33: Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Context
 Part of Cardiff University’s College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (AHSS), the School
 of Music (henceforth MUSIC) is located in a capital city that supports a diverse and thriving musical
 and cultural scene. Cardiff is home to the BBC National Orchestra of Wales (BBC NOW), Welsh
 National Opera (WNO) and Music Theatre Wales. Its concert and artistic venues include the Wales
 Millennium Centre (housing the Donald Gordon Theatre and Hoddinott Hall), St David’s Hall, and
 the Chapter Arts Centre.
 One of the largest university music departments in the UK, MUSIC maintains its international
 reputation and makes a distinctive contribution to the discipline by fostering intellectual exchange
 across its sub-disciplines of composition, performance, ethnomusicology, musicology, popular
 and film music studies.
 Since 2014, the Unit’s REF-eligible FTE increased from 15.2 to 17.2 with the appointment of four
 lecturers (Cenciarelli, Gomes, Hennemann, Moore), one senior lecturer (JonesN), and one
 early career researcher (Millar). This increased the number of female staff from five to seven
 FTEs, almost half the REF eligible total. As well as representing a balance of age and gender
 demographics, career grade and experience, the appointments have increased the School’s
 international profile: the national origins of staff now include England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales,
 Australia, Germany, Italy, Portugal, South Africa and the USA, providing a diversity of
 perspectives that we believe is one of our vital strengths.
 In the current REF cycle, staff in our School have published over 100 outputs (including seven
 monographs, two co-authored books and nine edited books), premiered 22 compositions, and
 featured in over a dozen commercial recordings. We have a vibrant postgraduate research culture,
 and UG and PGT students also actively contributed to the environment through Cardiff University
 Symphony Orchestra’s three well-reviewed commercial CDs of music related to our research
 (detailed below).
 Structure
 There is both a stimulating diversity and coherence to research in MUSIC. The School fosters a
 range of evolving interests that directly reflect the plurality of the field, including film music and
 cinematic listening (Cenciarelli), 18th-century music aesthetics (Chapin), and Romantic pianism
 (Hamilton). Activity during the current REF period has coalesced around four principal strands:
    a) Contemporary Music as Creative Practice (eight FTEs; 15 outputs submitted to
       REF2021). This strand engages in critical, cultural and analytical perspectives on post-
       1900 creative musical practice, and embraces the many opportunities for collaboration,
       public engagement and impact the subject affords. Musicologists have analysed the
       attitudes and compositional processes of post-war British composers (Beard, JonesN),
       probed emerging trends in the 21st-century (Wilson), and spotlighted under-represented
       composers in 20th-century France (Rae). Practical research includes critically acclaimed
       commercial recordings of new, previously unrecorded piano repertoire by Hamilton, and
       international premieres and recordings of compositions by Sierra, Fokkens and Gomes.
        Engagement and impact activities (detailed in section 4) include MUSIC’s annual
        ‘Contemporary Voices’ professional concert series, programming of international concert
        series (Rae), the development of composer workshops (Fokkens, Sierra), and pre-concert
        talks and broadcast interviews.
    b) Opera and Music Drama (four FTEs; 10 outputs, including requested double weighting).
       This strand undertakes interdisciplinary, historical and cultural-critical studies of opera,
       especially in the 19th-century but extending to the present. Associated outputs include
       Rowden’s monograph on opera and parody in France, 1860–1900, and her co-edited book
       Carmen Abroad; Hennemann’s monograph on Mendelssohn’s opera projects; Beard’s

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        chapter on European new music theatre, c.1950–1977; and Cenciarelli’s work on opera in
        cinema and on YouTube.
        The School’s Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Opera and Drama (CIRO),
        established in the last REF cycle, organised most of the engagement and impact activities
        in this strand. Now co-directed by Rowden, Fokkens and Hennemann, the centre fosters
        closer links between our School and local arts organisations, especially WNO. Since 2015,
        MUSIC has hosted CIRO-sponsored guest speakers each year, a series of conferences,
        annual interdisciplinary workshops, cinema screenings, and a cluster of strongly
        international events around Carmen (see section 4). Research also led to impact following
        editorial work undertaken by Rowden on a performing edition of Carmen, and the
        development of an online resource funded by the British Academy/Leverhulme Trust (see
        impact case studies).
    c) Music, Conflict and Memory (five FTEs; eight outputs). This strand further demonstrates
       our Unit’s support for interdisciplinary research and builds upon a book on music and
       conflict submitted to REF2014, co-edited by O’Connell. Strategic investment led to the
       recruitment of a postdoctoral fellow, supported by a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship
       (Millar), and an early career Lecturer (Moore). Research outputs comprise three
       monographs: O’Connell on the role of music in commemorating the battle of Gallipoli;
       Moore on music in France during World War I; Millar on music, conflict and memory among
       Republican communities in Northern Ireland.
        A series of events were organised in 2016 in collaboration with other Cardiff University
        Schools, titled ‘Commemorating World War I: Conflict and Creativity’ (detailed in section
        4).
    d) Music, Politics and Place (six FTEs; 11 outputs). Strategic commitment to this strand
       centres on two major projects that significantly broaden our understanding of important
       musical centres and question standard historical narratives: JonesDW’s monograph on
       Vienna (2016) examines music’s political and social roles in that city in 1700, 1800 and
       1900, and Hill’s monograph on San Francisco (2016) chronicles and analyses the
       emergence of the psychedelic counterculture in the Haight-Ashbury district in 1965–70.
       Further perspectives include O’Connell’s research on music in Turkey, the Gallipoli
       campaign and folk traditions in Ireland, Millar on cultural and political songs in Northern
       Ireland, and Moore on music as propaganda in France during World War I.
        Impact includes ethnomusicologist Villepastour’s work on rediscovering a set of sacred
        bàtá drums in Matanzas, Cuba, and reviving their associated performance tradition both in
        and beyond that city (see impact case studies).
 Research and Impact Strategy
 In REF2014, the School set out five strategic objectives: 1) the completion of 10 major research
 projects and an opera; 2) the enhancement of interdisciplinary perspectives; 3) the recruitment of
 PhD students across the School’s full range of activity and experience; 4) continued fostering of
 relationships with the WNO and the BBC; 5) alignment of research with the impact agenda through
 refocusing the School’s concert series.
 These strategic objectives have been achieved and exceeded:
    1) MUSIC has seen the completion of 13 major projects, one supported by a Leverhulme
       Trust Major Research Fellowship, 2013–15 (JonesDW), and seven others by University
       Research Leave Fellowships.
    2) The School’s commitment to support interdisciplinary research has been fostered through
       the activities of all four principal research strands (detailed in section 4).
    3) PhD students have been recruited across the full range of the School’s specialisms,
       including five PhDs recruited through the AHRC South, West and Wales Doctoral
       Training Partnership consortium (SWW DTP), four in ethnomusicology and one in
       composition. There were 35 successful submissions (5 per year; for REF2014 it was 4.6).


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    4) We have further developed our impact through relationships with the BBC and WNO with
       a series of talks, workshops and other events (detailed in section 4).
    5) The School’s objective to foster greater impact by giving a strategic direction to MUSIC’s
       concert series was followed through, as demonstrated by our extensive research-led
       concert series (see section 4).
 The School’s research and impact objectives for 2021–2026 target key strengths, and imbed
 impact and engagement within them, as follows:
    a) Cultivate new musicological and practice-based research studies of creativity within the
       Contemporary Music as Creative Practice strand, with a continued output of compositions
       and recordings, and a new Cardiff University British Music Research Centre (CUBRIT), led
       by Beard and JonesN.
    b) Evolve new interdisciplinary research, engagement and impact in the Opera and Music
       Drama strand, enhancing existing links with WNO and other organisations through CIRO.
       This will focus on Rowden’s developing work on transnational opera studies, including
       collaboration with the University of Campinas, Brazil (a University strategic partner),
       Hennemann’s research into Western opera adaptations in Asia, and a new project on the
       modern Italian female voice undertaken by a Leverhulme ECR (Barbara Gentili) who started
       in 2020.
    c) Deepen the Music, Conflict and Memory strand, for example through ongoing research on
       music and music publishing in World War 1 France (Moore), and concluding research for
       an online, Leverhulme-funded database of Songs of the Northern Ireland Conflict (SoNiC)
       (Millar).
    d) Enhance and expand the Music, Politics and Place strand locally, with projects on Welsh
       traditional music planned for 2021 (O’Connell) and links with Welsh-speaking communities
       (Chapin), and globally, through ongoing research projects on Cuba (Villepastour), Ireland
       (O’Connell), and France (Moore).
 Interdisciplinarity, Collaboration, Engagement and Impact
 These are fostered by the School’s REF committee (all REF-eligible staff), which meets twice a
 year to discuss plans for collaboration, engagement, impact, funding, and other relevant matters.
 MUSIC’s impact case studies were selected by the School’s REF Committee (Head of School,
 Director of Research, and representative staff), to reflect our investment in the research strands
 above. Villepastour and Rowden both received sabbaticals through the University’s Research
 Leave Fellowship scheme, and both were allocated time in the School’s workload allocation model
 to prepare their impact case studies. Further support was provided by the School’s Director of
 Research, grants from the University’s REF Strategic Support Fund, and annual College and
 University reviews from 2015 onwards. Both studies also benefitted from British
 Academy/Leverhulme small research grants.
 Interdisciplinarity is at the heart of CIRO and the Music, Conflict and Memory strands (see
 section 4) and it is supported across staff interests. Two specific projects provide further evidence
 of our post-REF2014 success in enhancing interdisciplinary approaches.
 In 2014 O’Connell was awarded c.£36,000 from the AHRC-funded REACT (Research and
 Enterprise in Arts and Creative Technology) ‘Objects Sandbox’ scheme, a collaboration between
 UWE Bristol, Watershed, and the Universities of Bath, Bristol, Cardiff and Exeter (GW4). This
 project, titled ‘the God Article’, brought School ethnomusicologists together with a specialist in
 sonic arts from Cardiff School of Art and Design, Cardiff Metropolitan University, and a Bristol-
 based User Experience Designer. Focused on the traditional Turkish wind instrument the ney, the
 project developed ney replicas with breath sensors to enable online learning, the results of which
 have potential benefits for healthcare and entertainment.
 Also in 2014, Hamilton secured £50,000 from the same REACT scheme to fund the development
 of an interactive app designed to allow users to explore music from the perspective of performers,
 using pre-recorded interviews and binaural recording. The project was developed in collaboration

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with Amanda Bayley and Ruth Farrar (Bath Spa University), the BAFTA-winning film director
 Sheila Hayman, and the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment.
 Delivering Open Research
 The School follows the University’s Open Access Policy to ensure that pre- or post-print versions
 of journal articles and conference proceedings are deposited in our institutional digital publications
 repository within three months of acceptance and all staff have ORCID identifiers. Beyond
 standard practice, Villepastour will donate the research for her impact case study (photographs,
 videos, interview transcriptions and fieldnotes, collated between 2012 and 2020) to El Archivo
 Histórico Provincial de Matanzas (Matanzas Province Historical Archive), for public access. ‘The
 God Article’ is a fully open source, allowing users to print off their own ney instrument using 3D
 printer technology, and to access the software developed to assist with learning the instrument.
 Rowden’s ‘Carmen Abroad’ website places in the public domain an enhanced research database
 of Carmen productions across the globe, from 1875 to 1945. Hamilton’s research outputs led to a
 commercial recording of the rarely-performed final 1881 version of Liszt’s Totentanz, with Hamilton
 and the University Symphony Orchestra (2014), and solo recordings of Chopin and Liszt that have
 been streamed over 700,000 times on various platforms.
 Research Integrity
 Integrity is a fundamental principle of Cardiff University’s ‘Way Forward, 2018–2023’ strategic
 vision, and all staff are required to follow the terms of the University’s ‘Research Integrity and
 Governance Code of Practice’ and its ‘REF2021 Code of Practice’, which focuses on
 transparency, inclusion and strong engagement with staff. MUSIC has an ethics officer
 (O’Connell), who oversees staff and student research projects, including Villepastour’s repatriation
 of research materials (noted above), to ensure the rights and protections of participating
 individuals and communities, and to safeguard data. Staff abide by the Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity, and are required to complete ‘Research Integrity’, ‘Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion’, and ‘Understanding Unconscious Bias’ training.
 2. People
 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 MUSIC has 22 academic staff of whom 17 are on Teaching and Research (T&R) contracts
 (including two part time, one ending in 2021), and one on a three-year Leverhulme Early Career
 Researcher Fellowship; four others are employed on Teaching and Scholarship (T&S) contracts
 (two full time; two part time).
 New appointments reflect strategic priorities: to enhance MUSIC’s established interests, and to
 reflect the evolving nature of the discipline. Of the six T&R appointments made during the REF
 cycle, Hennemann has deepened our Opera and Music Drama strand and broadened our
 coverage of 19th-century German/Austrian studies; JonesN has contributed to sustaining British
 music as a key strand in Contemporary Music as Creative Practice; Gomes has enhanced our
 international composers’ profile; Millar and Moore have boosted our specialist knowledge in Music,
 Conflict and Memory, and Music, Politics and Place; and Cenciarelli has introduced a new strand
 of film and multimedia study, and enhanced existing interests in opera and popular music.
 During the REF2021 cycle 10 promotions were made, four more than in REF2014. Six promotions
 were awarded to women and four to men: Fokkens, Hill and JonesN were promoted to Senior
 Lecturer; Beard, Rae, Rowden, Villepastour and Sierra to Reader; Sierra and O’Connell to
 Professor.
 Probation
 Staff appointed as Lecturers on grade six enter a three-year probation period; those on higher
 grades have a probation of one year. The process is led by the Head of School, who, along with
 a mentor, offers guidance and support. It is completed following satisfactory performance and
 formal reviews.
 Mentoring
 New T&R staff are supported by a two-and-a-half-day university induction, R-only staff by a one-

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 day induction. Within MUSIC, new staff receive an experienced mentor and in their first year ECRs
 receive an enhanced annual research budget of £3,000, followed by £1,200 a year (standard
 for all staff). They are also included in the School’s sabbatical rota scheme (detailed below). Each
 staff member has their own office and benefits from the support of eight School-based Professional
 Services staff, including a Postgraduate and Research Administrator, Performance and
 Engagement Executive Officer, and Technical Supervisor.
 New staff may apply to the year-long ‘Cardiff Futures’ leadership programme for early career
 staff, led by the Vice-Chancellor (see Institutional Environment Statement, REF5a, section 3.2.4).
 In addition to insights into the running of the university, participants develop a collaborative
 research project beyond their own discipline. Beneficiaries from MUSIC are Hennemann, Hill and
 Rowden, all female staff, whose promotions applications benefitted from the scheme. The
 School’s Leverhulme Early Career Fellow, Millar, receives subject- and career-specific guidance
 from his mentor (O’Connell), and participates in the Research Committee and MA seminars.
 Appraisal, Training and Support for Research
 Continuing Professional Development (CPD) is a priority in the University’s ‘Way Forward, 2018–
 2023’ strategic plan. MUSIC staff are supported by annual performance development reviews,
 conducted by senior staff members, during which research plans are discussed alongside other
 career aims and objectives.
 University staff surveys, undertaken under the Investors in People scheme, indicate that staff
 are positive about their working environment. In 2015, 100% of staff in MUSIC agreed with the
 statement, ‘I am proud to work for the university’; in 2017, 94% agreed. In 2017, 90% agreed that
 ‘Working here makes me want to do the best work I can’ (up from 69% in 2015), and 94% agreed
 that ‘As long as I get the work done, I have the freedom to work in a way that suits me’, with 89%
 agreement in 2019.
 MUSIC operates a School sabbatical rota, which ensures that every member of staff on a T&R
 contract, excepting the Head of School, will be granted at least one sabbatical semester every
 four years. Each semester, two sabbaticals can be accommodated, therefore up to four staff in
 one year (exceptionally, five took sabbatical in 2017–18). This allows efficient planning of research
 and a clear, equitable and predictable rotation of administrative and teaching responsibilities.
 Staff working on major projects were also encouraged to apply to the University’s Research
 Leave Fellowship Scheme, which awarded one-year sabbaticals with £3,000 for research
 expenses and £12,000 for teaching cover per staff member. Eight staff from MUSIC (five female
 and three male) benefitted from this scheme, each bringing a major project or output to fruition,
 including Sierra (Urban Birds), Rowden (Musical Theatre in Europe: 1830–1945), O’Connell
 (Commemorating Gallipoli through Music), and Villepastour (The Yorùbá God of Drumming). This
 was a competitive scheme and MUSIC secured one or two awards each year. Staff with
 unsuccessful applications were guaranteed a semester leave by MUSIC.
 A new ‘Disglair’ Lectureship Scheme was introduced in 2019, supporting staff sabbaticals with 2-
 year early career posts. Rowden was awarded the sabbatical to complete her opera and parody
 monograph, and Moore was appointed as a Disglair Lecturer.
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 Meetings are scheduled within ‘normal working hours’ and, wherever possible, take account of
 family/personal commitments: in the current REF cycle, two staff took paternity leave and one had
 significant caring responsibilities. Workload is evenly distributed, and staff are empowered to take
 responsibility for their areas of activity. In response to the Covid-19 pandemic, Fridays have been
 scheduled as days without emails or meetings (for more details on the University’s response, see
 COVID-19 Annex, REF5a).
 The School supports flexible and remote working, with 600 hours allotted to research for each
 REF-eligible staff member. MUSIC protects this significant allocation through timetabling: all staff
 have one day without teaching, and meetings are normally not scheduled during study weeks or
 vacation periods.
 MUSIC is committed to supporting and championing female staff. Both former and current Deputy

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Heads of School are women (Sierra, Rowden), as is the current Director of Postgraduate Research
 (Rae), and both impact case studies were led by female staff (Rowden and Villepastour). There
 are currently three female Readers and one male Reader, which suggests that the present ratio
 of 3:1 male to female Professors will be more balanced in the next REF cycle.
 The selection of REF2021 outputs was overseen by four men and two women: the Head of School,
 Director of Research, School Manager and all Professors (JonesDW, O’Connell and Sierra). All
 outputs were reviewed internally and externally then selected for their quality, compliant with the
 University’s policies on EDI, as detailed in its REF2021 Code of Practice (see also sections 3.1
 and 3.6 of the Institutional Environment Statement, REF5a).
 Online-training courses on UK EDI legislation are mandatory for all staff. Line managers, directors
 of research and REF reading group members are required to attend additional EDI training
 sessions.
 Research Students
 During REF2021 MUSIC realised the aim to recruit students across its full range of activity and
 experience. It awarded 35 PhDs, 12 more than in REF2014 and triple the total in RAE2008 (11).
 The cohort comprises 20 men and 15 women; nine in performance, eight each in ethnomusicology
 and composition, seven in musicology, and three in popular music. 13 supervisors were involved:
 62% male, 38% female. Candidates were secured in part through sustained financial investment
 of more than £325,500 drawn from School funds and bequests. Additional funds were awarded
 by the AHRC (x5 DTPs) and the Office of the Higher Education Commission, Thailand (x1). A
 good balance was achieved between home and international students, including students from
 the USA, China, Thailand, the Czech Republic, Italy, Portugal, Spain, and Brazil.
 In the 2018 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES), 100% of the participants
 agreed with the statements ‘My supervisor/s have the skills and subject knowledge to support my
 research’, ‘My supervisor/s provide feedback that helps me direct my research activities’, ‘I
 understand the required standard for my thesis’, ‘My ability to manage projects has developed
 during my programme’, and ‘Overall, I am happy with the experience of my research degree
 programme’.
 PGR Monitoring, Training and Support
 Following REF2014, the university overhauled its processes for PhD students. The result was a
 revised PGR Code of Practice and a range of progress monitoring procedures. New MUSIC PGRs
 attend an induction event in the School at which these procedures, plus student expectations of
 the supervisor, and our expectations of the students in terms of PGR involvement in School life,
 are explained. Induction events are also organised by the University-wide Doctoral Academy.
 In keeping with its aims stated in REF2014, MUSIC continues to develop a thriving PGR
 community, which takes an active role in shaping the School’s research environment. PGR
 students have a dedicated suite of rooms (detailed in section 3). Each student may claim up to
 £1,200 research expenses. Elected student representatives sit on MUSIC’s Student/Staff Panel,
 the Postgraduate Research Board of Studies, and Research Committee. PGR students are
 encouraged to post research blogs on our School website, and the School hosts an annual PGR
 conference, organised by students with support from the PGR Director.
 PGR students also attend and co-organise the School’s invited public lecture series, the John
 Bird seminars, with 5-6 speakers per semester. A fortnightly PG Research Seminar is run
 alongside these talks, in which visiting speakers discuss their research with students. The School
 also runs a fortnightly Postgraduate Forum where MA and PhD students from all pathways and
 cultural backgrounds (including around 25 MA students each year from China, since 2018) come
 together to discuss the John Bird seminars, hear from research staff in the School and give
 presentations themselves, including on the relationship of specific objects to their research.
 Fortnightly PG Performance Seminars involve peer-led masterclasses, and the weekly
 Composition Seminar hosts invited speakers including composers, performers, publishers, and
 arts administrators. Seminars have included joint presentations with composers from the
 University of Campinas, Brazil (one of Cardiff University’s strategic partners); performances and

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 discussions of new works from our ‘Contemporary Voices’ concert series with visiting professional
 performers; and presentations and masterclasses with visiting composers from around the UK,
 including John Casken, Nicola Lefanu, Steven McNeff, Silvina Milstein, Hilary Tann, and Graham
 Fitkin.
 The University runs training and development courses within the Doctoral Academy Programme.
 Student experiences on these courses are recorded in six-month reports and discussed at the
 annual progression vivas. Students with SWW DTP scholarships (x5 to date) receive additional
 training opportunities offered by Cardiff and its partner institutions (Aberystwyth University, Bath
 Spa University, the University of Bristol, Cranfield University, the University of Exeter, National
 Museum Wales, the University of Reading, the University of Southampton and UWE Bristol), with
 workshops on interdisciplinarity.
 PGR Involvement in MUSIC’s Research Environment
 MUSIC seeks to involve PGR students in research-related activities wherever possible to enhance
 their training and employability.
 Supported by their supervisors, several MUSIC PGRs produced research outputs during their
 studies. These include commercial recordings by two performance students (see section 4), and
 publications by musicology PGRs, including articles in the Journal of the Royal Musical
 Association (Martin Curda, 2016) and Ethnomusicology Forum (Elizabeth K. Neale, 2018); an
 online article for The Smithsonian Centre for Folklife & Cultural Heritage Magazine (Victoria
 Jassey, 2019); and two book chapters published by Brepols (Alessandra Pallida, 2016 and 2018).
 Our two impact case studies were directly supported by PGRs funded through the University’s
 College Impact Strategic Support Fund, with additional money from British Academy/Leverhulme
 grants. Eulàlia Febrer Coll developed her skills in Spanish translation as an assistant on
 Villepastour’s Matanzas case study, and Henry Morgan deepened his experience with film editing
 for Rowden’s impact case study on Carmen. Morgan also acquired techniques for collecting,
 editing and measuring impact data and data underpinning carmenabroad.org, and presented a
 paper with Rowden at the ‘Musical Mapping’ Study day (see section 4).
 In addition to co-organising the School’s guest lecture series, MUSIC PGRs initiated and
 organised highly successful research events, including a Society for Music Analysis (SMA)-
 sponsored study day on analysing film music (November 2014); ‘Bey Day’ (2016), a Beyoncé-
 themed collaboration between MUSIC and JOMEC (School of Journalism, Media and Cultural
 Studies), to coincide with the singer’s performance at Cardiff Principality Stadium; and A ‘Pavel
 Haas Study Day’ (2016).
 MUSIC’s PGR quality is highlighted by Elizabeth K. Neale’s receipt of the coveted AHRC
 International Placement Scheme Award to research at the Library of Congress, Washington, DC,
 and Jassey’s receipt of a Courtesy Research Fellowship with The Cuba Research Institute to
 collect oral histories of Miami musicians and establish an online archive in collaboration with
 Florida International University.
 Following completion, several PGRs have successfully secured positions in the academic sector,
 including a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship and an ESRC major award (University of
 Cambridge); one fixed-term post (Oxford Brookes); and five permanent posts (Bangor, Cardiff,
 City and Middlesex Universities, and Conservatori Superior de Música de les Illes Balears). Other
 career destinations included senior administrator of the Theresa Orchestra, a period-instrument
 orchestra based in Lodi, near Milan; AHRC Research Associate, Sheffield University; and
 Research Support Officer, Guildhall School of Music and Drama.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Research Income
 Between August 2013 and July 2020 MUSIC was awarded c.£325,000 from academic funders,
 primarily targeted across our four principal research strands, a strategy developed through
 dialogues between the Director of Research, individual staff and the Research Committee.
 Additional grants not recorded by HESA totalled c.£155,000. These awards have maintained the
 School’s success in winning research income from a diversity of UK and international sources.

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Music, Politics and Place
 Total awarded: £156,280
 In 2013, JonesDW was awarded a Leverhulme major research fellowship (£82,000) for his project
 on Vienna. During the current REF cycle, Jones drew down £55,181 of that grant, which led to the
 publication of his monograph Music in Vienna, 1700, 1800, 1900 in 2016. In 2018, the Leverhulme
 Trust awarded £82,599 to part-fund the School’s first postdoctoral researcher (Millar),
 enhancing ethnomusicology and the Music, Conflict and Memory and Music, Politics and Place
 strands; additional funds were provided by the College. Millar completed a monograph on
 Republican music in Northern Ireland (2020) and started new research on Loyalist music.
 Villepastour’s impact case study on Bàtá drum tradition in Matanzas was supported by a British
 Academy/Leverhulme Trust small grant (£8,000), a College Strategic Support Fund (£5,000), and
 a University Impact Accelerator Grant (£2,500). These awards enabled Villepastour to make
 evidence-gathering trips to Cuba to record and subsequently translate interviews with
 stakeholders. She also secured an ESRC grant for a related project in Cuba (£3,000).
 Opera and Music Drama
 Total awarded: £31,050
 Rowden’s co-edited book on Carmen was supported by a grant from the Fondazione Palazzetto
 Bru Zane, Venezia (£2,300). The ‘Carmen Singer of the World’ conference (see section 4) was
 supported by a Music & Letters Trust Award (£750) and a Cardiff University Initiatives Grant
 (£10,000). Rowden’s Carmen impact case study was assisted by PGR students funded by a British
 Academy/Leverhulme Trust small grant (£10,000), the University’s Strategic Support Fund
 (£5,000), and a University Impact Accelerator Grant (£3,000), the latter for the Carmen Abroad
 website.
 Music, Conflict and Memory
 Total awarded: £28,450
 The ‘Commemorating World War I: Conflict and Creativity’ project was assisted by a Postdoctoral
 Research Associate funded by an AHRC Cultural Engagement Fellowship grant (£25,000,
 Rowden). This enabled MUSIC to employ a recently completed PGR student. The 2014
 International Interdisciplinary Symposium ‘Translation in Music’ was supported by an AHRC World
 War One Engagement Centre: Voices of War and Peace grant (£2,000), and additional grants
 totalling £1,450 from the Royal Musical Association, the Music & Letters Trust and the Learned
 Society of Wales.
 Contemporary Music as Creative Practice
 Total awarded: £149,893
 In 2020, Sierra was awarded a Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowship (£53,593) to compose two
 large-scale orchestral pieces in conjunction with a residency with the Utah Symphony Orchestra
 (2020–22). Additional grant capture in this strand is mainly from sources not captured by HESA.
 For composers, this includes commission fees and other grants:
    • Sierra: £41,500, including a grant from the Performing Rights Society for Music (£20,000) for
 the commission, tour, and digital release by NMC of Urban Birds for three pianos and electronics;
 and grants from the Aaron Copland Fund, Ditson Fund and PRS Fund Grant (£7,500 in total) for
 the release of two portrait CDs (2014 and 2017–18).
   • Fokkens: c.£25,000, plus a grant from the Arts Council of Wales (£2,000) to workshop his
 monodrama Bhekizizwe (Opera’r Ddraig were subsequently awarded £37,000 by Arts Council
 Wales to tour the work).
    • Gomes: £23,000, including a commission by the Academia de Música de Santa Cecília,
 Lisbon (£12,000), for Canções do Quadrante, and a Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian Grant (£500)
 to participate in a project organised by the European Network of Opera Academies (enoa) in
 Ghent, in 2015.


                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A Peter Maxwell Davies Trust Grant for £1,000 supported JonesN’s co-authored book on Davies,
 and the co-edited book Harrison Birtwistle Studies was assisted by £1,000 from a Music & Letters
 Trust Award (Beard, Gloag and JonesN), and £300 from a Music Analysis Development Fund
 Award (Beard).
 Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure
 Staff grant applications are reviewed by a sub-panel of the Research Committee, chaired by the
 Director of Research, and further assistance is provided by a dedicated team of Research
 Development Officers in the College, with costings worked out centrally. The College sends
 monthly funding round up emails and staff are encouraged to attend information sessions
 organised by the College Dean of Research and Innovation. Workshops and conferences are
 supported by the School’s extensive Professional Services team (currently nine staff in total).
 Music is housed in purpose-built facilities located close to the city centre. In the current REF
 period, these have been used to host events in association with WNO and hired by the BBC,
 recording companies PrimaFacie, Naxos and Métier, the Associated Board of the Royal Schools
 of Music, and the European String Teachers’ Association, among others. Since 2017, over
 £260,000 has been invested in improving these facilities, including structural refurbishments,
 concert hall lights, studio modifications and upgrades to lecture rooms.
 Our facilities include: a 250-seat concert hall, with organ, Bösendorfer and Steinway concert grand
 pianos (the latter used by Hamilton to make seven commercial recordings, including his two-
 volume Stevenson set – see outputs), professional-standard recording facilities (used for portrait
 CDs by Gomes and Fokkens), an audio-visual system updated in 2019, three lecture rooms and
 four electroacoustic studios (including a main recording studio fully equipped to industry standard
 with an attached room for multitrack recording and a dedicated Technical Supervisor), 26 practice
 rooms, three ensemble rooms, and a Mac suite with the latest Sibelius software. The postgraduate
 suite comprises hot desk spaces in two rooms, a room with digital audio workstations for
 composers, and a listening/common room and kitchen. There is 24-hour access to the suite and
 printing facilities.
 One of few dedicated libraries in the sector, the Music Library includes more than 19,500 items of
 scores and printed music, 10,000 books and 8,000 recordings as well as music journals, DVDs
 and online research resources. The librarians have won awards, most recently an Excellence
 Award from the International Association of Music Libraries, UK (2019).
 School staff and students have access to the Fairley World Music Collection of over 5,000 CDs
 and related material, assembled by the late world music scholar Jan Fairley. The library also
 houses a substantial collection of CDs and other materials bequeathed by the late contemporary
 music specialist John Warnaby, including many items that are neither commercially available nor
 locatable online.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Collaboration and public engagement
 The School’s guiding ambitions have been to: 1) share its research with the widest possible
 audience and shape public debate; 2) take a lead in debates within the discipline; and 3) play a
 defined role in the cultural life of a capital city. These ambitions have been pursued equally across
 the four principal research strands.
    1. Contemporary Music as Creative Practice
 MUSIC’s extensive engagement with audiences and recording companies is demonstrated
 by high profile premieres and recordings. Sierra’s music was broadcast five times on BBC Radio
 3, including a BBC Proms performance in 2015. Her pre-concert interviews and audience
 discussion sessions included Bridgewater Hall (BBC Philharmonic), Symphony Hall (Boston
 Symphony), and Frankfurt Alte Oper (Benedetti Trio). Urban Birds for three pianos and electronics
 toured the UK and was released internationally on a commercial recording (NMC DL201401).
 Nature Symphony (2017) was commissioned by the BBC Philharmonic Orchestra and broadcast
 on BBC Radio 3.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Four composer portrait CDs were released during the current REF cycle. Sierra’s continuing
 series of portrait discs included two releases: Game of Attrition: Arlene Sierra, Vol. 2 with BBC
 NOW (2014) (BRIDGE 9414) and Butterflies Remember a Mountain: Arlene Sierra, Vol. 3 (2018)
 (BRIDGE 9506), a chamber disc featuring international performers. Fokkens’s Tracing Lines with
 the Fidelio Trio (Métier: MSV28535; released September 2013) was launched with a School
 concert and interview with Beard, and a disc with eight chamber works by Gomes, with liner notes
 by Wilson (Naxos: 8579029), was launched at a School concert in February 2020.
 All three composers in our unit have collaborated with key institutions in Cardiff, especially BBC
 NOW, WNO, Opera’r Ddraig (Fokkens’s monodrama Bhekizizwe), and Ty Cerdd (Music Centre
 Wales). They have contributed to performances, recordings, composition workshops, and to the
 planning of the BBC’s annual composer showcase ‘Composition: Wales’, broadcast on Radio 3.
 This competition, which invites orchestral compositions up to eight minutes long and explores the
 selected pieces in workshops and open rehearsals before a final concert, has featured PGRs from
 this REF cycle, in each year.
 In 2019 the School’s Contemporary Music Group, directed by Fokkens, produced a commercial
 recording with Ty Cerdd featuring music by six Cardiff alumni (TCR022). Two current PGR
 students made commercial recordings: flautist Matteo Gemolo’s Affect is No Crime: New Music
 for Old Instruments, with his ensemble Europa Ritrovata on the Arcana label (B07Y9Z8MHT;
 2019), and double bassist Ashley John Long’s solo album Psi on FMR Records (FMRCD343-
 0217; 2017). The University Symphony Orchestra also made world premiere recordings on the
 Prima Facie label: a new, specially commissioned symphony by Csányi-Wills in 2020 (PFCD136);
 and newly-discovered pieces by Debussy alongside Jolivet and Fokkens in 2016 (PFNSCD005).
 A cluster of expertise around post-war British music has involved public engagement and
 academic collaboration. In June 2020, JonesN became co-curator of the Peter Maxwell Davies
 research network. In 2015, Harrison Birtwistle Studies (Beard, Gloag, JonesN) was launched in
 the School with an invited talk by one of the book’s contributors, Mark Delaere (based at KU
 Leuven, a University strategic partner), followed by a concert of Birtwistle’s string music
 performed by the internationally acclaimed Arditti String Quartet in what we believe was the first
 concert devoted entirely to Birtwistle’s quartets.
 In 2016 Beard’s close association with Birtwistle continued with a public interview at the ‘Open
 Circuit’ contemporary music festival, University of Liverpool. Beard also co-authored with Birtwistle
 the ‘Composer’s Note’ for the score of Deep Time (2016), commissioned by Daniel Barenboim
 and the Berlin Staatskapelle, premiered at the Berlin Philharmonie, and he wrote the programme
 essay for the UK premiere at the BBC Proms Festival in 2017. In 2015, Beard interviewed Judith
 Weir (Master of the Queen’s Music) in the University of Nottingham Department of Music
 Colloquium Series.
 Hamilton’s commercial recordings of previously unrecorded piano music by Ronald Stevenson
 (1928–2015) (2016 and 2019: see outputs) draw directly on a longstanding association between
 the two, which informed Hamilton’s interpretations. Extracts were broadcast on BBC Radio
 Scotland, BBC Radio 3, and Classical 95.9 WCRI in the US, and Volume 1 was a ‘CD der Woche’
 for Klassik Heute, Germany. Hamilton also made the premiere recording of John Casken’s Six
 Wooded Pieces (2017).
    2. Opera and Music Drama
 CIRO, the School’s Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Opera and Drama, has overseen a
 series of research-led events intended to promote and enhance public engagement with opera
 and awareness of issues relating to its staging.
 A major point of focus has been Carmen, the subject of one of our case studies. Carmen-related
 events have included the study day ‘Carmen: Performance, performers and productions’,
 organised in association with Friends of WNO (2019); the ‘Musical Mapping Study Day’ (2019),
 supported by a British Academy/Leverhulme Trust small grant; and the public, international
 conference ‘Carmen Singer of the World’ (2017), linked to the widely known Cardiff Singer of the
 World (CSoW) competition. The latter brought together academics from across Europe, Australia
 and the Americas to focus on processes of cultural exchange, and how the most globally

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 performed opera has been performed, produced, disseminated, appropriated and received
 worldwide. Also organised in association with CSoW, Cenciarelli instigated an ‘Opera on Screen’
 series with illustrated talks at the Chapter Arts Centre.
 CIRO’s close links with WNO and the Wales Millennium Centre are further illustrated by annual
 events including a sell-out public study day on opera creation, translation and surtitling, organised
 in conjunction with WNO’s 2017 performance of Frank Martin’s Le vin herbé, and the study day
 ‘Understanding Opera: Adventures in Surtitling’, in 2019.
 In 2014 MUSIC hosted CIRO’s international interdisciplinary symposium ‘Translation in Music’,
 focused on opera and song, organised by Hennemann and Rowden in collaboration with the
 School of Modern Languages, and in 2018 the School, in collaboration with Modern Languages,
 organised a public workshop and discussion of Sophie Rashbrook’s play Ralph: The Life and
 Adventures of an Enemy Alien about the life of the set designer Ralph Koltai.
 Staff also participated in a number of collaborative ventures, high profile symposia and other
 public-facing activities, including invited talks at international events on Wagner (Hamilton),
 Debussy (Rae), Verdi (Cenciarelli), and European new music theatre (Beard). Rowden provided
 11 programme notes for opera productions by the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, WNO,
 Opéra-Comique, and festivals in Salzburg and Wexford.
    3. Music, Memory and Conflict
 In 2016, funding from an AHRC Cultural Engagement Fellowship on the theme of
 ‘Commemorating World War I: Conflict and Creativity’ brought MUSIC staff (Hennemann,
 Rowden, O’Connell) into a research-led collaboration with staff in other schools in the College.
 The project organised a series of events, which included: the fully-booked, free public study day
 ‘Mametz Wood, poetry and song’, held in the Wales Millennium Centre in collaboration with WNO,
 and colleagues in Welsh and History; an international symposium in the National Museum of
 Wales, titled ‘Musical and Artistic Creation in Europe During WWI’, in collaboration with KU
 Leuven, Heidelberg University, Brown University and colleagues in Journalism and Modern
 Languages; the community workshop ‘#MappingGrangetown: Language, Place and Poetry’, in
 partnership with Cardiff University's Community Gateway and the Grangetown Historical
 Society, with the involvement of colleagues in Welsh; and five professional concerts.
 Following publication of his 2017 monograph on Gallipoli, O’Connell gave two keynote papers,
 one in 2017 at the ‘War Memory Workshop: Music, Commemoration, Museums’, organised by the
 Newcastle University-based research group ‘Critical Heritages: Performing and Representing
 Identities in Europe’, the other at a British Forum for Ethnomusicology one-day conference in 2018.
 Moore is a member of the research network ‘Globalising and Localising the Great War’, University
 of Oxford.
    4. Music, Politics and Place
 The collaborative nature of the School’s Music, Politics and Place strand is underlined by
 Villepastour’s impact case study, in particular the commercial recording that underpins it, Ilú Keké:
 Transmisión en la eritá meta (Sendero Music: B0753FGRC2, 2017; see impact case studies).
 Winner of a prestigious CubaDisco Prize (comparable to a Latin GRAMMY) for its musicological
 research, this recording venture is based on the rediscovery of a historical set of religious drums.
 The project has revived a Cuban heritage through a reinvestment in the drums, their caretaker
 family, and a community of musicians in Matanzas Province.
 JonesDW’s research into music in Vienna in 1700, 1800 and 1900 led to an entire programme on
 BBC Radio 3’s ‘Music Matters’, titled ‘Vienna: City of Music’, broadcast on 7 November 2016. The
 programme featured interviews with Jones and cultural guardians in the city. In 2018, Jones was
 invited onto the Scientific Advisory Board for a major research project based at the Institute of
 Musicology, University of Vienna: ‘Concert Life in Vienna 1780–1830, Performances, Venues,
 and Repertoires’ (2018– continuing). Jones’s research was further reflected in the School’s 2016
 Vienna-themed concert series, which included ‘new’ quartets (arrangements of keyboard and
 symphonic works) by Haydn and Mozart, the former subsequently published by Edition HH.



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Moore’s and Rowden’s research has centred on Paris, but other MUSIC staff have also explored
 the cultural importance of this city. Rae was series co-consultant to the Philharmonia Orchestra
 for the international festival of French music ‘City of Light: Paris 1900–1950’, at the Royal Festival
 Hall, London and other venues in Europe (2014–15). She advised on concert programming, and
 authored articles and notes for the programme book and web material, including a series of films.
 Chapin was a member of the organising committee for ‘Eloquence romantique au piano: Vienne
 et Paris autour de Beethoven et Chopin’ (Abbé de Royaumont and Cité de la Musique Paris,
 2016).
 Wider contributions to the economy and society, not captured in the impact case studies
 The School has made wide-ranging contributions to society in ways not captured in its impact case
 studies.
 As noted in section 1, one of MUSIC’s strategic plans set out in the REF2014 submission was to
 better align its public concert series with the impact agenda. This was followed through,
 alongside our ambition to play a defined role within the life of a cultural capital, as demonstrated
 by the following series: ‘Music in Translation: The Art of Arrangement’ 2013–14, drawing on
 Hamilton’s research expertise in piano transcription; ‘City of Light: Paris 1900–1950 (2014–15),
 drawing on Rae’s research; ‘Contemporary Voices’ (2013–18) (Sierra, Fokkens, Gomes); ‘African
 music’ (2014–18), led by Villepastour; an ‘International Piano Series’, 2015–17, at the National
 Museum of Wales, in conjunction with an International Keyboard Research Symposium (Hamilton,
 drawing on his work on Chopin and Liszt; see outputs); and a Vienna-themed concert series based
 on JonesDW’s Vienna monograph, including a concert in the BBC Hoddinott Hall with the
 University Symphony Orchestra (2016–17).
 MUSIC also organised an ongoing series of research-led, themed concerts, ‘Music at the
 Museum’, in collaboration with art curators at the National Museum of Wales (2014– ) (Hamilton),
 and several one-off, research-led concerts, including ‘The World of Pauline Viardot’, drawing on
 Rowden’s research (2018). The concert series also reflected a concern for EDI, exemplified by
 two International Women’s Day concerts (2019 and 2020; part of the University’s Diversity
 Fortnight), and a concert inspired by Paul Robeson, following Black History Month (2019).
 A number of staff have been involved in shaping and monitoring music festivals. In 2016 Rae
 was programming consultant to the BBC National Orchestra of Wales for a series of Dutilleux
 Centenary Concerts, and Wilson is engaged in quality monitoring on behalf of Arts Council Wales
 for the International Concert Series (ICS) at St David's Hall, Cardiff. Since 2017 Chapin has given
 over a dozen public pre-concert talks for this series.
 The School has consistently engaged with Welsh language communities. Hill gave research
 presentations at Tafwyl, Cardiff’s annual Welsh language arts and culture festival (2016, 2017,
 2018), at the National Eisteddfod (2014, 2019), and contributed to Welsh language radio and
 television, including Gadael yr Ugeinfed Ganrif (Leaving the Twentieth Century, S4C, 2014), a
 television documentary about Welsh language popular music based largely on her 2007
 monograph 'Blerwytirhwng?' The Place of Welsh Pop Music. Chapin gave public research
 presentations at the Tafwyl Fringe Event ‘Noson Pendroni’ (2019), and the National Eisteddfod
 (2016 and 2018).
 Other staff have contributed through the development of composition summer courses,
 including Sierra’s role as co-director of the Advanced Composition Course at MusicFest
 Aberystwyth, and Fokkens as co-director of the Peter Reynolds Composer Studio, Vale of
 Glamorgan Festival.
 Media interviews, public talks and interviews
 In keeping with MUSIC’s ambition to share its research with the widest possible audience, Rae
 made a substantial contribution to BBC radio 3’s coverage of 20th-century French music,
 appearing on 13 programmes, most related to the centenary of Dutilleux’s birth in 2016 and the
 centenary of Debussy’s death in 2018. Hamilton appeared 16 times on national BBC radio, six
 times on Welsh BBC radio and television programmes, five times on US radio shows, once on
 BBC World Service radio, and once on television in, respectively, Italy, Hungary and Thailand. In
 2019, Hill was interviewed on BBC Radio 3’s ‘The Listening Service’, on progressive rock,

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 JonesDW appeared in edited extracts of public pre-concert events for the BBC Proms on Vienna
 (2017) and Haydn (2019), and Rowden was interviewed on the BBC4 television documentary
 Revolution and Romance: Musical Masters of the 19th-Century (2016). Villepastour was a
 consultant for a documentary based on her monograph Ancient Text Messages of the Yorùbá
 Bàtá (2010), produced by the online broadcaster Afropop in 2016; she also appeared on Namibian
 Broadcasting Commission Television (2015) and BBC Radio 4/World Service (2014).
 Contribution to the research base
 In addition to the events already mentioned, the School hosted the British Forum for
 Ethnomusicology one-day conference, ‘Music Around the Atlantic Rim’ (October 2013), a Dutilleux
 Centenary Symposium (2018), a Contemporary Music for All (CoMA) Festival, in collaboration
 with Ty Cerdd and the Fidelio Trio (2019), and ‘Minimalism Extended: The Seventh International
 Conference on Minimalist Music’ (2019). In 2021 the School will host the British Forum for
 Ethnomusicology Annual Conference.
 In line with our ambition to take a lead in debates within the discipline, MUSIC staff have played a
 leading role in UK and international academic communities. Hill is Chair of the International
 Association for the Study of Popular Music, UK/Ireland national chapter (2016– ), and a Member
 of the Advisory Board of the Institute of Musical Research (IMR), London (2015– ). Beard is a
 Trustee of Music & Letters, which awards research grants twice a year (2014– ). JonesDW is a
 Trustee of RISM UK and from 2009–17 was Chair of the Music Libraries Trust. Chapin (2013–15),
 Hennemann (2014–16) and Rae (2017–19) were all Members of Council of the Royal Musical
 Association, and Hennemann founded the ‘Southeast Asia Chapter’ (2015–present). Villepastour
 was Chair of the British Forum for Ethnomusicology (2012–15), Chair of the Study Group for
 African Music (UK Branch) International Council for Traditional Music (ICTM) (2015–18), and Vice-
 Chair of the Study Group for African Music (International Group) ICTM (2015-19).
 Seven staff in MUSIC are members of editorial or advisory boards for 12 academic journals and
 two book series. All 18 REF-eligible staff have undertaken peer reviewing for major UK music
 journals plus 10 journals based in Europe and America. They have also refereed for major UK
 book publishers and two presses in the USA. 10 staff have reviewed grants for funding bodies,
 including the AHRC (Sierra and Hill, Peer Review College members, and Rowden), British
 Academy (Cenciarelli, Peer Reviewer), Leverhulme Trust (JonesDW), and similar bodies in
 Canada, Germany, Hungary, Poland and the USA.
 12 staff examined PhDs at 20 UK universities and 10 universities outside the UK, including in
 Austria (x1), Hong Kong (x1), Ireland (x2), the USA (x2), Australia (x3) and France (x4). In total,
 staff in MUSIC gave 15 invited keynotes, and 129 lectures/lecture recitals.
 The School hosted over a dozen visitors from universities in Brazil, Canada, China, Finland, and
 the USA, facilitated by our International Programme Co-ordinators, Hennemann and Cameron
 Gardner (Teaching & Scholarship Lecturer). Networks have been cultivated through MUSIC staff
 visits to universities in France (e.g. Strasbourg; Rowden, Chapin and Wilson), Germany, North
 America, Singapore, Thailand and China (Hamilton), and through exchanges with five Erasmus+
 partners.
 Exodos
 MUSIC has made a vital contribution to the discipline locally, nationally and internationally through
 our four main research strands and additional strengths in film studies, popular music and
 aesthetics. Our guiding ambitions have resulted in a diverse and vibrant research environment
 that deepens earlier strengths, shapes public and scholarly debates, and points to the future in
 new and exciting ways that we look forward to realising.




                                                                                              Page 13
