Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Glasgow Caledonian University

 Unit of Assessment:
 20: Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Context and Structure

 Social Work and Social Policy research at Glasgow Caledonian University (GCU) embeds our
 Common Good mission through a commitment to co-producing internationally renowned
 research, which has a direct impact on the communities that surround us with whom we engage
 both locally and globally. This is further reflected in our commitment and active alignment with
 the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our research is aligned with SDGs
 1 (No Poverty), 2 (Zero Hunger), 3 (Good Health and Well-being), 4 (Quality Education), 5
 (Gender Equality), 10 (Reduced Inequalities), 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities), 16
 (Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions) and 17 (Partnerships for the Goals).

 Social Work and Social Policy teaching at GCU formally sits across two academic departments.
 The Department of Social Work is located within the School of Health and Life Sciences, and the
 Department of Social Sciences is located within Glasgow School for Business and Society. We
 are committed to excellence through research-led teaching: Social Work was ranked second in
 the UK in the Guardian 2020 ‘league tables’, with Sociology (Social Sciences) ranked 11th. Our
 research is organised around two interdisciplinary research centres (the Yunus Centre for Social
 Business and Health, and the WISE Centre for Economic Justice), and our Social Work research
 group.

 To facilitate cross-working between departments and research centres, social work and social
 policy research leads meet regularly to develop research agendas and promote cross-group
 working. As this environment statement outlines, we collaborate with colleagues across the
 University and internationally, around thematic, methodological and theoretical areas of shared
 interest. We engage with stakeholders in the public, private and voluntary sectors to further our
 research and knowledge exchange strategy, and to maximise the impact of our research. Our
 researchers serve as advisors to government bodies and civil society networks. We are active in
 research reviewing, and shape and influence the research communities we are active in through
 leadership roles in international journals, associations and through conference organisation.


 Progress since REF2014

 We scored fairly strongly in REF 2014, particularly for our impact case studies (both ranked 4*).
 In 2014 Social Work and Social Policy was a relatively small group with a diverse range of
 research interests. Research income derived from a large numbers of small grants, which was
 not conducive to the production of world class outputs. While wanting to maintain and protect the
 diversity of our research interests and approaches, we also recognised that we needed to grow
 particular areas of strength. In response, our strategic objectives were to:

    •   Invest in strategic areas of international expertise and interdisciplinary research strength
        (Outputs)
    •   Develop a publicly focused and collaborative approach to knowledge exchange based on
        stakeholder engagement (Impact)
    •   Develop mechanisms of support to facilitate our research culture (Environment).

 As this statement demonstrates, we have achieved considerable success over this REF period,
 notable highlights include:


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Growth in research income (from £1.29 million to £2.246 million).
    •   Growth in size of UoA (from 14.40 to 18.50 FTE).
    •   Growth in research doctoral degrees awarded (from 13 to 36.33 FTE).
    •   Establishment of one new research centre (WISE Centre for Economic Justice) and
        substantial investment in the Yunus Centre for Social Business and Health.
    •   Establishment of the social work research group at GCU through investment in research
        leadership, recruitment and support for research for existing staff.
    •   Development of ‘living lab’ approach to knowledge exchange leading to five Erasmus+
        capacity building grants and Scottish Government investment into a ‘Common Good Hub’
        in partnership with Milton Community Centre.
    •   UK leadership of two major European projects (FAB-MOVE and EMPOWER-SE)
        supporting international researcher mobility.


 Research and Impact Strategy

 Our goal is to conduct world-leading interdisciplinary research that has a direct impact on the
 communities that surround us. Since 2014, and in line with the University Research Strategy,
 Social Work and Social Policy research has been driven by the overarching societal challenge of
 creating inclusive societies, set within the strategic context of the Research Centres Approval
 and Renewal Process.

 Our strategic goals have been to enhance the quantity and quality of Social Work and Social
 Policy research by: increasing research income and opportunities to collaborate on major
 international projects; enhancing interdisciplinary working across research groups and UoAs;
 growing the PGR student population through investing in studentships and exploiting external
 scholarship opportunities; growing the numbers of staff submitted to REF; improving training,
 mentoring and support to research staff and students; facilitating international researcher
 mobility; developing social work research; and enhancing research-led teaching. To achieve
 these aims we have focused investment in five priority areas: interdisciplinary research centres,
 social work research group, co-ordinating infrastructure to work across Schools, Centres and
 Research Groups, development of international researcher mobility, knowledge exchange, and
 research-led teaching.


 Interdisciplinary research centres

 This UoA is central to the University research centres focus. GCU research centres are
 deliberately interdisciplinary and concentrate research excellence around societal challenges.
 Social Work and Social Policy staff provide research leadership to the WISE Centre for
 Economic Justice (Cantillon, Centre Director; O’Hagan, Deputy Director), Yunus Centre for
 Social Business and Health (Teasdale, research group lead until 2019 and member of centre
 management group).

 The WISE Centre has a multidisciplinary team (colleagues are also represented in UoAs 17 and
 28) pursuing a range of theoretical and empirical research on issues of economic and social
 inequality, care, public policy, poverty and human rights primarily from a gender perspective.
 The WISE Centre was formally approved in 2017 and now has 10 staff across three
 departments, 15 PhDs and two post docs aligned with the Centre. It has secured over £2 million
 research funding since formation, from funders including EU Horizons 2020; AHRC, ESRC and
 Scottish Government. WISE research focuses on the gendered nature of economic policy and
 social investment and challenges many of the tenets that underpin the mainstream interpretation
 of how economies function. We explore how economic relationships, actions and institutions are
 directly affected by gender norms – via unpaid work, the gendered division of labour and the
 care economy (Cantillon); fiscal space, budgets and public policy (O’Hagan); occupational
 segregation and apprenticeships (Campbell); gender equality and basic income (Campbell and


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cantillon); household inequalities (Cantillon); gender-based violence (Lombard) and policing
 (McMillan).

 The Yunus Centre conducts world-leading research to conceptualise and evidence ways that
 lives of individuals and communities can be improved through a better understanding of various
 community-based and health-focused initiatives. This interdisciplinary Centre (colleagues are
 also represented in UoAs 3, 17, 28) was established in 2010 and has grown dramatically since
 REF 2014. It has secured over £5 million during this REF period including several large research
 grants (see Income section) which have led directly to the employment of Calo, Henderson and
 Mazzei. Research focuses on how civil society activity might impact on ‘upstream’ social
 determinants of health, and the potential for social enterprise to act as a public health
 intervention (Calo, Henderson); how policy ideas travel (Teasdale); critical exploration of social
 innovation and social investment welfare paradigms (Sinclair, Teasdale); co-production and the
 third sector (Mazzei); ecosystems for social enterprise support (Mazzei); migration and
 transnational solidarity (Baglioni, Calo); and the Gig Economy (Baglioni).


 Social Work Research Group

 While GCU has a long tradition of excellence in social work teaching, prior to 2014 we had little
 strength in social work research. Webb was appointed in 2013 and has quickly established GCU
 as world-leading in social work research via the recruitment of talented early and mid-career
 researchers and supporting teaching staff to become research active. The group has attracted
 over £500k in research funding over the submission period and currently contains eight
 researchers working across two research clusters:

 Critical Social Work: An advanced scholarly focus around critical social work has leveraged the
 group’s international reputation as a world leader in social work interdisciplinary research. Our
 research looks beyond the theory of the Frankfurt School and Marxism with a concentration on
 theoretically informed practice (e.g. biopolitics and securitisation theory). A focus on actor
 network theory, controversy analysis, autoethnography, field philosophy analysis and
 governmentality studies has methodologically deepened this engagement (Webb, Lynch, Farmer
 and McKendrick). Conceptual innovation is at the heart of this concentration in our work with
 local communities and environmental social work (Roma, destitute migrants and African black
 women).

 The Social Work Education and Research-based Learning group focuses on innovative
 approaches to social work research learning, evaluation of practices and their educational
 implications. Much of this work is funded through Scottish Government and the group made a
 significant contribution to the Scottish Social Services Council national review of social work
 education and the ‘Framework and Standards in Social Work Education’.


 Co-ordinating infrastructure

 Our research centres allow us to develop a critical mass of researchers and PhD students
 across disciplines, underpinned by strong methodological and theoretical foundations. They
 facilitate the application of social policy research within large interdisciplinary teams addressing
 societal challenges while concentrating world class researchers at GCU within collaborative
 working spaces. This approach has proved successful in attracting research council and large
 European grants, as well as smaller grants from government and civil society (see Income
 section). Through these research centres (and via investment in PURE) we have implemented
 internal systems for peer review of grants and outputs, monitored progress in research income,
 activity and outputs, and been able to adapt quickly to changing research priorities (e.g. Horizon
 2020).



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Centres are fully integrated into the wider University research support architecture. Work across
 centres and clusters occurs organically as researchers and research leads meet regularly in a
 variety of environments. More formally, research leads meet bi-monthly as a UoA team to
 discuss areas of overlap and potential research bids. These meetings are supported by the
 Impact and Knowledge Exchange Officer and WISE Centre Research Advisor, who is
 responsible for monitoring and tracking outputs, and provides a link to the University’s Research
 and Innovation Office as regards awareness of research opportunities, and to the Graduate
 School as regards researcher development training.


 Internationalisation and researcher mobility

 All researchers are encouraged and supported to attend international conferences. Through the
 international networks we are part of, we secured funding to develop international researcher
 mobility through two major European grants: FABMOVE and the COST programme EMPOWER-
 SE. Together these have enabled six UoA staff, plus seven PhD students to spend placements
 (one to six months) at international universities, and to attend international conferences and
 summer schools. The University committed to covering their teaching loads while they were
 away. We also hosted 20 international visitors through the same programmes and two
 international visiting Professorships at the WISE Centre.


 Knowledge Exchange

 We are committed to impact through engagement with user groups at all stages of the research
 process. Our strategy for achieving impact is embedded within the wider university framework,
 and staff are supported to achieve and measure impact by the Research and Innovation Office
 (see GCU environment statement).

 At UoA level we work closely with user groups in the planning and dissemination of research and
 support them to develop research informed policy and practice. For example, the Scottish
 Poverty and Inequality Research Unit (SPIRU) has been established in partnership with the
 Poverty Alliance to help translate research findings into effective responses to social exclusion
 (see Impact Case Study). Researchers at WISE work closely with civil society groups and
 policymakers to co-produce research that engages the voices of those normally excluded from
 policy debate, and to shape policy responses accordingly. The Yunus Centre pioneered the
 University’s use of Knowledge Exchange forums whereby civil society groups and policymakers
 are invited to co-produce the research agenda and develop and refine grant proposals and
 outputs, through input into the design of research questions, reflection on emerging findings, as
 well as helping to disseminate findings through policy briefings, blogs, and facilitation of
 parliamentary appearances. Our research around Gender-Based Violence (GBV) formed the
 basis for a programme of work on GBV prevention and response at GCU. This also involved a
 network of trained First Responders to take disclosures of GBV and the creation of an award-
 winning GBV prevention campaign, #erasethegrey, which has been rolled out across the UK
 Higher Education sector.

 As well as investing University funding into developing knowledge exchange, we have
 successfully targeted national and international capacity building grants to develop social
 innovation support units across South East Asia, Latin America and Europe, and Common Good
 First - a digital network in South Africa to identify, showcase and connect community-driven
 social impact projects to each other (see Income section). These initiatives are structured
 around a ‘living lab’ approach whereby researchers and civil society practitioners are co-located
 (physically or digitally) to develop, evaluate, and scale-up co-produced responses to social
 problems. This approach has shaped the University’s wider strategy for achieving impact (see
 Institutional Environment Statement) and notably led to a partnership with Milton Community
 Centre to develop a Common Good Hub in Glasgow (see Income section).


                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research-led teaching

 UoA staff contribute to teaching and curriculum design. Student learning journeys are guided by
 our own empirical and theoretical research and students positively welcome their reading lists
 including international handbooks, edited collections and journal articles collectively produced by
 their teaching teams. UoA staff direct two of the University’s ‘flagship’ Masters programmes
 emblematic of our Common Good ethos: the MSc International Economics and Social Justice
 (led by the WISE Centre) and MSc Social Innovation (led by the Yunus Centre). Research
 leaders all teach undergraduate and postgraduate modules, and several teach onto the Master’s
 in Research programme (MRes) which forms the taught element of our Scottish Graduate
 School for Social Science / ESRC 1+3 PhDs. The profile of research-led teaching strengthens
 the case for the sustainability of social work and social policy research at GCU.


 Moving forward

 As a relatively small group we face considerable challenges under the current research funding
 environment. However, the vitality of the research environment created over the current REF
 period positions social work and social policy research at the forefront in GCU. We play a central
 role in the university research architecture with Webb as Assistant Vice Principal (AVP)
 Community Engagement, Teasdale AVP Social Innovation, and Cantillon Director of the WISE
 Centre. Our University Strategy 2030 sets out the strategic goal of becoming recognised as
 world-leading in social innovation research. This goal has evolved directly from the Yunus
 Centre’s success in terms of grant income and growing reputation for research excellence, and
 from Webb’s work on community engagement. Social innovation will become a central theme
 cutting across the University research centres and research groups with the aim of better
 connecting areas of research excellence and knowledge exchange across the University. We
 will invest in a new physical space to coordinate this work. This represents an exciting
 opportunity to embed theoretical and methodological expertise from social work and social policy
 research at the very heart of University research strategy.

 We will continue to invest into research leadership via the WISE and Yunus Centres. Building
 from the rapid growth of social work research over this REF period we have proposed a new
 Centre for Critical Social Work. We will also provide support to McMillan and Lombard to
 develop a policing research cluster.

 We will diversify our income portfolio through:

    •   Partnership working across centres and with other institutions to attract UKRI and other
        large ‘blue-chip’ grants
    •   Enhancing our reputation for world-class applied research through continued work with
        Scottish Government on policy evaluation
    •   Closer integration with public health researchers to embed Social Work and Social Policy
        research into large grants submitted to health funders (e.g., NIHR, MRC)
    •   Expanding research with international partners in ODA eligible countries through the
        University Global Challenges Unit (co-directed by Teasdale alongside the Director of
        Research and Innovation) to develop work eligible for GCRF funding.

 We will continue to grow our PhD student numbers through continued investment of University
 and REG funding in scholarships; continued membership of the ESRC Scottish Graduate School
 for Social Sciences; building on recent successes with Commonwealth scholarships and other
 overseas scholarships; and further developing co-funding of interdisciplinary PhDs with external
 partners (e.g. Glasgow City Council) and with other UoAs.

 We will continue to pioneer, and leverage funding for, our ‘living lab’ approach to knowledge
 exchange, building on principles of open access, user engagement, and dissemination of
 innovation through non-commercial approaches.

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 As a post-92 University most academic staff are predominately teaching only and do not have
 significant responsibility for research. We do not usually make a formal distinction between
 research-active and teaching staff: most staff are on the same academic contract. Within the
 Social Work and Social Policy UoA 43% of Category A Staff have significant responsibility for
 research. This compares well against the University (35%), demonstrating a strong research
 culture across the UoA and a commitment to research-led teaching (reflected in the
 aforementioned Guardian league table positions).

 Research centre membership is either full or associate. Academic staff on a research trajectory
 are, in general, formally employed within a Centre, while staff with teaching and research
 responsibilities are formally employed through an academic department (Social Sciences or
 Social Work) and conduct research through the centres and research groups. Teaching loads,
 particularly for ECRs, are relatively low. Staff with significant responsibility for research normally
 have at least 30% of their time protected for research activity such as grant writing and
 publishing. Full time research staff are formally integrated into school activities via school and
 departmental meetings. All contribute to research-led teaching. We actively provide opportunities
 for teaching staff to engage in research (through centres and groups) and support for them to
 develop a research career.

 In addition to the Performance and Development Annual Review (PRAR), conducted with line
 managers (see institutional environment statement), research leads provide regular discussion
 and guidance on research objectives, publishing plans, advice on grant applications and suitable
 sources of funding, to ensure that early and mid-career researchers can develop. The University
 also offers a formal mentoring scheme with ECRs also benefitting from membership of a cross-
 University ECR group led by the PVC Research. Research leads are themselves supported
 through mentoring schemes and the University Research Leaders group.

 This submission includes 18.50 FTE staff with significant responsibility for research. This
 compares with 14.40 in last REF. This includes six Professors, three Readers, four Senior
 Lecturers, four Lecturers and two Research Fellows; eleven are women; six are ECRs. Since
 last REF there has been considerable turnover. Just five staff members remain who were
 submitted to the last REF. Five staff members have retired or moved elsewhere, while three staff
 have been submitted to other UoAs, partly reflecting the restructuring of research around centres
 at GCU.

 The UoA has been strengthened via strategic investment in the recruitment, development and
 support of research leaders. Cantillon was recruited from University College Dublin in 2015 to
 establish the WISE Centre. She has developed partnerships with other international centres to
 build collaborative research around how economies might be built on principles of equality.
 Webb was recruited at the end of the last REF period to build the social work research group. He
 has mentored and supported three early career researchers within the group. He was appointed
 Assistant Vice Principal Community Engagement in 2018, reflecting his role at the interface
 between research and knowledge exchange activities. Teasdale was recruited (and promoted to
 Professor in 2014) at the end of the last REF period to develop social innovation research
 across GCU. He sits on the management group of the Yunus Centre where he is responsible for
 an interdisciplinary team of researchers (three in this UoA) and was appointed Assistant Vice
 Principal Social Innovation in 2018. McMillan leads an interdisciplinary team of criminology
 researchers (two in this UoA).

 When recruiting, we look at the overall picture and seek to rebalance the overall demographic
 profile of centres and Departments, as well as focusing on theoretical, methodological and
 subject-based specialism. New recruitments planned for 2021 include a senior lecturer post at
 the Yunus Centre to develop quantitative research, a post-doctoral researcher attached to the

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Social Work research group, and two post-docs at the WISE Centre to work on the mixed
 economy of care. Recent success with a large NIHR grant will also allow the Yunus Centre to
 recruit two new post-docs, with experience of realist evaluation and Q methodology respectively,
 and one new PhD student.


 Promoting a research environment

 Centre directors hold budgets to support staff training and networking and enable them to
 develop research project bids. Overhead recoveries are pooled at the Yunus Centre and used
 for research-related activity. This tends to have a flattening effect, whereby ECRs receive more
 than they put in, thus growing the next generation of researchers. It is a particularly beneficial
 model for ECRs and PhD students, since it gives them access to conferences and training, for
 example, that they might not normally be able to attend. Over the next REF period this model will
 be rolled out to other centres. Additionally, the University budgets a formal allocation of £500 per
 person for conference attendance for those researchers located outside of the centres.
 We facilitate multiple forums for debate and the exchange of ideas. The Yunus Centre holds
 monthly seminars with a mix of internal and external speakers and hosts the annual John
 Pearce Memorial Lecture on a topic related to social enterprise. WISE hold regular seminars
 with prominent visiting speakers, internal workshops for ECRs and post docs and hosts the
 annual Ailsa McKay memorial lecture, named after a former GCU Professor and prominent
 feminist economist. Alongside these, we hold seminars and workshops across the UoA to
 disseminate findings, share research expertise and promote space for ‘blue-sky’ thinking: for
 example, there is an ethnography and qualitative methods group organised by Social Work
 research staff which is open to all. Each of these forums enable staff and PGR students to
 exchange ideas, learn from each other and acquire presentation and writing experience in a
 supportive collegiate environment. We also invite prominent external speakers to address UoA
 staff. Recent examples include a speaker from the University of York who delivered the
 Challenge Poverty Week annual lecture in 2018, organised by SPIRU in partnership with the
 Poverty Alliance. Other notable visiting speakers include speakers from UCLouvain and UMass
 Amherst.

 We also promote a healthy research environment through the creative use of physical space.
 For example, the Yunus Centre has a shared kitchen space and ‘round table’ where all staff are
 encouraged to come together over coffee, meals and the informal exchange of ideas. Recent
 articles and news (both academic and life events) are posted on the walls. Our research centres’
 combine office space with open offices for PGR students, meeting and seminar rooms, and co-
 working spaces where staff collaborate around time-bound projects – for example grant
 applications.


 Researcher mobility

 We place considerable emphasis on opportunities for staff to learn from exposure to
 international environments. We have deliberately targeted external funding opportunities to
 facilitate this process. Five UoA staff have benefitted from placements in other international
 research centres and civil society organisations (in South Africa, Italy, the United States,
 France), through the FAB-MOVE project funded through H2020 Marie Curie RISE (UK lead
 Baglioni). This programme also enabled 20 international visits (from academic and practitioners)
 to GCU for a period ranging from one to six months. Teasdale was UK lead for the EMPOWER-
 SE project funded by COST (European Co-Operation in Social and Technology) which has also
 facilitated international movement of researchers and PhD students and improved the
 international reputation of Social Work and Social Policy research at GCU. We have supported
 other staff to take sabbaticals and visiting professorships at international universities. For
 example, McMillan was Visiting Professor at Trent University, Canada in 2014/15. Cantillon was
 the Helen J Sheridan Memorial Scholar at University of Massachusetts (Amherst) Autumn 2016
 and Visiting Research Professor, School of Law and Economics, Senshu University Tokyo in

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 May 2019. We attracted the first Canadian Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council
 funded post-doctoral fellowship (supervised by Webb) in 2019.


 Research students

 During the REF period, 36.33 FTE research doctoral degree students graduated from the UoA.
 This represents an increase from 13 FTE in the last REF period. Numbers of PGR students
 continue to grow. Social work and social policy researchers currently supervise (or co-supervise)
 58 PGR students. Students are funded through a mix of scholarships (internal and external),
 work-based placements and self-funded. External scholarships over the REF cycle include those
 from ESRC / the Scottish Graduate School of Social Science (SGSSS), the Commonwealth
 Scholars programme, and MARA - a Malaysian Government scheme for outstanding graduates
 in areas of national employment needs. PhD students have also been supported through
 Scottish Government and Skills Development Scotland. We have invested in 14 centrally funded
 scholarships during the REF period to students in social work and social policy. Notably, two
 ECRs (Calo and Lynch) came through our PhD programme.

 PGR students are registered for their PhD at either Glasgow School for Business and Society
 (Social Policy) or the School for Health and Life Sciences (Social Work). The vast majority are
 physically located within one of our research centres. Within research centres, PGR students are
 considered a full part of research teams and take part in thematic and Centre meetings. They
 are encouraged to ask critical and challenging questions, inviting us to reflect on the way centres
 are managed. They contribute ideas to papers and often provide the early seeds for future
 research collaborations around new ideas. This helps us create a vital and stimulating research
 environment and encourages critical self-reflection among more established researchers,
 helping our research environments evolve over time to incorporate new ideas.

 The training needs of PGR students are negotiated individually, with additional funds allocated to
 support their learning and development needs, and provision organised around the Vitae
 Researcher Development Framework. The University also offers training for PGR students
 through the Graduate School and as part of our MRes programme (which is ESRC accredited
 for 1+3 training). The Graduate School offers an extensive range of workshops, training
 opportunities and events which are aimed and structured around the developmental needs of
 doctoral researchers and there are significant opportunities for seminar and conference
 attendance as well as academic citizenship participation (see institutional environment statement
 for a description of the PhD journey). The Graduate School also leads online writing retreats for
 PGR students, which have proven particularly popular during lockdown. Relatedly, the University
 has ensured that workspace is available to PGR students living in Glasgow during lockdown. All
 PhD students have been given an automatic extension due to the effects of COVID. GCU has
 allocated funds (in addition to ESRC funding for SGSSS funded students) to provide PGR
 students with financial support to extend their studies where COVID has had a detrimental
 effect.

 UoA-specific PGR training takes place in the context of the ESRC Doctoral Training Centre -
 SGSSS. The SGSSS is funded jointly by the ESRC and the Scottish Funding Council and is the
 UK's largest facilitator of funding, training and support for doctoral students in social science.
 GCU is part of the Social Work and Social Policy pathway, demonstrating that GCU is a centre
 of excellence in social work and social policy research training, while offering all our social
 science PGR students access to high quality training, events, placements and summer schools
 offered through SGSSS.

 PGR students are encouraged to publish as sole or first author during their PhD to prepare them
 for academic life and position them in the labour market. They are supported in this through
 writing groups and ‘buddy’ schemes. We run half day research symposiums for PhD students.
 Here they give presentations on their research to Unit staff and other PhD students, and give
 and receive constructive and supportive feedback. International mobility has been significantly

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 enhanced through access to EMPOWER-SE and FAB-MOVE (described previously and taken
 up by 12 PGR students). For example, one student was financially supported to spend part of
 her ‘writing-up’ year at Georgetown University in Washington DC.


 Equality and diversity

 Glasgow Caledonian University is an equal opportunities employer. We currently have
 institutional Athena Swan bronze award and are waiting to hear about our silver award. Glasgow
 School for Business and Society has a bronze award under review (Social Policy) and the
 School of Health and Life Sciences (Social Work) is submitting a silver award application in
 2021. Each academic department and research centre has an equality champion. Teasdale sits
 on the University Advancing Gender Equality Group. In light of the challenges surrounding
 ethnicity of both students and academics across the University (14% of undergraduate students
 are BAME), a series of recommendations has been made, recognising that institutional racism is
 a structural and not an individual issue and that tackling racism and racial inequalities should
 form a core part of the University’s Common Good mission.

 The proportion of staff designated as having significant responsibility for research broadly
 reflects the gender and ethnicity profile of Cat A staff. 57% of CAT A staff are women. 58% of
 SigRes staff are women. 52% of outputs are attributed to women. Six SigRes staff are ECRs
 who together contributed 13 outputs. However, there is some historical vertical segregation by
 gender within the UoA profile, with disproportionate numbers of male professors (4/6) and
 female ECRs (5/6). This is reflected in women in the UoA tending to have lower levels of grant
 income, which disappears when comparing by pay grade. We are taking measures to address
 vertical segregation. As part of GCUs ‘Advancing Gender Equality Group’ action plan, the
 University has focused attention on the retention and promotion of high calibre staff, particularly
 women, and invested heavily in mentoring programmes such as AURORA. All promotion (and
 recruitment) panel members undertake unconscious bias training. Eight UoA staff have been
 promoted during the REF period, five of them women. Two of the three ‘next generation’
 research leaders, presently at Reader level, are women.

 Notably, both research centres (WISE and Yunus) associated with this UoA are led by women.
 As is clear from our selected outputs and case studies, equalities issues – particularly gender,
 poverty and the social inclusion of migrants – are central to our research. As a University we
 seek to use procurement policy as a means towards social justice, aiming to spend money on
 goods and services from social enterprises and charities where possible. For example, Soul
 Food Sisters, a social enterprise led by refugee women, regularly provide catering services for
 events held at GCU organised by UoA staff.

 During the COVID-19 pandemic, the University has taken a ‘whole-life approach’ to flexible
 working, recognising that some staff have additional caring responsibilities and have been
 temporarily unable to meet teaching and research responsibilities. In response, workloads have
 been rebalanced leading to some staff having reduced work hours with no loss of salary.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The UoA strategy for growing research income has been informed by GCU’s research strategy,
 and particularly the research centres Approval process. We are supported by Centre and School
 research advisors, and a dedicated University Research and Innovation Office, which provides
 support in developing, costing and managing research grants. Centres (described in section 1)
 develop their own income strategies, underpinned by a central framework of robust peer-review
 and quality appraisal systems to assist researchers to improve the quality of grant applications to
 funding bodies. Peer Review Committees provide detailed reviews of all research proposals, and
 senior researchers are on hand to provide mentoring and support to ECRs negotiating the
 complexities of grant submission at the start of their research careers. The UoA has deliberately
 sought to encourage a culture of learning from, and overcoming, adversity. Senior staff give

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 seminars where they reflect on the (sometimes multiple) failures of grants and articles as they
 evolve and become successful. We regularly host visits from funding bodies, including ESRC,
 Wellcome Trust, Nuffield Foundation, and Leverhulme Trust.

 As a UoA we have strategically partnered across centres and Institutions to develop our role in
 large interdisciplinary grants. The success of this strategy is apparent in the sustained increase
 in research funding over the REF period for this UoA. Total income has risen from £1.29 million
 to £2.25 million since last REF, equivalent to £17,345 per FTE / year.

 UKRI funding (£671k) constitutes around 30% of the total mainly due to substantial funding from
 the MRC and ESRC for Developing Methods to Evidence Social Enterprise as a Public Health
 Intervention, led by GCU (worth £1.9million in total, of which £606,169 was apportioned to this
 UoA). This large interdisciplinary grant developed new ways of measuring the impact of social
 enterprise on health and wellbeing and developed understanding of new pathways to reducing
 health inequalities. The grant directly supported the employment of Henderson, Calo and Mazzei
 with co-investigator time from Teasdale. Other UKRI successes include Cantillon’s heterodox
 review on the divergence of pay and productivity for the ESRC Productivity Insights Network (led
 by Sheffield University), and McKay’s ESRC funded work on accounting for gender in public
 budgeting.

 Substantial funding (£639k) was also achieved via European Commission 7th Framework
 Programme (FP7) and Horizon 2020 initiatives. Notable successes include SIRIUS – a 2.5
 million Euro grant (£104,922 to this UoA) investigating labour market integration for refugees, led
 by Baglioni and including 11 international partner organisations. UoA colleagues were UK lead
 partners on major European grants including EFESEIIS (exploring evolution of supportive
 ecosystems for social innovation, funded by FP7 and worth £166,420 to this UoA); TransSOL
 (European paths to transnational solidarity at times of crisis, funded by Horizon 2020 and worth
 £59,493 to this UoA); GiG (The Gig Economy and its implication for social dialogue and workers
 protection, funded by Swiss Network for International Studies and worth £46,612 to this UoA);
 and ATLANTIC SOCIAL Lab (exploring trends in social innovation, funded by EU Interreg and
 worth £110,000 to this UoA). As mentioned in section 2, we were also UK leads on successful
 European researcher mobility grants including FAB-MOVE (funded through EU Marie Curie
 Research and Staff Exchange and worth £36,673 to this UoA), and the COST Empower-SE
 programmes (no direct cash value but this indirectly funded visits to summer schools,
 international conferences and seminars, methods workshops and visiting fellowships for UoA
 staff and PhD students).

 Much of our research is funded by Scottish and UK Government (£783k), reflecting our strong
 commitment to policy-relevant research and community engagement. Jackson was awarded
 £300k to develop Scotland’s first migrant and refugee skills recognition and accreditation Hub.
 O’Hagan was awarded £70,000 to evaluate participatory budgeting in Scotland (see also Impact
 Case Study) and was also funded by the Welsh Government to conduct an international review
 of gender budgeting practice. Mazzei and Teasdale were awarded £30,000 to evaluate the
 Public Sector Partnership model. Kettle was awarded £30,000 by Scottish Social Services
 Council to investigate social work approaches to integrated learning. Henderson was awarded
 £30,000 to evaluate additional risks associated with climate change in the Scottish borders.
 Grant and Webb were awarded £50,000 from Scottish Government to undertake a longitudinal
 study of newly qualified social workers. UoA staff have evaluated other Scottish Government
 initiatives including the Social Work Education core curriculum, One Parenting Families,
 Community Empowerment Act, and Asset Transfer programme. Teasdale supported the
 Scottish Government in the design and delivery of their Social Innovation Fund in partnership
 with the European Social Fund. Subsequently Lynch was awarded £54,000 from the Social
 Innovation Fund for research investigating barriers and community-led solutions to employment
 faced by Roma women in Govanhill. Ima Jackson was awarded £86,176 to conduct research
 into prevalence and prevention of female genital mutilation. UoA staff also contributed to Social
 Innovation Fund grants led by other UoAs, including on rap music as a means to reintegrate
 disadvantaged young people into the education system, and facilitating skills training for one

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 parent families. McMillan and Lombard provide research-led training to the Scottish Government
 and the Police on diversity, while Cantillon and O’Hagan provide training on gender to Scottish
 Government economists and social policy analysts.

 Further reflecting a commitment to co-produce research with research users, several smaller
 grants have enabled us to conduct research in partnership with, and / or for charities and social
 enterprises including Child Poverty Action Group, Glasgow Council for Voluntary Services, the
 Impact Hub network, the Poverty Alliance, the Poverty and Inequality Commission, and Soul
 Food Sisters. Larger charitable trusts (such as Carnegie) have funded small-scale research
 projects including on football and domestic abuse (Lombard), and social enterprise models in
 social care (Henderson).

 As part of our impact strategy, we engage with research users to secure funding to ‘scale up’
 social policy interventions that ‘work’. UoA Staff have been central to four ERASMUS funded
 capacity building grants with a relatively small research component. Teasdale and Mazzei have
 supported the development of Common Good First, a digital network to identify, showcase and
 connect community-driven social impact projects to international universities, for research,
 learning and teaching and student engagement (£40,438 to this UoA); and the establishment of
 social innovation networks of practitioners and universities via South-East Asia Social Innovation
 Network (SEASIN, £20,708 to this UoA), Latin America Social Innovation Network (LASIN,
 £19,530 to this UoA) and Social Innovation Knowledge Exchange (SIKE, £15,480 to this UoA).
 The ‘living lab’ approach pioneered through these projects has been adapted in partnership with
 Milton Community Centre to develop a Common Good Hub in Glasgow. The Hub (led by Webb)
 will receive £1,200,000, largely infrastructural investment for the community, from the Scottish
 Government and Glasgow City Council to enable innovative approaches to civic engagement
 and mutually beneficial partnerships for research-based learning, student learning and local
 research teams focusing on youth unemployment, drug use and crime and family support
 groups.

 Our record of income growth has been underpinned by our investment into research centres and
 research leaders. Research grant income has supported further investment into recruitment and
 development of ECR researchers, including Calo, Henderson and Mazzei. Calo has since taken
 up a Lecturer position at the Open University, while Mazzei has been given a permanent
 contract and promoted to Senior Lecturer, and Henderson has moved onto a permanent
 Research Fellow contract at GCU.

 We have also invested into dedicated space for our research centres. All research staff occupy
 bespoke accommodation within the centres. This space includes co-location of PGR students
 who share offices with personal access to networked PCs, phone, photocopying, grants for
 conference etc. School-based academic staff are provided with individual offices. Visiting
 Professors have access to personal offices within centres, or to dedicated workstations within
 co-working spaces. Seminar rooms and shared relaxation spaces facilitate a sense of collegiality
 and the sharing of ideas. University-wide facilities such as the library and access to research
 support through the University’s Research and Innovation Office are described in the University
 Environment Statement.

 GCU has also invested in Social Work and Social Policy research via Global Challenges core
 funding. UoA staff have been successful in applying for internal grants from this fund, including:
 Cantillon’s work developing a network of gender focused research in sub-Saharan Africa;
 Teasdale’s work investigating how SDGs interrelate; and for a post-doc exploring Women’s
 empowerment in Nepal. It is anticipated that this investment will feed into grant awards and
 outputs during the next REF cycle.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our research supports policymaking and evidence-based practice in Scotland and beyond (as
 described above). Additionally, our researchers make important contributions to a range of
 academic disciplines through contributions to professional societies and conferences, academic
 journal editing, and collaborations with other universities, and, particularly through community
 engagement.


 National and International Collaborations

 Staff collaborate with other institutions and research centres nationally and internationally. We
 play a full role in the Scottish Graduate School for Social Sciences where O’Hagan is a pathway
 lead for social work and social policy, and Teasdale serves on the Dean’s Group. The UoA has
 collaborated in or led major research grants including: Developing methods to evidence social
 enterprise as a public health intervention involving the Universities of Birmingham, Stirling,
 Robert Gordon University, the University of the Highlands and Islands, and Glasgow School of
 Art; SIRIUS with the University of Geneva, European University Institute, Charles University,
 Roskilde, Jyvaskala, Parma and National Technical University of Athens; EFESEIIS (led by
 University of Florence and including Universities of Catania, Southern Denmark, Warsaw and
 Vienna; TransSOL (led by University of Siegen and including Universities of Copenhagen, Crete,
 Sciences Po); GIG ECONOMY (led by University of Geneva); and ATLANTIC SOCIAL Lab (with
 University of Coimbra). We collaborated with Oxford and St Gallen Universities on the ESRC
 Seminar Series Reconstructing Social Enterprise. As part of Common Good First, we developed
 a network of European and South African partner universities including Western Cape,
 Johannesburg, Nelson Mandela, Alicante, Reykjavik, The Free State, Roskilde, Rhodes, and
 South Eastern Norway.

 These successful collaborative grants have also included civil society partners including the
 Impact Hub network, Social Innovation Exchange, Kibble, Impact Arts, Aberdeen Foyer,
 Inverclyde Community Development Trust (all CommonHealth); Mission & Co. Malaysia, Friends
 International, Cambodia, Ashoka Thailand (all SEASIN); Social Impact, Germany, Business
 Innovation Brokers, Spain, Santa Casa Misericordia de Lisboa, The Melting Pot, Social
 Innovation Lab, Croatia (all SIKE).


 Peer reviewing

 Our staff are involved in reviewing for UKRI and other funders. McMillan was a member of the
 ESRC Peer Review College, 2010-2015. Sinclair is a member of ESRC Peer Review College,
 2015 - present. Baglioni was a member of ESRC Peer Review College 2015-20. Staff have also
 reviewed grant applications for the MRC, Austrian Science Fund (Webb), Swiss National
 Science Foundation, the Leverhulme Trust, Horizon 2020 awards, Joseph Rowntree, Wellcome
 Trust, Scottish Government Social Innovation Fund (Teasdale member of awards committee)
 and Carnegie Trust (McMillan and Teasdale members of Selection Committee).


 Journal editorship

 Staff contributed during the REF period to editorship of the following journals: Scandinavian
 Journal of Disability Research (Hughes, Editor in Chief 2012-2016); Social Enterprise Journal
 (Teasdale, Editor in Chief 2018-20). Staff served on the editorial boards of Advances in Social
 Science, Australian Social Work, Critical Social Work, Education and Humanities, Social
 Sciences, and Social Work & Society (Webb); British Journal of Social Work (Grant); Disability &
 Society, Disability Studies Quarterly (Hughes); Feminismo/s (O’Hagan); Journal of Gender
 Based Violence (Lombard); Journal of Poverty and Social Justice (Sinclair); Journal of Social
 Entrepreneurship (Teasdale, Associate Editor) and Nonprofit Policy Forum; and Review of

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Radical Political Economics (Cantillon). Cantillon is also Series Editor of The Gendered
 Economy, published by Agenda Press as part of Columbia University Press (2017-present).

 UoA staff have edited several prestigious international reference works including The Routledge
 Handbook of Critical Social Work (Webb), The Routledge Handbook of Gender and Violence
 (Lombard), A Research Agenda for Social Entrepreneurship (co-edited by Teasdale), Gender
 Budgeting in Europe: Developments and Challenges (O’Hagan), Foodsaving in Europe: At the
 Crossroad of Social Innovation (Baglioni and Calo). UoA staff have also edited nine special
 issues of journals.


 Conference organisation and contribution to learned societies

 The UoA have hosted the following conferences during the REF cycle: British Sociological
 Association, April 2019; the 28th Annual Conference of the International Association of Feminist
 Economists, June 2019; 8th International Social Innovation Research Conference (ISIRC),
 September 2016; 11th International Social Innovation Research Conference, September 2019;
 Teasdale is founder member of the ISIRC organising committee. We also hosted a seminar
 (2014) as part of the ESRC seminar series Reconstructing Social Enterprise (Teasdale was co-
 investigator).

 Sinclair served on the Executive Committee of the Social Policy Association (2011-16). Cantillon
 is on the Board of Directors of International Association for Feminist Economics (2017-20).
 Teasdale was elected board member of EMES International Research Network for Social
 Enterprise (2016-18). Mazzei is a Board Member of the Regional Studies Association (since
 2018). Webb is a Board Member of Scottish Institute for Policing Research and organiser for
 TiSSA (The international 'Social Work & Society' Academy).


 Expert appointments

 Cantillon was appointed to the UN Global Crisis Bureau as a Resident Expert on Gender in
 2020, the Scottish Government Gender Index Working Group (2018-present), the Scottish
 Government Expert Review Group on Carer’s Benefit (2016-17), and was appointed by the Irish
 Minister of Education to the Expert Group on The Future Funding of Higher Education 2014-
 2016.

 Ima Jackson is co-convenor of the Glasgow Refugee Asylum and Migration Network and was
 invited by Scotland’s First Minister to jointly lead the National Advisory Council for Women and
 Girls. Lombard was invited by Scottish Ministers to serve on the Scottish Government Strategic
 Board to support the development of the new legislation on violence against women Equally
 Safe. She is a Member of the Scottish Government Working Group on Gender Based Violence
 and Education: developing new national framework and prevention strategy, and also acts as a
 Core Expert for the European Network of Experts in Gender Equality (ENEGE).

 McMillan is Chair of the UCU Taskforce on Sexual Violence in Tertiary Education (2020-). She
 was also appointed as a Core Expert on Gender for Scientific Analysis and Advice on Gender
 Equality (SAAGE) for the European Commission (2015 – present) and provided Expert Evidence
 to the Scottish Government’s Equally Safe: A Consultation on Legislation to Improve Forensic
 Medical Services for Victims of Rape and Sexual Assault (2019).

 O’Hagan is independent Chair of the Scottish Government Equality Budgets Advisory Group
 (Sept. 2018), member of the Scottish Government’s Disability and Carers Benefits Expert
 Advisory Group (2017) and was appointed to the Social Renewal Advisory Board in 2020.
 O’Hagan was also a Commissioner on the UK Commission on a Gender Equal Economy (2019-
 2020), a non-party member of the SNP Commission on Fairness and Social Justice (2019-
 2020), and has been an advisor to the European Institute for Gender Equality (Vilnius).

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sinclair is a member of the Scottish Government / Improvement Service Local Child Poverty
 Working Group (2018 – present). Teasdale advised Scottish Government on the establishment
 of their Social Innovation Fund (2016) and sits on their awards panel (2017-present). Sharon
 Jackson is a member of Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary for Scotland and Webb sits
 on the Scottish Institute of Policing Research Board of Governors (appointed 2020).

 Members of staff regularly give evidence to Scottish Government Committees. For example,
 Farmer gave expert evidence to Scottish Government Committee on Destitute Migrants and
 those with no recourse to public funding.


 Awards and conference keynotes

 Webb was appointed Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences, (FAcSS), 2018. McMillan was
 appointed to the Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) Young Academy of Scotland in 2016. She
 was also awarded the Write to End Violence Against Women Excellence in Journalism Award
 2018 for Best Blog or Comment Piece for GenderPol Blog ‘Technologising Rape and Sexual
 Assault: Can we Really Innovate the Problem Away?’. O’Hagan was awarded the Political
 Studies Association Jo Cox Award for Public Service and Active Citizenship in 2019 in
 recognition of her work to advance gender budgeting in the UK and internationally.

 UoA staff are regularly invited to give lectures and keynote presentation at international
 conferences. Notably, Cantillon gave an invited lecture at the 150th ILO Anniversary conference
 in Krakow, 2020; the opening lecture at the Social Policy and Intervention Conference, Oxford
 University, 2019; and the inaugural lecture to the Alternative Economics Society/World
 Economics Forum, at Strathclyde University in 2016. Hughes gave the closing plenary at the
 Disability Studies Association annual conference in 2014 and a keynote address at the 7th
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion International Conference, Munich in 2014. Lombard gave a
 keynote address at the United Nations and the 14th Annual UNESCO conference on eliminating
 violence against women and girls. Teasdale gave keynote addresses at the International Social
 Innovation Research Conference, Glasgow, September 2019, and 5th EMES Research
 Conference, Helsinki, 2015. Webb gave keynote addresses at the International Social Work and
 Sociology Conference, in 2014 and 2015; the International Conference on Sociology and Social
 Work, Chester, 2015; and the European Conference for Social Work Research, Ljubljana, 2015.

 Staff have also given invited lectures and keynotes at Bocconi University (Milan), Catholic
 University of Portugal, University of Girona, University of Malta, the Hong Kong Social Enterprise
 Summit, UMass (Amherst), University of Murcia, University of Iceland, University of Catania,
 Roskilde University, University of Edinburgh, University of Arizona, Timisoara University, and
 University of Applied Sciences Zwolle.

 For a relatively small (but growing) group, social work and social policy research at GCU makes
 a considerable contribution to co-producing internationally renowned research, which has a
 direct impact on the communities that surround us and with whom we engage both locally and
 globally.




                                                                                           Page 14
