Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Lancaster University

 Unit of Assessment: 11 Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
    Key Highlights
       Established and co-led 3 Institutes building interdisciplinary research communities and
        increasing research income by 33%
       Increased research impact and engagement related income to £8.6M, including 50%
        growth in collaborative research from £2M to £3M since 2014
       Increase in the number and importance of publications in top-10% most cited, up by 20%
        to 447.
 1.1 UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE
 Over 50 years, Lancaster’s School of Computing and Communications (SCC) has established a
 strong international research reputation. We offer a unique environment that facilitates a broad
 range of impacts by bringing research, business and societal stakeholders together. This stems
 from our long-standing strategy centred around research excellence with real-world application:
 “we build what we study and we study what we build”. This mantra values meaningful
 engagement with stakeholders at the heart of what we do, including testbeds in daily use by
 stakeholder groups, as much as excellence in terms of publications. We believe that addressing
 many of the major societal challenges requires an inherently diverse and interdisciplinary
 perspective. SCC is actively driving this interdisciplinary agenda across the University in areas
 including data science, cyber-security and social futures. This collaborative approach has led to
 a step change in the quality of the research environment for our staff and students, and given
 rise to major new research directions, such as environmental data science.
 Every RAE/REF period to date has seen growth in breadth and depth of our research outputs
 and impact (Table 1). In the last period we have increased our research income, publications in
 SciVal, and top-10% field weighted citations index
 Table 1: Key indicators for the REF2021 period as an evidence of sustainability (research
 income is according to HESA as spent for the period; the value of awards for the REF2021
 period is £39.4M with £9.3M in 2020)
  Indicators                               RAE2001      RAE2008      REF2014       REF2021

  Research income (£M)                         6.7         15.0         18.8          28.5
  PhDs awarded (FTE)                            61         62.5          114           141
  Total number of publications                 471         1555         1848          2427
  Peer reviewed publications indexed in
                                               147          646         1136          1645
  SciVal
  Publications in Top-10% most cited           24           182          356          447
  field weighted
  Engagement / KE Income (£M)                   -           4.1           7.8          8.6
  Overall research quality profile              5          80%           91%
  (1-5* or % 4* /3*)
 Our achievements since 2014 include:
       i) our highest ever research income generation;
       ii) the largest number of peer reviewed publications, with




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            iii) above discipline norm field weighted citation index1;
            iv) most significant engagement and knowledge exchange (KE) income;
            v) largest number of PhDs graduated; and,
            vi) most significant period for progression and diversity of staff.
    Our performance is in line with Russell Group research intensive institutions and our number of
    citations per paper is above the Group median (10.3).
    SCC Structure
    We attribute this success to our strong commitment to provide an open and collaborative
    environment that fosters interdisciplinary working. Staff are members of research groups
    that synergise collaboration, provide informal mentorship and peer support. Staff also associate
    with University Research Centres and Institutes to increase critical mass in priority areas by
    working with other disciplines.
    SCC’s academic staff (49.45FTE up from 43.25FTE in 2014) currently comprise nine groups
    listed with the core areas where we make a significant intellectual contribution:
          Software Engineering - code analysis, defect prediction, software testing, program repair,
            developer human factors;
          Networking - Software Defined Networking, Network Functions Virtualisation, resilience
            and network security;
          Distributed Systems - Middleware, Cloud Computing, Green Computing, IoT, Self-
            adaptive Systems, Complex Systems;
          Interactive Systems - New forms of sensing interaction, input, actuation and display; novel
            interaction modalities and toolkits; design-led prototyping;
          Pervasive Systems - Development, deployment and evaluation of mobile and pervasive
            computing systems; ‘in-the-wild’ deployments; display networks;
          Communication Systems - Development, design, and performance evaluation of new
            concepts and techniques for wireless communication;
          Security - Critical Infrastructure Protection, Systemic Cyber Security Risk Management,
            Threat Intelligence and Data, Systems Security;
          Data Science - NLP, explainable AI, ML, computer vision, deep learning;
          Digital Health - Digital technology to transform healthcare delivery and empower
            individuals’ active and healthy lifestyle.

    Centres and Institutes build cross-institutional collaboration and drive research.
    A key outcome of SCC’s collaborative approach was the creation and co-leadership of three of
    the four flagship university-wide Institutes: Data Science (DSI, Davies), Social Futures (ISF,
    Harper) and Security Lancaster (SL, Suri). The Institutes recognise that computing is at the
    centre of understanding and shaping modern society, requiring a multi-disciplinary perspective.
    They create critical mass and community, and leverage expertise from across the University in
    areas of high strategic importance. The Institutes are a tremendous resource for SCC staff in
    terms of mentorship and engagement. Dedicated activities and resources stimulate
    collaboration, e.g. research retreats, grant preparation workshops, invited talks, visits and
    visitors. We also lead several established cross-department centres e.g. in corpus linguistics
    (UCREL), and encourage new grass roots centres to emerge, e.g. intelligent systems (LIRA).
    Engagement of research within teaching and knowledge exchange is a key part of our culture
    and environment. Onsite business engagement staff provide bespoke support for translational
    impact by building relationships and working with stakeholders. Co-located businesses are
    selected to maximise potential for engagement and knowledge transfer.
    It is notable that all our academics have eligible outputs and we have the lowest ratio (7%) of
    staff on teaching-only contracts nationally2. This is three times lower than that of other UK


1
 Twice the UK mean for Computer Science, and comparable with the Russell Group of leading
research intensive Universities.
2
    As evidenced by HESA data.

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Universities and demonstrates an approach to research-led teaching that is firmly aligned to the
 school’s ethos of research excellence.
 Our collaborative spirit is evidenced by the composition of our outputs: more than half (55.44%)
 of publications are co-authored by international authors, half of our grants (49%) within the REF
 period involve partners from other Universities including 19% international. A further 29% involve
 SMEs, 15% large corporations (half of which are international), and an additional 7% of our
 grants involve other stakeholder groups such as healthcare, charity, local government and social
 enterprise.

 1.2 RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY DURING THE ASSESSMENT PERIOD
 Our research takes a real-world, systems-oriented and interdisciplinary focus. This involves
 external stakeholders in the creation of experimental testbeds and deployments. The academic,
 business and societal impact of this strategy is best illustrated by our wide ranging impact case
 studies: micro:bit (over 4M devices worldwide promoting computer science education); B4RN
 (an innovative co-operative offering the fastest rural fibre broadband in UK, providing gigabit
 access to digital services to over 5,000 homes in 79 parishes, with global influence); Smart
 Water (transforming the efficiency of urban surface water management by 20% using pervasive
 computing, in over 100 locations); and, marketing insights from comparative linguistics tools
 (spun out as Relative Insight, now with offices in New York and London, and major platform
 clients including Samsung).
 These impacts result directly from our 2014 – 2020 strategy to:
       Maximise real world relevance through interdisciplinary collaboration and target
        more ambitious collaborative research bids – evidenced through the creation and
        leadership of 3 interdisciplinary research Institutes;
       Structure for research excellence by bringing academics in previously separate
        departments together to tackle problems from multiple perspectives – evidenced through
        the creation of 3 new research groups and 2 new University Centres, the maturation of
        groups to centres, and centres to institutes;
        Maximise impacts by working with partners & stakeholders, via embedding on-site
        and dedicated knowledge exchange support – evidenced through increase in the number
        of full-time KE staff; refresh of on-site businesses based on collaboration potential; and
        work with worldwide partners including Microsoft, BBC, BT, Google, SITA Aero, QinetiQ,
        Philips, Airbus, Huawei, and over 1,000 SMEs. e.g. flagship projects such as the £5M
        NG-CDI prosperity partnership with BT; and three industrial accelerators: £6M GM Cyber
        Foundry, £1.36M SPRITE+, and £1.5M SecureD University Enterprise Zone.

 1.2.1 Progress against Strategic Aims for Research & Impact identified in the REF2014
 The strategy of the School to undertake interdisciplinary research; structure for research
 excellence; and maximise impact creates an environment in which researchers are stimulated to
 address new challenges, explore new ideas and solve open real-world problems by working
 collaboratively. Our sub-goals under this strategy included: setting ourselves ambitious EDI
 targets (>10FTE female staff by 2026), increased our research leadership by targeting major
 fellowships; and targeting more significant and ambitious scale research bids - a minimum of
 one £1M+ bid pa per group. We have made substantial progress:
 Objective 1 – Interdisciplinary Research Growth. 1) Nurture our key strengths-in-depth; 2)
 Grow new strengths on the foundation of our core research groups; and, 3) Maximise real-world
 relevance through cross-disciplinarity. We also sought to resource key growth areas with a view
 to increasing our leadership more strategically.
 Demonstrably achieved by:
    a) Co-establishing three University interdisciplinary research Institutes (section 3.1) that cut
       across our research portfolio in strategically important ways - all under SCC academic

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        staff leadership from their inception. The Institutes provide a sustainable vehicle for our
        research; facilitate the cross-fertilisation of ideas; as well as offering training, community,
        and critical mass to focus toward large strategic grants. As exemplars of this success,
        over a 5 year period, DSI has secured £23M to Lancaster and established new cross-
        disciplinary partnerships such as Centre for Environmental Data Science (CEEDS) with
        UKCEH. Security Lancaster (SL) has become a twice-accredited NCSC cyber-security
        centre of excellence, home to the £11.8M UK national hub for social science research on
        security threats (CREST), and £8.8M of regional cyber industrial accelerators.

    b) Creating and Leading two inter-disciplinary research centres:
        1) LIRA Centre for Robotics and Autonomous Systems, founded in 2018 (Director:
        Angelov) comprising 50 academics including a mix of experienced research leaders
        (Fellows of IEEE, ACM, IET, ASAS) as well as developing early career researchers from
        SCC, Engineering, Lancaster Environment Centre, Faculty of Health and Medicine, and
        Management School. LIRA has 8 themes: fundamentals and challenge driven areas
        such as Biomedical, Environment and Agriculture, Intelligent Transport, Advanced
        Manufacturing, Nuclear Decommissioning, Security and Defence and Society and
        Human Behaviour.
        2) Centre of Digital Health and Quality of Life Technologies, founded in 2019 (Director:
        Helal). Created in partnership with the Department of Health Research, CDH-QLT
        focuses on using digital technologies to take a proactive approach to health, with the aim
        of preventing illness and improving quality of life. The centre is developing innovative
        digital health platforms, future degree programmes, and increasing community
        engagement.
    c) We cemented bridges between University departments with two new senior joint
       appointments including Helal (SCC and Division of Health Research), and Harper (SCC
       and Social Futures).
 Due, in part, to this strategy, the amount of funded research to SCC has grown from £18.8M to
 £28.5M according to HESA.
 Objective 2 – Structured for Research Excellence. 1) Maximise academic impact; 2)
 Maximise academic synergies; 3) Boost the strategic role of the research groups.
 Demonstrably achieved by strengthening our core research groups and founding three others.
 This is exemplified by the journey of the security group, which rapidly evolved during the REF
 period: moving from an SCC group to a leading research institute by combining our strengths,
 targeting appointments, and crossing disciplines to meet the evolving needs of our partners (for
 example the Home Office and GCHQ).
    a) Successfully sustained our core research groups (Networking, Distributed Systems,
       Interactive Systems, Pervasive Systems, Communications and Software Engineering)
       each with a long track record of excellence. Significant grant awards (>£1M value) have
       followed (Hutchison 2014; Race 2017 – converged network infrastructures); Distributed
       Systems (Blair 2016 – Environmental Data Science); Pervasive Systems (Sas 2017 –
       Affective Computing; Harper 2018 – Material Social Futures); Interactive Systems
       (Alexander 2020 – Deformable Screens).
    b) Establishing three new groups (Data Science, Security and Digital Health) in response to
       emerging societal challenges such as the data deluge, the need for secure and resilient
       infrastructures, and the aging population. Major activity includes supporting the newly
       opened £41M Health Innovation Campus; 1M+ grants (Prince 2019); and the hire of
       Distinguished Prof. Suri, bringing leadership of a major EU Cybersecurity Competence
       Network (CONCORDIA) to Lancaster.
 The academic impact of our work has grown. We have seen a 44.8% growth (1136 to 1645) of
 peer reviewed publications indexed in SciVal. Our publications in the top-10% most cited (field
 weighted for computer science) have increased by 26% from 356 to 447 and now represent
 more than a quarter (27.2%) of the SciVal indexed peer reviewed publications. Our work has

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 garnered peer recognition, for example, in HCI we’ve received over a dozen best paper awards
 from ACM CHI (including Karnik, 2014, Friday 2015, Gellersen, 2019, Sas, 2019 and 2020).
 Objective 3 – Impact. 1) Maximize impact through KE; 2) Exploit the new role of Head of
 Business Partnerships and Enterprise.




 Under the oversight of Head of Business Partnerships and Enterprise, who is integrated into
 SCC’s management team, to ensure regular and effective communication; our strategy to
 maximise impact from our research through two principal approaches: 1) investing in 3.8 FTE of
 KE staff embedded directly within all School activities, and 2) careful choice of co-located
 resident companies and business partners to maximise the potential for knowledge exchange
 and impact. The structured resident support scheme and targeted company recruitment mean
 companies entering the facility have a research collaboration plan in place. This investment
 creates a unique environment making engagement and industry collaboration integral to our
 operation. Income from collaborative research has grown from £2M to £3M since 2014;
 consultancy income more than doubled year on year from around £40K in 2014 to over £100K in
 2019; and contract research follows the same profile, topping £1M for the first time in 2019
 (Figure 1).
 SCC’s impact strategy has directly led to the School’s three recent KTPs (Upside Energy; JBA;
 Mitigate Cyber) and enabled two of its four Impact Case Studies. Beyond co-located SMEs, the
 school engages with 150 SMEs through the £6M Greater Manchester Cyber Foundry, 90 SMEs
 through the £1.36M Lancashire Cyber Foundry and 250 SMEs through the Cumbria Innovation
 Platform (directly linked to our growth in contract research income above). SCC’s industry
 linkages have been instrumental to successes including Department of Health funded
 Connected Health Cities (CHC), £5M NG-CDI Prosperity Partnership and PETRAS. Since its
 inception, SCC and Infolab21’s co-location model, has provided the template for impact and
 engagement across the University, leading to similar instantiations in Chemistry (CTAP) and
 Environmental Science (Gordon Manley Centre), the backbone of the recent £1.5M SecureD
 University Enterprise Zone, and template for the £41M Health Innovation Campus, featuring the
 same embedded model of collocated business, KE and academic departments. This has led to a
 broad range of non-academic impact types including educational (22.7%), cultural (18.2%),
 policy (13.6%), productivity and public engagement (9.1% each). Current KE return data
 suggests as an institution we are highly effective at KE, with £28 returned for each £1 of public
 money spent.


 1.3 FUTURE STRATEGY AND PLANNING
 Lancaster University’s main strategic goal is to be a global leader in HE, widely respected and
 transforming lives, communities, practices and thinking. In SCC, we anticipate continuing our
 principal ethos of embedding real-world focus, deploying systems, responsible innovation with
 stakeholders, and interdisciplinarity at the heart of what we do. We see this as being both true to

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our long-standing approach to research, but also has resulted in growth in the quality, depth and
 number of outcomes as highlighted in section 1.1.
 Over the coming REF period we will be seeing the retirement of a small number of longstanding
 valued colleagues who helped establish the current collaborative culture. We will be considering
 how to consolidate and share this culture going forward as we plan to make a number of hires to
 maintain established strengths (e.g. networking, software engineering, HCI) and capitalise on
 areas where we have made major investments in staff and research infrastructure including
 cyber-security, data science and digital health.

       Investing in people. We have made a major investment in staff and now have a
        substantial cohort of 23 ECR staff, who we wish to mature into research leaders. We are
        proactive in promoting staff, and have been highly successful at making strong cases:
        leading to 11 new SL/readers and 7 new professors (9 promoted) in the last period. We
        need to continue to invest in training, progression and mentorship, with a particular focus
        on ensuring that we maintain our balanced approach to engagement and teaching, as
        well as aspiring to maximise research quality and impact.
       Growing the scale pipeline. We see centres and institutes continuing: the Institutes
        have just undergone an external 5-yearly review, and we anticipate the existing Centres
        and Institutes continuing well into the next REF period. We anticipate a period of
        consolidation and restructuring of groups within SCC to maximise staff desires to engage
        with multiple interest areas and on cross-disciplinary themes. We plan to improve the
        external communication of our research to best reflect this innovative structure.
       Enabling interdisciplinarity and engagement. Collaboration and engagement with
        stakeholders in our research are consistent with our goal to maximise real-world
        relevance through cross-disciplinarity. We see this continuing, especially within areas
        including resilient infrastructures, security, pervasive systems, digital health and
        associated testbeds (5GRIT lead: Race; AffecTech lead: Sas). The Health Innovation
        Campus (lead: Helal), and potential development of Eden Project North (digital
        environment, lead: Blair) and Whyndyke Garden Village (an NHS Healthy New Town,
        lead: Helal) will provide ideal environments for this style of user engaged research.
       Educational and recruitment pipeline. Continuing recent practice, the school will
        continue to sponsor research internships to encourage the brightest and most
        enthusiastic students to engage with research from undergraduate level, leading to
        further postgraduate study and ultimately in some cases, successful research careers.
        We created two honorary early career fellowships named after two influential former
        colleagues (Shepherd, Parkes) who exemplified the best aspects of the Lancaster
        culture, in order to hire staff in their mould to continue to recruit and build the Lancaster
        ethos; we will likely do this again in the coming period. Investing in people who are
        balanced and enthusiastic academics, and open to our style of collaborative and
        stakeholder engaged style of research remains at the heart of our future plans.
 The Covid-19 pandemic has given us a glimpse of flexible ways of working especially in terms of
 how we engage with our research peers nationally and internationally. Our community has
 remained active and resilient during this challenging time, which gives us confidence that our
 long-term future strategic plans are achievable. We will be looking to take the best features from
 new ways of working to ensure the vitality and sustainability of our research into the future.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

  Key highlights
      Growing the school staff by 14% in support of strategic priority areas, of which, 74%
         are ECR as part of our commitment to new vitality
      Complementing ECR with 4 senior hires in strategic areas, 2 supporting increased
         interdisciplinary activity
      Improved support for PGR and PhD students – helping on-time completion rise from
         64% to 78%
      Increased staff diversity including growth in female PDRAs, lecturers and senior staff
         including recruiting Hall (now Deputy Head of School) and advancing Sas (Faculty
         Assistant Dean of Research Enhancement).


 2.1 STAFF
 Strategy. Our staff have always been, and remain SCC’s overriding priority and strength. We
 foster a supportive and openly collegiate environment, which provides excellent opportunities for
 both intellectual and personal growth. The school currently has 49.45FTE Category A staff
 comprising 14 Professors, 15 readers/senior lecturers and 22 lecturers. Our research
 achievements are only possible with the support with our excellent project related research staff,
 we employed 84 research associates during the period.
 We see this vibrant and growing community of staff and alumni as a key outcome of our people
 strategy set out in 2014; to ‘foster critical mass’, ‘grow key new areas’, and ‘maintain balance
 between leadership and new talent. In terms of critical mass, the school has grown, in absolute
 terms by 14% (from 43.25 FTE in 2014, to 49.45 FTE). The modest increase in absolute
 headcount hides an underlying refresh of staff (33.7 FTE new staff since 2014), driven partly by
 our strategic aims, but also by natural career progression especially of some of our more senior
 staff. This has allowed us to rebalance our staff mix with 74% of our hires being early career
 and support the growth of key new areas into new research groups/areas.
 To maintain balance, we have also made 4 Professorial appointments, two of which demonstrate
 an intentional deepening of interdisciplinarity (Helal – joint with Division of Health, Harper – joint
 with Sociology, via ISF) and support our aim of growing key new areas, and strengthening
 existing groups (Hall/ Software Engineering, Suri/Cybersecurity).
 We focused on growing our talent by putting in place school-wide improvements to staff and
 researcher development with a focus on helping staff develop and progress at all stages of their
 careers. This is evidenced by: having advanced 9 staff to full Professor and 5 to Reader in the
 period; and school staff taking institutional level leadership roles, e.g., SCC staff co-direct 3 of
 the 4 flagship interdisciplinary Research Institutes and 3 cross-faculty research centres. We
 also made a substantial contribution to the field as a whole by helping 8 staff to progress into
 major leadership positions nationally and internationally: e.g. Rashid now leads the Cyber
 Security Group at Bristol; Yan is now Professor of Cyber Security at Linköping, Sweden; and
 Whittle first as Executive-Dean of Science at Monash and now Data Institute Director at
 Australia’s prestigious CSIRO.
 Early career researchers (ECR). A key part of our people strategy focuses on attracting and
 developing world-class ECRs. We value collegiality, a passion for research and for research-led
 teaching. Early career staff are allocated to a research group, with separate research mentors
 from the school’s senior staff. Group leads provide frequent oversight, from establishing
 objectives, identifying aspirational publication targets, and providing ongoing career support and
 coaching including identifying development and support needs. Objectives are regularly
 reviewed and adapted, e.g., minimally at PDR. ECRs are actively encouraged to affiliate with
 one or more institutes or centres to provide access to wider rolling seminar programmes,
 research retreats, and collaboration networks.
 Bootstrapping success. All ECR receive a start-up fund from the school to stimulate initial
 activity. All newly appointed academics are allocated lower teaching and administrative loads

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (50% in the first year, 75% in the second) in order to facilitate the development of their research
 portfolio. Beyond this, the School also benefited from the University’s 50th Anniversary
 Lectureship (AL) scheme, which sought to identify academic leaders of the future with the
 potential to become Readers or Chairs within 5 years. The ALs are relieved from their teaching
 load entirely for the first two years excepting optional tutoring, project supervision and guest
 lectures.
 Supporting research bids and fellowships. The School offers tailored support for grant bid
 development to all staff. Grant applications go through rigorous internal review, which involves
 feedback from at least two members of academic staff (three for EPSRC new investigator
 awards). A PhD studentship is matched to a first successful UKRI or Fellowship award. Because
 of these strategies, all academic staff actively apply for research grants, with success evident in
 that 73% of academic staff are PI of a project. We have actively encouraged fellowship
 applications in the period, and have recognised research intensity in the workload model. This
 strategy has been effective: G. Blair, Alexander, Garraghan, Jiang, Angelov, Giotsas have been
 awarded EPSRC, ERC, Leverhulme, ELLIS and RIPE, fellowships respectively, totalling over
 £5M. Fellow status has been accorded to Angelov (IEEE, 2016), Helal (IEEE, 2015) and Harper
 (ACM, 2014), as well as AAAS (Helal, 2019), CHI Academy Status (Harper, 2014) and
 Academia Europea (Helal, 2020).
 Encouraging leadership. We actively encourage leadership and focus on the recruitment of
 outstanding researchers with leadership abilities. Leadership opportunities are discussed with
 staff as part of career planning, and are encouraged and supported, through, for example,
 workload adjustments. Leadership is demonstrated through the active engagement of
 academics from the School in faculty and University level roles including the Pro-Vice Chancellor
 for Academic Development (Davies) and supporting faculty Associate Dean roles (Rashid - AD
 PGR; Race – AD Research; Sas - AD Research Enhancement), which directly influence the
 ethos, vision and strategy at Faculty and University levels, including the strategy for overall PhD
 training at Lancaster (Edwards, Director of the Doctoral Academy).
 Developing careers. Staff development for academics starts with a three-year probation for
 new Lecturers, which includes rigorous annual reviews. New academic staff in the School
 receive lighter teaching loads during their probation period. The School research budget,
 devolved to Groups, is used strategically to support speculative activity (e.g., research visits,
 pump priming activity). All new academic staff participate in induction sessions, which provide
 initial information about the resources available including mentorship, KE and pre- and post
 award professional services support. They also undertake the PG Certificate in Academic
 Practice (CAP), and a series of associated development and mentoring activities.
 Through a mix of informal support from mentors and group leads, plus the annual appraisal
 round, we identify and encourage continual professional development (CPD), including
 participation in programmes to build leadership and develop careers. These include University
 courses in coaching, management and leadership, job shadowing and so on. All our research
 active staff can participate in programmes such as The Balanced Academic and the Resilient
 Researcher. Diversity, unconscious bias and ‘recruiting the best’ training (for those on
 recruitment panels) is mandatory to sensitise to possible EDI biases. Staff are encouraged to
 develop their career even exceptionally by taking additional qualifications, e.g. Executive MBA
 (Sas, 2018).
 Our active sabbatical programme enables the School to refresh its research outlook and staff
 expertise. All staff accrue academic research leave time and may apply to take 1 term in 7 or 1
 academic year in 7. Cases are considered based on timeliness and strategic importance and a
 well-developed sabbatical proposal. 19 academics benefitted from sabbaticals this REF period;
 an investment in staff estimated at around £750K. 13% of sabbaticals prioritised early career
 staff (unusual as sabbatical entitlement needs to be accrued), with 2 cases last year accelerating
 cases for female staff who had not previously thought themselves eligible.
 2.2 RESEARCHERS AND RESEARCH STUDENTS
 Researchers. A fundamental part of the school is our postdoctoral researchers (PDRAs) and
 PhD students, and these are an essential part of the staff pipeline. Both are encouraged to

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engage with the wide range of available training opportunities, and informal activities including
 mentoring, dedicated workshops, our annual PhD conference as well as weekly “brew time”,
 “brown bag” presentation sessions, and grass roots writing group and maths club activities. PIs
 and supervisors discuss long term career planning with researchers: this often results in
 researchers taking on limited teaching or student supervision duties to bolster their CVs. The
 School’s Graduate Academy provides training on consultancy projects with industry, and helps
 researchers build networks in the private sector. We also support postdoctoral researchers in
 developing their own proposals for independent research.
 Career support for researchers is formalized through an action plan, which is aligned with the
 Concordat for Early career researchers and includes commitments to the Concordat in Public
 Engagement in research and the Concordat in research integrity. We aim to provide bridge
 funding between contracts where possible to avoid unnecessary redundancies and associated
 contractual uncertainty.
 Research students. The School has long-standing PhD programmes in Computer Science and
 in Communication Systems, and leads a CDT (LDSP-MSF, Harper). 33% of our PhD students
 are from the UK, 16.5% from EU countries and the rest from overseas. During the REF period,
 we have graduated 141 FTE PhDs, including a cohort of HighWire CDT students joint with
 Lancaster University’s Institute of Contemporary Arts (LICA) and triple accredited Management
 School. Our PhD graduate destinations include roles with major multinational companies
 including Google, Microsoft, Amazon and Facebook, academic posts overseas, a wide range of
 posts in UK academia and industry, and others have created their own start-up businesses (e.g.
 Hardy & Ellis inventions, developing mixed reality interactive products, finalist in the UK
 Business Tech Awards 2018, winner of the 2019 European Digital Press Association (EDP)
 Award; or Vidal working for Focal Smart Glasses for North, in Canada, acquired by Google, June
 2020).
 We recruit internationally, leveraging our world-wide reputation in each of our research areas.
 We have several formal international partnerships (e.g. Erasmus exchanges with ETH Zürich
 and LMU Munich) and many other long-standing collaborations through which we attract and
 exchange students. We have further increased the international impact of our doctoral training
 through leading and participating in the H2020 Marie Curie Initial Training Network (AffecTech,
 Sas, €3.8M).
 We have invested significantly in improving processes and activities for PhD students under the
 oversight of a new Director of Postgraduate Studies role. This role ensures effective progress
 monitoring, training and supervision arrangements, assisted by the Research Committee. Our
 strategy is to create distinctive opportunities based around research groups with opportunities to
 work across the PhD cohort including seminars, reading and writing groups, informal talks and
 informal activities. Our goal is to provide a flexible framework that recognises all students are
 different and encourages and supports where needed without overly restricting those students
 that need flexibility.
 Submission deadlines are set at 4 years for full-time students and 7 years for part-time, with rare
 exceptions for individual circumstances. We treat these deadlines as a shared responsibility and
 have created a robust support system for students and supervisors including improved progress
 monitoring and enhanced access to research training. Student monitoring comprises a set of
 defined checkpoints, commencing with an initial assessment of the student’s skills and
 knowledge from which training needs can be identified, followed by a series of progress panels
 until the student is ready to submit. Each PhD student is appraised every 6 months, with clear
 guidance on what should be included at each point. This offers:
      Early thesis planning and completion timelines, along with progress checks during the
          writing-up period.
      An appraisal panel of two academic staff, independent from the supervision, and
          consistent throughout the PhD, to provide extra support. The first panel member is a
          "subject specialist", assigned to advise on the specific research topic. The second a
          member of the PGR Committee, to provide more general feedback, ensure consistency
          and fairness across appraisals in the School, and also feedback issues and concerns via
          the PGR committee.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Initiatives aimed at improving the research culture for students included an annual
        School PhD conference, new seminar series, better representation, and facilitating
        student-led community activities.
 A wide range of research training courses are provided including in-house ‘masterclasses’,
 ‘brown bag’ skills talks and Q&A sessions, short courses, and a wide range of further courses
 coordinated by the Faculty’s Graduate School (now Doctoral Academy led by Edwards).
 HighWire introduced, and we retained, a taught component on research methods, ethics,
 interdisciplinary perspectives and critical analysis, which is now compulsory for all students. Our
 Graduate Academy in SCC offers vocational experience through short-term consultancy projects
 with industry supported by KE staff.
 Research students are actively encouraged to attend conferences, summer schools and doctoral
 colloquia internationally, and we dedicate research training and travel funds to support this. We
 organise informal opportunities to meet and exchange ideas, including an annual PhD
 conference which allows all PhD students to showcase their work and get feedback from school
 colleagues.
 All of these changes have helped to improve the research environment for PhD students and
 also to improve on-time completion rates. Since the new support system in 2016/17 we have
 since seen an improvement in on-time submission of 14% with 14 of 18 submissions on-time in
 2019/20. The success of our strategy and the quality of our students is also evident in the
 successful completion of 141 FTE PhDs in the REF period (our greatest number to date), and
 awards such as the 2020 Doctoral Dissertation Award by INNS (Gu), 5 EPSRC Doctoral Prizes
 and highly competitive internships (at Microsoft, Nokia, Google, Amazon, Philips, Alibaba, ARM)
 and other destinations.
 2.3 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
 The School is committed to the advancement of equality throughout all aspects of career
 development and has procedures for raising and investigating any issues relating to
 discrimination. We were awarded Athena SWAN Bronze in 2014, which helped us shape our
 action plan for taking steps to improve gender balance and diversity. This included reviewing the
 composition of school committees, hiring procedures, and raising awareness and exploring how
 we can remove barriers experienced by BAME colleagues. Resulting from this in 2015/16, we
 defined a new 10-Year People Strategy, and Equality, Diversity and Inclusion is core to this. The
 people strategy realised the need for a new Athena SWAN Director administrative role linked
 into key internal committees and directed towards an Athena SWAN Silver application in 2021.




              Figure 2: Gender profile by career stage (REF2014 left, REF2021 right)

 As a result of these initiatives, we advertise widely, and our adverts welcome applications from
 ‘all diversity groups’, reinforcing our commitment to equal opportunity. Our recruitment materials
 include a diversity statement and diverse images. Panel chairs undertake ‘unconscious bias’ and
 ‘recruiting the best training’. This is bearing fruit (Figure 2): we are pleased to see female PDRAs
 rise from 15% to 21%, female lecturer numbers rise from 13.6% to 17.4%, and we now have 2
 female professors (13.3%). Professor (Hall) was recruited to strengthen Software Engineering

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and is also Deputy Head of School. Sas was promoted in the period, and notably was also the
 recipient of a Digital Female Leader Award in the Science category in 2019. There is still a long
 way to go, but we are pleased with this progress.
 Our EDI champion created the now vibrant Women@Infolab group to provide community
 building, mentorship and support for female staff and students in the school. This ensures more
 effective communication of particular gender related issues and experiences. For instance,
 resulting from a grass roots initiative, we will be hosting the BCS Lovelace colloquium next year.
 We have a significant body of early career staff (23 at grades 7/8, 20 under age 40) and have
 been pleased to support requests for maternity and paternity leave, and adjustments to working
 hours on childcare related grounds (12 paternity and 5 shared paternity leaves were approved
 during the REF period). We encourage use of MARS (maternity/adoption research support)
 funding which provides small grants to sustain research and career progression during periods
 of parental leave (2 cases so far).
 Our school comprises staff from a range of ethnic backgrounds (29% BAME). We have been
 pleased to be able to progress many of our staff in the period, leading to an increase in BAME
 staff at more senior levels: Senior Lecturer (38.5% from 17.6%) and Professor (26.7% from
 23%), Figure 3. We have maintained our proportion of staff with a declared disability (4% of
 staff, 5% in 2014).




             Figure 3: Ethnicity profile by career stage (REF2014 left, REF2021 right)

 Our diversity is further strengthened by our active Visitors Programme. 116 researchers from 26
 different countries have held visiting positions with the school since 2014, enabling new
 collaborations and sharing of knowledge worldwide.
 2.4 WELLBEING & MENTAL HEALTH
 Supporting our staff and students’ wellbeing is a growing focus and in 2017 the school created
 wellbeing officer roles for both students and staff, who now undertake specific training and
 responsibility as clear point of contact and gateway to professional support where needed.
 As part of our commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 we provide all staff with access to confidential professional support through the Employee
 Assistance Programme and implement the Five Ways to Wellbeing framework, used by the
 Government, the NHS and charities like Mind.
 To continue to progress this important area, the school has recently formed a
 Staff Wellbeing Engagement group, which has been linked through the Institution’s Safety,
 Health & Wellbeing (SHaW) committee structure, to ensure that as this provision grows, the
 Institute wide support options and wellbeing resources are made increasingly available.




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  Key highlights
      Sustained growth of research income from £18.8M to £28.5M (51%) over three times
         the rate of growth of staff FTE (14.3%)
      Strategic investment in infrastructure via institutes and centres to strengthen
         interdisciplinarity research
      Increase in number of academic staff winning at least one project as a PI (73%)
      Supported >£5M of major fellowships at both senior and junior levels

 3.1 RESEARCH PORTFOLIO
 One of our strategic priorities has been to grow research income and income per head, with a
 particular emphasis on increasing the number of active PIs, targeting of larger awards and
 diversifying our range of funding sources. This has been successful: research income has gone
 from £18.8M to £28.5M, a 51% growth – more than twice the growth rate of staff FTE. The total
 amount of grant funding awarded during the REF2021 period is £39.4M. This growth included
 diversification of our research portfolio and has followed the targeting of new strategic areas
 such as Data Science and Digital Health. Evidencing this, we highlight:
       Large Awards, e.g. EPSRC funded Senior Fellowship (G. Blair, £2.5M) acting as a
        springboard for further awards in a new area of environmental data science; EC
        funded AffecTech (Sas, €3.8M) resulting in multiple award winning publications; the
        Next Generation Converged Digital Infrastructure project (Race, £2M, £0.9M from
        EPSRC and £1.1M from BT), instrumental for B4RN impact case study; Towards
        Ultimate Convergence of All Networks, TOUCAN (Hutchison, £1.2M); Leverhulme
        Trust funded Doctoral Scholarship programme in Material Social Futures (Harper,
        £1.4M); and, H-unique ERC (co-I, Angelov, £1.6M) focusing on tackling image based
        online crime, and widely publicised in the media.
       Increasing PIs: As a result of our mentoring, support and management programmes all
        academic staff actively apply for research grants, with ~73% of academic staff winning at
        least one project as a PI.
       Sustainability of funding: In REF2014 SCC were the top UK UoA recipient of EU
        funding. We have successfully diversified our research funding, increasing the share of
        UKRI awards (from 38% in REF2014 to over 54%). We also draw upon UK Government
        and charity funding increased from 6.7% to over 22.5% (Figure 4). Direct industry funding
        has increased 47% since 2014 to 9.5%.


                                  Funding sources structure
                      60.00%
                      50.00%
                      40.00%
                      30.00%
                      20.00%
                      10.00%
                       0.00%
                                 UKRI           EU          UK       Industry
                                                        Government

                                            REF 2014   REF 2021

                      Figure 4: Funding by source (REF2021 vs REF2014)
 Our growth in research income has provided a solid basis for strengthening our core strategic
 pillars:

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Interdisciplinary research. Our portfolio mix reflects our strengths in interdisciplinary research
 including in data science, security and health. Some examples: Gellersen attracted £0.9M of
 interdisciplinary funding for EPSRC funded Monitoring Dementia with eye movements; Sas has
 secured £0.8M for work on personal technologies for affective health; Angelov is leading the
 school’s £1.6M part of the H-unique ERC project which brings together deep learning, image
 processing, biometrics and forensics to revolutionise identification of criminals from hands in
 online images; Helal is leading NHS funding of £0.8M for the Connected Health Cities.
 Our pro-active role in the interdisciplinary Institutes and Centres has been central to increased
 research funding success:
       The Data Science Institute - DSI (co-Director: Davies) was founded in 2014 building on
        Lancaster’s historic strengths in Computer Science, Statistics and Operational Research.
        It has grown to become one of Europe’s strongest and most diverse single-institution
        data science communities of over 118 staff and 193 researchers. DSI embraces data-
        driven challenges across disciplines including the environmental sciences, health and
        medicine, epidemiology and population health, humanities, sociology and creative arts.
        Over 5 years, DSI has applied for £128M in grants, securing £23M to Lancaster (£46M to
        partners); launched our most successful MSc programme; and secured over 200 industry
        placements yielding over £500K additional funding from companies, e.g. Amazon, eBay,
        PwC, EY, Santander.
       Security Lancaster – SL (Suri – co-Director; Race and Prince, Associate Directors) draws
        together 47 academic staff from all faculties and includes Psychology, Physics,
        Management, Health & Medicine and Politics, Philosophy & Religion. It creatively
        challenges the way that individuals, organisations and societies secure and protect
        themselves with a holistic understanding of security risks from a socio-technical
        perspective. SL has been instrumental in broadening SCC’s research base, allowing
        access to both EPSRC and ESRC funds as well as sources that SCC has not historically
        accessed such as the Home Office, MoD and US DoD. We were approved to host one of
        8 (now 19) GCHQ Accredited Centres of Excellence in Cyber-Security. SL is home to
        national/EU research centres and industry accelerators, collectively worth over £20M. SL
        secured £2.8M in grants, as well as the Greater Manchester and Lancashire Cyber
        Foundries promoting cyber-security in regional businesses, and latterly the Secure
        University Enterprise Zone (UEZ). More recently, SL led a successful £3M Security Node
        on Trustworthy Autonomous Systems (TAS-S) funding (PI: Suri, co-Is: Angelov,
        Hutchison, Giotsas).
       The Institute for Social Futures - ISF (co-Director: Harper) brings leading social science
        and humanities research together with computer, engineering and medical science to
        develop thinking, visioning, analysis and data relating to the futures we want and need.
        Harper was a strategic appointment from Microsoft research and is a social scientist by
        background. ISF has brought in £6.8M; co-leads the £1.5M Leverhulme Doctoral
        Scholarships programme in Material Social Futures with the Materials Institute
        (Chemistry, Physics and Engineering) delivering 21 new PhDs over 5 years with specific
        training to better engage with boards, government, regulators and policymakers around
        socially contextualised material innovations.
 Structured for research excellence. By leveraging research groups, institutes and centres, we
 have created more opportunities to build collaborative and cross-department teams to prepare
 for research bids resulting in research income growth. The informal mentorship and intellectual
 life of the Centres and Institutes has been particularly beneficial for early career staff in terms of
 effective career development. This has led to the securing of major grants and fellowships, e.g.
 ERC Starting Fellowship (£1.5M, Alexander), EPSRC Early Career Fellowship (£1M,
 Garraghan), and the Leverhulme Fellowship (£253K, Porter), to date instrumental in promotion
 cases for Alexander - Professor; Porter - Senior Lecturer.
 Maximising Impact. Our impact strategy of embedding KE staff within the School, choosing co-
 located companies based on their synergy with our research, and embedding and supporting
 impact plans into research projects has resulted in broadened collaboration with UK and global


                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    industry. Examples include projects with major partners such as BT (Race), ARM (Wang) and
    Raytheon (Nagaraja), but also a wide variety of SMEs such as In Touch Ltd, DemoPad Software
    Ltd, and Quantum Base Ltd. Many of these connections were brokered initially by KE staff.
    We have maintained strong connections with international companies securing funding from
    Ford (Angelov), Airbus (Hutchinson), Sony (Gellersen), Microsoft (Finney) and Huawei (Jiang)
    among others. These projects are instrumental for wider impact, allowing us to leverage
    research council funding by using industry funding to take research outcomes closer to market.
    An example of this is the Microsoft-funded project led by Finney which was critically important for
    the micro:bit initiative (one of our impact case studies). Micro:bit exemplifies the broader, social
    and educational impact of our research that reached millions of young children in over 50
    countries3.
    Another of our impact case studies, B4RN, also highlights our testbed and stakeholder engaged
    approach to research, in terms of social as well as technical implications. For example, this
    culminated in April 2020 in a partnership between B4RN and Zykel Communications that bought
    ultra-fast broadband to 21 primary schools in the North of England enabling them to make use of
    the latest education technology and software, whilst teachers and students complete work
    online, attend virtual events, seminars and workshops, and make use of cloud-based resources
    for the first time. This was invaluable during the COVID-19 pandemic. Commenting on the B4RN
    connection, a clinical lead for intensive care stated. ‘It has allowed us to work at home when
    appropriate but still maintain good quality work and information from patient records and
    particularly scans (which are data heavy) as well as […] ensuring the best clinical advice […] It
    has been so important to us that we had access to the most up to date publications and
    research […] online and with fast, reliable access.’
    3.2 INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES
    Strategic investment. The foundation of the Institutes has triggered major strategic investments
    in staff, estate and infrastructure:
           The University has funded the DSI administrative staff and appointment of 17 new
            academic staff including four 50th Anniversary Lecturers and underwriting 0.5FTE of an
            SCC co-director (Davies). Including administrative andn co-working space for DSI within
            the SCC building, InfoLab21, co-located with our KE team and our resident companies.
         Investment in the Digital Health Group (Helal) and two lecturers to complement £41M
            Health Innovation Campus, co-locating innovative health businesses.
         The Institute of Coding is a £20M Government investment that has brought together
            academia, industry and education to boost future digital skills in UK. Our involvement led
            by Finney (Director at Lancaster), Prince and Friday attracted £581K funding to the
            School, allowing us to offer new studio led teaching facilities enabling a new more
            diverse and inclusive minor curriculum for non-Computing majors (L. Blair, curriculum
            lead at Lancaster).
         The Wolfson Secure Data Science Infrastructure (SDSI) is co-funded by the Wolfson
            Foundation and Lancaster University (£1.5M) and scheduled to open in 2021. The SDSI
            will offer the ability to handle data at a range of government classification levels, enabling
            research including highly sensitive health, IP sensitive or classified information with
            appropriate levels of assurance. This will be a unique HEI-based facility in the North
            West.
         Lancaster is part of the recently announced Research England Secure Digitalisation
            Enterprize Zone (SecureD UEZ), which will drive economic growth, create jobs and help
            businesses develop innovative new products and services. Funding (£1.5M) from UKRI.
            SecureD UEZ is one of the 20 UEZs nationally.
    Infrastructure. Our purpose-built building (InfoLab21) offers creative space co-locating
    academic, research, KE staff and research students in teams. The physical environment
    supports our collegiate strategy for doctoral and postdoctoral training by providing shared

3
    Microbit impact case studies

                                                                                                  Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘research studio’ space that is office, experimental lab and meeting space all in one. Larger
 experimental spaces and more specialist research facilities are managed by a dedicated 3
 person systems team, on site, who support researchers and systems infrastructure throughout
 project lifecycles. This team are instrumental in helping cost, procure, install and run bespoke
 research infrastructures, maximising value for money to the institution and our funders.
 Examples of these facilities include:
      Virtual server cluster to support bespoke research project and staff VM needs, plus
         related student projects at undergraduate, masters and PhD levels.
      A cyber security Industrial Control Testbed for attack detection and mitigation; the Fujitsu
         Threat lab which includes highly configurable attack surfaces for creating honeypots to
         monitor network borne and VM staged cyber-attacks.
      A GPU cluster comprising 110 systems for accelerating deep learning model training and
         related research into distributed AI performance and energy efficient machine learning
         strategies.
      The PCB Fab Lab and two hardware/maker spaces with fabrication and prototyping
         facilities such as laser cutting and 3D printing.
      Large research laboratory for hosting for experiments such as Centre of Digital Health’
         ‘smart house’ prototyping area and LIRA workshop where a range of mobile robots and
         unmanned autonomous vehicles (drones) are assembled. Used in projects such as the
         InnovateUK funded £1.3M CTHULHE project (£400K for SCC) that recently
         demonstrated an autonomous robot for cleaning hazardous industrial waste such as the
         Sellafield nuclear waste ponds.
      HCI Evaluation Lab for developing interactive device and AR/VR experiments and
         conducting controlled studies involving user interaction.
      A specialist research networking lab for network protocol experimentation, e.g.
         introduction of programmable and software defined network elements, alternative
         protocol stacks, or bridging to specialist LoRA and 5G wireless testbeds.
 Business impact infrastructure. The intentional co-location of businesses and our KE team
 within the School fosters formal and informal networking and adds significant value to the
 companies and researchers working together in InfoLab21. Collaboration is fostered via a mix of
 targeted recruitment and a structured resident company support scheme, where companies
 entering the facility are required to have a research collaboration plan in place with a named
 SCC academic sponsor. This structured process has ensured three recent KTPs and directly
 enabled one of our four Impact Case Studies. During the REF period, co-located companies
 have hosted over 30 SCC student internships and extra-curricular projects and over 25 projects
 via other departments at the institution. KE Staff are involved throughout the school’s grant
 development processes: identifying partners; collaboration opportunities and co-creation of
 impact pathways. KE staff provide guidance on commercialisation, intellectual property rights
 and contract negotiation, which is particularly valuable for ECRs when starting out.

 The School’s Graduate Academy team of 15 staff run a £7.6M portfolio of engagement projects
 employing analyst developers and utilising paid SCC student placements to support over 200
 small businesses in Cumbria, Lancashire and Greater Manchester in generating new products
 and services to evolve and differentiate their businesses. Project staff both re-skill and gain
 vocational experience whilst also helping regional businesses prosper. At the start of the REF
 period, the InfoLab21 Strategic Innovation and Support Programme closed having assisted 365
 companies. The project was the Government’s national pilot in ‘Transformational ICT’ for
 business and its success went on to embed the Graduate Academy model in a number of
 projects, including in Lancaster and in Greater Manchester (GM) as part of the GM Cyber
 Foundry Project.




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

     Key highlights
         Expanded collaboration and partnership with leading Universities and Industry via
            projects, institutes and centres (over 50% of outputs co-authored internationally)
         Leadership and contributions to the research base, including major leadership roles
            such as IEEE (president-elect); chairing major conferences, and over 20 editorial
            boards
         Economic impact via direct industry funded research projects (up from 36 to 74),
            creating two new cyber-security impact accelerators (Greater Manchester, Lancashire)
         Social impact via Computing at Schools engaging with over 1,000 teachers, changing
            computing at school via micro:bit, and enabling rural access with B4RN
    4.1 RESEARCH BASE: ACADEMIC PARTNERSHIPS AND COLLABORATION
    One of our research strategy pillars is to build on our long history of national and international
    collaborations, within and across the discipline, with industry, community, governmental
    organisations and charities. Partners of our projects include world-leading Universities such as
    MIT (micro:bit, Finney), Stanford, KTH and University of California (AffecTech, Sas), CMU
    (Cloudlets, Davies), Cornell and University of Massachusetts (TAS-S, Suri), University of Florida
    (Royal Society, Angelov), Austrian Institute of Technology (TOUCAN + others, Hutchison), Ford
    Research and Innovation, Palo Alto (autonomous driving, Angelov).
    We contribute platforms and datasets to the global academic community. This is
    exemplified by the release of Wmatrix44 corpus analysis and comparison tool (Rayson), version
    4 released in December 2018, and a number of public corpus linguistics datasets5. Wmatrix4
    has 6,828 academic users around the globe and was licenced by successful spin-out Relative
    Insight to underpin their advertising platform (see impact case study).


    Contributing to an open and exciting environment for our researchers, we regularly host
    research visitors including extended stays from senior academics worldwide on sabbatical leave
    (e.g. from the USA, Australia, Brazil, EU), researchers seconded from collaborating institutions
    as well as visiting PhD students for a “sandwich” year, e.g. from Spain, Brazil, Slovenia and
    others. As an evidence of our strong international collaboration and the value of these
    international collaborations more than half (53.35%) of our submitted outputs are co-authored
    internationally.
    4.2 ACADEMIC LEADERSHIP AND CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE RESEARCH BASE
    We contribute substantially to research community activities and leadership and our academics
    hold a variety of notable positions. Exemplars include: Helal was member of the Board of
    Governors of the IEEE Computer Society - the largest IEEE Society. Angelov was Vice
    President of the International Neural Networks Society (INNS) elected for two consecutive terms
    (2017-2020) and is a member of the Board of Governors (BoG) of INNS (2014-2023) and was
    member of the IEEE Systems, Man and Cybernetics Society (201-2017) as well as IEEE
    Distinguished Lecturer (2017-2020). Suri is Chair of the CIP group of the US Army Research
    Office, Chair Advisor of the Microsoft Research Advanced Technology Labs; Suri has held the
    IEEE Distinguished Visitor position since 2019; Cheverst has held the position of ACM
    Distinguished speaker since 2015. Knowles is a member of the ACM Europe Technology Policy
    Committee.
    Editorial positions in journals and chairing major conferences. Our staff make a number of
    contributions to the leadership of major scientific journals. This includes editor-in-chief of 5
    journals: IEEE Transactions on Dependable & Secure Computing (Suri), IEEE Pervasive
    Computing (Davies), IEEE Computer (Helal), Evolving Systems (Angelov), Internet Services and



4
    Wmatrix corpus analysis and comparison tool
5
    Professor Paul Rayson Datasets

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Applications (Blair). They also serve on the editorial boards of over 20 further leading journals,
 including:
       IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics (Angelov); Big Data (Suri); Cloud Computing (Suri);
        Wireless Communications (Navaie)
       ACM Transactions in Human Computer Interaction (Sas); Taylor and Frances Human
        Computer Interaction Journal (Sas)
       IEEE Communications and Surveys (Navaie); ACM Computing Surveys (Suri)
       Personal and Ubiquitous Computing (Gellersen)
 They serve as editors of three book series on computer science, neural networks and
 computational linguistics, e.g. Hutchison: Lecture Notes on Computer Science (Springer);
 Angelov: Proceedings of the International Neural Networks Society (Springer), Rayson: Rutledge
 Frequency Dictionaries (Taylor and Francis).
 Significant Conference organisation and chairing roles: General (co-)Chair. School
 academics were actively involved in organising and co-chairing a number of major international
 conferences, a representative sample includes:
       NeurIPS Workshop on Human-Centred Machine Learning, Vancouver, 2019; IEEE
        Symposia on Deep Learning, SSCI-DL, 2017-2020; INNS Conferences on Big Data,
        2015-2016 (Angelov)
       ACM Conference on Ubiquitous Computing, UbiComp 2014 (Friday)
       International Conference on Smart Homes and Health Telematics, 2014; Digital Health
        as a Service Symposium (DHAASS), 2019 (Helal)
       IEEE International Conference on Cloud Engineering (IC2E), 2018 (Suri);
       ACM SIGCOMM 2018 (Giotsas)
 Significant Conference organisation and IPC/TPC chairing roles. School academics were
 actively involved in International Programme and/or Technical Committees Chairing roles. We
 encourage junior staff to participate in these activities as part of their career development. Some
 representative examples include:
       International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN, 2016, 2019; IEEE
        International Conference on Fuzzy Systems, FUZZ-IEEE, 2014, 2018; IEEE International
        Conference on Intelligent Systems, 2014, 2016, 2020 (Angelov)
       IEEE/ACM International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems, 2015 (Suri)
       ACM SIGHI Conference on Designing Interactive Systems, DIS, 2014, 2016, 2019; 2020
        ACM CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, 2014, 2016, 2018,
        2019, 2020 (Sas; 2019-2020, Knowles)
       10th IEEE Conference on Cyber, Physical and Social Computing, 2017 (Ni)
       ACM Conference on Ubiquitous Computing, UbiComp, 2015; ACM Mobile HCI, 2015
        (Gellersen)
       IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking Conference, 2014 (Navaie)
       IEEE XP Conference on Agile Software Development, 2016 (Hall)
 Other exemplars of specific esteem and leadership include: Queen’s Anniversary Prize (Rayson,
 2015); IEEE Golden Code recognition (Helal, 2018); IEEE Outstanding Contributions award
 (Angelov, 2017), Santander Chair of Excellence, University Carlos III, Madrid (Angelov, 2016),
 Steering group member Royal Society Digital Technology and the Planet (Friday).
 4.3 ECONOMY: COLLABORATION WITH INDUSTRY AND USER COMMUNITIES
 Collaboration with industry continues to be a key part of our research and impact strategy. The
 majority of our grants are from research councils with in-kind contribution from industry or from
 industry direct funding or InnovateUK. The number of research projects directly funded by
 industrial partners has grown from 36 to 74 during this REF period, with a diverse set of national
 and international companies such as BT, ARM, Google, Raytheon UK, Ford, Airbus, Sony,
 Microsoft and Huawei working with us. The close engagement with our research users is pivotal
 for understanding and impact on vital real-life issues. We often involve user groups from the very


                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 beginning of our research development, even before a specific project proposal is conceived, to
 identify problems, requirements, reservations and aspirations to inform the research approach.
 Engaging stakeholders in our work is critical. Our approach is to integrate the academic and
 business communities enabling socially, environmentally and economically impactful research.
 Our KE staff led to generation of £10.5M of the schools’ £28.5M grant income from partners; an
 average contribution of £1.75Mpa; supported over 60 guest lectures; put 82 MSc students into
 industrial experience placements; created 50 other industry internships and engaged with over
 200 SMEs. Over the same period our co-location facility housed 21 companies, where all
 resident companies collaborate with academic researchers. This co-location and support directly
 lead to KTPs focusing on novel security frameworks with Upside Energy (Marneredes);
 managing flood risk with JBA (Blair); and threat intelligence with Mitigate Cyber (Prince) – plus
 the foundation of the Greater Manchester and Lancashire cyber-foundry projects, spearheading
 the translation of cyber-security research into regional companies and beyond.
 4.4 SOCIETY: IMPACT, COMMUNICATION AND OUTREACH
 Much of our research is done in partnership with community stakeholders or with wider societal
 impact in mind. This is illustrated by the following subset of our activities:
        Our long running engagement with the BBC, led to our pivotal engagement with micro:bit,
        as described in one of our impact case studies. Micro:bit is a pocket-sized computer with
        a very low barrier to entry that has been given to every 11/12 year old child in year 7 or
        equivalent across the UK, for free. Lancaster, as the only academic partner in the
        industrial consortium, led the device software component (Finney) and engaging through
        the programme with 29 partners including Amazon, ARM, Microsoft, Samsung, Barclays,
        and IET. While the micro:bit programme is important in terms of industrial collaboration
        and commercialisation, the most important impacts of this project are societal and
        educational. By engaging early with school age children, we are bringing the next
        generation of software experts ‘into the fold’ and hopefully helping stimulate a software
        boom similar to that seeded by the original BBC micro in the 1980s. Our involvement in
        the development of the BBC micro:bit was covered in 146 media publications/digital
        articles including major domestic titles such as the BBC, Yahoo, International Business
        Times, Electronic Weekly, Computer Weekly, Tech Radar, IT Pro, and Reuters reaching
        an audience of more than 14M. It also received international media attention, including
        outlets in Germany and India.
        The H-unique hand-identification project is pioneering deep learning in identification of
        criminals by the image of their hand. If successful, this project will open the door to
        prosecuting dangerous sexual predators from the materials they post online, something
        that is extremely challenging to do using current methods. This work has been covered
        by 180 media publications/digital articles including the BBC, Daily Mail, Independent,
        Daily Telegraph, Daily Mirror and many local/regional newspapers across the UK,
        reaching around 8.5M readers. This research was also the subject of a special BBC
        Radio 4 documentary called ‘The Hand Detectives’ and was discussed on BBC Radio 4
        Today programme, the BBC World Service, BBC News Channel (TV), BBC2, BBC 5Live,
        BBC 6 Music, and BBC Scotland. The research was highlighted on CBC – the Canadian
        national radio broadcaster as well as on 22 different BBC regional radio stations. The
        total broadcast reach was in excess of 10.9M.
        Computing at School Regional Centre. Leading the regional Computing at School
        Northwest Regional Centres (L. Blair, Director), worked to train regional teachers to
        promote good Computer Science teaching practice. During this period, we worked with
        over 1,000 teachers and delivered 4,200 CPD learning hours of training. In addition, we
        ran annual ‘Girls in Computing’ workshops for 50-60 primary age children; ran a creative
        A-level workshop for 3 schools on a micro:bit-based Smart City exploring IoT and
        privacy; an Isaac Computing Discovery Day for 90 15 to 18 year olds in conjunction with
        the National Centre for Computing Education; and annually run Taster Days, STEM
        challenge days, Summer Schools and Visit Day activities. This quote represents the
        significant impact this work has had on teaching professionals at a more personal level:

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        “The coordinators were invaluable to me at a time when I did not see a future for myself
        in a profession that I had been in for over 10 years. Following that meeting and the
        courses that they provide I have gone on to find a passion for the subject, which I never
        thought I would be able to do [...] which has now led to me being a master teacher and
        hub leader.”
 We identified a need to better communicate with non-technical stakeholders in our previous REF
 period and have been working to better promote and explain our research, and its value, to the
 community at large. A number of our staff are now regularly consulted by members of the press,
 leading to radio and TV appearances. We are proactive in identifying and communicating the
 stories of our research with support from the University’s Press Office. We communicate
 frequently to audiences across the globe via a range of TV, radio, and print media including
 national newspapers such as the Sunday Times, the BBC News website as well as its flagship
 technology programme Click, Reuters, Wired, and The Economist.
 Examples include:
       Institute of Coding was covered in 16 media publications/digital articles including SC
        Magazine, Insider Media, Times Higher Education, Prolific North, and Gov.uk reaching
        an audience of more than 1.6M. Our academics often give interviews on national radio
        such as BBC Radio 5 Live (audience 2M), BBC Radio 4 (audience 3.3M), BBC Radio 2
        (audience 4.5M).
       Further exemplars of SCC staff in the media, include comments on the HSBC biometric
        security (Prince, 2016); Digital memories (Sas, 2016), Dark Web (Prince, 2016),
        Streaming and energy usage (Hazas, 2018), (Hazas, Giotsas and Widdicks, 2019),
        Smart wearable technology that detects emotions (Sas, 2019), (Gellersen and Clarke,
        2017), Data centres’ energy use (Garraghan, 2020). We gave interviews on different TV
        channels or on hot topics, including BBC (Prince, 2015; Rashid, 2017; Clarke, 2017; Suri,
        2019, 2020), Sky (Markarian, 2016 and Rashid, 2017, Prince, 2018 twice, 2020), ITV
        (Rashid, 2017), TRT (Rashid, 2017), Reuters (Karnik, 2016) and CNN (Suri, 2020).
 Our work has had a wide range of research, economic and societal benefits. We were pleased
 to have supported a promotion case to Professor with significant societal impact (Finney). We
 are now helping define University promotions criteria for engagement and teaching promotions
 pathways in addition to the more traditional research and balanced criteria. We are confident
 that this potential for recognition will enable research with impact to continue across the school
 and the institution more broadly.




                                                                                             Page 19
