Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Sheffield Hallam University
 Unit of Assessment:
 UOA3 - Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure

 UoA3 has a critical mass of 35 staff (31.6fte). It is located within the Health Research Institute
 (HRI), one of four strategic research institutes with a mission to drive interdisciplinary working
 across disciplinary borders. Researchers are primarily based in the Department of Allied Health
 Professions (AHP), the Department of Nursing and Midwifery (N&M) and the Department of
 Service Sector Management (SSM); nutrition, dietician and health psychology researchers are
 based in multiple other departments but contribute to the UoA3 intellectual priorities. This structure
 replaces the Centre for Health and Social Care operating in 2014; researchers have been
 integrated into academic departments in a transition to a more sustainable model that expands
 research activity and excellence into academic departments. The strength of this context, and
 sustained growth of the UoA, is exemplified by a 40% increase in staff returned compared with
 REF 2014.

 Our research portfolio is concerned with prevention, treatment and rehabilitation amongst groups
 of people with episodic and long-term health conditions or disabilities, and the efficacy of the
 services that care for them. It addresses complex challenges, drawing on long-standing strategic
 partnerships with multiple care providers, such as Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation
 Trust (STH NHSFT), Sheffield Children’s Hospital NHS Foundation Trust (SCH NHSFT), and
 multidisciplinary collaborations across the university and with external national and international
 academic collaborators.

 Research Strategy

 Progress Against Objectives

 Plans outlined in REF 2014 provided a solid basis for developing activity in the current REF period;
 we have made good progress against targets set.

 Doctoral completions: we exceeded our target, with 49 completions in the REF period compared
 with 18 in REF2014. Scores in PRES are consistently high, in line with or above sector norms both
 for overall satisfaction and across the different indicators – reflecting the value placed on our
 students as an integral part of the UoA’s research community.

 Growing external research income has been achieved with a steady annual increase in funding
 since 2014. Total income over the period is similar to REF 2014, but significantly our portfolio is
 focused on funding from sources such as NIHR, charities and commissioned research, in line with
 our applied research and impact focus.

 Extending interdisciplinary research horizons is evidenced by our collaborations within the
 university, including the Sport and Physical Activity Research Centre (SPARC) and the new
 Advanced Wellbeing Research Centre (AWRC; opened 2019). Supported by £14m funding from
 the Department of Health and Social Care and European Regional Development Fund, the AWRC
 focuses on physical activity to improve health outcomes for long term conditions (see
 interdisciplinary research section). Probst’s NIHR funded SuPPoRT 4 All (S4A) project embeds
 designers in the research process, while Child’s clinical and imaging biomarkers of health and
 disease programme (CIBoHD) has developed collaborations with engineers and
 neuropsychologists, embedding computing and AI.



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Testing different approaches to partnership working with research users has focused on the health
 and social care workforce as our primary research users; 55% of publications in this REF were
 co-authored with research users. A specific initiative supporting development and offering
 sustained benefits in this area is the long-term secondment of Fowler-Davis to STH NHSFT,
 working with the AHP and nursing workforce, building research capacity and developing the
 organisational infrastructure for research.

 Staff support to develop high quality publication profiles and impact: peer support and mentoring,
 alongside the introduction of annual Research and Innovation Plans (RIP), has provided a
 framework to support staff to develop a high-quality research profile and to identify research
 impact, including the allocation of funding to develop targeted programmes of activity (see impact
 and people).

 Research Groups

 Our research has expanded over the period; established researchers have grown individual
 programmes (Soltani, Khatab, Childs, Probst) and we have made strategic senior appointments
 (Metcalfe, Swallow, Nightingale). Research groups presented in 2014 were reviewed and
 developed into four groupings to capture our strengths and areas of strategic intent. Within each
 grouping thematic programmes are delivered by senior researchers working alongside mid and
 early career researchers and clinical practitioners. Boundaries within and between groupings are
 permeable, to nurture exchanges and fresh insights from the integration of different paradigms
 and methodologies, and to provide flexibility of response to external funding and joint working
 opportunities. Our organisational research structure, the strong interdisciplinary underpinning to
 our research, and our extensive networks with policy makers and research user groups, place us
 in a strong position to respond proactively to national and international priorities and initiatives.
 Our groupings are:

 1) Maternal, child and family health and social care: encompasses two thematic areas of
 Maternal and infant health, and Child and family health.

 Maternal and infant health research (Soltani-lead) enhances care standards to reduce health
 inequalities for mothers and babies with an emphasis on women who are vulnerable and at-risk,
 especially migrant and BME groups. A corpus of research aiming to improve the nutritional status
 of mothers and infants benefits from strong interdisciplinary collaborations between midwifery and
 nutrition. This portfolio addresses societal issues including nutrient intakes in pregnant
 adolescents (20, 293), dietary habits of young women during pregnancy (400), the impact of
 obesity in pregnancy (246) and breastfeeding practices (153, 510). A programme of activity
 interrogating and informing improvements in maternity care delivery has benefitted from Public
 Health England, Burdett Trust for Nursing, MRC and European Commission funding. Service
 transformation and national and international policy initiatives have resulted from our work to
 establish the effectiveness of midwife-led care (Soltani), and in assessing the benefits of maternity
 peer supporters for migrant and BME populations (ICS2).

 Child and family health research (Swallow-lead) focuses on improving health and wellbeing in
 children and young people, including work on safe-guarding and protection (109) and childhood
 nutrition (266). An expanding portfolio of projects directed towards supporting children, young
 people and families to self-manage long-term conditions - including chronic kidney disease,
 diabetes type 1 and juvenile arthritis (1933, 1935) - with a specific focus on co-producing and
 evaluating digital self-management apps. Through collaboration with SCH NHSFT (Swallow) an
 i4i grant of £799k (£288k SHU) has been awarded to explore the use of Chatbot technology for
 the management of diabetes in young adults. A further European collaboration including Great
 Ormond Street Hospital (Kawasaki Disease Coronary Artery Aneurysm Prevention trial) is valued
 at €3m (Swallow).

 2) Ageing and long-term conditions: is comprised of two clusters, cancer care and
 management, and improving outcomes for long-term health conditions (Probst-lead).

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cancer care and management research includes two NIHR-funded programmes of activity
 directed towards ways in which breast cancer care is managed and delivered to improve quality
 of life and health outcomes. S4A (Probst) is a programme of interdisciplinary research to refine,
 produce and undertake preliminary testing on a support bra for immobilising breast tissue during
 breast irradiation (3693). Burton collaborated on the NIHR Bridging the Age Gap study of £1.7
 million (£136k SHU), addressing the poorer outcomes in older women with breast cancer (70,
 3674, 3827). Outcomes, including a decision support intervention (DESI) to guide optimal,
 personalised treatment, has impacted globally in terms of changes in treatment received,
 improved patient knowledge, greater shared decision-making, enhanced quality of life and a sense
 of empowerment (ICS3).

 Improving outcomes for long-term health conditions encompasses both disease prevention
 and interventions to improve management of long-term conditions. The group focuses on lifestyle
 factors including diet and exercise, and interventional studies on the benefits of physical activity
 in relation to mental wellbeing (149), polycystic ovary syndrome (499) and leg ulcers (53, 517). It
 addresses questions about treatment and management across a diverse range of chronic health
 conditions including fibromyalgia (12) and obesity (81, 82, 101).

 3) Technology, data and digital innovations: encompasses research programmes in the areas
 of clinical and imaging biomarkers of health and disease, epidemiological health research, and
 technology-enhanced rehabilitation. Our Clinical and imaging biomarkers of health and
 disease (CIBoHD) programme (Childs-lead) - which spans acute traumatic brain injury, obstetrics
 and aged care - is transforming the application of non-invasive imaging biomarkers (optical
 coherence tomography and infrared thermography) for early onset health deterioration, as well as
 disease diagnosis and radiotherapy treatment for breast cancer (89, 534). Our epidemiological
 health research programme (Khatab-lead) focuses on broad global aspects of health, enabling
 the identification of high-mortality clusters and geographical inequalities, to inform appropriate
 investments that will help to improve the health of populations. This portfolio of research,
 supported by international funders including the Melinda and Bill Gates Foundation, includes work
 on risk factors for cardiovascular disease (451), cancer incidence, mortality and years of life lost
 (516), and national incidence, prevalence and mortality of HIV for 195 countries and territories
 (511). A rapidly emerging body of work centres on technology-enhanced rehabilitation (Smith)
 and is utilising GrowMedTech funding (a consortia of six universities supporting medical
 technologies across the Leeds and Sheffield region) to design and test innovations to support
 neuro rehabilitation.

 4) Health and social care organisation and workforce: investigates ways of optimising health
 service delivery through systematic evaluation and service reconfiguration (Kelly-lead). Research
 examines how services and clinical pathways meet current and future health and care
 requirements, with examples including the organisation of youth sexual health services (506) and
 out of hours primary care provision, as part of the Prime Minister’s Challenge funded enhanced
 primary care provision (181). Research on workforce development focuses particularly on
 transforming the practice of allied health professions and nurses, for example evaluating the role
 of post-registration internship programmes to develop research capability and capacity (3818).
 Research in HIV services (190) has had substantial impact, driving extensive development of the
 HIV nursing workforce across the country, leading to multiple quality improvement initiatives and
 system-wide changes in HIV services (ICS1).

 Enabling Impact

 We have implemented our impact strategy, set out in REF 2014, in response to positive panel
 feedback. Overarching aims were to engage and co-produce outputs with research users,
 support staff to undertake impact, explore vehicles to engage “hard-to-reach groups”, and to
 create a virtuous circle linking research, dialogue with users and impact with reference to user
 groups. Our approach is supported through an interrelated funding strategy that includes research
 commissioned by healthcare organisations (section 3) and securing HEIF to support activities
 (section 3).

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our research responds to challenges identified by health and social care providers for the benefit
 of the populations they serve; research is applied and aligns with SHU’s mission to Transform
 Lives (see Institutional Statement). Healthcare organisations and research users are integral to
 research design and delivery; because of these partnerships, outcomes often have immediate
 impact locally. A long-term secondment at STH NHSFT provides additional impetus to the process
 (section 3). Embedding impact into national and international health care practice and policy is
 achieved through the professional organisations and special interest groups with which our
 researchers work, acting as a conduit for far-reaching and sustained impact through the
 development and implementation of national best practice guidance, and through the educational
 and training initiatives they instigate. Piercy’s research exemplifies this approach; the primary
 research was conducted in partnership with clinical colleagues at STH NHSFT to undertake the
 first comprehensive analysis of the HIV nursing workforce in England. Locally, this led to a radical
 restructuring of the Sheffield HIV workforce. Through initiatives led by the National HIV Nursing
 Association, it has impacted on nursing HIV services across England and Wales through new
 guidance and educational programmes (see ICS1).

 The UoA supports impact through internal investment for targeted activities. Burton received
 funding to develop a website to provide open access to a decision support intervention (DESI) that
 could inform treatment decisions for older women with breast cancer. The tool was developed as
 part of the NIHR ‘Bridging the age gap study’ and this internal funding ensured that it reached the
 relevant clinical audience, enabling incorporation into clinical consultations. The DESI has
 changed clinical practice globally and empowered patients (see ICS3). Institutional development
 and support for impact is provided via Research and Innovation Services (see Institutional
 Statement). The UoA has also invested in an impact co-ordinator to provide additional embedded
 support to increase understanding of impact within the health sector. Our impact case studies all
 benefitted from this support in terms of maximising reach and evidence capture. Additionally,
 individual research and innovation plans - which researchers are expected to complete annually -
 include a clear expectation that impact is considered from the outset and factored into decision
 making at all stages of the research process.

 Impact through effectively engaging with hard-to-reach groups is exemplified in Soltani’s work to
 develop a model of perinatal care for migrants, asylum-seekers and refugees that includes
 introducing maternity peer supporters (see ICS2).

 Future Research and Impact Strategy

 The disciplines contributing to UoA3 are committed to developing and sustaining world-leading
 applied research and impact across health and social care and related platforms. Within the
 current REF period we have succeeded in delivering high quality research and impact, supported
 by a new and innovative research infrastructure via the HRI. In the forthcoming REF period the
 HRI, a vanguard for health transformation, will serve as an important catalyst for establishing
 formal partnerships and collaborations, and increasing the number of large-scale cross-
 disciplinary research programmes. The AWRC, now well-established, will continue to have
 strategic influence in the region, bringing together researchers under the wider auspices of health
 prevention, promotion and wellbeing through physical activity. Our four research groupings will
 continue to evolve and through their close working relationships with local, regional, national and
 international partners, will remain responsive to the changing health and social care landscape. A
 new cross departmental research hub will provide a vehicle for co-ordinating research activities
 and interfacing with the HRI.

 The HRI, working through the departments of AHP, N&M and SSM, will operationalise and monitor
 this strategy through several work streams. Key elements of our strategy include:

    1. Capitalise on the university infrastructure and research investment to achieve an overall
       50% increase in our research income over the REF period. This will be achieved through
       growth across all funding streams, with a specific focus on increasing the proportion of

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         larger programmes of funded research, supported by processes including internal peer
         review to improve the quality of funding applications.
    2.   Increase our research active staff base in line with university plans to achieve 50% of staff
         with SRR and improve our reputation as an internationally recognised centre of applied
         research excellence. Early in the new cycle we will recruit three outstanding professorial
         candidates within current thematic areas, providing further momentum to our research
         groups. We will grow our future research leaders, providing targeted support for talented
         mid and early career researchers with clear potential, and accessing external opportunities
         such as the NIHR advanced fellowship scheme to support their growth and development.
    3.   Expedite the impact of our research, transforming health through innovation. We will
         capitalise on well-established and mutually beneficial relationships, working collaboratively
         with our visiting fellows and professors, with industry and third sector organisations -
         working in areas related to our research (e.g. breast cancer) to facilitate rapid uptake of
         research, and by harnessing greater collaborations through the Yorkshire Humber
         Academic Health Science networks (YH AHSN). Targeted internal investment will support
         those activities and maximise impact in identified areas.
    4.   Grow our international partnerships and collaborations, with La Trobe University as our
         international partner institution, and by building new partnerships, particularly around our
         technology-based research.
    5.   Continue our trend of yearly increases in the number of research degrees with a target
         increase of 50% in doctoral completions over the REF period. We will capitalise on the
         interdisciplinary infrastructure of the research institutes to offer more interdisciplinary
         research and innovation PhDs, and achieve an overall shift in the balance of our doctoral
         provision towards a greater proportion of full-time doctoral scholarships by creating
         opportunities in collaboration with industry and health partners. We will maintain our high
         standard of doctoral experience and achieve measurable improvements in PRES scores
         across all indicators, with investment in training and development of supervisors to include
         supporting them to achieve UKCGE supervisor recognition status.

 Interdisciplinary Research

 Interdisciplinarity is embedded within the University’s culture and driven at a strategic level by the
 research institutes (see Institutional Statement). The HRI (Probst-Director) houses UoA3 and
 UoA24, and spans the academic departments of health and sport, the Sport and Physical Activity
 Research Centre (SPARC), and the AWRC as one of the University’s Centres of Excellence. Set
 up with £14m funding from the Department of Health and Social Care and European Regional
 Development Funding, the AWRC convenes researchers from across the university, and
 externally, to address health challenges through physical activity-related interventions and
 innovations, in partnership with multiple stakeholders - including the public, industry, and statutory
 and third sector health and care organisations. This infrastructure fosters natural interdisciplinary
 collaborations between health and sport disciplines producing outputs (149, 517) and funding
 successes including Machaczek (section 3). Four UoA staff (Smith, Fowler-Davis, Nield, Homer)
 hold leadership positions in the AWRC and are producing step-changes in the way we collaborate,
 creating opportunities for disciplines to enter new contexts internally and externally. The CIBoHD
 research programme (Childs) involves collaborations with a cadre of clinicians, engineers,
 statisticians and neuropsychologists, working alongside experts in novel materials, embedded
 computing systems and artificial intelligence, from both SHU and other leading research
 universities. The S4A programme (Probst) is an interdisciplinary collaboration with design (Reed
 UoA32) being an integral element throughout the whole project; contributing to the stakeholder
 co-design workshops, having a central role in the design process, specifically the functionality of
 the product, and in the collaborative development of a patient self-monitoring tool.

 This UoA includes nurses, midwives, occupational therapists, radiographers, physiotherapists,
 psychologists and nutritionists, epidemiologists, statisticians, health economists, clinical scientists
 and information scientists. Our research groupings provide a natural context for creating and
 sustaining synergies amongst staff with different methodological and philosophical perspectives,
 from diverse clinical /disciplinary backgrounds. They also provide the primary conduit for engaging

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with health and social care providers and commissioners in the region and national bodies,
 including Health Education England and Public Health England.

 Open Research

 The UoA promotes a culture of open research in line with university data management and open
 access policies (see Institutional Statement). Harrop is a member of the university’s Open
 Research Operations Group, responsible for policy and governance of open research, ensuring
 representation of health, championing open research across the UoA and providing discipline-
 specific advice.

 University and UoA initiatives raised strong awareness among researchers of the importance of
 open research. All staff and students are introduced to the principles of open access publications
 and data management, including the Sheffield Hallam University’s Research Archive (SHURA)
 and Research Data Archive (SHURDA) as the principal means through which publications and
 data sets are stored and shared. In line with policy, the UoA aims to make outputs of research
 available as widely as possible through unrestricted online access, preferably via our institutional
 repository; we have excellent compliance with institutional and funder policies. Doctoral theses
 are available electronically via SHURA and made available to the public under a Creative
 Commons licence (CC BY-NC-ND).

 UoA3 has gone above and beyond the minimum open access requirements for REF. 33% of our
 entire submission, including out of scope items, was published via gold open access. We have
 access to the university Career Kickstart Fund, where APC funds are targeted specifically at early-
 career researchers and parental leave returners. Staff are encouraged to share pre-print
 publications through ResearchGate, Academia.edu and other academic networking sites, as well
 as via our professional networks, collaborators and social media. We encourage staff to obtain an
 ORCID registration. Data management planning, including consideration of data sharing, is
 embedded in our ethics review processes.

 Research Integrity

 All research undergoes ethical scrutiny to ensure that it is conducted to the highest ethical
 standards and to protect the integrity of our research, complying with the university’s research
 ethics policy https://www.shu.ac.uk/research/quality/ethics-and-integrity (see Institutional
 Statement). The majority of staff in the UoA serve as ethics reviewers; university training is
 provided and new reviewers are supervised by more experienced staff. Much of our research falls
 within the remit of external organisations, primarily the Health Research Authority (HRA). We have
 Home Office level security for managing our data storage and flow. Kelly is Caldicott guardian
 and has responsibility for our health and social care management systems, working with IT
 services and the central research management team to produce bespoke solutions to individual
 data constraints, and overseeing a robust system of monitoring and audit. We also hold NHS
 digital toolkit accreditation.


 2. People

 Staffing Strategy

 Succession planning has proved crucial in sustaining a cadre of senior researchers, providing
 leadership and maintaining a buoyant culture. Senior staff retirements since 2014 (n=5) and
 targeted recruitment of senior staff to Russell Group Universities (n=3) has required a strategic
 approach to sustaining leadership. This has been achieved through a combination of external
 professorial appointments and promotion of existing staff to professorial positions. Metcalfe was
 appointed as Pro Vice Chancellor with responsibility for education and research. The professorial
 appointment of Nightingale and Swallow within the departments of AHP and N&M respectively,
 and that of Smith as head of AHP department, have strengthened three of our research groupings

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and provided strong leadership around research capacity building. Three additional professorial
 appointments, aligned with our research themes, are planned for early in the next REF period and
 will further strengthen leadership and stimulate growth and expansion of early/mid-career
 researchers.

 Career Development

 Our staff development strategy recognises the importance of lifelong learning and is premised on
 principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. The university
 has held the HR in Research Excellence Award throughout the REF period and the action plan
 underpins the people and culture strand of the research strategy. The Concordat provides
 incentive and impetus to make sustained change; the UoA has representation on the Concordat
 Operations Group at ECR and senior level, ensuring input to all strategic development within the
 HRI and University level structures.

 The Academic Career Framework (ACF), introduced in 2018, provides a framework for career
 progression for all staff (see Institutional Statement). Probst, Kelly and Khatab were promoted
 to professorial posts in recognition of sustained research excellence, with Probst also being
 appointed as founding director of the HRI. Piercy secured a readership position in recognition of
 research contribution to her field of inquiry. Nield, Shearn, Bhanbhro, all previously ECRs, have
 been regraded to mid-career positions.

 The institutional researcher development programme supports all researchers (see Institutional
 Statement). Staff are encouraged to take responsibility for personal and career development.
 Annual Individual Research Plans (IRPs) are reviewed by a panel of departmental research leads
 with oversight from the Associate Dean for Research and Innovation (Health). Research objectives
 identified in the IRPs feed into annual appraisal processes, to support individual development and
 achievement of strategic research objectives. Impact is a core component of both the IRP and the
 ACF, main-streaming impact as a career development pathway.

 Early Career Researcher Development

 Funding opportunities targeted at early and mid-career researchers have benefitted staff in the
 UoA. A local fellowship scheme provided release from teaching commitments; fellowships were
 awarded to Lewis and Skilbeck. As a result, Lewis developed his research profile and produced
 academic outputs; and Skilbeck developed her post-doctoral research around palliative and end
 of life care, leading to funding successes with charitable organisations (Macmillan and Marie
 Curie). In 2018-19, early/mid-career staff benefited from University Creating Knowledge
 Implementation Plan (CKIP) funding schemes. Shearn was awarded the Chancellor’s Fellowship
 to advance methodological research arising from her PhD, leading to funding successes and
 establishing collaborations with Northumbria University, University of Bangor and La Trobe
 University, Australia. Piercy secured a CKIP award for a programme of research activity involving
 four early/mid-career researchers, including Shearn and Bhanbhro from this UoA. Paxman
 secured funding to establish a research cluster providing publication support for mid-career
 colleagues to increase the quantity and quality of outputs.

 Informal mentoring operates at all levels both within and between research groupings to support
 individual development and foster collaborations. Notable successes include a mentorship
 arrangement between Piercy and Shearn and between Nightingale and Appleyard, which have
 seen both Shearn and Appleyard progress rapidly as post-doctoral researchers. When an ECR,
 Bhanbhro was mentored by Kelly and Soltani, resulting in him securing British Council Newton
 funds (£40,000), which supported a five-day interdisciplinary workshop in Padang, West Sumatra
 on Maternal and Infant Health and Nutrition in 2016. The workshops were attended by 20 ECRs
 from UK institutions, including four from SHU. It led to several funding applications with partner
 institutions from Indonesia, two of them successful, and ongoing collaborations.



                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Departmental-Wide Research Development

 Researchers have access to generous funding schemes for conferences, internal fellowships,
 seed corn research projects and open access APCs. Staff are encouraged to engage with the
 activities organised through the HRI, including writing workshops, cross university research
 dialogue events and research seminars.

 A large proportion of departmental staff are recruited primarily for their clinical rather than research
 expertise. The UoA has established research initiatives to provide a continuous spectrum of
 support, to increase the proportion of staff with significant responsibility for research (SRfR) in line
 with our REF Code of Practice. Academic staff have research and scholarly activity time (RSA);
 to build research capacity through RSA, an internationally recognised expert was appointed to
 develop an integrated Research Self-Assessment Tool into the annual appraisal process. This
 supported discussions for those with research career aspirations to use their RSA to develop a
 profile and track record, working towards SRfR. This includes the potential to undertake
 departmentally supported part-time PhDs. Current arrangements support two members of staff
 from each department, providing funding and study time over five-years, subject to satisfactory
 progress, and discretionary additional study time to support timely completion.

 Sabbaticals

 Sabbaticals are locally negotiated and agreed. Furness and Barker were awarded sabbaticals
 during the REF period to concentrate on research, preparing funding applications and producing
 outputs. A university policy on sabbaticals is approved and will be introduced imminently, providing
 greater opportunity.

 External Exchanges

 Dr Suranga Dolamulla from the Ministry of Health Sri Lanka (Sep 2016-Aug 2017) worked with
 Gumber on a research agenda, primarily around Parkinson’s disease. The collaboration continues
 with shared outputs and research proposals submitted to MRC. Dr Samsu Nurudin, a researcher
 from Lampung University, Indonesia, visited in June-Sept 2017 with funding from the Newton Fund
 Researchers Link Programme (British Council) to work with Bhanbhro.

 Research Students

 Overview of Our Doctoral Community

 Our doctoral provision has significantly increased over the REF period, achieving 49 completions
 (cf 18 in REF 2014). Currently, doctoral students are distributed across all research groupings.
 Provision caters for full-time, part-time and split PhDs (for overseas students wishing to study part-
 time or full-time from their home country). Overseas students have been recruited from SE Asia,
 Africa and North America. Full-time students have been funded through scholarships from the
 NIHR-funded Collaborations for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care (CLAHRC
 Y&H), the White Rose Consortium collaboration, and through internal scholarship schemes. A
 large proportion of our students are senior health professionals who choose to study part-time
 alongside their clinical role; funding commonly comes from their healthcare providers and
 organisations. Recent examples include the National Forum for Lung Cancer Nurses and Sheffield
 Children’s Hospital. Doctoral projects are closely aligned to health care challenges and directly
 influence policy and practice at local and national levels, in areas including occupational therapy,
 radiography and workforce management. These clinical academic pathways have led to significant
 career advancement opportunities, including secondments to the HEE leadership scheme and to
 a professional leadership role across the regional Integrated Care System. One of our students
 (Ramaswamy, completed 2018) was awarded an OBE for her services to Parkinson’s disease.




                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Doctoral Support

 The Doctoral School, established 2015, provides a unified approach to leadership, administration,
 support and training (see Institutional Statement). Provision within the HRI is overseen by the
 Head of Research Degrees (HoRD), with a dedicated student-facing administrative team. A
 Postgraduate Research Tutor (PgRT) provides pastoral support to complement the academic
 supervisory team. In addition to face-to-face support, teaching provision and student support are
 available through electronic resources via Blackboard (VLE); this meets the needs of our part-time
 students, including those geographically widely distributed. These structures enabled us to
 transition smoothly to fully online support, providing the same or enhanced level of support during
 Covid-19.

 Results from the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) have remained consistent
 over the REF period. We achieve above sector average for overall scores, and for the majority of
 indicators. Annual monitoring under the auspices of the HoRD ensure continuous improvement in
 the quality of student experience. An annual celebratory booklet recognises students’
 achievements and contributes to a vibrant doctoral learning environment.

 Recruitment, Supervision, Training and Progress Monitoring

 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) principles are embedded in recruitment and selection
 policies and procedures. All applicants are interviewed by a panel including the prospective
 supervisor(s), the PgRT and a senior academic. Each student is supervised by a team of at least
 two academic staff with collective subject expertise and track record in PhD completions, with
 additional expertise (e.g. clinicians) as required. Those new to either supervision or the institution
 have access to a doctoral supervisor programme provided by the Doctoral School. Additionally,
 all supervisors are expected to attend an annual refresher supervisory training, organised and
 delivered by the doctoral team in the HRI. An annual scheme for students to nominate supervisors
 for the ‘inspirational supervisor award’ recognises and encourages best supervisory practice. In
 2019, overwhelming positive nominations from research students resulted in creation of a new
 award for Outstanding Student Support (Research), to recognise our UoA administrator and
 student support officer (Rea Smith).

 Student- and project-specific training needs are assessed at the start of the programme when all
 doctoral students complete the Vitae Researcher Development Planner. Training operates at
 three levels:

    1. Research good practice, including record keeping, data management, data analysis and
       statistics, literature retrieval, research integrity and impact. Training is provided through
       mandatory sessions delivered via the Doctoral School, with input from e-literature experts
       from the Library and supplemented by online training (Epigeum).
    2. Research methods, as required by individual programmes, provided by academic staff with
       appropriate expert knowledge or by accessing external training programmes.
    3. Transferable skills, personal development planning, career choices, employability, time
       management, teamwork and leadership training are delivered at University wide and HRI
       level. External training opportunities include Translate MedTech courses for translation of
       research into medical technology products and clinical solutions. Multiple interdisciplinary
       networking opportunities are provided at university and HRI level.

 Robust monitoring and review supports timely completions. Two assessment points in the first part
 of the PhD programme include approval of research programme (RF1) at 3 months (6 months for
 part-time) and confirmation of registration at 12 months (24 months for part-time); this is
 supplemented by submission of a thesis plan at the beginning of the final year. On-going progress
 is monitored through supervision records, approved by the Director of Studies (DoS), annual
 progress reports submitted by the DoS and regular formalised progression review meetings
 conducted by the PgRT.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All students have an allocated research budget which is managed by the student, with expenditure
 agreed with the supervisory team and approval by the budget holder, to ensure optimal appropriate
 use. The maximum value was increased threefold in 2019 to £1500 per annum.

 Students are encouraged to participate in regular interdisciplinary research dialogue events
 organised through the HRI and research seminar series operating across the UoA; this provides
 opportunities for students to present their work in a supportive environment. Students routinely
 contribute to the annual university research conference and compete in the national 3-minute
 thesis scheme. One student achieved success as university runner-up in 2019. Additionally,
 opportunities are available for our full-time students to contribute on a casual researcher basis to
 ongoing staff projects and expand their research skills and experience.

 Equality and Diversity

 The university is committed to advancing equality of opportunity, experience and outcome for staff
 and students. It holds a Bronze Athena Swan award which helps guide the UoA’s commitment to
 equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI), and the deployment of institutional policies and procedures
 such as the Race Equality Charter and the Hallam Deal (which sets out working expectations,
 environment and opportunities). The Department of Nursing and Midwifery also holds a Bronze
 Athena Swan award.

 9% of researchers in the submission are BAME. Staff must complete a mandatory online
 unconscious bias training; those involved in the recruitment and selection of staff are required to
 complete an additional module. EDI related roles, including BAME champions, operate at
 departmental level. EDI is embedded in all aspects of our environment, from the recruitment of
 staff and students, to supporting career progression and deploying resources to support research
 and researcher development. The university developed a responsible use of research metrics
 policy in 2018 and is a signatory of the Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA, 2019). The
 policy is applied to all research recruitment, promotion and output assessment activities within the
 UoA, ensuring indicators are used appropriately and responsibly.

 Students have access to University-wide processes for suspension of studies for long-term illness.
 Those with disabilities or additional learning needs can have a ‘learning contract’ established,
 which takes account of reasonable adjustments for supervision and examination, for example
 briefings for external examiners around what additional factors need to be considered in the viva
 voce examination. Over the REF period, two students supported with learning contracts have
 successfully completed and another two are currently registered. Scholarships can be taken on a
 fractional basis to support students with caring responsibilities.

 Internal funding opportunities are widely advertised and, in accordance with institutional policies,
 allocation of funding is achieved through open, transparent application and review processes with
 consideration to principles of EDI. This includes ensuring that review panels are diverse, and that
 the diversity of the profile of supported colleagues for a particular scheme is considered. Where
 schemes have targeted criteria, e.g. ECRs, all staff meeting those criteria are equally eligible to
 apply, regardless of employment and contract status.

 We have a commitment to the long-term support of staff and the avoidance of uncertainties
 associated with regular renewal of temporary positions. For staff initially recruited on a temporary
 contract associated with a research project, they are maintained on a temporary contract for a
 maximum of four years. They have equal access to development opportunities with the result that
 they are usually in a position where we can strongly support their progression to a permanent
 contract during the four-year period. For example, Shearn was supported to secure a VC
 scholarship in the first year of a one year fixed-term contract, enabling her to secure external
 funding and a permanent contract.

 As per the national picture in our professional groups, our academic workforce is largely comprised
 of women. Twenty-eight of the 35 staff within this UoA are women and 11 are on part-time

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contracts. Three (Probst, Kelly, Piercy) have accessed the Aspire mentorship scheme;
 developed by our Women Professors' Group to help address the gender imbalance in senior roles,
 leading to professorial/reader appointments. There is recognition of responsibility to staff and
 research students who are carers or returning from parental leave, and we effectively deploy
 University policies covering flexible working and parental leave. A flexible approach to adjusting
 contracts enables staff to address health issues, work-life balance, caring responsibilities or new
 disabilities, without implication for their role or research time allocation. The success of our
 approach is exemplified in Probst, who secured a professorial appointment and was recently
 appointed Director of the HRI whilst continuing to work part-time (0.7fte).


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income has grown incrementally during the period; with £3.7m secured across a range
 of funding sources. Income is secured in competition with other HEIs and is typically captured
 through two routes: 1) commissioned research by external bodies; projects are typically short-term
 and require a coordinated 'rapid response' from staff; and 2) grant funding from
 national/international bodies aligned to the UoA’s long-term priorities; activities typically involve
 cross-disciplinary collaborations with clinical and academic partners. Most research income
 (£2.7m) has been awarded by Government (NIHR, local authorities, trusts and Health Education
 England), with charity funding (£635K) and EU funding streams (£225K) of increasing importance.

 Our strategy is to maintain both funding routes, with an ambition to increase large-scale funding
 to better support sustainability. The strategy recognises that impactful health research is based
 on collaboration between academics, clinical practitioners, patients and, where appropriate,
 industry partners. We support a developmental pathway; pump-priming new research areas to
 develop pilot data or proof of concept required for larger funding programmes. Internal and
 external funding sources have been used to pump-prime and develop research programmes
 across all four groupings. University Creating Knowledge grants have supported pilot research for
 Piercy and Shearn (£66K), Probst and Burton (£22K), and Barker (£25k). Outcomes included
 high-quality outputs and research collaborations with local NHS Trusts, leading to new external
 larger-scale grant applications. Soltani secured QR Global Challenges Research Funding (£69k)
 to progress maternal research in Indonesia. Fowler-Davis (£78K) and Childs (£96.5K) were
 awarded internal HEIF grants to support translational research and knowledge exchange; with
 internal funding from the Innovation Advisory Board being used to support research to inform a
 'translational gap' between proving product technology benefits from the S4A experimental work
 (Probst) to establishing how the design will convert to industrial production (£40K). Machaczek
 was awarded UKRI Closing the Gap Network Collaboration funding for her research on physical
 activity for aiding mental health recovery, leading to an NIHR programme grant application
 (£235k). The Grow Medtech programme (a consortia of six universities supporting medical
 technologies across the Leeds and Sheffield region) provided funding to refine the product fitting
 process for roll out within the existing breast cancer radiotherapy patient pathway (Probst £6K)
 for the S4A project. Grow Medtech has also funded a programme of work led by Smith, in
 partnership with Shapemaster Global Ltd, to co-design graphical user interfaces associated with
 power assisted exercise equipment that are accessible for people with complex impairments
 (£24.7K). Childs secured funding (£25K) from the Medical Research Council Confidence in
 Concept (CiC) scheme to pilot test infra-red thermal imaging to identify women at risk of surgical
 infection following caesarean section; preparing important proof of concept data for the
 development of a larger programme of research activity in the field of thermal imaging.

 Larger funding programmes secured include Khatab NIHR i4i (total grant £445K, £286K to SHU)
 and Dunhill Trust grants (£85K); Nightingale Health Education England, Office for Student
 Funding, Public Health England, and the College of Radiographers (£300K); Probst NIHR i4i
 (£576k) and the College of Radiographers (£18k); Soltani MRC, European Commission and the
 Burdett Trust (total grant £587k, £142k to SHU); and Swallow NIHR i4i (£142k) and Horizon 2020.
 Funding has led to significant outputs and developments including UK and European patents
 (Probst for the S4A bra), healthcare workforce developments and insights including better

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 understanding of retention issues within the radiography workforce nationally (Nightingale and
 Appleyard), international developments in maternity care and infant feeding (Soltani), and the
 use of technology for the management of diabetes in young adults (Swallow).

 Organisational Infrastructure

 Our Unit plays a key role in the new Health Research Institute (HRI), which is facilitating enhanced
 disciplinary collaboration. HRI provides two key mechanisms that are supporting the UoAs
 ambitions to scale up interdisciplinary and international research: first, enhanced support for
 horizon scanning, pump-priming, collaboration and developing large scale funding; second, a
 focus on enhancing research quality through staff development and mentoring. A member of the
 UoAs professoriate (Probst) plays a leadership role as Director of HRI.

 Researchers collaborate with clinical partners locally, nationally and globally to deliver impactful
 research; investment has been targeted towards supporting posts which bridge the divide between
 research and practice. To expand clinical research partnerships, a well-established long-term
 secondment of Fowler-Davis to STH NHSFT, which has facilitated growth in collaborative funding
 applications between the two organisations, has recently been extended to Portfolio Lead within
 the AWRC. This role spans the different AWRC themes and showcases opportunities for further
 collaboration and impact across the different organisations. The Lead Research Nurse for the
 Yorkshire and Humber Clinical Research Network (CRN) attends the grants meeting for the UoA
 to provide CRN support and input to collaborative grant developments. The Unit has also
 continued to invest in staff with particular methodological expertise; Harrop's work as an
 information scientist has benefited mixed method and review-based projects across the UoA,
 providing expertise in literature searching, realist synthesis, systematic reviews, reference
 management and bibliometrics. Researchers also have access to dedicated survey research and
 data governance expertise; Kelly is health and social care data guardian with oversight for
 research data storage for UoA3, advising staff on data storage requirements and related data
 gathering decisions.

 Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure

 The HRI provides operational infrastructure for UoAs 3 and 24; operational plans are overseen by
 the leadership group, chaired by Probst, including research students, early- and mid-career
 researchers and senior research leads. This constitution ensures the diverse research community
 needs are met and includes a mandate to ensure an inclusive approach to research and
 innovation.

 The UoA is supported by the University’s Research and Innovation Services via a hub and spoke
 model (see Institutional Statement). The central team provides governance, policy, funding and
 commercialisation support with a dedicated operations team within the HRI (12.1fte), including
 new investment posts (2020) to drive research income and operations (Institute Manager) and
 knowledge exchange and innovation (Innovation Manager). The team also provides oversight of
 the HRI ethics review process.

 The Learning Centre integrates high quality academic library information resources with excellent
 IT facilities, enabling staff and student access to a wide range of journals and other scholarly
 materials. Library staff liaise with the UoA to optimise spending of the journals budget. Staff and
 students can also obtain copies of articles in journals to which the University does not subscribe
 through the Document Supply Service, which is funded centrally.

 The HRI coordinates scholarly activities such that researchers have access to regular
 interdisciplinary dialogue events, with members drawn from across the research community to
 bring fresh perspectives to research challenges - including for example, ageing, human rights and
 sustainability - and to provide new connections. Panels are inclusive of gender, race and research
 career stage. Follow-on events provide funding intelligence and guidance and further focused
 discussion.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Seminar series operate at departmental level and within research groupings. A notable example
 is the cancer management seminar series within the ageing and long-term conditions theme
 (Probst-lead). Now in its 7th year, seminars are also open to external clinical (NHS and private
 healthcare) practitioners with an interest in cancer treatments. The monthly programme involves
 internal and external speakers, with seminars live-streamed (and recorded) to provide greater
 accessibility. The series stimulates and enriches UG and PG research activity, leading to six
 student grants being awarded by the College of Radiographers Industrial Partnership Scheme
 (student CoRIPS) over this period. Two awardees have gone on to develop early career post-
 graduate clinical experience; one through the NIHR internship programme, and one is in a clinical
 research post.

 Research Facilities

 State-of-the-art facilities are located on three sites: Sheffield Olympic Legacy Park (OLP), City
 Campus and the Collegiate Campus. The OLP site is the home to the AWRC and a second new
 strategic centre, the National Centre of Excellence for Food Engineering (NCEFE), creating a third
 campus setting. The AWRC (£14m investment - see earlier sections) convenes researchers from
 across the university to address health challenges through physical activity-related interventions
 and innovations. UoA3 colleagues have access to these facilities, including a 500 m2 movement
 analysis lab, human morphology and body composition scanning facilities, design engineering and
 manufacturing workshops (for prototyping health-related technological innovations), a physical
 activity suite (configurable for different patient groups), and six on-site clinical rooms with
 associated NHS data security and protection toolkit compliant room. These shared facilities are
 supported by a team of 1.8fte technical staff.

 Nutrition and dietician researchers in UoA3 have access to the suite of facilities at the NCEFE,
 established with the support of over 40 private sector companies and £6.9m funding from HEFCE.
 Facilities complement those on our City Campus and will enable further expansion of nutrition-
 related workstreams. After a major refurbishment in 2013, the city campus facilities underwent two
 further minor refurbishments in 2019 (£100k), to upgrade the sensory suite and the Food Safety
 lab. They provide state-of-the-art food manufacturing with pilot-scale production facilities,
 laboratories, workshops and teaching spaces. Facilities include nutrition labs with exercise
 equipment, Douglas bags and blood analysis equipment, specialist sensory booths for product
 evaluation, and a range of equipment that enables extraction and quantification of compounds of
 interest in food and biological samples alike; mass spectrometer, fat extractor (to quantify lipids in
 food), ELISA, automatic protein titration unit (and digestion system), muffle furnace and flame
 photometer (for minerals such as sodium, calcium and potassium), breath by breath analyser (to
 measure H2 in breath) etc. These facilities will be further enhanced within a new purpose-built
 facility due for completion in 2023.

 The Collegiate Campus provides teaching spaces for all our health professional programmes and
 houses specialist health research facilities, particularly relevant to the ageing and long-term
 conditions research grouping. In 2018, an annex extension to the Robert Winston Building
 expanded and improved these facilities. Equipment housed here includes Toshiba Viamo
 ultrasound, electromyography, balance performance, Gaitrite and Primus BTE rehabilitation
 equipment - which are used by physiotherapists (McLean, Smith). Additionally, new static and
 mobile X-ray units, Eclipse radiotherapy planning software, and a range of simulation dummies,
 including anthropomorphic phantoms for experimental imaging studies, are available for UoA3
 researchers. To support the S4A programme of research (Probst), the team were gifted two
 radiotherapy breast immobilisation boards (worth £20K) to support phantom and healthy volunteer
 studies, supplied by Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust as part of their equipment replacement
 programme. Researchers on this programme also made use of the Salford University Imaging
 suite (spiral CT scanner) as part of the experimental phantom studies for the S4A project. A recent
 EU European Regional Development Fund award (a grant of over £2.5m) for a new Testing,
 Imaging and Characterisation Centre for Innovation (TICCI) will see researchers in the cancer
 management research cluster gain state-of-the-art Radiotherapy 3D surface scanning equipment

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and a fully functioning linear accelerator couch (worth over £300K) to progress research in the
 field of patient alignment and positioning in radiation treatment, and quantitative assessment of
 treatment side effects.

 The technology, data and digital innovations theme (Childs) has benefitted from internal
 investment including a hand-held vascular Doppler, as well as a thermal imaging camera (Fluke
 Ti300 320x240 pixels). Equipment to support whole body physiological measurement includes an
 open-circuit indirect calorimeter supplied by GEMTM nutrition, opening up new research
 collaboration and studentships in human nutrition. For the neurological activities of this
 programme, investment also includes an NPI-200 pupillometer (Neuroptics) and intraocular
 pressure tonometer (iCare, IC 100: Mainline Instruments). Investment between Health and
 Psychology provided a TopconTM swept source optical coherence tomography (OCT) system.
 Equipment procured through external funding includes a FLIRTM thermal imaging detector and
 tripod.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research Collaborations, Partnerships and Networks

 Researchers have extensive collaborative networks within the Sheffield region, capitalising on
 geographical proximity and the long-standing relationship between Sheffield Hallam University,
 the University of Sheffield, STH NHSFT and SCH NHSFT. This regional strength benefits all
 partners and creates critical mass to address research questions from a regional to a global scale.
 It is supported by regional funding consortia such as Grow Medtech, which helps sustain research
 and innovation projects. Our researchers engage with local health and social care consortia,
 including the Yorkshire and Humber Applied Research Collaboration (YHARC). Around the early
 years and prevention agenda (Soltani, Swallow, Homer) collaborative opportunities are
 developing with clinical colleagues in the region and with Bradford, Sheffield, Huddersfield, Leeds
 and York Universities. Local Authority Research Links (LARK) with Sheffield and Wakefield are
 also well established (Homer). Appointment of senior NHS clinicians as visiting fellows or
 honorary positions strengthens alliances and provides a rapid pathway to local implementation.
 Current appointments include 25 honorary/visiting professors and 20 visiting fellows from
 organisations across the Sheffield region. For example, the honorary professorial appointment of
 Dr Paul Dimitri, Director of Research and Innovation at SCH NHSFT, recognises the strength of
 their collaboration with our child and family health theme.

 The AWRC has already developed an extensive stakeholder network including partnerships with
 Canon Medical, Parkrun and Westfield Health. Alongside its research programmes, the centre
 provides consultancy, training and design services to global businesses, SMEs and the public
 sector, to advance population health. Successful partnerships with industry at the early stages of
 research, product design and testing have included Panache (Probst) and Shapemaster (Smith).
 Situated in one of the most economically disadvantaged areas of the City, the AWRC has a key
 role to play in improving the health and wellbeing of the local community. This is achieved through
 alignment with the University’s civic engagement plans; providing the community with access to
 academic staff to design and evaluate programmes, provide training and apprenticeships for the
 local community, and hosting and supporting community engagement events.

 An institutional level partnership with La Trobe University in Australia (commenced 2019) aims to
 promote research and innovation projects with global impact. Health and wellbeing is one of three
 strategic priority areas, alongside sport and physical activity, and food and nutrition. Catalysed by
 funded exchanges (Fowler-Davis), a joint PhD programme has been established together with
 seed corn funding; researchers in this UoA are collaborating in areas of mutual interest related to
 care of older adults and are driving research capability and capacity building in the health
 professions.



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Researchers contribute significantly to the sustainability of their professional disciplines and our
 research assists in national agenda setting. Probst, Nightingale and Appleyard have served
 terms on priority setting committees in their professions (College of Radiographers Research
 Committee); and leading national projects setting the profession's research agenda and
 transforming the education and career framework, including a recent Health Education England
 project informing the NIHR research capability and capacity agenda (Nightingale). Collaborations
 with professional organisations, special interest groups and ‘arms-length bodies’ enables them to
 respond to national priorities set by those organisations, resulting in successful tenders and
 contracts. Probst is the founder and chair of the Breast Radiotherapy Interest Group (BRIG), with
 over 150 global clinical practitioner members that specialise in breast cancer radiotherapy; BRIG
 has a patient and public arm and together these stakeholders support co-design research in breast
 cancer radiotherapy. This expert group enables rapid dissemination of research and a community
 in which to support implementation into the clinical settings.

 The problem-focused nature of our research has led to development of evidence-based materials
 through which impact is generated. For example, within the CIBoHD programme (Childs), studies
 in caesarean section wound infection using infrared thermography, funded by the MRC, led to the
 commissioning of the European Wound Management Association practice document on the wider
 topic of birth-related wounds; their assessment, complications and management across care
 pathways for communities of midwives, obstetricians and women’s health specialists. Within the
 health and social care organisation and workforce grouping, Nightingale’s work exemplifies how
 our research is impacting on diagnostic radiotherapy practice. Her engagement with UK-wide
 special interest groups identified startling variations in UK practice related to two complex imaging
 procedures (CT Colonography and Videofluoroscopy). Nightingale responded to the knowledge
 gap by publishing two imaging textbooks and developing educational courses for delivery across
 the UK and Ireland. Subsequent surveys identified unwarranted variation in practice and
 systematic reviews showed a lack of suitable guidelines to support radiographer best practice.
 Funded by Public Health England, a guideline development group, established and co-chaired by
 Nightingale, employed an expert consensus approach to produce a suite of evidence-based
 practice templates. Collaboration with stakeholders (Bowel Cancer Screening Programme
 Radiology Committee, PHE and the College of Radiographers) ensured guidelines were
 endorsed, hosted via open access on the professional body website and adopted into practice.
 The materials were launched across England via 'CTC roadshows' and the group was
 subsequently commissioned to create a suite of E-Learning for Healthcare resources available to
 all NHS staff. Work is ongoing with a multi-professional collaboration involving SHU and the
 University of Central Lancashire.

 Service users contribute to the design and conduct of our research. Patient Public Involvement
 commonly arises from groups established with the institution, including the AWRC Public
 Involvement in Research Group (PIRG); those in our partner organisations including maternity
 user groups (Soltani); and a permanent co-ordinated ‘elders’ panel who provide reflection and
 feedback on programmes relating to older people’s services in Sheffield (Fowler-Davis). Service
 users work with us to co-produce research in some areas, notably within maternal, child and family
 health and social care research group, the I4i funded project exploring the use of Chatbot
 technology for the management of diabetes in young adults (Swallow). In the ageing and long-
 term conditions grouping, service users contribute to mental health and physical health research
 (Machaczek), as co-authors of publications, co-researchers on projects examining approaches to
 physical activity for aiding mental health recovery (UKRI Closing the Gap Network Collaboration
 Fund) and as a co-applicant on the subsequent NIHR programme grant application.

 Researchers regularly contribute to public engagement activities, disseminating project outcomes
 and contributing to wider research conversations. For example, Probst has generated wide
 interest in her breast cancer S4A All project through Sheffield Radio, BBC Look North and the
 Daily Mail. Bhanbhro, Gumber, Probst, Lewis and Nield write for The Conversation, which
 engages the public globally. More locally, researchers have been involved in high profile public
 events such as the ESRC Festival of Social Sciences (Smith; Bhanbhro Shearn), Festival of
 Science (Childs) and Sheffield Science week (Probst).

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Contributions to, and Recognition of, the Research Base

 Editorial Activity

 Nightingale is Editor-in-Chief (2014-present) of Radiography, the leading international journal in
 her field. Schofield is joint Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Pain Management. Soltani, Khatab,
 Swallow and Smith have all been guest editor for special issues for journals in their area of
 expertise. All researchers peer review for a range of journals with several (Appleyard, Barker,
 Homer, Khatab, Piercy, Probst, Skilbeck, Swallow) holding Editorial Board/panel positions.

 Grant Review Panels

 Researchers contribute as panel members to international and national grant committees:
  • Horizon 2020 (Kelly)
  • MRC, ESRC, NIHR (Schofield, Probst)
  • French National Research Agency Grant Review Board, British Council Newton Fund
     (Barker)
  • National Forum for Enhancement of Teaching and Learning (Ireland) SATLE and DELTA
     awards - international health education advisor (Nightingale)
  • College of Radiographer doctoral fellowship award panel (Chair) (Probst)
  • Royal Society for Tropical Medicine & Hygiene and the Newton Fund/British Council
     (Bhanbhro)
  • Versus Arthritis (O'Brien)
  • NIHR Clinical Academic Training Fellowships Committee Member; Co-chair of Clinical
     Doctoral Research Fellowships Committee for HEE / NIHR (Metcalfe)
  • Great Ormond Street Hospital London Children's Hospital Charity, Research Assessment
     Panel (Swallow)

 Board Membership

 Researchers hold board membership on national and international committees and play leading
 roles in promoting research development within their professions. Metcalfe was Chair of the
 family communication research EU Society for Huntington’s Disease (2014-16) and co-chaired the
 UK Chapter of the International Family Nursing Association (IFNA) (2017-20). Swallow is
 President Elect of the International Family Nursing Association and Co-Chair of the UK and Ireland
 IFNA. Piercy chaired the research committee of the National HIV Nursing association (2016-18)
 and sits on the education and research sub-committee of the British HIV association. Nightingale
 was a College of Radiographers Research Committee member (2014-17). Nield sat on the
 Education Board of the British Dietetic Association (BDA) and represented the BDA on the
 Principles of CPD and Lifelong Learning group for Health and Social Care Professionals. Probst
 chairs the College of Radiographer doctoral fellowship award panel. Appleyard was a steering
 group member for a formalised research mentoring scheme in the radiography profession.

 Invited Talks and Conference Contributions

 Several researchers were invited to present keynote addresses globally. Khatab has given
 keynote lectures on geospatial bayesian modelling in England, Ireland, Qatar and Malaysia.
 Schofield was invited to contribute to international pain conferences including the World Pain
 Congress, Buenos Aires (2014) and the European Pain Summit (2020). Soltani has given plenary
 lectures on maternal and infant research in Turkey, Italy, Greece and USA. Gumber has been an
 invited speaker on health economics at conferences across India (Delhi, Kolkata, Jaipur) and in
 England. Nightingale has given plenary addresses at radiology conferences in England, Norway
 and Sweden.




                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Consultancy Roles

 Metcalfe has a long-standing advisory role with national charities on patient communication
 including MacMillan, SWAN (Syndromes Without A Name), Breast Cancer UK, Genetic Alliance
 UK, Eurordis and a variety of smaller charities whose client base are affected by very specific
 genetic conditions e.g. PKD Charity and Dementia UK. She was also Adviser on Genomics
 Education for Nurses, Midwives and Health Visitors to the Health Education England (2015).
 Soltani was an invited expert advisor for “WHO Technical Consultation on strategies to improve
 the implementation of WHO recommendations of maternal health care in the WHO European
 Region". Childs is a panel member of the International Surgical Wound Complications advisory
 panel and the Institute of Skin Integrity and Infection Prevention advisory board. Khatab is a long-
 standing member of the Scientific Consultation Board of the Royal Statistical Society.

 Prizes, Awards and Other Honours

 Childs received awards for her work in wound care (Best Clinical Research Award 2016,
 Innovation Award 2016). Piercy was awarded the Krattinger Rennison Nursing Research Award
 (2019). Gumber was honoured for his contribution to the Indian Health Sector Development.
 Smith received the Emerald Literari Award (2019) and is Visiting Professor at Maastricht
 University, Netherlands. Khatab is Visiting Professor at Ohio University, and also the University
 of Washington, USA. Morris is a Fellow of the Institute of Food Science and Technology.




                                                                                             Page 17
