Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: De Montfort University
 Unit of assessment: 28
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 History at DMU is distinguished by its commitment to world-leading research on innovative
 themes that draw on the newest directions in the discipline. We have enhanced our reputation in
 migration history and sports history and developed inclusive approaches to histories of race,
 nationalism, transnationalism, globalisation and material culture. Our researchers have
 established numerous local, national and international partnerships and networks and are
 dedicated to disseminating their findings to a range of diverse communities.
 1.1 CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE
 The History Unit at DMU is a distinctive and diverse group. Some 17 staff have been returned to
 REF 2021 compared with 14 in REF 2014. The composition of the Unit and its research emphasis
 has been marked by a careful balance of consistency and change, building on established
 research strengths while broadening the focus on new research streams and diversifying the staff
 profile.
 An Institute of History (established in 2018) located in the School of Humanities and Performing
 Arts encompasses historians teaching within the History subject area as well as those located in
 Art and Design (Dyer and Lambourn) and Business and Law (Harrington) and the Stephen
 Lawrence Research Centre (Perry). Headed by Taylor and Morrison, the Institute exists to
 support and promote the work of DMU historians and research students. It also provides research
 funding. Conversations across disciplines are also facilitated by close relationships with the
 Photographic History Research Centre (PHRC), which is part of the History subject area and with
 which it shares facilities (although PHRC scholars have been entered into UOA 32).
 Characterised by a general focus on European, British and colonial history, the Institute
 incorporates two main research clusters in migration history and sports history. Dee, Lambourn,
 Panayi, Perry, Virdee and Zembe represent a critical mass of researchers working on histories
 of migration and race in Britain, continental Europe, Africa and South Asia while Carter, Colls,
 Dichter, Polley and Taylor are attached to the International Centre for Sports History and Culture
 (ICHSC), the leading research centre of its kind in the world. Perry is Director of the Stephen
 Lawrence Research Centre (SLRC), an innovative interdisciplinary centre established in 2018
 which includes in its remit a focus on histories of Black and ethnic minority communities in the UK.
 Other members of the Unit investigate a range of themes and chronologies. While the Unit
 remains primarily focused on modern history, it has diversified chronologically into the premodern
 period (Tingle) and thematically to develop new synergies focused on histories of movement,
 nationalism/transnationalism and globalisation (new appointments Brockmann, Dichter, Polley
 and Zembe alongside Lambourn, Morrison, Panayi, Taylor and Virdee) and material culture
 (Dyer and Tingle joining Lambourn).
 1.2 RESEARCH STRATEGY
 In line with DMU’s research plans, we identified the following strategic priorities in REF 2014:
 1     continue to support diverse, innovative and interdisciplinary historical research and further
       consolidate and grow the distinctive research clusters in sport and migration history
 2     support staff in producing excellent research publications
 3     maintain our strong focus on external partnerships and collaborative initiatives
 4     continue to seek and diversify external research funding opportunities
 5     sustain and build on the impact of research in key areas of the Unit
 6     continue to develop staff members to ensure sustainability, career progression and a strong
       research base in the face of a challenging research landscape nationally
 7     maintain healthy postgraduate numbers and a lively postgraduate environment.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 These have been realised over the current census period in the following ways:
 1     We have consolidated our distinctive research clusters in sport and migration history
       through the appointment of Dichter (Associate Professor) and Polley (Professor), and
       Perry (Reader) and Zembe (Early Career Academic Fellow, hereafter ECAF) respectively.
       New appointments in environmental history (Brockmann – DMU’s Vice Chancellor
       (VC2020) Lectureship scheme) and eighteenth-century material culture (Dyer – ECAF)
       have demonstrated our commitment to innovative and interdisciplinary research.
 2     We have used a range of strategies such as mentoring, writing groups and the allocation of
       University and Faculty research funding to support staff in producing research. For example,
       5 staff have received research leave and 12 others have been supported by teaching relief
       over the census period (see section 2.1).
 3     We have developed new partnerships and collaborations since 2014, including with
       Leicester City Football Club, the Sporting Memories Network and the History Museum of
       Bosnia & Herzegovina (see sections 4.1, 4.2).
 4     In addition to securing funding from research councils, we have built upon streams of
       funding from the Gerda Henkel Foundation that have proved successful for DMU historians
       in the past (part-funding Panayi’s ‘Germans in India’ project and Dee’s work on boxing and
       ethnic minorities) and developed new funding sources, such as the Leventis Foundation
       and the Marc Fitch Fund (see section 3.1).
 5     We have prioritised impact across the Unit through supporting external and internal bids for
       impact-rich projects and ensuring impact is embedded from the start of projects and in
       appraisal and Research and Innovation Allowance (RIA) processes. This has resulted in the
       continued development of a number of research areas rich in public interest and impact,
       involving histories of migration and race, the former Yugoslavia and sport in particular (the
       latter two forming the basis of our two impact case studies (ICSs)).
 6     As noted in (2) above, research funding has been used strategically to support all staff, but
       particularly early career and mid-career researchers, in writing external research bids,
       undertaking research trips and disseminating findings at international conferences; this in
       turn has helped to increase the research profile of DMU historians individually and
       collectively.
 7     We have maintained buoyant postgraduate numbers (see section 2.2) through a number of
       strategies, including the establishment of a distinct Humanities Doctoral Training
       Programme, incorporating English and History, a new History MA to bolster PhD recruitment
       and increased support for applications for internal and external doctoral scholarships,
       including AHRC Midlands4Cities (M4C).
 The successful implementation of this research strategy has led to a significant increase in the
 delivery of excellent publications as authors and editors over the census period. Staff have
 produced double the number of monographs compared with REF 2014 (rising from 10 to 20) and
 14 of the 17 DMU historians authored at least one book in this period. Collins’s The Oval World:
 A Global History of Rugby won the 2016 Aberdare Prize for best sports history book. Colleagues
 also increased the number of articles published in international peer-reviewed journals, including
 The Historical Journal, Journal of Contemporary History, History and The International History
 Review.
 1.3 FUTURE STRATEGY
 This is a Unit that has consolidated specialisms focused around its two main research clusters,
 providing a solid platform and a critical mass of expertise on which we will continue to build. Our
 aim is to expand the work of these clusters through funded projects that are of national and
 international importance.
 Research strategy
 The History team has developed the following strategic aims for the next five years:
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1     to strengthen the Unit’s standing as an international flagship in the fields of migration and
       sports history and enhance our research expertise in non-British, transnational and global
       research;
 2     to identify and nurture emerging areas of excellence, particularly in material culture and
       environmental history;
 3     to enhance external income generation by improving the number and quality of funding
       applications;
 4     to expand strategic partnerships at local, national and international levels in order to bolster
       the impact of our research (see Impact Strategy below);
 5     increase the number of postgraduate researcher (PGR) students and expand the capacity
       of supervision within the Unit.
 In relation to the first of these aims, and underpinned by our existing focus on the history of
 minorities and an increasingly diverse staff profile (see section 2.3), we will develop DMU as a
 leading centre in Black, minority, colonial and postcolonial history. This will be achieved by
 building on existing research interests as well as fostering increased cross-institutional
 collaborations both individually and through the SLRC. The SLRC has already established a
 North American Partnership Strategy with majority minority-serving institutions such as North
 Carolina Central University, the University of the West Indies, Mona (Jamaica) and Clark Atlanta
 University to develop innovative interdisciplinary research and is working on a series of research
 projects with the University of Manchester.
 Our prospects for post-REF 2021 projects already look strong. Research developed as part of the
 current REF period – Dyer on women makers and consumer culture in eighteenth-century Britain,
 Dichter on the diplomatic history of the 1968 Olympic Games and Morrison on photojournalism
 and the siege of Sarajevo – will be completed and published as monographs early in the next
 cycle. Brockmann has received funding from the AHRC for her ‘Landscapes of Science in
 Central America’ project, Dee from Gerda Henkel for boxing and ethnic minorities and Panayi
 from the Leventis Foundation for his study of the Cypriot peasant (see section 3.1). Virdee has
 secured Faculty Research Leave in 2021–2022 to support her work on women’s history in
 Pakistan while projects on cathedrals and the early-modern city (Tingle) and the Cotswold
 Olimpicks (Polley) are currently being prepared for external application.
 Impact strategy
 Our research priorities will be bolstered by an active impact strategy seeking to maintain our two-
 pronged approach from REF 2014 of both embedding ‘pathways to impact’ in our research
 projects and promoting proactive dissemination of research findings to wide and diverse
 audiences while remaining open to unplanned impact opportunities. For example, a number of
 staff were active in relating their research to the new political and media priorities emerging in the
 wake of the Covid-19 pandemic from March 2020 onwards. Dichter co-authored articles in the
 Washington Post and The Conversation in early March 2020 on the historical effect of viruses on
 sport and the Olympics while Panayi related his research on internment in the First and Second
 World Wars to confinement of citizens in 2020 through a series of newspaper articles and online
 seminars. We will take forward our existing collaborations with museums, minority communities
 and sports organisations and pursue further heritage and community history projects, such as
 those with the Leicester Historical Association.
 We will take these aims forward by prioritising:
 •   timetabling to allow staff a clear research day each week;
 •   supporting our early career researchers (ECRs) via mentoring and through prioritising them in
     internal funding competitions;
 •   supporting competitive applications for Faculty and University Research Leave schemes that
     have provided research leave for five staff members in the current census period (see
     section 2.1);
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   strategic use of the History budget for teaching relief in small blocks to aid the completion of
     external research applications and publications;
 •   providing internal peer review and feeding back cutting-edge initiatives from research councils
     (including through the newly established University Peer Review College).
 Alongside these priorities, we will set ourselves the following targets:
 •   To enhance our supervisory capacity, we will increase the percentage of staff involved in PhD
     supervision from the current 77% to 100% through enhanced training and the development of
     mixed experience supervisory teams.
 •   To bolster our impact profile, colleagues will routinely apply for internal impact funding and
     20–25% (up from 15%) of our research budget over the next five years will be allocated to
     support impact and dissemination.
 In accordance with REF5a, the Unit is committed to research integrity and works in accordance
 with DMU’s processes in relation to ethics and integrity among all researchers. We are also
 committed to open access, not only in terms of making more publications and data open access
 by ensuring that members deposit material in institutional repositories (DORA for text outputs and
 DMU Figshare for data), but also in making new research available through the newly formed
 DMU Press and influencing book publishers to make their publications openly available.
 Section 2. People
 The History Unit has maintained its research strength through a staffing strategy designed to
 promote and sustain its centres of excellence while also attracting new generation researchers
 who can open up fresh areas of exploration. Consequently our appointments and promotions
 policy during the census period has maintained a balance between strengthening research
 leadership and encouraging new talent who refresh and energise the team. Currently, the Unit is
 made up of 7 senior staff, 5 associate professors/readers and 5 junior colleagues (2 ECAFs, 2
 lecturers, 1 senior lecturer). While the proportion of senior staff has remained relatively stable
 (39% vs 36% in 2014), our focus on recruiting ECRs has seen the proportion of junior colleagues
 in the Unit rise from 21% (2014) to 33% (2021). The Unit is committed to building a sustainable
 and vibrant staff base, supporting the development of its staff through career progression and
 research goals, and above all in promoting equality and diversity in all its staffing policies.
 2.1 STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT
 Since 2014 staffing strategy in the Unit has embedded this commitment to encouraging ECRs and
 consolidating established research strengths. Brockmann was appointed in 2016 as part of
 DMU’s VC2020 Lectureship scheme (see REF5a) and Dyer and Zembe joined the team in 2019
 as ECAFs. Through these schemes, ECRs have benefited from a lighter teaching load in their first
 year to develop their research career. They also have access to an annual £5,000 ECR budget to
 support their work. This has enabled Brockmann and Zembe to produce monographs and Dyer
 an edited volume in the current cycle, with a monograph to follow early in 2021. Brockmann has
 also secured a British Academy Small Research Grant for her next project and was promoted to
 Senior Lecturer in 2020.
 The appointments strategy seeks to deepen existing strengths while extending the Unit’s
 geographical and methodological range. Tingle’s arrival in 2016 as Professor of History added
 early-modern history to the Unit’s predominantly modern focus and also created synergies with
 the work of Lambourn on the interconnections between material/visual culture and the history of
 ideas; Dyer’s 2019 appointment further strengthened critical mass in the history of material
 culture. Beardmore’s arrival as a Lecturer in 2019 maintained the Unit’s expertise in rural history.
 In 2014, Polley was appointed Director of the ICHSC; his arrival, as Subject Leader in History
 and Director of the ISCHC, was another step towards the integration of the different strands in the
 Unit outlined in the REF 2014 statement. Dichter’s appointment augmented both the ICSHC and
 the Unit’s global and international interests through her expertise on post-1945 diplomatic history.
 The arrival of Perry, a leading international authority in Black British history and transnational
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 race politics as Director of the SLRC in 2018, along with Zembe, has supplemented the Unit’s
 expertise in histories of race, ethnicity and migration.
 The Unit is committed to nurturing, recognising and supporting research and research leaders
 and staff development is ensured through promotion and strategic appointments. Career
 progression from Lecturer or Research Fellow to Senior Lecturer (two this cycle, Brockmann and
 Carter) is made in accordance with existing role profiles. Associate Professorships are achieved
 by promotion via a Research and Innovation route, a Teaching, Learning and Scholarship route or
 a Hybrid Research and Teaching route. All four of the Associate Professorship promotions during
 the current cycle were based on research: two (Dee and Virdee) through the Research and
 Innovation route and the other two (Dichter and Harrington) via the Hybrid Research and
 Teaching route. Morrison’s promotion to Professor of Modern Southeast European History in
 2015 was the result of his impressive publications and impact record.
 Staff are further supported by DMU’s Flexible Working and Leave policies (REF5a) (Dee, for
 example, has benefited from DMU’s parental leave policy during the census period). A
 reformulated research leadership team consisting of senior academics (Morrison, Panayi,
 Polley, Taylor and Tingle) sets strategy, advises on grant applications and supports ECRs
 through a range of mentoring processes. Expertise is shared with early to mid-career researchers
 who work alongside this senior team in the History Research Committee. Succession planning is
 facilitated in a number of ways, most obviously in historians’ participation in DMU’s Future
 Research Leaders’ scheme (see REF5a), a programme consisting of individual coaching,
 mentoring and access to a Leadership Development Fund of up to £1,500 per person. During this
 census period, Dee and Brockmann have successfully applied for the scheme and gained
 valuable experience which has allowed them to assume key leadership roles in the Unit.
 Brockmann, for instance, has been Head of Research Students for History, being mentored in
 this role by Taylor as Institute Director and Morrison, who was Site Director for DMU on the
 AHRC Midlands3Cities (M3C) consortium (2015–2018).
 Our appraisal and mentoring strategies underpin the Unit’s commitment to supporting new and
 early career researchers. Research goals and achievements are an important component of the
 staff appraisal process: research targets are identified and supported, with appraisal feeding in to
 staff development and promotion. Alongside formal staff appraisal, the Director and Deputy
 Director of the Institute of History meet annually with individuals to monitor aims and strategies
 and provide feedback on grant applications and research outputs. Research mentoring is also
 built into the Research and Innovation Allowance (RIA) process (see REF5a). Through the RIA,
 staff can apply for specific proportions of time to support research, innovation and impact
 activities. In 2019-20 staff in the Unit were allocated a total of 6,784 hours with an average
 allocation of 443 hours (roughly 1½ days per week) in addition to the 10% scholarship time
 awarded to all teaching and research staff. The system encourages colleagues to formulate clear
 and coherent research plans and, through mentoring in the pre-submission and feedback stages,
 helps to ensure that they maximise their publication, public engagement and impact potential.
 Additional mentoring is provided through the History Mentoring Scheme, which is available to
 Part-Time Hourly Paid Lecturers as well as full-time staff. Mentors are supplied from experienced
 staff within the team or from a senior researcher outside the Unit.
 Nearly 25% of the Unit’s staff are members of the AHRC Peer Review College. Morrison, Taylor,
 Tingle and Virdee pass on knowledge of national initiatives and experience of assessing
 research applications through the mentoring schemes outlined above as well as via tailored bid-
 writing workshops. All four are also part of the University’s Peer Review College, consisting of
 members of peer review councils across DMU, which provides a robust internal review of all grant
 applications and ensures that the focus is placed on high-quality bids.
 Historians also play a key role in developing and monitoring Faculty and University research
 strategy. Taylor is a member of the Faculty Research and Innovation Committee and sits on the
 University Research Committee, and Tingle is a member of the University Academic Board which
 oversees all research and PGR provision.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Unit maintains a system that supports teaching relief for research, helping individuals to
 complete projects and outputs in line with individual publishing timetables. Competitive research
 leave schemes exist at University and Faculty level which release staff from teaching
 commitments for a period of normally one term. The Unit has been particularly successful in
 accessing these during this census period, Carter, Dee, Panayi and Tingle each being granted a
 semester research leave under the Faculty scheme and Taylor doing so under the University
 scheme (the Global SDG Fellowship). Each of these periods of research leave led to a
 monograph included in the current submission. A dedicated History budget for teaching relief is
 used to complement the Faculty and University research leave schemes, supporting those who
 narrowly miss out on these schemes: 12 of the Unit staff have been supported in this way since
 2014, which has significantly aided the completion of articles, books and edited volumes and
 grant applications. Meanwhile, as noted above, Brockmann, Dyer and Zembe have benefited
 from a workload model that formally acknowledges the need to give ECRs extra time to progress
 their publication records and develop postdoctoral projects.
 2.2 RESEARCH STUDENTS
 Research student numbers and completions remain buoyant since REF 2014. We have increased
 the number of PhDs awarded over this census period to 15 compared with 14 (REF 2014); and
 there are currently 22 PhD students registered through the Unit; 5 of these are funded by external
 bodies. There are two AHRC collaborative doctoral awards: on the history of women’s rugby with
 the World Rugby Museum and with the Rugby League on its heritage and public commemoration.
 The AHRC M4C doctoral training partnership has funded two further scholarships since 2014: one
 on the history of sport and learning disability and one on the concentration camp, spatial
 experience and architectural modernism. A further 8 students (including two international
 students) were supported by competitive internal studentships or fee waivers during the census
 period.
 Since 2014, the Unit has developed a number of initiatives to enhance the training and
 supervision of PhD students. A Humanities Doctoral Training Programme (DTP) has been
 established that complements DMU’s more generic provision. The DTP focuses on seminars
 taught by Institute staff on historical methods and research tips alongside tailored sessions on
 conference presentations, writing for publication and using archives. An annual postgraduate
 conference gives doctoral students an early opportunity to present their research to an audience
 of fellow PhDs, MA students and staff. All DMU History research students are supervised by a
 team of at least two experts in their field with a monthly meeting (for those researching full-time)
 and are guided to adhere to deadlines for the production of monthly, bi-annual and annual
 progress reports. An Institute Head of Research Students monitors the progress of all our PhDs,
 identifying any delays in process and aiding supervisory teams in identifying opportunities for
 training and dissemination of doctoral research. They also ensure that supervisory teams are
 balanced between the necessary level of experience and expertise on one hand and the inclusion
 of ECRs and those with limited records of doctoral supervision on the other. This is important for
 individual staff development as well as for building supervisory capacity across the Unit that will
 sustain a rise in PhD numbers in the future.
 The infrastructure for the recruitment and training of research students has been considerably
 aided by our membership of the Midlands 3 Cities (M3C) consortium that pools the resources of
 our University with those of Leicester, Nottingham, Nottingham Trent, Birmingham and
 Birmingham City (extended to M4C with the addition of Coventry and Warwick in 2019). The
 consortium enables cross-institution supervision to maximise the exploitation of supervisory
 expertise and by the efficient pooling of resources it creates a DTP finely tuned to the needs of
 our discipline.
 The Unit stimulates connections and exchanges between its research students and outside
 bodies in a number of ways. Our AHRC-funded collaborative PhDs work with their respective
 sports organisations and in tandem with other doctoral students associated with the Sports
 Heritage Network, a non-profit organisation that works to support the preservation, access and
 research of sporting heritage in the UK. These and other students have worked with museums
 and sports clubs on exhibitions and have contributed blogs and articles to the websites of a range
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 of organisations, including Saracens Rugby Club and the World Rugby Museum and publications
 such as Speedway News and Rugby League Cares magazine. Seven current and former PhD
 students have also contributed to the ICSHC’s long-standing partnership with Leicester City
 through our ‘History Makers’ articles in the Match Day programme (see section 4.1). PhD
 students are trained and advised in presenting conference papers and networking through the
 Humanities DTP and supervisory mentoring. DMU students regularly present at prestigious
 conferences, among them the European Social Science History Conference, win prizes such as
 the International Society for the History of Physical Education and Sport Gigliola Gori Junior
 Scholar Award (2018), and publish in refereed journals during their studies, such as Sport in
 History, 2020. Teacher-training opportunities for PGR students also exist internally and through
 DMU’s membership of the East Midlands History Network.

 As a result, the History Unit has been extremely successful in training highly employable
 graduates over the course of the current census period. From 2008 to 2018, 58% of graduates
 are in academic positions with a further 12% working in related fields, such as a freelance
 specialist in academic writing and the owner of an online teacher-training organisation. Those in
 academic positions include an Assistant Professor at a university in South Korea, a teacher of
 English at the Sorbonne, Paris, a research fellow in History at Trinity College, Dublin, and a
 Lecturer in Sociology at the University of Leicester. Two (Dee and Zembe) are academic History
 staff members at DMU.

 2.3 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
 DMU is committed to equality and diversity, demonstrated by it becoming one of only 17 HE
 institutions to be awarded the Bronze Race Equality Charter from the Equality Challenge Unit
 (now called Advance HE). As demonstrated by a number of key developments that have taken
 place over the current census period, the History Unit has been at the forefront of DMU’s focus on
 equality and diversity. In common with the vast majority of History departments in the UK, DMU in
 2014 was overwhelmingly male and white. However, new appointments have improved the
 gender balance of the Unit considerably. While the male/female division of staff was 11:3 in
 REF 2014, for the current exercise it is 8:9. In addition, female staff are now the majority in senior
 and intermediate positions (Professor and Associate Professor/Reader).
 Alongside DMU’s equality and diversity policies, the Unit’s long-standing focus on Black and
 minority history and histories of race, ethnicity and decolonisation has contributed to creating an
 increasingly diverse staff profile in terms of ethnicity. Whereas 2 members of the Unit self-
 identified as BAME in REF 2014 (equivalent to 14%), 4 of the 17 DMU historians submitted for
 this exercise (23.5%) are BAME. This marks DMU out as one of the leading history units in the
 UK in terms of racial and ethnic diversity and is much higher than the 4.3% average in History
 departments identified in the Royal Historical Society’s (RHS) 2018 ‘Race, Ethnicity & Equality in
 UK History’ Report. The Unit has, in line with the RHS’s recommendations, committed itself to
 analysing attainment gaps by race in its research activities and to actively consider strategies for
 improving the numbers of BAME postgraduate students and staff. In particular, members of the
 Unit are working closely with the SLRC on research projects and conferences with the intention of
 challenging and widening ‘the racial foundations of the discipline’ (RHS, 10). A number of steps
 have already been taken in this direction. In 2019, the History seminar series was overhauled to
 place more focus on Black, minority, migration, race and ethnic history subjects and to
 incorporate a more diverse range of speakers; the History Unit similarly contributed the majority of
 sessions to the ‘Decolonising DMU’ webinar series in 2020. Perry and Virdee also jointly secured
 a Collaborative Doctoral Award in 2019 from M4C for a project on ‘Textures of Blackness in the
 Midlands: Excavating Regional Archives of Black Culture and Politics’ with the Leicester-based
 arts organisation, Serendipity.
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 INCOME
 The Unit focuses on seeking financial support from a range of external funding bodies but also
 encourages its members to tap into lesser-known funds and opportunities. It also benefits from
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 access to small internal grants organised at central University level, and from small grants from
 the History research budget aimed at delivering specific outputs, enhancing impact activities or
 developing collaborative projects.
 The Unit received £178,169.11 in external research funding since 1 January 2014, a figure lower
 than the amount recorded in 2014, possibly due to the prioritising of emerging research. Funding
 includes peer-reviewed awards from the British Academy, AHRC and Leverhulme Trust as well as
 smaller awards from competitive sources such as the Royal Historical Society, the Leicestershire
 Archaeological and Historical Society and the Marc Fitch Fund. Prominent among these was a
 Gerda Henkel Research Scholarship award (€91,900) to support Dee’s project on boxing and
 ethnic minorities (2019–2022) and Brockmann’s British Academy / Leverhulme Trust Small
 Research Grant of £7,630 for her ‘Landscapes of Science in Central America, 1890–1940’.
 Panayi received €13,000 from the Gerda Henkel Foundation, 2014–2015, to support his
 ‘Germans in India’ project. For his next project on the history of immigrants in London he received
 a £9,474 grant from the AHRC and a £5,980 Small Research Grant from the British Academy /
 Leverhulme Trust. This contributed directly to two major monographs with university presses:
 Germans in India (Manchester UP, 2017) and Migrant London (Yale UP, 2020). In 2017, Polley
 was PI for a Leverhulme Trust Artist in Residence award of £14,092, which saw artist Jamie
 Shovlin work collaboratively with the ICHSC to develop a film installation and a public exhibition
 based on a Leicestershire youth football club.
 Smaller sums have also been crucial in facilitating research, dissemination and impact activity.
 Tingle received small conference grants from the Renaissance Studies Society, the Royal
 Historical Society and the Leicestershire Archaeological and History Society, which contributed to
 the production of an edited special issue of Midland History on ‘Martin Luther and the Reformation
 in the Midlands’. She was also the recipient of a short-term fellowship from the Huntington Library
 in the USA worth $3,000 in 2017–2018, which fed into her Sacred Journeys monograph. Dee
 received £500 from the Marc Fitch fund for his project on British Jewry and Anti-Fascism in the
 1930s which led to a refereed article in Immigrants and Minorities.
 Research funds of close to £50,000 have been distributed to History staff through a designated
 History research budget during the current period to cover travel, research assistance, conference
 organisation and impact. Awards from internal University competitions have assisted in supporting
 innovative research and impact projects. Morrison, for instance, was awarded £10,739 in 2019
 from the DMU Grand Challenges Research Fund for his project on preserving the archives of the
 History Museum of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Faculty awards worth nearly £7,000 in total were
 made in 2019 to support Panayi’s project on the Cypriot Patriot and Morrison’s legacy work on
 the history of hotels in conflict zones. Polley and Taylor received small grants of less than £3,000
 in 2014 and 2015 in DMU’s revolving investment competitions to support the development of new
 research projects.
 3.2 INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES
 Funding applications are supported through mentoring by senior members of the Institute of
 History, who provide initial guidance and support in the writing of research proposals. This is
 supplemented by the assistance of the central Research Services Directorate (RSD), which has a
 designated Research Development Officer attached to each Faculty to identify funders and
 potential collaborators and support application writing. Quality thresholds are ensured through
 DMU’s internal Peer Review College. The RSD also coordinates researcher training and
 development as well as providing grant support. Within the Faculty, a Research and Innovation
 Office supports the administration of the Institute’s funds as well as other activities such as
 conference organisation.
 Located on the History subject corridor in the Clephan building, the ICSHC has a designated
 office and a Research Officer who coordinates research and outreach events as well as the
 Centre’s postgraduate teaching, in particular its contribution to the CIES International MA in the
 Management, Law and Humanities of Sport (run in conjunction with FIFA, football’s world
 governing body). PGR students also have access to the PHRC, a space of 109m2 including a
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 dedicated library and computer workstations that also provides space for networking and informal
 research meetings.
 Since REF 2014, the History Unit has worked increasingly closely with DMU’s Special Collections
 team to develop archival sources dedicated to staff and student research interests. Based in the
 Kimberlin Library, Special Collections consists of close to 1,000 linear metres of archives and rare
 books. It is run by a Special Collections manager and three Assistant Archivists. In addition to the
 UEFA library collection, part of which is housed in the Kimberlin Library, members of the Unit
 have helped to acquire four major sports history collections: the Boxing England Archive (formerly
 the Amateur Boxing Association); the Ski Club of Great Britain Archive; the archive of Sir Norman
 Chester, a leading figure in the Football Trust; and the Papers of the Leicester Riders Basketball
 Club. A number of these collections have already been utilised in work by staff (Dee and Taylor)
 and have stimulated PhD and MA projects. In conjunction with the ICSHC, Special Collections
 successfully received a Research Resources grant of £100,000 from the Wellcome Trust in 2018
 to catalogue and digitise parts of the sports history collections. DMU’s expanding archival facilities
 are supplemented by major print and online resources such as reference databases, online books
 and journals and access to a selection of digitised newspapers and other archives.
 Facilities for impact are provided by a dedicated impact team within the RSD focused on
 specialist training in the creation and capture of impact evidence. Two REF (Impact) Officers work
 on the coordination of impact plans and impact collection with the Institute Director and deputy
 and with individual researchers. Impact officers have regular meetings with individual Unit
 members on embedding impact in funding proposals and developing current and future ICSs.
 This is underpinned by Research Development Training sessions on impact and the use of the
 Vertigo Ventures Impact Tracker software that supports the cataloguing and analysis of impact
 evidence. Specific funding streams at University, Faculty and Unit level reinforce the importance
 of impact generation in all research projects. Alongside the impact projects supported by the
 Faculty (see section 3.1), since 2017, Carter, Morrison and Taylor have all secured funding from
 the central Impact Case Study fund. At Unit level, 15% of the annual History budget is ring-fenced
 for impact-related activities, reflecting the importance assigned to impact as a fundamental
 element of the Unit’s research strategy.
 The communications team works particularly closely with the History Unit and is well connected
 with print, television and online media outlets. As a result, Unit members’ research is regularly
 disseminated through the media. Prominent examples include the full-page Daily Telegraph
 interview with Panayi on 24 January 2015 concerning his research on the history of fish and chips
 and his February 2020 appearances on Sky News and BBC Radio London to discuss his book
 Migrant City, Virdee’s appearance on BBC One’s 2-part My Family, Partition and Me: India 1947
 presented by Anita Rani (August 2017), and a series of articles written by Dichter on sports
 diplomacy and the Olympics for the Washington Post between 2017 and 2020. Harrington,
 meanwhile, is a regular contributor to UK and international media on the topics of the US
 elections and presidency. Throughout election season 2020, she was a ‘presenter’s friend’ for
 BBC News and BBC Radio5Live, along with daily radio interview slots during the November race.
 In line with University initiatives such as DMUlocal, the History Unit has deepened its public
 engagement in this period with local organisations, employing its research for positive societal
 impact and to contribute to social cohesion. The SLRC’s suite of educational outreach initiatives
 include bespoke school visits to the Centre, classroom takeovers and assemblies and local
 educator listening sessions. Its Stephen Lawrence Day at DMU Experience has involved local
 schoolchildren visiting the Centre, interacting with materials from the archive and exploring the
 research of Perry and other Unit members. Harrington convenes DMU’s annual Congress to
 Campus in conjunction with the US Embassy (London) and the British Library, which invites sixth-
 formers, university students and members of the public to meet visiting American politicians.
 Since its inception in 2007, this flagship annual event has attracted thousands of participants.
 Community engagement was also central to the ICSHC’s ‘Subs’ project, where interviews with
 Carter, Colls, Dichter, Polley and Taylor on the history of grassroots sport were intercut with
 film of the players, parents and officials of the local Anstey Swifts youth football club. A
 subsequent exhibition in DMU’s Gallery exhibition space in autumn 2017 attracted nearly 3,000
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 visitors, including many who had not visited such a venue before. Other collaborations with local
 organisations such as Leicester City Council (through its Heritage Open Days), Leicester City FC
 (see section 4.1) and the Leicester branch of the Historical Association have benefited from the
 connections of DMUlocal.
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 The Unit prides itself on its collaborations, particularly international but also at national and local
 level, which have been reinforced and extended since 2014.
 4.1 RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS AND PARTNERSHIPS
 Much of Morrison’s work on the history of conflict in south-eastern Europe is collaborative and
 international and with academics, practitioners and policymakers. He has conducted consultancy
 for the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office, the UK Ministry of Defence, the Organisation for
 Security and Co-operation in Europe and Freedom House. He co-authored the Freedom House
 ‘Nations in Transit’ report on Montenegro with the Montenegrin academic Bojan Baća. For his role
 as Special Adviser to the House of Lords International Relations Committee for its ‘UK and the
 Western Balkans’ inquiry (see ‘Research Informing Policy’ ICS), Morrison was shortlisted for the
 THES ‘Research Project of the Year in Arts and Social Sciences’. He also edited the memoirs of
 Colm Doyle, head of the European Community Monitoring Mission in Bosnia, and has authored
 academic articles with Elma Hodžić (curator of the Historical Museum of Bosnia & Herzegovina)
 and Nebojša Čagorović (University of Montenegro).
 Morrison’s relationship with media partners has also led to significant benefits to audiences in
 different parts of the world. He acted as consultant, field producer and commentator on Al
 Jazeera’s War Hotels series (based on his research) in 2018, and has appeared on, or written for,
 media such as the BBC World Service, BBC Radio 4, CNN, Turkish International Television and
 The Guardian.
 Polley has spearheaded the ICSHC’s involvement in the Sporting Memories Network (SMN), a
 UK charity founded in 2011 which has pioneered the use of sport-themed reminiscence therapy to
 help people experiencing dementia, depression and isolation. He is Academic Adviser to the SMN
 and has facilitated Leicester City FC’s Community Trust to develop its own project inspired by the
 principles of the SMN. More broadly, the ICSHC has an established collaborative relationship with
 Leicester City FC. Since 2013, DMU historians have contributed a page to each Match Day
 programme on ‘History Makers’ who shaped the development of football, amounting to a total of
 approximately 70,000 words (as of end of 2019/2020 season). The impact from this work forms
 part of the second of the Unit’s ICSs (‘Transforming Popular Understanding of Sports History’).
 Members of the ICSHC work closely with club historian John Hutchinson, now Honorary
 Research Fellow at the Centre, on a range of heritage projects and outreach events, including a
 DMU-hosted exhibition in 2019 to mark the centenary of the club becoming Leicester City.
 Collaboration is fundamental to the research activity of DMU historians. Panayi is a regular
 collaborator with Stefan Manz (Aston), with whom he authored Enemies in the Empire, and
 Matthew Stibbe (Sheffield Hallam), with whom he and Manz edited Internment During the First
 World War. Tingle co-edited Dying, Death, Burial and Commemoration with Jonathan Willis
 (Birmingham) and Lambourn jointly authored an article on Chinese porcelain with Philip
 Ackerman-Lieberman (Vanderbilt). Dichter has collaborated on projects on sport and diplomacy
 (with Andrew L. Johns at Brigham Young University, USA), on diplomacy and statecraft (with
 Simon Rofe, SOAS) and on reflections of writing sports history (with Wray Vamplew of the
 University of Stirling), a volume which included essays by 29 historians located in 18 different
 countries. Taylor has written articles with Sylvain Ville (Picardie Jules Verne), Martin Johnes
 (Swansea) and Raf Nicholson (Bournemouth) and acted as expert collaborator on a project on the
 history of rankings in sport with Tobias Werron (Bielefeld).
 Brockmann is a member of the international Leverhulme-funded LABLOGAL network on the
 global history of Latin America. Lambourn was part of the ‘Defining the Global Middle Ages’
 research network run out of Birmingham, Oxford and Newcastle. The ICSHC has worked with
 Gregory Quin (Lausanne) to set up a joint training conference for PhD sports history students,
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 while Taylor jointly organised strands of the European Network of Universal and Global History
 conference with Jared van Duinen of Charles Sturt University, Australia (Paris, 2014) and with
 Quin and Philippe Vonnard of Lausanne (Budapest, 2016).
 Dyer is co-founder and co-convenor of the Sartorial Society Series with colleagues at the
 University of Leeds, the Museum of London, Historic Royal Palaces and Colchester Museums.
 This online seminar series frequently attracts a capacity of 500 and includes speakers and
 attendees from all over the world. She also acted as curatorial consultant for National Trust and
 Historic Royal Palaces projects in 2020.
 4.2 ENGAGEMENT WITH RESEARCH USERS
 Members of the Unit have established productive partnerships with a number of museums during
 the census period. Panayi acted as consultant to the development of the Knockaloe Internment
 Camp and Patrick Visitor Centre. Working with the director of the Centre, he provided the
 academic groundwork for the project and helped secure an AHRC-funded grant from the Hidden
 Histories Centre at the University of Nottingham. He is also working with Stefan Manz (Aston) on
 an AHRC-funded project which will result in the establishment of a research centre in Hawick
 memorialising the nearby camp at Stobs. Morrison worked with the Museum of Bosnia &
 Herzegovina on two exhibitions scheduled for 2020 and was lead researcher and curator of an
 exhibition celebrating 140 year of UK–Montenegrin bilateral relations in 2018 organised by the UK
 Foreign and Commonwealth Office and the Montenegrin Embassy in London.
 Dee acted as sole academic consultant to an exhibition entitled ‘Four Four Jew: Football, Fans
 and Faith’ held at the Jewish Museum, London (October 2013–February 2014) and the
 Manchester Jewish Museum (March–October 2014). The exhibition attracted 14,000 visitors (in
 London) and excellent feedback (e.g. ‘Inspiring exhibition’; ‘Excellent. One way to get all the
 generations to a museum!’). When hosted by the Manchester Jewish Museum, footfall for the
 exhibition was 5,609, a 17% rise in visitors to the museum compared to the same period in 2013.
 Features on the exhibition were published in the Evening Standard, The Independent, The
 Sunday Times and The Observer, while the BBC’s World Service and Radio 4 covered the
 exhibition’s opening.
 Carter, Polley and Taylor are members of the Historian Panel for the National Football
 Museum’s Hall of Fame in Manchester. The ICSHC are also working closely with the Wimbledon
 Lawn Tennis Museum and Kenneth Ritchie Wimbledon Library and the Hockey Museum in
 Woking on collaborative research and heritage projects. Polley was a member of the selection
 panel for Wimbledon’s first Alan Little Bursary for Research into Tennis History in 2020. The
 ICSHC have long-standing relationships and jointly supervised doctoral students with the World
 Rugby Museum in Twickenham and the Rugby League Cares charity, and are closely involved in
 planning the National Rugby League museum in Bradford.
 4.3 JOURNAL ACTIVITY, LEARNED SOCIETIES AND ESTEEM INDICATORS
 Members of the Unit edit key journals and book series in their research specialisms. Lambourn
 was one of the founders of The Medieval Globe in 2014 and remains on the editorial board. She
 is on the International Advisory Board of the online Medieval Worlds. Perry is Associate Editor of
 the Journal of British Studies and an editorial board member of Transatlantic Studies and History
 Journal. Beardmore is co-editor of Family and Community History. Dyer is Exhibition Reviews
 Editor of Textile History. Dichter is academic editor, International Journal of the History of Sport,
 Book Review Editor of Journal of Sports History and on the editorial board of the Journal of Sport
 Communication and (with Polley and Taylor) the Italian journal Storio dello Sport. Carter was
 Editor-in-Chief of Sport in History 2014–2016 and Polley editor 2014–2019. Taylor is on the
 Editorial Board. Morrison is a member of the editorial boards of Western Balkans Security
 Observer, Trans-Conflict (Belgrade and Sarajevo) and Southeast European Politics. Panayi is on
 the editorial board of Immigrants and Minorities, Virdee of Midland History and Tingle of East
 Midlands History and Heritage. Polley edits the Palgrave Studies in Sport and Politics book series
 (2015–) and Taylor is joint editor of the Peter Lang Sport, History and Culture series (2011–).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Carter and Polley are Commission Advisers (sport) for the Oxford Dictionary of National
 Biography.
 Unit members have acted as external examiners for 29 doctoral examinations and 7 MRes theses
 since 2014. For instance, Perry has examined at King’s College, London, Virdee at the University
 of Punjab and Government College University, Lahore, as well as at Birmingham and UEA,
 Panayi at the University of Melbourne and the Free University of Brussels, Lambourn at the
 Université Paris and the Université Aix-Marseille, Harrington at the University of Southern
 Denmark and Tingle at the Université Paul Valéry Montpellier III.
 Tingle is on the steering committee of History UK. Morrison is Vice-President of the UK–
 Montenegro Society, Co-Director of the Hotel History Foundation and a member of the Capital
 Committee of Most Mira (Bridge of Peace). Virdee was convenor of the Punjab Research Group,
 2007–2015 and Harrington was chair of the Political Studies Association’s American Politics
 Group, 2015–2018. Tingle is a steering group member of the East Midlands University History
 Network while Polley is an awards and accreditations member for The Gazette, the official journal
 of record of the UK government, advising on sport-related information.
 Carter, Lambourn, Panayi, Tingle and Virdee are Fellows of the Royal Historical Society,
 Lambourn of the Royal Anthropological Institute, Dyer of the Royal Society of the Arts and
 Tingle of the Royal Archaeological Institute. Perry is a member of the American Historical
 Society’s Bentley Travel Grant Award Committee and on the Programme Committee of the North
 American Conference on British Studies. She is also a Life Member of the Association of Black
 Women Historians. Dichter is a Council member of the International Society for the History of
 Physical Education and Sport, was a member of the North American Society for Sports History’s
 Marketing Policy and Promotion Committee and now chairs its Dissertation Prize Committee.
 Tingle is on the Committee of the Ecclesiastical History Society and the Leicester City Council
 Heritage Partnership Group.
 Morrison was Visiting Professor at the London School of Economics (European Institute) during
 2018/19 and Panayi is Honorary Visiting Professor at Flinders University, 2018-21.Virdee was a
 visiting fellow at the Information Technology University (ITC), Centre for Policy and Governance
 Lahore 2016/17 and is a research fellow at ITC.
 Thirteen members of the Unit have given 185 lectures and papers in the UK and abroad during
 the census period, of which 28 have been invited keynote addresses. These include Panayi on
 ‘The German Refugee Crisis at the End of the Second World War’ at the University of
 Peloponnese, Corinth, 2014 and ‘The Elimination of the Germans in the British Empire’ at
 Nanyang Technological University, Singapore in 2018; Virdee’s inaugural address at Kurukshetra
 University’s international conference on ‘150 Years of Mahatma Gandhi’, 2019; Lambourn on
 ‘Objects and places in the western Indian Ocean world’ at Aarhus University, Denmark, 2018;
 Polley on ‘The Ashbees, the Guild of Handicraft and Sport in the Cotswolds’ at the International
 Society for the History of Physical Education and Sport Conference, Hokkaido University,
 Sapporo, Japan in 2020; and Taylor on ‘How Football Became the National Game in England’ at
 the First World Football Culture Summit, Zibo, China, 2016.
 History research at DMU speaks to local, national and international audiences. Alongside our
 commitment to developing and sustaining world-class research, our findings are disseminated to
 a range of diverse local communities through public lectures, seminars and workshops. The
 SLRC, for example, facilitates dialogue and information-sharing through its numerous face-to-face
 events and, since June 2020, its ‘The Exchange’ webinar series; the ICSHC’s research webinar
 series brings in audiences of up to 65 people from across the UK and Europe as well as Canada,
 Colombia, India, South Africa and the USA. Our initiatives to promote collaborative research,
 extend our scholarly networks, and engage with a range of research users are central to our plans
 to shape and sustain our research environment moving forward into the next decade.
