Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Loughborough University

 Unit of Assessment: C20

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Our Unit plays a significant role in UK and international social policy and applied criminal justice.
 Its research provides the basis for the UK Living Wage by establishing minimum income
 standards, shapes national policy and local practice on young carers, plays a leading role in a
 policy shift towards ‘Child First’ youth justice and promotes victim-focused treatment of rape
 survivors. Over this REF period, we achieved a 40% increase in grant funding, and strategically
 prioritised research quality enhancement, to complement our reputation for impact enabled by
 our extensive networks among policy makers and practitioners.

 1.1 Research structure
 Our submission comprises 12 staff (11.6FTE) in Social and Policy Studies (SPS), one of five
 units within Loughborough’s School of Social Sciences and Humanities (SSH), alongside
 Geography, Politics and International Studies, Communications and Media, and Humanities.
 SSH is one of 9 autonomous Schools at Loughborough University (LU) with a strategy for
 research and its impact led by a Dean, and Associate Deans for Research (ADR) and Enterprise
 (ADE) – the latter (Hirsch) is from SPS, demonstrating this Unit’s significant leadership
 contribution to the School.

 Our Unit is led by three professors playing complementary leadership roles: Aldridge as Director
 of Research, Case as Head of SPS and Hirsch as Director of the Centre for Research in Social
 Policy (CRSP). Case and Hirsch are members of the SSH Executive, and Aldridge of its
 Research and Enterprise Committee (SREC).

 Research is organised under three Research Themes:
 • Low Income and Poverty research (Hirsch leads) is concentrated in CRSP (established
    1983) whose pioneering work on the Minimum Income Standard (MIS) makes it the leading
    UK centre producing evidence of what households need for an acceptable standard of living.
 • Young People and Families, which includes the Young Carers’ Research Group (YCRG,
    established 1993, Aldridge leads), shapes health and social care policy and practice on
    young carers and their families in the UK and other countries, as well as studies of parental
    experiences of egg donation and of women's mental health following childbirth.
 • Applied Criminal Justice (ACJ, Case leads) is a new area of research, reflecting our
    strategic ambition to apply our expertise to new foci, and responds to the need for a solid
    evidence base to support current priorities in criminal justice policy, notably: a ‘Child First’
    youth justice strategy, reforms to improve victim interactions with criminal justice, and
    strategies promoting non-criminal identities and hence desistance from crime.

 1.1.1 Interdisciplinary Research
 Unit specialisms have clear and established links to related work across different institutional
 disciplines. For example, research concerned both with living standards and with youth justice
 draws in expertise in health and sport from our School of Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences
 (SEHS), illustrated by:
 • Evaluations by Kay, Case and Aldridge of the role of sport in rehabilitation in the Street
     Games project, a charitable, community-based programme harnessing sporting activities to
     prevent youth crime.
 • Investigation by Hirsch and an SEHS economist of life-course impacts of health on social
     and economic outcomes, funded by the Health Foundation.

 The institutional ‘CALIBRE’ strategic research framework drives interdisciplinary activity across
 all Schools. Of particular relevance are the Communication and Culture Beacon (led from SSH),
 the Health and Wellbeing Global Challenge, with which we engage in our work both on living


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 standards and on health issues, along with contributing to the work of the Institute of Advanced
 Studies (e.g. ‘Children’s Rights in Youth Justice’ international symposium in 2019).

 1.2 Review of objectives and research plans described in REF2014
 Our REF2014 strategic vision was to extend our programme of high quality applied social
 research, with emphasis on contemporary change in policy and practice, by:
 1. Identifying areas of current policy and practice in need of better evidence to which our
     research could be applied.
 2. Strengthening research outputs, recognising that our powerful and innovative research
     methods needed to become more prominent in academic literature, enabling the academic
     community to draw more easily on these methods to extend their impact.
 3. Extending our international reach, realising more fully the potential for our knowledge and
     methodological expertise to be taken up by academics, policy makers, practitioners and
     stakeholders in other countries.

 This strategic vision has been executed through agile responses to new challenges and
 opportunities. Specifically:

 In further developing its work on the adequacy of incomes, CRSP has:
 • Sought better evidence in partnership with the public and charitable bodies that fund its
     research – extending core work on the MIS funded by Joseph Rowntree Foundation, by
     investigating high London living costs (funder: Trust for London); fuel poverty in remote areas
     of Scotland (Scottish Government); the additional cost of disability (Thomas Pocklington
     Trust) and pensioners’ aspirations for a decent retirement (Pensions and Lifetime Savings
     Association). These extensions of the core research are underpinned by our openness to
     interdisciplinarity, for example collaborating with economists both at our own University
     (SEHS) and externally (e.g. University of Lisbon), and with housing specialists at the
     University of York.
 • Strengthened academic research outputs: alongside over 60 reports published since 2014,
     detailing findings of grant-funded research, CRSP published articles in leading journals
     establishing MIS and related research in the literature, enabled by strategic allocation of QR
     funding to give CRSP researchers ring-fenced writing time. Articles include collaborations
     with international co-authors making international comparisons using the MIS metric.
 • International reach: Davis and Padley worked with partners in eight countries to apply the
     MIS method, training researchers to carry out parallel studies, including in Mexico,
     Singapore, South Africa and Thailand who have newly engaged in this research since 2014.
     An active international network, led from the Unit, now applies the MIS approach to policy
     challenges in different parts of the world.

 The young people and families theme built on its work on the once hidden community of
 young carers, providing deeper understanding of this large group among policy makers and
 practitioners in health and social care. Specifically, it:
 • Developed better evidence through crucial new research to inform policy, commissioned by
    (i) the Department for Education (DfE), producing the first ever national study of young
    carers in England, including ‘hidden’ young carers; and (ii) the Department for Health and
    Social Care, researching the potential efficacy of a nationwide recognition system for young
    carers.
 • Extended its international reach, through first-time studies identifying young carers’ needs
    in Belgium and Tonga, and in schools across Japan. YCRG built networks of researchers
    and practitioners in these countries, developing screening tools that can transform lives by
    recognising hitherto hidden needs of young carers, building on its UK evidence of how this
    can be effective.

 ACJ focused on creating powerful evidence in areas where research is needed to support policy
 change. This involved building a strong team of applied researchers with good links to policy


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 makers and practitioners working in key areas of growing policy importance, where better
 evidence is needed, notably:
 • Youth Justice: Case’s research in collaboration with policymakers has produced the leading
    evidence base to support a national ‘Child First’ strategy for youth justice in England, Wales
    and Northern Ireland;
 • Victims and survivors: Smith’s research on victim experiences plays a leading role informing
    policy and practice of the Crown Prosecution Service and other legal agencies. Nicholas’s
    research on preventing repeat burglary victimisation through enhanced security measures
    (2019 ONS Research Excellence Award winner) known as the ‘WIDE’ model (Window,
    Internal, Doors, and External locks) has been adopted by several police forces.;
 • Promoting non-criminal identities: Kay’s research on ‘Desistance in transition’ and ‘Narratives
    of desistance and recovery’ highlights the importance of working relationships between
    probation officers and offender clients.

 As also planned in REF2014, the Centre for Child and Family Research extended its influential
 work on safeguarding, at Loughborough, before moving to the University of Oxford in 2017.
 Concentrating our resources on those areas where staff are national and international research
 leaders, the Unit responded to their departure with strategic investment in new appointments in
 CRSP and in the emerging ACJ theme.

 1.3. Enabling and facilitating impact
 Our REF2014 strategy relied, above all, on creating close partnerships with stakeholders. This
 goes well beyond dissemination of research findings. In many cases, these partners underpin
 the production of the research itself. Moreover, by involving decision makers and interested
 organisations in the specification of research and related analysis, we have built a community of
 stakeholders with a deep commitment to following the research through with action. The
 character of these partnerships, built on trust, and in some cases developed over many years
 (JRF partnership since 2006) is therefore at the heart of our strategy to produce impact.

 We are active and agile in exploring new routes to influence, rather than relying only on planned
 impact activity under research grants. Social policy is a moving picture, requiring imagination
 and responsiveness to achieve impact. The School and the Unit give strong support for
 academics to engage in enterprise (impact), guided by the School’s ADE and a proactive
 Partnership Development Manager from the Research and Enterprise Office (REO), and
 supported by Enterprise Projects Group (EPG) funding for promising initiatives.

 During the assessment period, eight EPG grants totalling £300k have supported policy impact,
 including dissemination of best practice for children with ADHD, developing models for local
 policing and victim support, and promoting prisoner rehabilitation through sport in partnership
 with the Ministry of Justice and Premier League football clubs. CRSP also uses consultancy
 revenues to fund the staff and travel costs of external engagement. For example, Padley and
 Valadez visited Mexico to engage with organisations interested in applying MIS there, leading
 later to a pilot project funded by EPG. Furthermore, the School supports impact activity through
 workload adjustments, allocating up to 15% of time to work on Impact Case Studies (ICS).

 1.3.1 How the selected impact case studies relate to achieving impact
 Both case studies submitted are models of the important partnerships described above, of our
 active and strategic approach to developing these and of the dynamic and imaginative ways in
 which we work to achieve impact when opportunities arise.

 The first case study is based on MIS, whose core funder, the Joseph Rowntree Foundation,
 structures its support around a ‘partnership agreement’ covering research, ongoing
 dissemination and impact activity. This enables flexible responses to new opportunities for
 impact, resourcing the time required and incentivising influencing activities, about which the
 team report back regularly to the funder. In some cases, this involves long-term networking and
 evidence-building. For example, since 2012 CRSP had been working with stakeholders in rural

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Scotland to quantify additional costs in remote areas, resulting in the Scottish Government
 asking CRSP to apply its fuel poverty measures to remote areas in 2019. Other cases involve
 instant responses to impact opportunities. When the Law Society wanted a living-costs
 benchmark to provide evidence to a public review of legal aid, Hirsch recognised the potential for
 high impact and prioritised the production of an analytical report within a month of being
 requested to do so.

 For the second case study, the original young carers research has been followed up with central
 government and research council (ESRC) funding, creating strong, effective partnership working
 across health, social work/care and education e.g. with ‘Lives of Young Carers England’. The
 case study demonstrates how important these partnerships have been in getting young carers
 and their families noticed when decisions are made about health and social care policy and
 welfare provision for children and families in the UK.

 1.4 Research and Impact Objectives and Plans for the Next Five Years
 Our strategic vision over the next five years is to:
 • Contribute high quality and high impact research and thought leadership to influence social
     policy and criminal justice agendas and global societal challenges, aligning with the
     University’s interdisciplinary Global Challenges in ’Health and Wellbeing’ and ‘Secure and
     Resilient Societies’;
 • Apply the rigorous methodologies that we have developed to new research on how
     vulnerable and marginalised groups (e.g. low-income households, vulnerable young people,
     victims/survivors) are faring in the post-Covid 19 world, and on what interventions can best
     support them;
 • Extend and deepen our international research and networking, with the aim of supporting
     routes to impact in other countries comparable with those we have deployed in the UK;
 • Develop our next generation of research leaders – we have 6 excellent early career staff
     whose development over the next 5 years will extend our global influence in our themes and
     position LU as a destination of choice for the best early career talent;

 Specific examples of how our Unit will pursue this strategy include:
 • Using CRSP’s work on income adequacy to identify Covid-related changes in social norms
    and household capabilities, to produce a new picture of where needs are not being met,
    informing future policy and updating understanding of what comprises a living wage.
 • Being ambitious in extending the reach of the MIS into new areas of policy. For example, a
    Ministry of Justice review of the legal aid means test, due to report in 2021, is likely to give
    explicit recognition to MIS as a benchmark against which the outcomes of policy can be
    tested. This offers the opportunity to be proactive in enhancing its status elsewhere in
    Whitehall, for example as a standard against which affordable housing and adequate
    pensions can be assessed in policy impact assessments.
 • Extending the application of MIS in other countries and starting to use this to develop an
    alternative to conventional income benchmarks, particularly in Mexico and other Latin
    American countries where current measures are considered inadequate and there is an
    appetite for evidence-based standards that challenge existing wage norms.
 • Increasing the scope, reach and impact of our ACJ research and expertise: (i) using realist
    synthesis to evaluate current youth justice interventions through contextualised
    understandings of their outcomes, (ii) pursuing positive identity change among vulnerable
    groups through inclusive and ‘Child First’ methodologies in research and practice, (iii)
    catalysing evidence-based policy change through official (funded, accredited) research
    partnerships with stakeholders, and (iv) examining intersecting vulnerabilities in rape trials
    through an innovative focus on using digital evidence in sexual violence investigations,
    prosecutions and trial arbitration.

 1.5 Open Research Environment
 The University has been a pioneer of the ‘Open Agenda’, actively supporting Repositories for
 text-based outputs (since 2005) and data (since 2015), working beyond funder (including

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 REF2021) open access requirements. Our landmark Open Research Position Statement
 committed to depositing the full-text of 100% of our primary research outputs in our now unified
 (2019) Research Repository (including on closed access where unavoidable) from 2020. In line
 with this commitment, we have deposited the full text of 100% of our 2020 journal articles. Last
 year, our downloads from the Repository totalled 132,000.

 1.6 A Culture of Research Integrity
 Our research actively promotes a culture of research integrity, which is not only supported by
 LU’s Ethical Policy Framework but also helps shape it. Our constructive contribution to
 developing research integrity is based on the expertise of staff in participatory, inclusive and
 reflexive research methods.

 For example, Aldridge, working with researchers in a variety of disciplines (health, social work,
 sociology) has contributed to the development and introduction of the international Charter and
 Guidelines on Ethical Research Involving Children (https://childethics.com), and speaks at
 events internationally on her Participatory Model for working with vulnerable or marginalised
 groups. In ACJ, Case’s participatory ‘Child First’ research with practitioners has underpinned
 new National Standards for youth justice delivery in England and Wales, whilst Smith’s
 collaborations with court officials have influenced national domestic violence and rape legislation
 and review methodologies. Davis and Padley pioneered deliberative focus groups as a method
 for privileging the voices of members of the public in setting public standards in relation to
 minimum household income requirements. This included methods to capture the perspectives of
 visually impaired and profoundly deaf participants, and the voices of autistic children alongside
 those of their parents.


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing and Recruitment Policy
 All academic staff are active across research, teaching and enterprise (RTE), including
 supervising PhD students, generating funding, publishing, and engaging with academic and non-
 academic partners. We expect and incentivise collegiality from the earliest career stages and, as
 careers develop, we expect broader leadership contributions within the Unit and School, and
 across the institution. All Unit academic staff and senior CRSP research staff have open-ended
 contracts, while other research staff have fixed-term contracts in line with sector norms. Part-
 time working is welcome.

 Since REF2014, the approach to recruiting excellent staff at all career stages has radically
 changed, driven by the University Strategy. Under ‘Excellence100’, recruitment shifted to an
 institution-wide campaign focussed unequivocally on excellence, rather than piecemeal
 replacement hires. This principle is now embedded in our biannual recruitment rounds, managed
 centrally but with significant School input, which deliver better international recruitment and
 improved diversity.

 The Unit regularly assesses its succession needs and uses new appointments strategically to
 ensure critical mass and leadership in the six research themes. To meet our strategic objectives,
 we prioritised recruitment of staff with expertise, established or emerging, in generating impactful
 evidence in our thematic areas alongside strong academic outputs. Since 2016, we have made
 seven open-ended appointments: earlier career research leaders (Smith, Stone), talented ECRs
 (Kay, Azpitarte, Valadez, Coveney) and a senior lead for ACJ (Case). Seven new recruits in a
 Unit of 12 underlines the extent of the renewal of the Unit and our commitment to enhancing the
 application of evidence in policy and practice. In particular, investment in our ACJ research
 theme (Case, Kay, Smith) emphasises vitality in our strategic ambition to apply our expertise to
 new research foci. New staff were recruited from across the UK but also internationally
 (Azpitarte from University of Melbourne) and from our home-grown talent (Valadez was
 previously a Research Associate in CRSP).


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Succession planning in a small but nationally significant centre like CRSP, is vital. Padley and
 Davis are identified as future centre directors and, after Hirsch became School ADE (2019), they
 were appointed Associate Directors in order to support their career progression and ensure
 continuity in CRSP’s leadership.

 2.2 Staff development strategy
 Loughborough’s Organisational Development offers a wide spectrum of training opportunities
 and support for staff at all career stages. Courses range from earliest stages (Welcome to
 Loughborough) through essential training (Information Security, Unconscious Bias) to training for
 staff becoming senior managers (Coaching conversations for managers, Recruitment and
 selection).

 All academics are expected to obtain Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy. For new
 lecturers, this is integral to their dedicated development programme. More experienced
 colleagues are supported through our `Recognition of Experienced Practitioners' scheme which
 requires preparation of a dossier of evidence to support their application.

 To meet our strategic objective to strengthen the quality of research outputs, we introduced
 internal peer review of draft publications with particular emphasis on output visibility through use
 of the Research Repository and choice of journal. We incentivised conference attendance and
 networking through a £750/yr personal allowance and, with so many new and early career staff,
 we held research-focused away days each semester. These supported the development of new
 funding strategies, with funding also incentivised by increased personal research allowance for
 staff with active grants. Competitive seedcorn funding is available with priority given to ECRs.
 For example, Kay received £950 for a small study on narratives of desistance and recovery,
 which he used to shape a BA Small Grant application. Staff can apply for research and impact
 leave under University or School Fellowship schemes, which allow focus on exceptional
 activities for a fixed-term.

 Following the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers,
 the University provides structured support to postdoctoral researchers (CRSP has four,
 including a senior research associate) for career progression and development, including
 preparation of applications for funding. Our postdoctoral researchers have a 6-month induction
 process with monthly mentoring meetings, clear project and developmental objectives, and
 training.

 Under the New Lecturers’ Programme (NLP), all new lecturers are guided by experienced and
 trained academic colleagues from the Unit acting as Advisers. NLP (formerly academic
 probation) was substantially revised in 2017 and includes the full spectrum of research and
 impact activity (publication, funding applications, collaboration, public engagement, non-
 academic partnerships). New lecturers have a reduced workload in teaching and administration
 (33, 50 and 67% of departmental norms in consecutive years), which enables the establishment
 of a full academic profile in research, teaching and impact at a manageable pace. Kay’s
 ‘Twinning Project’ collaboration with the Football Association and the Prison Service shows how
 ECRs are supported and enabled to develop partnerships. In addition to an extensive training
 programme leading to FHEA, the New Lecturer meets four times annually with their Adviser.
 SSH commits to providing a PhD studentship, with support provided by an experienced co-
 supervisor. Supervision is a requirement to pass the programme, alongside a minimum
 expectation on research output production, and the submission of at least one substantial grant
 application.

 All members of post-probationary staff in the Unit have an annual Performance Development
 Review (PDR). This University scheme was totally updated in 2017. A supportive one-to-one
 discussion between the reviewee and a trained reviewer agrees positive developmental objectives
 across the full range of activities including CALIBRE-aligned goals for research and impact activity.



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 New PDR is a transparent way to recognise performance exceeding expectations with additional
 financial reward and allows much fairer identification of candidates for promotion. The new
 scheme has particularly benefitted our research staff for whom a rigorous developmental
 discussion was previously sporadic and consideration for reward a rarity.

 The University has revised the criteria for academic promotion (Senior Lecturer and
 Reader/Professor), to ensure that the research components align with the University Strategy
 and CALIBRE. Evidence for cases can be based on research, teaching, enterprise (impact) or
 any combination to encourage balanced portfolios of work. We judge ‘Excellence and
 International Reputation’ and ‘Academic Leadership and Influence’ rather than traditional metrics
 based on quantity rather than quality. Hirsch’s promotion to professor (2015) with a profile based
 on excellence in enterprise (impact) exemplifies the value of the new criteria. Complementing
 revised promotion criteria, the University introduced a process (2015) to redesignate research
 staff to Research Fellow to recognise research independence, followed by a process to promote
 to Senior Research Fellow. Padley and Davis have both since benefitted from redesignation and
 promotion.

 2.3 Research students
 A growing postgraduate research student (PGR) community is an essential part of our active
 research culture. Numbers have grown dramatically in our Unit, with 7 completions in the
 assessment period (63% identifying as female), compared to just 1 in the previous REF cycle,
 and a current PhD intake of 6 students.

 Funding to maintain our PGR population comes through the Midlands Graduate School ESRC
 Doctoral Training Programme studentships, internal scholarships, international government
 scholarships and self-funding. Recruitment reflects our commitment to equality and diversity.
 Studentships are advertised via jobs.ac.uk and FindAPhd.com. In addition to a good first degree
 in a relevant discipline, offers are driven by the quality of research ideas, fit with staff expertise
 and alignment with our research strategy. The international profile and expertise of our staff
 group attracts a steady flow of interest. Decisions are taken by two colleagues after a rigorous
 review and interview.

 The Doctoral College runs an induction event for all new starters, complemented by a School
 induction. Our monitoring and support provision includes assigning each PhD student two
 internal supervisors, with monthly meetings recorded via the University’s online Co-Tutor tool.
 Progress Review Boards meet every 6 months over the course of their PhD studies and
 progression is decided at annual reviews, based on a report and viva with an independent
 examiner. PGRs are given their own desk and computer on campus, and an annual research
 allowances. Further specialist support is available from the Mathematics Learning Support
 Centre, the English Language Support Unit, the Student Advice Centre, the Careers Network,
 and the Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity Service.

 Extensive skills development opportunities include 200 events annually from the Doctoral
 College, from induction and international orientations to major events such as Annual
 Conference, Summer Showcase and the Three Minute Thesis competition. Our Unit provides
 research internships/placements (e.g. with Family Fund through CRSP, Youth Justice Board
 through ACJ). PGRs are encouraged to publish papers (e.g. Brett 2019 in the Howard League’s
 ‘Early Career Academic Network’ bulletin) and co-author with supervisors (e.g. Mughal, Aldridge
 and Monaghan 2019).

 Our graduates move into high-quality academic and professional posts, notably Munro
 becoming a lecturer and subsequently Director of the Institute of Applied Social Research at
 Bedfordshire University, now a Professor. Others have moved into lecturer posts (e.g. Garius -
 Nottingham Trent; Quinn – Royal Holloway; Mughal - East London). Beyond academia, Mughal
 also runs an NGO (Irshad Welfare Trust) helping disadvantaged students in rural Pakistan.



                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.4. Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)
 Alongside institutional engagement with nationally recognised schemes (Athena Swan, Race
 Equality Charter, Stonewall Diversity Champion), our commitment to supporting EDI is widely
 recognised: Aldridge was appointed as an Athena SWAN panellist and advisor to the Fawcett
 Society (the UK’s leading gender equality charity) on equal pay issues; Davis and Padley led
 (invited by the PVCR) an evaluation of how Covid-19 impacted staff differentially, with particular
 attention on protected characteristics and reported as “Same Storm Different Boats”. SSH was
 awarded a Bronze Athena SWAN award (2019). Two Unit members sit on the school EDI
 Committee (Coveney, Davis). Best EDI practice embedded in University processes has enabled
 diversity in the balance of our newly recruited staff: four women and three men, including two
 BAME staff.

 Flexible working arrangements range from compressed hours to specific working days/hours,
 and fractional contracts. Remote working is facilitated through the remote working portal and
 choice between desktop computer or laptop. One female Senior Lecturer works part-time.

 Conference attendance and other necessary travel to support research is facilitated for staff
 with caring responsibilities, ill health or disabilities by a contribution of up to £200/yr
 towards caring costs from the School Carers Fund.

 Unit-level data on funding applications and awards analysed by protected characteristic is
 reviewed quarterly by SREC, which includes the School EDI lead, with any concerns addressed
 via the School Research Action Plan.

 Staff returning from periods of leave are supported by the Head of Unit and receive a reduced
 teaching load in the first semester back (e.g. Nicholas’s supported returns following her two
 periods of maternity leave). Research students are similarly supported.

 Support for staff with protected characteristics is now embedded in many processes.
 Workload is reviewed annually with respect to protected characteristics by the Unit lead (Case)
 and Occupational Health make recommendations for staff with disabilities. Individual
 circumstances, including caring responsibilities, are formally considered in promotion criteria and
 performance assessments.

 Support for the wellbeing of staff and research students has been strengthened with four
 new School-level roles: Director of Academic Staffing, professional Wellbeing Advisor, dedicated
 HR partner and Doctoral Research Culture Champion. We have one qualified mental health first
 aider (Smith) and Loughborough offers support services including Counselling, Occupational
 Health and an Employee Assistance Programme (also available to PGRs).

 2.5 EDI issues in the construction the REF submission
 This submission complied fully with Loughborough’s REF Code of Practice and supported its
 commitment to complete equity of treatment of eligible staff with respect to all relevant protected
 characteristics. All staff involved in preparing the submission attended a dedicated EDI and
 unconscious bias course. A five-member, mixed-gender team coordinated by the Unit lead
 (Case) constructed the submission and selected the outputs and ICSs. A consensus-building
 meeting of this group drew on peer review to make selections based solely on excellence. An
 extensive Equality Impact Assessment programme analysed the Unit’s output selection,
 attribution of co-authored outputs and characteristics of threshold-spanning outputs by gender,
 maternity leave, ethnicity and ECR status and found no evidence of bias.

 A confidential University-wide procedure allowed staff to report circumstances that may have
 affected their ability to research productively throughout the REF period through a secure online
 form. A small group, chaired by the PVCR, reviewed cases, deciding whether circumstances
 described merited reduced expectations according to REF guidance. Reasons behind such
 reductions were not shared but checks were made to ensure adequate support was in place. A


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 request for reduction was subsequently agreed by Research England for our Unit. We have
 attributed 48% of our 25 submitted outputs to female staff, which broadly reflects the Unit’s
 overall composition of 56% female.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding and strategies
 Our research strategy seeks to provide better evidence, shaping policy and practice to transform
 the lives of vulnerable and marginalised groups. Research income is essential, building staff
 capacity to increase the breadth and scope of projects (e.g. facilitating travel, research
 assistance, attendance at vital training, networking and enterprise events). Accordingly, staff
 work closely with the Research and Enterprise Office (REO) and support one another (e.g.
 senior staff mentors) to attract income across our themes and to develop high-quality outputs
 and impacts associated with this funding. A mandatory peer review process, integrated into the
 University’s on-line grant application management system, iteratively reviews, responds and re-
 reviews until ADR approval.

 Our team adopts tailored funding approaches for key funders. For instance, our recurrent
 Joseph Rowntree Foundation funding has grown incrementally from 2014 (£130,000 annually) to
 2020 (£170,000 annually), underpinned by a strategy of partnership working and relationship-
 building to establish common goals through regular research updates sensitive to the funder’s
 own priorities. This approach complements CRSP’s unique funding model, using a steady flow
 of research grants, several recurring, to fund directly a strong team of six research staff on open-
 ended contracts. We also have a tailored approach to ESRC DTP studentship acquisition,
 establishing a DTP lead (Azpitarte) to stimulate and coordinate bids through writing
 collaborations (typically between senior staff and ECRs/probationers) and internal peer review.

 Our awards have increased over the REF cycle to £3.5M – a 50% increase in income/FTE to
 rank in the top quartile of the appropriate HESA cost-centre (131 - social work and social policy).
 This growth reflects our focused research strategy that concentrates on identified research
 themes. For example, research on the agenda-setting Minimum Income Standards (MIS)
 programme has generated over £1.75 million from 15 funders/18 projects, leading to a range of
 high-quality outputs in high ranking journals (e.g. Journal of Social Policy, Critical Social Policy)
 and impacts (see MIS Impact Case Study).

 The Young People and Families theme attracted income from a variety of international
 organisations to support young carers and families (e.g. Department for Education, £270k, 2014-
 2017; Department of Health and Social Care, £120k, 2019-2020) and children in Tonga
 (European Research Council, €17k, 2015-2018), producing collaborative research evidence that
 has improved child protection policies for vulnerable populations.

 ACJ attracted funding to deliver policy-relevant criminal justice research with vulnerable groups.
 Funded projects have addressed: ‘Child First’ youth justice strategies (Leverhulme Trust, £85.5k,
 2017-19, Case; Nuffield Foundation £268k, 2019-22, Monaghan); custodial and rehabilitative
 experiences of prisoners (British Academy/Leverhulme, £10k, 2019-21, Kay); victims’
 interactions within the Criminal Justice System (Northumbria Police Crime Commissioner £28k,
 2019-21, Smith); and vulnerable groups subject to repeat victimisation and burglary (ESRC
 £190k, 2015, Nicholas). High quality outputs from this funding include forthcoming publications
 in the European Journal of Criminology (Kay - from the BA project; Case - from Leverhulme) and
 Sustainability Journal (Case and Monaghan - from Nuffield).

 3.2 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
 The Unit benefits from a comprehensive organisational infrastructure supporting research and
 impact for RTE staff, research staff and PGRs. Our research activities are supported at School-
 level through a research and enterprise administration team (2.5 FTE) focused on REF, PGR
 recruitment and progression, and support for the ADR; and a HR and finance administration


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 team (4.0 FTE) to provide support for grant applications and post-award activities. Within our
 team, there are four central administrators.

 School support teams work closely with University HR, finance and the REO, which includes:
 • Research Development Team: to help researchers identify the most appropriate sources of
    research funding, build research networks and collaborations, draft/develop funding
    applications and cost submissions. For example, our staff have worked closely with this team
    to generate successful applications to Leverhulme and Nuffield (Case) and BA/Leverhulme
    (Kay). The Team also support CALIBRE’s Beacons and Global Challenges.
 • Partnership Development Team: to support REF impact case studies, assist development
    of non-academic networks, broker and manage external relationships, scope partner
    requirements and identify the appropriate partner mechanisms. This team’s support has
    been crucial in negotiating a distinctive collaboration agreement model governing CRSP’s
    relationship with the Joseph Rowntree Foundation.

 3.3 Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact
 Our annual library allocation of £36k ensures that research staff and PGRs can purchase
 published research materials such as books, journals and electronic resources (also available to
 students), complementing our research and research-informed teaching.

 Research and impact activity is supported by the ‘Institute of Advanced Studies’ (IAS), an
 interdisciplinary research entity promoting and funding collaboration between Loughborough
 staff (and PGRs) and influential scholars from around the world. Collaborative activities include
 international fellowships, symposia, conferences, webinars and informal gatherings. PGRs are
 further supported by the LU ‘Graduate House’, which provides workspace, a training suite and
 training courses.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Collaboration with partners and selection of research agendas that contribute to the economy
 and society are central to our applied research strategy. As set out in Section 1, research and
 promoting social impact interlock closely rather than being two separate activities.

 This strategy is realised through:
 • Links with individual and organisational stakeholders: including through funding
    relationships.
 • Public engagement: ranging from media work to staff giving evidence at parliamentary
    committees.
 • Academic engagement: including delivering conference keynotes and contributing to
    leading journals to push forward new ideas and concepts related to social policy.
 • International thought leadership: developed by applying new techniques and
    disseminating knowledge beyond the UK, through international networks.

 This section describes how an environment is created in which these activities thrive.

 4.1. Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 4.1.1. Collaboration with academic partners
 Several elements of our research infrastructure (e.g. REO, internal funding, mentoring) support
 our network-building activities and strategic objectives. The effectiveness of this support is
 illustrated especially by the growth in our interdisciplinary and international networks and
 collaborations.

 Nationally, we collaborate to build interdisciplinary applied research evidence, supported by
 external funding. For example, Case is PI on a Nuffield-funded project examining effective
 responses to criminogenic influences on children’s lives (2019-22) – a collaboration with

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 criminology, information specialist and social research colleagues at Birmingham and Leeds.
 Across ACJ, active collaboration extends our international reach in our specialist areas of
 heritage crime (Nicholas with Professor Thomas, Helsinki University) and victimisation (Smith
 with Professor Burman, Glasgow University; Dr Skinner, Bath University; Professor Doak,
 Nottingham Trent University; Dr Illiadis, Deakin University, Australia).

 International partnerships underpin interdisciplinary research activities. Azpitarte
 (economics/social policy) conducts research on affordable retrofit housing funded by the
 Australian Research Council, conducted with an international group of architects, geographers
 and economists at Australian (Melbourne, RMIT) and Spanish (Vigo) universities. Nicholas
 collaborates with archaeologists (e.g. Dr Suzie Thomas, University of Helsinki) to progress her
 research on heritage crime, Coveney collaborates with medical sociologists and health
 professionals internationally from the UK Centre for Reproduction Research (Professors Hudson
 and Culley, Dr Herbrand), the Belgium Bioethics Institute Ghent (Professors Pennings and
 Provoost) and the Spanish Consejo Superior Investigaciones Científicas (Drs Pavone and
 Funes) on an ESRC project ‘Egg Donation in the UK, Belgium and Spain: an Interdisciplinary
 Study’.

 CRSP (led by Padley and Davis) has rolled-out findings from its MIS research through extensive
 knowledge exchange activities with international collaborators, supporting the application of
 this research method in France, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa and
 Thailand. Since 2018, an international network holding biennial symposia has been developing
 this approach, now informing and shaping policy and practice across the globe. This network
 includes leading academics in the field, including Professors Wright (University of South Africa),
 Noble (University of Oxford), Pereirinha (University of Lisbon), Abe (Tokyo Metropolitan
 University) and a team from the National University of Singapore.

 4.1.2. Collaboration with non-academic research users and beneficiaries
 Our unique relationships with partners help us leverage social impact and identify where
 research can support evidence-based policy. The key to our strategy of engaging with non-
 academic research users lies in forging relationships with stakeholders who work closely with us
 over multiple projects because we are the leaders in our fields, having developed unrivalled
 knowledge and expertise in particular research areas, combined with a strong record of external
 engagement.

 Our partnerships with non-governmental stakeholders (e.g. charitable bodies, third sector
 organisations) often build on prior links with stakeholders to whom research findings are
 disseminated. For example, the YCRG works regularly with Carers’ Trust alongside other
 bodies, such as the Children’s Society on their national Making A Step Change (MASC)
 programme, a DfE-funded project aimed at supporting the effective implementation of statutory
 duties. CRSP has a unique ongoing partnership with the Joseph Rowntree Foundation social
 change organisation, collaborating to research and apply the Minimum Income Standard. This
 relationship is distinctive by (i) being organized through a partnership agreement rather than a
 project agreement and (ii) having resources allocated for analysis, stakeholder engagement and
 dissemination, not just research. This gives space for researchers to follow through findings to
 support their application wherever opportunities arise, allowing secondary partnerships, for
 example with the Living Wage Foundation.

 Our outward-facing social policy work is further enhanced through collaborations with
 government and public agencies, including in the Departments for Education and Health and
 Social Care (YCRG - surveying young carers); the Scottish Government (CRSP – researching
 additional cost of living in remote rural Scotland, supporting its new fuel poverty indicator); and
 the Youth Justice Board (ACJ - to produce the evidence-base for their ‘Child First’ national
 strategic objective).




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Distinctively, these examples are a product not of competitive bidding to fulfil pre-defined
 research needs, but of bespoke funded opportunities deploying our key expertise, working with
 funding partners to define and address knowledge gaps, aligned with our strategic priorities. For
 example, evidence collated on young carers in the UK by the YCRG was used by the
 Department for Education to set the parameters for their Invitation to Tender for the Lives of
 Young Carers in England research. From 2015-16, working closely with local authorities to help
 them meet their duties under the Care Act 2014, the YCRG promoted and developed
 assessment tools and support services for young carers and their families. These collaborations
 are strengthened by one-to-one contacts with senior officials in those bodies – in 2015, Aldridge
 worked with council leaders, project staff and the MP in Norfolk to support and promote the
 County Council’s young carers strategy.

 In ACJ, Kay has collaborated (since 2019) with the ‘Twinning Project’ (a charity that twins
 Premier League and English Football League clubs with local prisons) and Her Majesty’s Prison
 and Probation Service (HMPPS) to deliver a football-based offender rehabilitation and
 reintegration programme in prisons through interdisciplinary collaboration with LU Sports
 Science, resulting in a bespoke knowledge exchange conference at Loughborough in 2019.

 CRSP has enriched international contacts not just with academics, but also with users of MIS,
 forming alliances with NGOs and policy makers in Thailand, South Africa and Mexico, and in the
 public sector with the Australian Fair Work Commission. These alliances have been
 strengthened by in-person visits by Padley and Davis supporting knowledge transfer and by
 symposia, organised by Padley, bringing together the network, including at Loughborough’s
 London campus.

 4.1.3. Wider contributions to the economy and society
 Our wider contributions delivering economic and social benefits are illustrated in two key areas:

 Measurement advances in poverty and low income: Building on MIS research, we have
 published ground-breaking, agenda-setting articles in international journals showing how
 monitoring of low income can draw more credibly on empirical evidence rather than abstract
 indicators such as relative income. Work by Hirsch, Padley and Davis suggests how a ‘low
 income gap’ can better articulate the aspirations of societies to achieve decent living standards
 for citizens, making the discipline more relevant to current policy concerns. Reflecting this, the
 UK’s Social Metrics Commission in the UK draws heavily on evidence from MIS. While MIS is
 best known for providing evidence for the Living Wage, increasing pay for over 250,000 workers
 of over 7,000 employers, this benchmark of a decent income is applied more widely across
 policy and practice, as the first evidence-based metric for measuring sufficiency of income to
 survive and participate in society. It is used in the legal system, by charities, by public bodies
 helping low income families improve home energy efficiency and by some social housing bodies
 in setting rents. Its status as a public standard grows through precedent: the very fact of its
 widespread use adds to its authority. Internationally, MIS is being applied to influence debates
 on various issues of particular concern. For example, in Singapore, research focused on people
 near or beyond retirement reflects issues for an ageing population, whilst the research in
 Thailand examined the needs of three-generation rural families with a young child, informing
 government policy thinking about Child Support Grant payments.

 Evolving applied criminal justice policy and practice: Our high impact research and
 scholarship have driven thought leadership and progressive policy and practice, contributing to
 new paradigms in applied criminal justice. Smith’s research on rape trials is transforming victims’
 experiences in court through a right to representation being introduced in the Victims’ Bill,
 directly informed by this evidence. Kay’s Twinning Project research collaboration is transforming
 approaches to and the experiences of prisoners in custody through sporting opportunities, with
 plans for a research centre set to further develop this trajectory.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.1.4 Engaging with diverse communities and publics
 Our research objectives cohere around collaboration with diverse research users and
 beneficiaries. Our ACJ work has collaborated with vulnerable and marginalised groups such as
 prisoners, young offenders, young carers, repeat victims of burglary and rape victims. On the
 last of these, Smith’s victim experiences research has helped give voice to this often unheard
 group, and has been cited in third sector reviews (e.g. Shadow Rape Review). The End Violence
 Against Women (EVAW) Coalition’s Rape Justice Fail campaign cited Smith’s observational
 research as enabling ‘clearly refined messages….critical to campaigning’ and central to a major
 Guardian newspaper campaign (Sept/Oct 2018 – present), reaching millions of readers on- and
 off-line. Similarly, the YCRG works closely with another often-invisible group, young carers, and
 helps give them voice. The MIS work is designed to enable the views of members of the public
 to be heard, and some of its studies have focused particularly on listening to what vulnerable
 groups such as visually impaired and profoundly deaf adults, and autistic children with their
 parents, consider to be their essential needs.

 The socially transformative role of our research and impact is supported by strong public
 visibility. For example, Coveney produced a series of short films, raising awareness of women’s
 experiences, from her egg donation research. Blogging for high-profile sites includes over 20
 articles for The Conversation since 2015. Case has attracted over 45,000 reads in four blogs on
 criminal justice topics, with 50,000 views of his TEDx talk on ‘Solving the Youth Crime Problem´.
 Hirsch, Davis and Padley make regular appearances on the radio, such as Radio 4’s Moneybox,
 You and Yours and More or Less, as well as on BBC and Sky News. Aldridge is a regular
 contributor to Carers World Radio.

 4.2. Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 We make targeted contributions to areas of our discipline where we operate as thought leaders:
 • Progressing critical social policy debates: Our key publications in leading social policy
     journals on care/caring and domestic violence/abuse highlighted the gendered dimensions of
     both unpaid care and domestic violence and abuse victimisation.
 • Developing rural criminology: Nicholas is at the forefront of this evolving global agenda as
     a founder of the ‘International Society for Rural Crime’, an editor of ‘Rurality, Crime and
     Society’ Journal and an honorary researcher at University of New England, Australia. These
     linked initiatives facilitate worldwide participation in exploring rural crime (society
     membership includes the UK, North America, South Africa, Slovenia) through biannual
     AGMs, annual conference, mentoring schemes and a bespoke award for ECRs.
 • Learned contributions: staff sustain their academic discipline through membership of
     learned societies and professional bodies and though leadership in research and research-
     led teaching. Case’s founder membership of the BSC Learning and Teaching Network
     (current membership over 100 from an original 3) underpins and informed the QAA subject
     benchmark statement for undergraduate criminology programmes. Coveney co-convenes
     the BSA Medical Sociology Study Group, one of the largest and most active BSA groups
     whose annual conference attracts over 350 international attendees.

 4.3. Indicators of wider influence
 During this REF cycle, our influence beyond the academy has grown exponentially
 inter/nationally. Our researchers collaborate with stakeholder beneficiaries as expert
 consultants in policy and practice development processes, providing thought leadership and
 empirical evidence to improve the lives of vulnerable and marginalised groups. Case has
 provided expert policy guidance to state governments in England (e.g. Youth Justice Board
 Academic Advisory Network), Wales (Youth Justice Advisory Panel), Scotland (Centre for Youth
 and Criminal Justice), Northern Ireland (Youth Justice Agency) and Ireland (Youth Justice
 Service) to influence the shape, content and implementation of child-friendly national strategies
 of youth justice. Additionally, Case is a steering group member/trustee for several applied youth
 justice campaigning organisations (e.g. Standing Committee for Youth Justice), collaborating
 with third sector organisations to develop evidence-based, child-friendly practice with children in
 conflict with the law.

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 One indicator of our recognition is frequent approaches by stakeholders to request new
 research. The Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association approached Padley at CRSP to
 research retirement income standards, and high-profile benchmarks resulted from the ensuing
 research. After Hirsch gave evidence on high rural costs to the Scottish Parliament reviewing
 legislation introducing a new fuel poverty measure, the Scottish Government approached CRSP
 to commission the measurement work that resulted. International esteem is underlined by the
 teams in eight countries who have approached CRSP with an interest in its MIS work, resulting
 in training in the MIS method in those countries, delivered by Davis and Padley.

 External engagement to deliver thought leadership and inform and shape policy and practice is
 demonstrated through appointment to esteemed national institutes, committees and
 networks. Aldridge was appointed a National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Fellow
 (2015-2018) and elected to the Academy of Social Sciences in 2018. Hirsch has been a member
 of various commissions, including two separate groups convened by Shadow Cabinet members
 to develop future benefits policy and the Extra Costs Commission convened by the charity
 Scope to develop a strategy for tackling the cost of disability. Our ECRs have also been
 appointed to such bodies, demonstrating that the potential of our next generation is already
 evident. Kay sits on the ‘Parliamentary Knowledge Exchange Unit’ supporting the exchange of
 information and expertise between researchers and UK Parliament. Smith leads the BSC
 ‘Victims’ Network’, where her role includes drafting responses to government consultations and
 planning multi-disciplinary, collaborative events. She is one of only two academics on the
 ‘Victims Commissioner Advisory Board’ and sits on the ‘End Violence Against Women Coalition’
 strategic group.

 In line with our strategic intention, over the current REF period, to be more prominent in
 academic communities, staff are newly involved in journal editorship, both ongoing (e.g.
 Nicholas – Rurality, Crime and Society) and as guest editors of special editions (e.g. Coveney -
 Drugs: Education, Prevention and Policy 2018; Aldridge - Social Inclusion 2018; Case, Youth
 Justice, International Journal of Educational Development – both 2020, Sustainability 2021;).

 Similarly, staff have also delivered over 40 keynote presentations to national and international
 conferences, engaging with academic communities on a completely different scale compared to
 our 2014 submission and indicative of the growing international influence of our research. For
 example, Hirsch gave the keynote to the ‘Multi-disciplinary research conference on food and
 poverty’ (Kings College London 2018), whilst Padley gave invited lectures to Instituto Tecnológico
 y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey (2015), Duke-National University of Singapore (2017,
 with Davis) and the University of Santiago (2019, with Davis).

 These indicators of influence show the esteem in which we are now held in both academic and
 user communities, not just for taking forward ideas and extending knowledge, but in particular for
 bringing this to bear on the real-life challenges faced by those engaged in social policy and
 criminal justice.




                                                                                            Page 14
