Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of York

 Unit of assessment: 11 - Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Context and Structure
 This submission comprises staff from the Department of Computer Science at York (hereafter
 referred to as CS). CS research is a central part of the University’s vision and strategy.
 Departmental research is organised under four themes which are detailed below, reflecting the
 research strengths of CS. As well as making major contributions to core research, CS also
 contributes to a whole spectrum of research across the University through six interdisciplinary
 research centres where CS researchers collaborate on a day-to-day basis with other
 departments. We submitted all category A eligible staff and indicators in this report are based on
 this group where relevant.
 The strength and breadth of this research and its importance to the University’s vision helped
 inform the York Research Strategy (2015-2020) which created seven key research themes
 across the University (Institutional Level Environment Statement (IES), paragraph 4, 11). Our
 research makes significant contributions to the themes of (1) Creativity, (2) Health and
 Wellbeing, (3) Risk, Evidence and Decision Making, and (4) Technologies for the Future.
 Professor McDermid led the Risk, Evidence and Decision Making theme from 2015 to 2017.
    Theme                    Research Focus

                             Research in this area explores the specification, design and
                             verification of high-integrity and safety-critical systems. Topics
                             include:
                             • Real-Time Behaviour (can a system be proven to always
                                 meet its timing requirements?)
   Critical Systems          • Cyber Security (can an autonomous system protect itself
                                 from malicious attacks?)
                             • Model-Driven Engineering (can the integrity of a system be
                                 improved by exploiting high-level system models?)
                             • High Integrity Systems Engineering (how can critical systems
                                 be cost-effectively verified and assured?)


                             This research theme aims to deliver robust, inclusive, and
                             human-centred computing technology for a diverse range of end
   People, Health and        users. Topics include:
   Wellbeing                 • Safety and reliability in medical applications
                             • Gaming and wellbeing
                             • Accessibility of digital technologies


                             Research in this area explores the study of data, methods for
                             analysing data in different domains, and artificial intelligence
                             techniques for improving our methods of working with large and
                             heterogeneous data. This encompasses novel research on
   Analytics                 artificial intelligence, computer games, e-Sports, natural
                             language processing and machine learning. Topics include:
                             • Safe decision making in autonomous agents
                             • Big data architectures
                             • Bayesian methods and graphical models
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                             •   Natural language processing
                             •   Optimisation and constraint satisfaction


                       Research within this theme looks at building a generation of
                       computer vision systems with capabilities that exceed those of
                       human vision, including new algorithms and hardware. This
                       involves studying the techniques and tools for computer vision,
                       image processing and analysis, and pattern recognition. Topics
   Beyond Human Vision include:
                       • Model-informed visual learning
                       • Novel vision systems
                       • 3D modelling
                       • Computer graphics and image generation



 The move away from a research group-based organisation to these broader research themes is
 part of an overall Departmental and University-wide strategy to promote multi/trans-disciplinary
 research, which we believe is necessary to enable large societal challenges to be addressed.
 Each theme has a Theme Champion who is responsible for fostering the research ethos of the
 theme and encouraging collaboration between themes and beyond CS. The themes are
 purposefully interdisciplinary and chosen to represent research strengths within the Department,
 and to integrate with the University research themes and strategy. These themes are broader
 than our previous research groups to facilitate easier and wider collaboration across multiple
 areas of research within the Department - most researchers belong to more than one theme.
 Above the themes, research activity is managed at a Departmental level by the Departmental
 Research Committee (DRC) and the Deputy Head of Department (Research). The DRC meets
 quarterly and consists of HoD, DHoD(R), REF Lead and representatives of the research staff,
 ECRs and PGRs.
 Interdisciplinary Centres
 CS additionally supports interdisciplinary research across subject boundaries through six
 research centres which are home to research and researchers from multiple departments:
 The York Cross-Disciplinary Centre for Systems Analysis (YCCSA) brings together
 researchers from different departments to develop novel mathematical, computational and
 analytical methods, and tools for the analysis and modelling of complex systems. YCCSA
 members are from the Departments of Computer Science, Mathematics, Physics, Biology,
 Chemistry, Electronic Engineering, Management, History of Art and Environment. This diverse
 team of researchers works across all seven University research themes.
 Digital Creativity Labs (DCLabs) is a centre of excellence for impact driven research in games,
 interactive media and the rich space where they converge (IES paragraph 11). It is led by York
 and involves Goldsmiths, the University of Falmouth, and around 100 industrial partners. It is
 supported by a substantial investment of £18m by EPSRC. DCLabs is strongly involved in the
 Creativity theme.
 The Quantum Communications Hub (QCHub) is a collaboration between Physics and CS and
 is funded as part of the UK National Quantum Technologies Programme with substantial funding
 of £24m over five years (IES paragraph 11). It focusses on delivering quantum secure
 communications by drawing on research from Physics and Computer Science. QCHub works
 within the Technologies for the Future theme.
 The Assuring Autonomy International Programme (AAIP) is a £12m initiative funded by
 Lloyd’s Register Foundation and the University of York to lead research, training and standards
 in the safety of robotics and autonomous systems (RAS) (IES paragraph 11). This work is led by
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 CS academics and researchers and is focussed on both foundational research and technology
 transfer to industry and regulators. The AAIP works extensively with industry and regulators,
 through what are referred to as ‘demonstrator projects’ supporting the assurance of emerging
 systems and technologies in a range of industries including autonomous driving, healthcare and
 manufacturing. AAIP contributes significantly to the Risk, Evidence and Decision Making theme.
 The York Interdisciplinary Centre for Cyber Security brings together expertise across the
 University of York and internationally to address current and potential cyber security challenges.
 Areas include IoT, blockchain, cryptographic protocols, quantum and post-quantum
 cryptography, homomorphic machine learning, cyber security in politics and law, mathematics
 behind cyber security, and data analysis for encrypted medical data. The centre draws staff from
 CS, Physics, Mathematics, Law and Management. This centre contributes to both the Risk,
 Evidence and Decision Making and the Technologies for the Future themes.
 YorRobots is an institution-wide initiative, led by CS, bringing together researchers and
 practitioners with an interest in robotics and autonomous systems, and their applications. The
 collaboration spans nine departments in the University. The aim of the centre is to maximise the
 impact of robotics expertise at York to the benefit of UK industry. YorRobots is involved in
 research into the development of advanced, ethical, safe, trusted, reliable, and certifiable mobile
 and autonomous robots.
 We are the only department to be involved in four of the University’s major centres and hubs
 (IES paragraph 11).
 Research Strategy
 Our primary research strategy is to be a world leader in research, based on the foundations of
 international excellence, innovation, impact, collaboration and integrity. Our strategic aims reflect
 the University strategy (IES paragraph 9):
     •   Recruit and retain the best researchers at all career stages and offer them an attractive
         and supportive research environment.
     •   Encourage and support interdisciplinary research strengths, both interdepartmentally and
         internationally.
     •   Deploy Departmental resources to support and build research excellence.
     •   Recruit the very best postgraduate research students and support the excellent research
         work of our PGR students and supervisors.
 Our previous strategic aims, articulated in REF 2014, were to create world-leading research
 contributions in Games and Gaming; Inter-disciplinary Research and Advanced Architectures
 and their Applications. This has been achieved through substantial new initiatives in the
 Department and the reorganisation around themes.
 We are a world leader in Games and Gaming through the DC Labs and the Intelligent Games &
 Games Intelligence Doctoral Training Centre (IGGI), with a team of around 80 staff and students
 delivering wide-ranging and impactful research in the area. These centres collaborate with
 hundreds of companies, providing an immensely valuable route to real-world impact. We have
 won substantial funding to support this area, including £18m from UKRI to support DCLabs, with
 £10m from EPSRC and companies for IGGI from 2014-2020. IGGI was funded for a second
 round in 2019, with a total funding commitment of £20m.
 We have grown and supported a rich culture of inter-disciplinary research to fulfil our goals in
 that area, through the six research centres listed above. We provide coordination and leadership
 for four of these centres (YorRobots, YCCSA, Cybersecurity and AAIP) and again have been
 awarded substantial funds to support these areas, including £12m from Lloyd’s Register
 Foundation and the University of York. QCHub is part of a wider research programme in
 quantum technologies, which includes the York Centre for Quantum Technologies (YCQT).
 YCQT is a partnership between the departments of Physics, Mathematics, Electronic
 Engineering and Computer Science comprising 19 academics from those departments.
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     Finally, our goals in the area of Advanced Architectures and their Applications are being
     delivered through the Assuring Autonomy International Program, a RAEng Chair in Emerging
     Technologies, eight funded projects and 40 research staff and students. The Critical Systems
     theme demonstrates our research strength in this area, and we detail below the substantial
     number of appointments made in this area. One of the key focusses of the AAIP is in delivering
     significant industrial impact through demonstrator projects and other collaborations and through
     work on standards and industrial guidelines.
     We have undergone a restructuring of the Department’s research, moving from research groups
     to the theme structure described above, to encourage cross-area and silo-free working, and the
     six research centres to support inter-disciplinary research and impact. This strategy was
     formulated with significant input from all research staff, including two research ‘away days’ held
     outside the Department where staff had an opportunity to discuss and debate research
     structures. We have supported these themes through a proactive and very substantial early
     career academic hiring process and providing substantial support for these ECRs – at the REF
     census date, we have hired 18 permanent new academic staff since March 2017, including 11
     ECRs. The appointments are described in more detail in section 2, but we have made targeted
     appointments to the themes including eight to Critical Systems, and two each to Analytics,
     Beyond Human Vision and Health and Wellbeing.
     We have world-leading expertise in Critical Systems, including our work on safety, security,
     enterprise, robotics, autonomous, embedded, and real-time systems. Our vision is to capitalise
     on this over the next 5 years, by consolidating our new research themes, developing our
     interdisciplinary centres, and developing new areas of research where appropriate. This includes
     a plan to grow the academic research and teaching staff to 55 FTE over the next two years from
     44 FTE currently. Clearly these plans are dependent on the research environment going
     forward, which is currently uncertain. Our specific goals over the next 5 years are:
•    To build on our world-leading status in research in Critical Systems, Safety of Autonomy, Human
     Vision, Digital Creativity and Games, and Quantum Computing.
         • To develop our international reputation in Analytics and People, Health and Well-being.
         • To incubate new strengths, particularly in the areas of Software Engineering for
             Robotics, and Cybersecurity, and support new interdisciplinary efforts in Robotics and
             Cybersecurity across the institution.
         • To establish a synergistic programme across robotics, communications, assurance and
             verification through the new Institute for Safe Autonomy.
         • To carry out cross-disciplinary research both across our research strengths, and
             throughout the sector as a whole, to maximise impact and particularly impact for the
             public good.
         • To provide the best guidance and research environment for PhD students, including the
             establishment of a cohort based Graduate School within the Department.
     Impact Strategy
     Impact is fundamental to the University and Department strategy at all levels. The Department
     has an Impact Champion who co-ordinates and oversees impact activity across CS. This
     enables us to develop a coherent impact strategy across the Department. We also work closely
     with, and benefit from, the University impact manager and the science faculty impact manager
     (IES paragraph 12). We also have an Industrial Advisory Board (IAB) which includes nine
     industry practitioners. The IAB is an invaluable channel between Industry and the Department
     and gives advice on impact, research areas and current industry trends and initiatives. Current
     IAB membership includes representatives from major companies such as IBM, BAe, and
     Morgan Stanley.
     Our strategy is to generate impact through industry engagement with our research centres. The
     centres have considerable industry involvement and are in some cases sponsored by industry
     partners (DCLabs and AAIP), and so they are an ideal route to impact. Our aim is to disseminate
     the research generated within the themes and centres to these partners and the wider public
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and then exploit the opportunities this creates to apply the research in practical scenarios. As an
 example, we have a large body of research and expertise in the safe design of critical software
 systems and, as part of this work, we have been involved in setting key international standards
 in high-integrity systems. For many years we have held continuing professional development
 (CPD) courses to disseminate this knowledge to software engineers and embed these standards
 and methods in industrial design. As a result, this work has had major impact on the practice of
 safety critical systems engineering (see ICS) and was instrumental in the founding of AAIP,
 which we expect to continue to produce major impact in the future. DCLabs was founded as part
 of a key initiative to bring together creative industries and new technologies. The WEAVR
 project, for example, is a £5.8m project running under the umbrella of DCLabs. It aims to
 develop data-driven content production for e-sports and is the underpinning work which
 generated an impact case study (see ICS). This is a direct result of this collaboration between
 computer scientists and the games industry.
 As part of our strategy, we have shifted our focus towards projects more directly aimed at impact
 and knowledge transfer, particularly through Innovate UK and KTP funded projects. These
 projects give a direct route to impact for our research and are already producing results. KTPs
 with Rolls Royce, IBM and BAe are tied to our assurance and high-integrity systems work and
 related to an impact case study (see ICS). A KTP with Gaist developed new strategies for
 scheduling road pothole maintenance which has been deployed by several councils and was
 developed into a full impact case study, although it was not selected for the REF. A further Gaist
 KTP developed a method for the seamless presentation of very large road survey data which
 has been deployed into a commercial product. A KTP with Balfour Beatty aimed to improve the
 identification of railway line faults using computer vision and the methods are also now in
 commercial products.
 More generally, the research themes at both the Department and University levels have public
 benefit at their heart and are designed to ensure our research has national and international
 visibility. The public interest and potential impact of these themes is evident, and one of the
 impact case studies is a result of work at the interface between critical systems research and
 industry (see ICS). We have worked hard to ensure that our themes do not consist of isolated
 pockets of research, but instead have clear public interest and routes to engagement and
 impact. One of our impact case studies is the result of making our research open source for the
 whole community to use, as part of the Eclipse software development project (see ICS).
 Open Research
 The Department also encourages open access for research outputs in order to generate
 maximum impact, including papers, code and datasets. The Institutional Environment Statement
 details the policy for deposit and public availability of research outputs which goes beyond the
 REF requirements (IES paragraphs 15-17). There has been a cultural shift towards a more open
 publishing culture within CS, with some outputs being made available on a pre-print archive
 such as arXiv before submission. The vast majority of CS outputs are published in green open-
 access venues and are freely available after the embargo period from the White Rose
 repository. We also encourage the open release of software, and this has led to contributions to
 the Eclipse Foundation (Epsilon, Emfatic, Hawk, and the foundation of one of the impact case
 studies), GOBNILP Bayesian network learning software, RoboTool for modelling robotic
 systems, DOMtegrity (protecting website integrity) and secure anonymous voting software. We
 have released a number of datasets for general use by the public including machine learning
 datasets (PRoNTo point cloud shape retrieval, RNA graph dataset) and a family of human head
 shape models (Headspace, The Liverpool-York Head Model and the York Ear Model).
 Research Integrity
 The University and Department fully appreciate the importance of research integrity and ethical
 standards. The University maintains a number of policies on research integrity and ethics
 (Codes of Practice on Research Integrity, Good Ethical Governance and a policy for the
 Investigation of an Allegation of Research Misconduct, IES paragraph 14). These policies are
 implemented at the Departmental level by two designated ethics coordinators who oversee this
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 process and deal with any ethical or research integrity queries. A faculty-level Physical Sciences
 Ethics Committee is responsible for the ethical approval of research where required. The
 Department also has some supplementary policies covering issues more relevant to CS,
 including a CS ethics approval guide for all research project submissions. All research grant
 applications must make an ethical statement and put in place appropriate data handling
 arrangements under a data management plan. The research PI has primary responsibility for the
 integrity and ethical standards of a research project, but ethical approval must be sought where
 necessary from the subject-level ethics committee.

 2. People
 Staffing Strategy
 Over this REF period, we have had the opportunity to refresh our academic staff and to
 strengthen key areas in our new research theme structure. We have focussed particularly on
 promising young researchers and during the REF period we have appointed 18 junior
 researchers. We have also targeted senior appointments in national priority areas
 (Cybersecurity and Digital Economy) with two new Professors since October 2017. Our goal is
 to strengthen the demographics of the Department for the long term. We have appointed 8 new
 academics to the Critical Systems theme (Chang, Wright, Matragkas, Gray, Gerasimou,
 Camera, Liu, Yadav), and others to Beyond Human Vision (Huber, Guarnera), Analytics
 (Nightingale, Drachen) and Health and Wellbeing (Iacovides, Zendle). We have also appointed a
 new group of researchers in Cybersecurity (Kahrobaei, Fashim, Shahandashti, Vasilakis). As we
 noted in the previous REF submission, the appointments are partly driven by a staff profile
 means that a number of senior researchers have left the Department. We have therefore
 targeted senior posts where necessary to support the research themes in the Department and to
 this end have appointed new Chairs of Cybersecurity (Kahrobaei) and Digital Games (Drachen),
 and internally promoted staff to Chairs in Quantum Computing (Pirandola), Software
 Engineering (Kolovos) and HCI (Cairns). All except two category A staff submitted are on
 permanent contracts. These academics are both research fellows appointed to specific funded
 posts. The mixture of appointments over the REF period puts us in a position where we have a
 healthy and sustainable mix of staff at all career stages going forward.
 The Department aims to support a rich and diverse research culture, and staff mobility forms a
 key part of this strategy. We have a number of incoming and outgoing international visiting
 fellows. We have hosted research visits from Italy, Spain, Germany, Portugal, Canada and
 Brazil. Our staff have held visiting positions at Beihang University, Inria Paris, Universidade
 Federal de Pernambuco Brazil and Western University Canada. These visiting staff are funded
 by a range of sources, including research grants, University pump-priming funds and host
 organisations. We encourage staff to apply for fellowships as a critical part of their development
 as exceptional researchers at all career stages. This is not limited to research fellowships; we
 also encourage staff to apply for knowledge-exchange positions. During the REF period,
 Cavalcanti, Hancock and Cowling have held Wolfson Research Merit Awards, and Habli and
 Power have held RAEng Industrial Fellowships. Smith was awarded a RAEng/Leverhulme Trust
 Senior Research Fellowship. Cavalcanti also holds a 10-year RAEng Chair in Emerging
 Technologies. We have also hosted a UKRI Innovation Fellowship (Foster) and a Royal
 Commission for the Exhibition of 1851 Fellowship (Giscard).
 Staff Support and Development
 The University maintains a statement on Research Performance Expectations which outlines our
 commitment to staff support and working environment as well as the expectations we have of
 research staff (IES paragraph 22). The Department maintains its own statement on expectations
 which complements the University-level one with more CS-specific details.
 The Department understands the need to support staff development at all career stages. All
 academic staff undergo an annual personal development review with a senior member of the
 Department where they can discuss career progress, any problems arising and identify training
 needs. Other researchers are reviewed by their project leads or line managers. The University
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 offers a comprehensive skills training programme to support staff development which is detailed
 in the institutional environment statement (IES paragraph 32). Staff are invited to apply to an
 annual promotion round. The Deputy Heads (Teaching and Research) offer early-stage support
 and advice to help staff construct their promotion applications and present the best case to the
 University.
 The Department has launched a new intensive programme of mentoring which is available to all
 staff. Staff can request one or two mentors to help them achieve objectives related to research
 (writing a grant proposal, developing a research paper for a leading journal for example) and to
 teaching. A personal program of mentoring is designed for each member of staff to help them
 most effectively achieve their goals (e.g., through frequent intensive meetings over a short
 period of time, through to less frequent meetings over longer periods). Since CS has appointed
 a significant number of ECRs in the period, we have instituted a new ECR network within CS to
 offer particular support to ECRs. This involves monthly lunch meetings with invited guest
 speakers to discuss key topics relevant to this group of researchers, and more informal
 meetings. Seminars have included discussions of funding opportunities, REF and University
 research data systems. We have also recently been involved in extending this initiative to a
 University-wide ECR community.
 Study leave forms a major investment by the Department in staff and research development. All
 academic staff are eligible to apply for study leave which can vary from a single term to a year
 (e.g. for staff exiting major administrative posts). 15 staff took study leave in the REF period.
 Examples include Cavalcanti, whose study leave at Universidade Federal de Pernambuco
 (Brazil) lead to successful grant applications and a Royal Academy of Engineering Chair in
 Emerging Technologies from research into verification of robotic simulations. Smith visited the
 UCSD Center for Visual Computing in 2016, leading to two spotlight presentations at leading
 vision conferences ECCV and ICCV. Pirandola visited MIT to carry out work on quantum
 communications. Kolovos visited Rolls-Royce, leading to a Knowledge Transfer Partnership, and
 OTE (Deutsche Telecom Group), leading to further collaboration in an EC Horizon 2020 project
 on polyglot persistence architectures for big-data analytics.
 We support all staff in the development of research impact through an impact champion in the
 CS department and a faculty-level impact manager. The impact champion is responsible for
 disseminating impact opportunities to researchers, supporting CS researchers in the
 development of impact and promoting awareness of the value of impact. The faculty impact
 manager is available to give advice on impact in research projects at all stages from proposal
 development to the post-project phases. We expect researchers to consider impact throughout
 the development of a project, from conception to publicising the final outcomes.
 To maintain strong links with industry, we have a number of visiting professors in the
 Department. Whittington (MooD International) and Morgan (ETAS Ltd) are RAEng-sponsored
 Visiting Professors. Many of our industry links are directly through research projects and
 centres. Our funding strategy has in part been to encourage more direct links through
 InnovateUK and industry funded projects. The AAIP programme is directly funded by Lloyds
 Register Foundation and we have substantial research portfolios with BAe Systems (£233k),
 Rolls Royce (£155k) and IBM (£157k). IBM also had a team physically located in the
 Department for part of the REF period to enhance interactions with academics. Staff have been
 actively encouraged to engage in knowledge transfer activities and have succeeded in
 undertaking 25 projects funded by InnovateUK (£1.9m), including 8 Knowledge Transfer
 Projects.
 The University is fully engaged with The Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers and has held the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research Award since
 2010. There is an action plan for 2018-2020 to support implementation (IES paragraphs 27 and
 28) with some actions to be implemented at the Departmental level. There is a robust set of
 procedures and policies to be followed at the Departmental level for the recruitment and
 selection of researchers (Principle 1). All research staff are treated as full members of staff, and
 so have the same access to mentoring, skills training and performance review (Principles 3 & 4).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 This demonstrates that we recognise the importance of researchers to our research environment
 (Principle 2). Researchers are made aware of their responsibilities and opportunities by their line
 manager (usually the PI) when they are appointed (Principle 5). Diversity and Equality issues
 (Principle 6) are addressed through our initiatives which apply to all staff and are described in
 the next section. The University undertakes regular review of progress in this regard at all levels
 (Principle 7). The Department is committed to trying to retain staff on fixed-term contracts where
 possible and has provided resources to bridge researchers between research contracts where
 appropriate.
 Support for Equality and Diversity
 The University has a comprehensive set of policies to support equality and diversity (IES
 paragraphs 35-37), which are all implemented by the Department. We have appointed an
 Equality Champion and initiated an Equality Committee which meets monthly. A set of
 webpages has been created detailing our support for equality and diversity, and our “zero
 tolerance” policy for any discrimination by staff or students has been widely publicised. The
 Department supports flexible working for staff; full-time staff may choose flexible working hours
 outside our two core time periods. We have policies for parental leave and staff may ask for
 flexitime arrangements to support their personal circumstances. We also consider requests for
 special arrangements when constructing the Department timetable annually. The University has
 an on-site nursery to help support staff with young children. We reviewed our recruitment
 materials and websites to ensure they give a positive and welcoming impression to all groups.
 Over the past four years, the Department has undergone a thorough review of our activities
 surrounding equality and diversity under the guidance of an Athena Swan and Equality
 Champion (Petrie). We developed a new Athena Swan submission and, as part of that process,
 we considered broader diversity issues beyond gender. The result of this work was the formation
 of the Athena Swan Self-Assessment Team (SAT) and a comprehensive action plan for
 improving equality and diversity. Many of the points on the Action Plan will not only support
 women in the department, but also will greatly improve the study and work environment for
 everyone. We believe this will also make it easier to expand our support to other under-
 represented groups, including staff and students with disabilities and from different backgrounds.
 The action plan consists of 10 high-level objectives and 60 detailed actions which will be
 monitored and implemented by the Department over the next few years. These include a new
 ‘best practice’ (from Informatics Europe) recruitment process to encourage female applicants for
 all teaching and research positions. The SAT is engaged in all aspects of the recruitment
 process, from review and revision of advertisements focusing on E&D issues, to monitoring
 shortlisting and interviewing, to post-mortems on recruitment efforts (e.g., hiring panels) for
 effectiveness assessment and future enhancement. We plan to improve the working
 environment and to this end we have set up a network of women academics and researchers
 who meet once a month for lunch to discuss issues in a more informal setting. We also aim to
 improve the support for staff development through briefing and mentoring on topics including
 promotion, preparation for REF and training. Many more such initiatives are included in the
 action plan.
 The selection of outputs for submission to REF2021 was made within the framework of the
 University’s REF Code of Practice, which has robust procedures for ensuring transparency,
 consistency, accountability, and inclusivity. A REF strategy group monitors the selection process
 for any signs of bias. All Category A eligible staff are included in our submission and decisions
 about research independence were made at University level, informed by an equality impact
 assessment (EIA). The EIA was considered carefully at Departmental and University level.
 Output selection was based on the primary criterion of quality, informed by at least two expert
 reviewers and with recommendations from a CS REF committee. Within the constraints of this
 criterion, we aimed to distribute outputs as widely as possible among staff. All staff were given
 feedback on their selected papers and opportunity to comment. The composition of the CS
 committee, recommendations and rationale behind the selection were reported to the University
 to ensure transparency and accountability of decisions. Our analysis of the selected papers
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 does not show any statistically significant difference in papers submitted per researcher or in
 estimated paper quality, on the basis of either gender or ethnicity.
 Research Students
 Research students are a critical component of our research community and we have a large and
 growing PGR cohort who produce outstanding research. We expect our research students to
 carry out original and rigorous research and communicate results to the widest possible
 audience. As evidence of the high quality of our students Dale (Stepney and Trefzer) won the
 2019 CPHC/BCS Distinguished Dissertation competition and Aziz (Wilson and Hancock) was a
 runner-up in 2015. We aim to attract high quality students to apply to our PGR programmes and
 to ensure that the Department effectively monitors and supports them while there are here. It is
 important that PGRs feel they are part of the research team in the Department, and so they have
 the status of full staff members. We have created an online space for PGRs including a PGR
 Community Page and PGR newsletters.
 We recruit students from an extremely varied set of backgrounds. We have PGR programmes
 leading to MSc by research, MPhil and PhD, with most of our students studying for PhD
 degrees. We offer full-time and part-time degrees and a distance-learning option. These courses
 help us cater for students with a diverse set of circumstances and needs. The part-time
 distance-learning degree has been particularly successful in widening access, allowing students
 from non-traditional backgrounds to study for a PhD, for example mid-career professionals who
 have to maintain a job while studying and those not able to travel regularly to the University. As
 mentioned in the previous section, we have worked hard to ensure our recruitment material and
 interview processes encourage and support applicants from all kinds of backgrounds. We are
 developing a ‘buddy’ system for applicants to allow them to ask questions of our current PGR
 students with a similar background, where possible. Students are funded through a variety of
 mechanisms, including self-funding and external sponsorship, the IGGI CDT, University
 scholarships and Departmental scholarships. The scholarships are awarded through a
 competitive process which considers both merit and the needs of the student.
 The PGR programme is managed by a separate Research Studies Committee under the
 framework set out by the University (IES paragraphs 30-34). The RSC implements a detailed
 timetable of checkpoints and assessments aimed at making sure every student achieves their
 goals and gets the help they need. Each research student is allocated a Thesis Advisory Panel
 (TAP) consisting of a supervisor, assessor and panel chair. The supervisor offers ongoing
 support and typically meets the student every week, and at least every two weeks. The student
 must complete a milestone every six months, which has the dual purposes of allowing the
 assessor to check progress and allowing the student to develop research presentation skills. A
 Progression Panel is held at the end of each year of study (or full-time equivalent for part-time
 study) where a group of senior academics meets to consider the progress and progression of all
 research students. The Progression Panel is carefully selected to have a range of backgrounds
 and to ensure that members are fully aware of equality and diversity issues that may affect
 candidates. Students are able to seek support from their supervisor, assessor or the Chair of
 Research Studies as appropriate. The assessor holds a confidential review of supervision at
 each milestone to identify any problems with supervision arrangements. Our goal is to enable
 students to submit a thesis as close to the target date as possible and to maximise the number
 of students that complete. All PGR students have access to desktop machines in the
 Department, and we have recently created a dedicated PGR space where students can work
 and meet to discuss their research. This is part of our long-term goal to move towards a cohort-
 based graduate school where students can interact more frequently with each other.
 All research students undergo an induction at the start of their course, including a series of talks
 and an introductory booklet. The department has an active training program and a PGR student
 training officer. The program focuses on careers and skills development and has a set of core
 compulsory modules (Research Integrity, Becoming an Effective Researcher, Professional
 Development Planning) along with a range of more than 50 skills development courses.
 Students who plan to teach must also take ‘Introduction to Teaching and Learning’ delivered at
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 University level. The skills development courses include careers, legal and ethical issues,
 research management, impact and communication. The training officer supports the doctoral
 students in running the York Doctoral Symposium, an event that is organised by students for
 students, and which is in its eighth year. It attracts around 70 attendees, including external
 participants. The students also run a student-focused seminar series on topics of specific
 interest, such as preparing for a PhD viva. For students on our CDT programme, there is
 additional specific training. Many PGRs also support our teaching programme through
 demonstrating.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Research Funding
 Total research income reported in REF4b was £26m, as compared to £19m in REF2014. Our
 strategy at the previous REF was to reduce dependence on UK industrial and government
 funding by targeting EU income. This strategy was successful; we reported £3.92m of European
 Commission funding for REF 2014, and we have £7.7m in the current REF period. Wider events
 have triggered a change in focus and towards the end of the current period we have shifted our
 income generation away from EU sources and towards projects more directly aimed at impact
 and knowledge transfer. We have substantially increased our Innovate UK income, for example,
 to £2.9m in the REF period (income includes directly funded and KTP funded projects). This will
 allow us to generate high-impact outcomes for our research. We have maintained our level of
 research council funding over the period to support our ‘blue-sky’ research. Research council
 funding and PGR students are our main drivers of high-quality research outputs. Our forward-
 looking strategy is to continue to seek funding from UKRI, while engaging more with the Grand
 Challenge Research Fund (GCRF) and the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund, as these are
 well aligned with our themes and University strategy. We also plan to seek larger, collaborative
 projects involving more staff at York (in CS and across other departments), and other
 institutions, and to continue to promote fellowships for our research staff.
 We aim to support our research themes and centres with significant research funding. The
 Digital Creativity Lab has £18m of funding from UKRI, University partners and industrial
 collaborators (IES paragraph 11). DCLabs is critical to support and enhance our research in
 Analytics. The Assuring Autonomy International Programme (AAIP) is tied to our work on critical
 systems and is a £12m commitment by Lloyd’s Register Foundation and the University of York.
 The work in Assuring Autonomy and Robotics is also being provided with a purpose-built facility
 via an RPIF bid (£10m, discussed in the next section) and an additional £4m provided by the
 University. The Intelligent Games and Game Intelligence (IGGI) CDT has been funded to a
 value of £5.6m by EPSRC and in total attracted £10m in funding in the first instance. The Centre
 won continued funding in 2019 for another eight years, with a grant of £8.2m from EPSRC, York
 and QMUL matched funding of £2m each, and industrial commitments in kind of £7.6m. The
 Quantum Communications Hub is a collaboration between CS and Physics at York (IES
 paragraph 11) which is one of four hubs funded as part of UK National Quantum Technologies
 Programme, with £120m being committed for the four hubs. As well as this hub, we are
 coordinating an EU project on quantum readout techniques and technologies (QUARTET) and
 are part of an EU flagship grant (CiViQ, €10m). We have also been awarded substantial grants
 at the interface between software engineering and physical systems (INTO-CPS European
 Commission £700k, RoboCalc EPSRC £1.8m, RoboTest (jointly with Sheffield) EPSRC £1.1m).
 The area of real-time systems continues to attract significant funding with two substantial
 EPSRC grants (£593k for multi-core research and £934k in cyber-physical systems).
 One of the outputs of our research into critical systems is a set of standards and methodologies
 for engineering safety critical systems see Autonomy ICS). One of our routes to impact for this
 work is through a series of professional development courses on safety-critical systems
 engineering, training engineers from industry to apply state-of-the-art methods. This activity
 brings around an additional £800k pa to the Department.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 We continue to support experimental facilities in CS in the form of laboratories hosted largely
 within the CS building. These support empirical research in each of our four research themes
 and are listed below. We have also won a £10m award from the Research Partnership
 Investment Fund to provide a state-of-the-art building supporting research in Autonomous
 Systems. This Institute for Safe Autonomy Building will host our research in assured
 autonomous systems, verifiable robots and safety assurance, and is additionally funded by £4m
 from the University.
 The HCI Interaction and Home Labs comprise two usability laboratories, three domestic
 environment labs (a kitchen, living room and dining room), and a control room with specialist
 equipment for usability research, games research and research with disabled and older people.
 Equipment includes a range of input devices, screen-readers, screen magnification programs,
 discreet webcams, eye trackers and screen capture software to monitor activities.
 The Real Time Systems Lab supports real-time hardware analysis and sensor networking
 research. This lab has been updated with a range of FPGA boards (cost £20k) and 4 GPU
 servers (£80k). The separate Crossrail Lab provides facilities for student teaching and individual
 projects in embedded and real-time systems and has been provided with 170 FPGA boards
 (£25k).
 The Computer Vision Lab suite comprises a dark room and natural light laboratories. Equipment
 includes a laser range scanner (Cyberware 3030PS) for acquisition of calibrated shape, texture
 and reflectance data, and optical bench and light stage facilities for polarisation imaging,
 spectro-radiometery and photometric surface analysis. The lab supports the work of the ‘Beyond
 Human Vision’ theme. The labs were refurbished in 2019 using £30k of Department funds. The
 lab has been used to collect data for 18 research outputs during the REF period.
 York Robotics Laboratory (YRL) (shared with the Department of Electronic Engineering) is a
 purpose-built facility for experiments in robotics, including autonomous systems. The lab is
 equipped with state-of-the-art tracking systems, a teaching/research classroom area and a
 technical workshop area. It provides safe, constrained space for empirical testing of theories in
 robotic and autonomous system behaviours, e.g. swarms of airborne systems and underwater
 systems. The lab supports work in the Analytics theme and the AAIP centre, and employs a full-
 time technician, shared between CS and Electronic Engineering.
 We aim to make the most of our research space to help generate impact from our work. DCLabs
 is a group of around 30 researchers hosted in a separate facility in the Ron Cooke Hub, adjacent
 to the Computer Science building. This facility enables researchers from multiple departments to
 come together with industry partners in one space. The RC Hub contains offices, interactive
 spaces, break-out zones and seminar rooms, and rents space to small companies and start-ups
 as well as hosting CS academics. The dedicated institute mentioned above for Assured
 Autonomy and Robotics will bring together researchers from multiple departments into a building
 with state-of-the-art facilities. A key part of the building design is a shared collaboration space
 which aims to enable interaction between academia, government and industry and enhance
 research impact. The Campus-based Catalyst building and the Science Park are close to the
 Department and host innovative companies as well as several spin-outs, who collaborate with
 researchers in the Department.
 Research Students are a critical part of our research landscape and we provide them with the
 best possible facilities for carrying out their research. PGRs are treated as members of staff in
 terms of access to facilities and resources. Each PGR has access to a desk and desktop
 computer within the Department. We have recently invested in a bespoke PGR space which
 aims to house many of our students in the same space, so that they can collaborate, share
 ideas and experience, and support each other during their studies. This aims to foster a strong
 sense of community amongst the PGRs. PhD students also automatically receive an £1800
 travel grant to support conference and meeting attendance during their PhD.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Much of the work in the Department requires significant computational support. Some of this
 infrastructure is provided at the University level and is accessible to all departments. The York
 Advanced Research Computing Cluster (YARCC) is a heterogeneous cluster of 70 nodes and
 1462 cores provided by the University, with 8 nodes supported through the IGGI CDT. The
 Viking cluster is new in 2019 and represents a £2.5m investment in a 173 node 7024 core
 computing facility. It also contains 8 NVIDIA GPUs specifically for improved machine learning
 performance. Most recently, the N8 Centre of Excellence in Computationally Intensive Research
 has begun to deliver the Bede facility (available to all researchers in the N8 Universities) with 32
 IBM dual Power 9 CPUs. The Department has also invested in computing facilities, particularly
 for machine learning. Equipment to the value of more than £100k has been provided for
 researchers through direct spending and equipment gifts. They support two compute servers
 with a value of ~£40k and provide four GPU servers with a value of more than £40k.
 Operational support
 We have a CS-specific Research Support Office (CSRSO) with 3 dedicated staff to support all
 aspects of research. This including grant preparation and administration. They operate a grant
 proposal review system which is also supported by the academics in the Department to help
 maximise the quality of grant submissions. They also ensure the proper ethical consideration is
 given to research funding. They also help academics organise conference hosting and
 management of publications. Each of our research centres also employs a dedicated manager
 to support their work. We have 14 technical staff to support computing infrastructure and all
 aspects of the infrastructure for our research including hardware and software. The technicians
 have a dedicated hardware workshop for building computing equipment. We also have an
 Impact Champion as a distinct role in the Department. The Impact Champion works closely with
 a faculty-level Impact Manager to support all aspects of research impact from the conception of
 a project to commercial impact in industry. Our Athena Swan and Equality Champion oversees
 our efforts towards improving the working environment of the Department for everyone. We also
 have a Disability Coordinator who ensures that all disabled members of the Department have
 access to the support they need to access our facilities. The DC also liaises between the
 Department and University to help support those with disabilities.
 The University is part of a number of collaborative groups including the White Rose Partnership
 (with the Universities of Leeds and Sheffield) and the N8 group of research-intensive northern
 universities (IES paragraph 6). The White Rose Partnership aids the Department in a number of
 ways. It provides a repository for all our published papers and supports our drive to open-access
 (IES paragraph 16). More than 900 research outputs (in the REF period) are available on the
 repository, the vast majority of which are publicly available due to gold or green open access.
 The N8 group has helped to deliver advanced computing facilities to CS through the Centre of
 Excellence in Computationally Intensive Research.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 CS is an extremely outward looking department and has large numbers of research
 collaborations from all areas of the world. For example, SciVal reports that CS published papers
 with 847 different institutions outside the UK in the REF period. The Department encourages
 research collaboration through a number of mechanisms. It manages a substantial discretionary
 fund which is distributed to research staff for pump-priming and other research activities
 including collaboration, impact and research meetings. The average size of the fund was £172k
 pa over the REF period to the end of 2019. CS also runs a programme of study leave with an
 open call to all members of staff to enable members of staff to focus on research for a period,
 and this includes support for research collaboration costs. Study leave has been used to
 develop collaborations with a wide variety of institutions such as Universidade Federal de
 Pernambuco (Brazil), Boston University, University of Washington, University of Oxford, UCSD
 and MIT. We also encourage staff to become involved in research networks and to apply for
 research fellowships.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Fellowships
 Over the REF period, members of staff have held a number of prestigious funded research
 fellowships at York. Cavalcanti held a Wolfson Research Merit Award from 2012-2017 and
 currently holds a Royal Academy of Engineering Chair of Emerging Technologies. Hancock and
 Cowling had Wolfson Research-Merit Awards (2009-2014 and 2017-2022 respectively). Pears
 held a RAEng/Leverhulme Senior Research Fellowship (2013-2014) as did Smith (2019-2020).
 We also hosted the Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851 Research Fellowship of
 Giscard at York (2015-2018) and Gaetana Spedalieri holds a Marie Curie Global Fellowship
 (2017-2020).
 Our staff also hold significant visiting positions outside York. Cavalcanti was Visiting Professor at
 Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Brazil (2017 funded by Royal Academy of Engineering).
 Hancock is Distinguished Visiting Professor at Beihang University and Xiamen University. Davis
 held an Inria International Chair at Inria, Paris (2014-2018). Bate was a Docent Professor at
 Malardalen University, Sweden (2011-2016, funded by Stiftelsen för Strategisk Forskning
 (SSF)). Woodcock was Visiting Professor at Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Brazil (2017
 funded by Royal Academy of Engineering). Power is an Adjunct Research Professor at Western
 University, Canada (2016-2021). Kahrobaei is an affiliated Professor at the City University of
 New York and a Visiting Professor at the Institute Henri Poincare and the Sorbonne University.
 Indrusiak was a Visiting Professor at UFRGS, Brazil (2014, funded by Capes). In total, York
 academics have held 20 visiting positions outside York during the period.
 We also have a number of links with industry through fellowships and secondments. Habli and
 Power had RAEng Industrial Fellowships in 2016, Habli with NHS Digital and Power with IBM.
 Geoff Garnett (DSTL) is a Visiting Professor.
 Networks
 Networks play a key role in creating long term collaborations between York and researchers in
 other institutions. Smith was dissemination coordinator for the EU COST Network on Integrating
 Vision and Language. The network involved more than 50 researchers from 28 countries.
 Cavalcanti is part of the EPSRC network on robotics and autonomous systems, involving around
 30 Universities. Cussens is network topic leader in the EPSRC network on Human-Like
 Computing. Calinescu, Woodcock, Cavalcanti and McDermid are members of EPSRC network
 on the Verification and Validation of Autonomous Systems. Indrusiak in involved in the EPSRC
 network eFutures and the EU network HiPEAC. Kolovos is part of the MDENet EPSRC network
 on model-driven engineering. Shahandashti is an Expert Fellow in the SPRITE+ network on
 security. Foster is a member of the EU network for safer autonomous systems.
 We support interdisciplinary research mainly through the work of our centres YCCSA, DCLabs,
 QCHub, AAIP and Cyber-security. These enable researchers from multiple departments to work
 on problems of interest at the interface between subjects. This approach has fostered a number
 of interdisciplinary research projects. RoboCalc and RoboTest (Cavalcanti, Woodcock) are a
 collaboration with Electronic Engineering. SpInspired (Stepney, O’Keefe) is an EPSRC project
 involving both Chemistry and Electronic Engineering. TARGeTED (Stepney) includes
 researchers from Physics and Chemistry. The Weavr consortium is a UKRI funded £4m project
 to look at e-sports broadcasting, and involves CS and Theatre, Film and TV with a consortium of
 five companies. Archival Polar Photography (Hancock, Smith) is a collaboration with
 Environment and Geography. Pears and Smith have a project with Hull-York Medical School on
 head shape modelling. The Wearable Clinic project is a collaboration with Health Economics
 and Health Services. ‘Mathematical Modelling of Bi-Directional Synaptic Signalling’ (Calinescu)
 is a project with Structural Biology researchers from Oxford. We also have a number of PGR
 students who are co-supervised across more than one department and, through the IGGI
 programme, students across more than one institution.
 Visitors
 The research themes host both national and international visitors as a matter of course. Over
 the REF period, we have hosted 29 research fellows, including Lisane Brisolara (UFPel Brazil),
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Lars Kunze (Oxford) and Chris Storm (Adelphi University, USA). Our research centres are
 instrumental in attracting research fellows, with a significant number of fellows visiting from
 industry as well as academia. We have hosted visiting fellows from BMW, Bosch, Hewlett
 Packard and DSTL.
 Engagement with research users
 Industrial collaboration is one of the key strengths of the Department. We have close links to
 more than 100 companies through their sponsorship of the IGGI CDT, and this provides a direct
 route to impact for much of the work in the Analytics theme (see ICS) . Similarly, the AAIP
 engages directly with end-users through industry partners and demonstrator projects. AAIP
 directly funds knowledge transfer to the wider community through a number of mechanisms.
 They maintain a body of knowledge on best practice in the area of robotics and autonomous
 systems distilled from many years of research. They also deliver a training and education
 programme including academic qualifications in safety critical systems engineering with RAS
 assurance, onsite and online training, workshops, and informal learning opportunities.
 Our staff collaborate extensively with companies through a variety of mechanisms including
 visits, advice and consultancy, funded projects, joint research papers and technology transfer
 initiatives. We hosted collaborative projects with around 70 other companies, including some of
 the largest companies in the world (e.g. Microsoft, IBM, Fujitsu, BAE, Airbus, NHS). We also
 have a significant route to impact through our CPD courses on safety-critical systems
 engineering (see ICS), which have trained more than 600 engineers from industry in the
 application of state-of-the-art software engineering method developed in the Department. These
 engineers come from diverse backgrounds, coming from 12 different countries and more than
 100 companies.
 Wider influence and contribution to the research base
 CS has been involved with a large number of activities to engage with the wider research
 community. We have hosted many conferences and workshops over the REF period. Of
 particular note are; the British Machine Vision Conference 2016 (300 attendees, 2 invited
 keynotes, 11 industry sponsors including Disney, HP, nVidia and ARM), Software Technologies:
 Applications and Foundations 2014 (210 attendees, 6 invited keynotes) and the European
 Conference on Artificial Life 2015 (200 attendees, 4 keynotes). Our staff gave more than 100
 invited keynote presentations at conferences and workshops and lectured at 8 summer
 schools/tutorial meetings. We fulfilled 42 Programme/General/Co-chair roles in conferences and
 workshops. The following have held Editor-in-Chief roles at journals: Hancock (Pattern
 Recognition), Woodcock (Formal Aspects of Computing), Kahrobaei (International Journal of
 Computer Mathematics: Computer Systems Theory), Burns (Leibniz Transactions on Embedded
 Systems) and Bate (Journal of Systems Architecture). Members of staff hold another 24
 positions on editorial boards. Academics regularly engage in the external examining of PhDs in
 the UK and throughout the world, with 90 exams in the period. The strength of our international
 links is evidenced by the fact that more than half of these (51) were overseas.
 Our work has been recognised as outstanding by the community, as evidenced by the
 recognition awarded to our researchers and research outputs. We gained 28 best or outstanding
 paper awards in the period. Dale (Stepney and Trefzer) won the 2019 CPHC/BCS Distinguished
 Dissertation competition and Aziz (Wilson and Hancock) was a runner-up in 2015. Hancock was
 made a Fellow of the IEEE, a Distinguished Fellow of BMVA, gained the IAPR Pierre Devijver
 Award in 2018 and an Honorary Doctorate of the University of Alicante in 2015. He is also an
 Honorary Professor at Anhui and Beihang Universities.
 Members of the Department regularly engage with research users and the wider public through
 policy making bodies, outreach and public engagement events. Cairns contributed evidence to
 government committees in both the UK and Australia on the problems of game loot boxes.
 Likewise, Zendle has been extensively involved with forums and policy-making bodies on the
 issues surrounding loot boxes. Cairns and Power have worked with the AbleGamers Charity
 supporting gamers with disabilities. Shahandashti was involved with the trial of verifiable e-
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 voting systems in Gateshead. Members of staff have presented their work on BBC radio and at
 many public engagement meetings. In total, academics have spoken at 21 public engagement
 events. We host a Departmental seminars with invited speakers from national and international
 institutions. We have also invited distinguished external talks as part of our ‘Roundhouse’ public
 lecture series. Speakers include Sir Michael Brady (2015) and Sir Tony Hoare (2015). The
 University has also recognised prominent computer scientists from around the world with
 honorary degrees, including Sir Michael Brady, Bertrand Mayer, David Braben, Tieniu Tan and
 Narendra Ahuja.
 Leadership and Informing Strategy
 Members of staff have also made substantial contributions to the wider research landscape.
 Hancock was Vice-President of the IAPR (2016-2018) and sat on the Royal Society panels for
 International Exchanges, Newton Fellowships and Research Appointments. He chairs the IAPR
 Maria Petrou prize committee, is on the REF 2021 panel and chaired the Czech Academy of
 Sciences CS Assessment Panel (2016). Woodcock chaired the Microsoft Verified Software
 Award Committee, the Formal Methods Europe Prizes and Awards Committee. He also sat on
 the committees for the RAEng Awards, RAEng Newton Fund and the Grand Challenges
 Research Fund. Stepney was a member of EPSRC’s ICT Advisory Team, the Science,
 Engineering and Technology Board and the “Big Ideas” Advisory Group. She is also vice-
 president of the International Society for Artificial Life. Cavalcanti was a Royal Society Newton
 International Panel member. Wilson was a member of the Czech CS Assessment Panel (2016,
 2020). Cairns and Zendle have provided evidence to support policy changes surrounding game
 loot boxes and gambling. Members of the Department are also extensively involved in reviewing
 and assessing research proposals from research bodies all over the world.
