Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Birkbeck, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 4 - Psychology, Psychiatry, & Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and overview

         In RAE2008 and REF2014, Birkbeck’s Department of Psychological Sciences was
 ranked among the top five Psychology departments in the UK. Since then, we have further
 enhanced our reputation as a world-leading research institution in cognitive and developmental
 neuroscience, cognitive modelling, health and lived experience. This was achieved by
 consolidating our position after rapid expansion during the last REF period. We have maintained
 existing staffing levels with internal promotions replacing retirements and bereavements, further
 major infrastructure investments, and by implementing our strategic aims for research. Our
 research excellence during the census period is reflected by our published work (over 1420
 publications, or 47 per FTE staff member), our ability to attract large-scale external grant funding
 (with new grants awarded since 2014 totalling £20.8M and research spend at £2.18m pa vs.
 £2.11m pa in REF2014 and £1.16m pa in RAE2008), a vibrant doctoral training program with
 14.8 PhDs awarded pa vs. 10.5 pa in REF1014 and 5.4 pa in RAE2008, and many prestigious
 awards for both senior and early-career staff including fellowships of the British Academy
 (Eimer) and the German National Academy of Science Leopoldina (Hahn), two EPS Early
 Career Awards (Longo, Cook), two Spearman medals (Dumontheil, Cook), an APS Janet Taylor
 Spence award (Ronald), and one of the most senior British Psychological Society awards: the
 BPS Honorary Fellowship (J. Smith).
         Our research is structured around four thematic clusters that represent our core areas of
 research excellence. The boundaries between them are fluid, with several staff members linked
 to more than one cluster. This structure fosters coherence within research teams, and facilitates
 collaboration between clusters and with other institutions. The four research clusters are:

       Brain and Cognitive Development. This cluster is organised around the world-leading
        Centre for Brain and Cognitive Development (CBCD), established in 1998. Research
        is conducted in the BabyLab and associated labs, including the Birkbeck Genes
        Environment Lifespan (GEL) lab. Research in this area has been further enhanced in this
        census period by the construction of the new Birkbeck ToddlerLab at a cost of £8.5M.
       Cognitive Modelling. Research in this cluster builds on our continuing excellence in
        cognitive computational modelling. This group is organised around the multidisciplinary
        Centre for Cognitive and Computational Modelling (CCCM).
       Perception, Attention, Action, and Emotion. Research in this cluster is focused on
        cognitive and affective neuroscience and sensorimotor control. This group is organised
        around the Brain and Behaviour Lab and the Affective and Cognitive Neuroscience
        Lab.
       Health and Lived Experience. This new cluster employs mixed quantitative and
        qualitative methods to examine health and development. A distinctive feature of much of
        the cluster’s work is a focus on the detailed examination of lived experience. It includes
        the Centre for Building Resilience in Breast Cancer and the Interpretative
        Phenomenological Analysis Research Group.

 Cutting across these four clusters is the Birkbeck/UCL Centre for Neuroimaging (BUCNI).
 During the census period our 1.5T fMRI scanner has been supplemented with a 3.0T scanner
 and new associated lab space.

 1.2 Research Clusters

       Brain and Cognitive Development (Csibra, Dick, Dumontheil, Forrester, Johnson,
 Jones, Kirkham, Mareschal, Meaburn, Ronald, Senju, Thomas). This cluster, centred on the
 CBCD (Mareschal, Director), studies the neural basis of typical and atypical perceptual,

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cognitive and language development from infancy through to adolescence and early adulthood.
 It has been strengthened by the appointment of Jones as a FT Professor (formerly co-ordinator
 of EU-AIMS project) and by Senju moving from an MRC Fellowship to a FT Reader. This cluster
 has hosted several independent post-doctoral research fellows funded by the Leverhulme,
 Wellcome, and EC Marie Sklodowska Curie programmes. It is a major centre for PhD research
 training, the lead hub for several EU and international networks, and regularly hosts sabbatical
 visits from world-leading researchers (e.g. Jay McClelland, Stanford, 2015).
          The work of the group is characterised by its theory-driven research programme that
 uses converging methods (behavioural testing, eye tracking, ERP, EEG, EMG, motion capture
 and kinematic analyses, optical imaging, computer modelling, behavioural genetics, functional
 and structural MRI). CBCD is organised into labs which share common infrastructure. The
 BabyLab (Mareschal, Csibra, Johnson, Jones, Kirkham, and Senju) focuses on typical, at-
 risk, and atypical brain and cognitive development over the first years. The Developmental
 Neurocognition Lab (Thomas) investigates variability and individual differences in typical
 development and developmental disorders. The GEL lab (Ronald, Meaburn) employs genetic,
 epigenetic and transcriptomic methods to tease apart the causes of typical and atypical
 development. fMRI studies at BUCNI focussing on learning, plasticity, and development in
 children, adolescents and adults are led by Dick (BUCNI Director) and Dumontheil. The arrival
 of Forrester brings a comparative cognition dimension assessing neurodevelopmental profiles
 across human and non-human primate species (chimpanzees, gorillas and humans).
          The CBCD has an outstanding reputation for interdisciplinary research, often conducted
 within the context of national and international initiatives (including global health initiatives with
 partners in India, Ghana and the Gambia). This includes large-scale multi-disciplinary studies of
 infants at-risk for later autism or other atypical outcomes. Jones and Johnson are co-PIs and
 Chairs of a national network funded by a consortium of UK charities (British Autism Study of
 Infant Siblings). They also lead a key component of the largest ever academic-industry
 collaboration for autism research (European Autism Intervention) which now extends to several
 NIH-funded sites in North America. Other examples of major interdisciplinary work include the
 Centre for Educational Neuroscience (Thomas [Director] and Dumontheil), a joint initiative of
 Birkbeck, and the UCL Institute of Education, where psychologists, neuroscientists, and
 education practitioners come together to develop innovative methods for improving learning
 outcomes and provide clear and robust evidence to inform education policy.

         Cognitive Modelling (Cooper, Davelaar, Hahn, Mareschal, Oaksford, Thomas). This
 cluster based around the Centre for Cognition, Computation and Modelling (Hahn, Director)
 builds on the unique strength of the department in cognitive modelling. The centre runs
 multidisciplinary research programmes designed to provide formal accounts of the mechanisms
 of behaviour. It includes active collaborations and co-supervision of PhD students with partners
 throughout the Psychological Sciences, as well as Neuroscience, Computer Science,
 Philosophy, Economics and Education. Research utilises Bayesian models, rule-based
 architectures, connectionist and neural computational approaches, and neurodynamical
 modelling. A unique new dimension developed during this census period is the focus on
 providing mechanistic accounts of socially relevant issues. This includes modelling SES effects
 on brain and behavioural development (Thomas), linking subjective lived experiences to
 underlying neural mechanisms (Davelaar), improving children’s educational outcomes
 (Mareschal), and understanding argumentations and reasoning fallacies portrayed in the media,
 especially in the context of major socio-political phenomena such as Brexit the Covid-19
 pandemic (Hahn, Oaksford). This shift towards greater social relevance is reflected in the new
 CCCM international seminar series exploring “Technology and Democracy”. In the assessment
 period, modelling approaches have also been successfully applied to many basic cognitive and
 neural phenomena, including the control and break down of sequential action selection
 (Cooper), conflict monitoring and neural feedback (Davelaar), optimism bias and reasoning
 (Hahn), infant statistical learning (Mareschal), reasoning and argumentation (Oaksford), and
 multi-level gene-environment interactions in developmental disorders (Thomas).
         Notably, members of this cluster have received large (£1M+) research awards for the
 design of Bayesian-reasoning support systems (IARPA; Hahn) and an Intelligent Games
 platform for training inhibitory control during maths and science primary schools lessons

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Wellcome and the Education Endowment Foundation; Mareschal, Thomas). The Centre also
 contributes to the key government priority of maintaining the UK’s world-leading position and
 competitiveness in the technology and services industry. It is represented on the steering group
 of the EPSRC’s Human-Like Computing programme (Hahn) and on the resulting UK-wide HCI
 network (Hahn, Mareschal) aimed at better understanding Artificial Intelligence and developing
 ethically sound human-like computing systems.

         Perception, Attention, Action and Emotion (Berggren, Cook, Derakhshan, Eimer,
 Jasmin, Longo, Press, Richards, Shepherd, M Smith, T J Smith, Tierney). This cluster
 focuses on visual and auditory cognition, sensorimotor control, and affective processing. It
 adopts a multi-method approach, which combines behavioural testing and psychophysics with
 electrophysiology, functional brain imaging, eye tracking, motion capture and computational
 modelling techniques. State-of-the-art specialist facilities are available in the Henry Wellcome
 Building and the MERLiN labs. This group also works on real-world visual and auditory scene
 perception, body representation, and imitation.
         This group includes the research teams of a world-leading expert in cognitive
 electrophysiology (Eimer, Director of the Brain and Behaviour Lab). Methodological innovation is
 a major focus of this group. This includes the development of methods for the combination of
 EEG and eye tracking data (T Smith and Eimer), fMRI/EEG co-registration, using a recently
 installed fMRI-compatible EEG amplifier system at BUCNI (Eimer and Press), using machine
 learning techniques to classify neural signatures of face and emotion processing (M Smith), and
 designing new methods to investigate salience cues in audition (Tierney). In addition to basic
 research, the group also investigates clinically, socially, and culturally relevant issues, such as M
 Smith’s work on face processing in Williams and Downs syndrome adults, Shepherd’s
 research into migraine and headaches, Richards’ research on the impact of anxiety on
 reasoning and decision making, Derakhshan’s research on the interplay between anxiety and
 attentional control, Tierney’s work on auditory salience in Dyslexia and ADHD, Longo’s work
 on body representation and eating disorders, Eimer’s and Cook’s investigations into the causes
 and consequences of developmental prosopagnosia, and T Smith’s contributions to cognitive
 film theory (leading to consultancies at the American Academy of Film, USA) and systematic
 evaluations of the social and cognitive impact of tablet usage on attention in early development
 (funded by the Nuffield Trust).
         This rich and stimulating research environment regularly attracts early stage career
 fellows wishing to develop their research potential. This includes 2 Marie Sklowoska-Curie
 Postdoctoral fellows, 1 ESRC Early Career fellow, 1 Leverhulme Early Career fellow, and 1
 Royal Society Newton fellow, along with numerous shorter-term international visitors, all within
 the current census period. The group also includes early career independent researchers
 working on the neural and behavioural basis auditory processing in music and language
 (Jasmin; mentored by Tierney), and links between attention and affective processing
 (Berggren, mentored by Eimer).

         Health and Lived Experience (Derakhshan, Eatough, Grunfeld, Miles, Shepherd, J
 Smith, Tasker). This cluster studies the health, wellbeing and development of individuals and
 families, using a range of quantitative and qualitative methodologies. It has been strengthened
 by the recruitment of Grunfeld at Professorial level during the census period.
         The Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis Research Group (IPARG) (J Smith,
 Eatough) conducts qualitative research on personal lived experience of health and well-being.
 Smith’s work has led to IPA becoming one of the world’s foremost qualitative approaches in
 psychology. IPARG acts as an international hub for IPA training and research activities, with 60
 regional and international networks. The Group also collaborates with quantitative researchers
 on major mixed-methods studies. For example, Smith leads the qualitative arm of an NIHR
 programme grant examining issues such as the impact of multi-systemic therapy and valuation
 of modified CBT treatment for young people with Epilepsy. Eatough conducts research into the
 experience of depression, Parkinson’s Disease, family therapy, and men’s expression of
 emotion.
         The Building Resilience in Breast Cancer (BRiC) Centre, founded by Derakhshan,
 uses neuroscientific methods to develop cognitive control training to empower sustainable

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 resilience and improve quality of life in survivorship. This unique approach has led many NHS
 staff to refer breast cancer patients to BRiC for educational support. With just under 2000 UK
 women members with breast cancer, BRiC collaborates with Breast Cancer Now, the largest UK
 breast cancer charity for research and care.
          The Psychology Applied To Health (PATH) Lab conducts research on people’s health
 behaviours, the experience of cancer and chronic conditions and the issues facing survivors of
 these conditions through mixed methods research and intervention development. Miles led the
 patient-experience strand of NIHR-funded diagnostic accuracy trials, including multsite trials
 examining the effectiveness of whole-body MRI on the accurate staging of cancers of the lung
 and colorectum. Grunfeld’s research focuses on determinants of psychosocial outcomes
 following diagnosis and treatment (mainly among patients with benign and non-benign lesions)
 and on the development of interventions to support patients.
          The Institute for the Study of Children, Families and Social Issues has continued its
 commitment to undertaking both basic and applied research related to the development,
 functioning, and well-being of children and families and to addressing contemporary social
 issues. Recent work by Barnes and Melhuish (both now emeritus) has included a randomized
 control trial of nurse-led group support for young mothers and an evaluation of the importance of
 the home learning environment on early child development. A centrepiece of Tasker’s research
 is family relationships and children's social and emotional development in both non-traditional
 and new family forms which has widespread national and international impact.

 1.3 Research Strategy

 Our goal since 2014 has been to further enhance our profile as one of the leading research-
 intensive Psychology departments in the UK. Our research strategy for the current assessment
 period is based on these key principles:

       Build on the department’s strengths in emerging areas of research that are both cutting-
        edge, and unique in the UK context.
       Consolidate our research areas of international excellence through appointing new staff
        and progressing excellent research staff with outstanding track records and research
        agendas to faculty positions, to replace leavers, retirees, and bereavements.
       Provide substantial ringfenced research time in the departmental workload model.
       Provide all researchers with optimal infrastructure, including purpose-built labs, specialist
        equipment, dedicated research support staff and financial and technical support.
       Provide academic leadership and interdisciplinary collaboration and support within and
        across research clusters, including dedicated mentoring and support mechanisms for
        research career development.
       Maximise the value of our key Central London location in close proximity to outstanding
        neighbouring institutions in health, cognitive neuroscience, and education.
       Implement an internationally competitive doctoral training programme, with a major focus
        on translational research, methods development, and industrial partnerships.
       Encourage and support research-led impact and open science initiatives.

          Our research and innovation strategies are reviewed monthly at the department’s
 Strategic Planning Group, which liaises closely with the Research Committee. These groups
 prioritise horizon scanning to identify future and emerging areas of research that dovetail with
 the existing skills and profile of the department. They make strategic decisions on the
 composition and future trajectory of research clusters, on targeted infrastructure investments, on
 new appointments, and on strategic succession planning for key research centres.
          To implement our research strategy, and to address leavers, retirements and
 bereavements, we have made significant changes to our staff, research infrastructure and
 organisation. Based on our strategic decision to strengthen our research in health-related areas,
 we have created the new Health and Lived Experience research cluster to replace our
 previous Child, Family and Health cluster. A new Professor of Health Psychology was appointed
 to help implement this new initiative. We have further developed our internationally leading


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 profile in developmental sciences by appointments and progression to senior faculty positions,
 and in cognitive neuroscience by appointments.
          In line with our research strategy outlined in REF2014, we have made major new
 research infrastructure investments to provide the best research facilities and to upgrade
 research space for our staff. Substantial fund-raising activity and considerable financial
 commitment from the College has resulted in a new £8.5M extension of CBCD to provide a new
 ToddlerLab. This lab came on stream in 2020 and utilises the latest wireless and virtual
 environment technology to allow, for the first time, the study of brain functions in home and pre-
 school environments in toddlers during active play and social interactions. As planned in our
 2014 research strategy, we have also extended our capacity for brain imaging research at
 BUCNI, which has developed into a world-leading fMRI facility. We have supplemented the
 current research-dedicated Siemens 1.5T Avanto with a second research-dedicated state-of-the-
 art 3T Siemens system, funded by shared infrastructure investments by Birkbeck and UCL. The
 new 3T scanner went online in March 2019. Office space from the former Institute for the Study
 of Children, Families and Social Issues has now been converted to provide new high-spec
 qualitative research labs and additional departmental doctoral student office space to
 accommodate our expanding PhD student numbers. Finally, we have installed a new Faraday
 insulated space in the Merlin Labs to enable high frequency brain recording to facilitate the
 research of a recent appointment. These new research facilities complement our major
 infrastructure investments between 2008 and 2014, which included the purpose-built Mace
 Experimental Research Laboratory in Neuroscience (MERLiN) (completed in 2011) and the
 Birkbeck Research Into Developmental GEnomics (BRIDGE) wet-lab facility; colocation of
 research staff in the Malet street building; and large scale refurbishment of office space,
 including additional testing rooms.
          Over the last two REF census periods, the department had seen a very substantial
 expansion in both staff numbers (an additional 8 lecturers appointed since 2010) and substantial
 investment in infrastructure (BUCNI, BRIDGE, Henry Wellcome Building, ToddlerLab, MERLIN).
 Our strategic objectives post 2021 will therefore be focussed on consolidation rather than further
 expansion, in order to retain our resilience in the face of any volatile changes in the research
 environment likely to occur in the next 5 to 10 years. By optimising the use of our recent
 investments, we aim to maintain our status as one of the most successful mid-size UK
 psychology departments. We will further develop the strategic goals and activities that have
 supported our research excellence in the previous REF period, while at the same time place
 even greater emphasis on the impact-related aspects of our research. Specific aims include:

       Build on our world-leading status in developmental cognitive neuroscience, with a
        specific focus on projects utilising the new research facilities in the ToddlerLab.
       Further develop our international excellence in computational cognitive modelling.
       Expand our focus on mixed-methods approaches through investments enhancing our
        new Qualitative Lab facilities.
       Focus on targeted investments to maximise collaborative projects across research
        clusters.
       Enhance our existing impact activities through funded (and co-funded) impact-related
        studentships, fellowships, and industry collaborative grants.
       Actively encourage and support (e.g., through targeted seed funding) the development of
        new research projects responding to government priorities such as well-being, global
        health, and educational challenges.

 1.5 Impact Strategy

 Our impact strategy is an integral part of the department’s research policy. This tight coupling
 has been highly effective to date at producing research which is both of the highest international
 calibre and produces political, societal or health-related impact. To further strengthen this link,
 the department recruited an Impact Officer during the census period who supports decision
 making around departmental research impact and ensures that it is integrated with the wider
 College Impact Strategy. The Impact Officer provides training for staff and research students
 and promotes understanding of impact for staff and students. Our research impact is embedded

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in long-term research lifecycles. It is a central part of the role of the Impact Officer to monitor and
 facilitate these research impacts, working closely with research leads to ensure that impacts are
 both recorded and communicated. This ongoing capture of impact data supports our future
 planning and also produces an expanding knowledge base about external stakeholders and
 partners, which we can then exploit in future impact-related research projects.

 Several mechanisms are in place to ensure that impact is fostered, identified, monitored, and
 nurtured as it develops to its full potential.

       Impact is a standing item on key strategic committee agendas such as the Staff,
        Strategic Planning Group, and Research committees.
       Staff are actively encouraged to take on advisory roles on external bodies in parallel with
        their research programmes, as a means of co-developing cutting-edge research with
        maximum impact.
       Impact activities feature prominently in the departmental newsletter to ensure that they
        get wide praise and recognition within the department, College, and beyond.
       We actively seek out CASE and other studentships in collaboration with industry (such as
        the INTERLEARN EC funded European Industrial Doctoral programme at the CBCD
        combining basic developmental cognitive neuroscience research with training and
        internships in industrial and 3rd sector partners).
       The department Research Committee has a budget that is frequently used to provide
        seed funding for activities that are likely to lead to impact.

 Emerging Impact activities: Specific Impact-related activities since 2014 have evolved as
 natural extensions of basic, translational, and applied research projects in all of our research
 clusters. In addition to the work described in the three major impact case studies submitted in
 the current REF, other examples of emerging impact activities that the department is monitoring
 and nurturing include the following:

       The British Autism Study of Infant Siblings study (BASIS), is a unique collaboration
        with ten charities led by Autistica (the UK’s national autism research charity) that
        provides a national network for the study of babies at-risk for later emerging autism, as
        well as information and support for families through newsletters, advisory groups, and the
        media. A central goal is to identify early markers that predict a later diagnosis of autism,
        to facilitate early intervention strategies for high-risk infants and toddlers. Led by Jones
        and in collaboration with the AIMS-2-TRIALS multisite consortium, a novel EEG-based
        stratification biomarker for autism was discovered (using a task designed at Birkbeck).
        This biomarker has received Qualification Advice and endorsement by the European
        Medicines Agency in 2020 in view of certification as a biomarker for clinical trials.
        Through collaboration with the US National Institute of Health Autism Biomarker
        Consortium-Clinical Trials, these biomarkers were also the first to be accepted into the
        US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2020. The BASIS team at Birkbeck is also
        developing a suite of bespoke stimulus presentation and analysis tools to collect eye-
        tracking markers of atypical development and outcome measures in international
        randomised clinical trials of novel treatments for ASD and ADHD in the US and Europe,
        and in observational studies across 22 sites in 11 countries. This has generated a
        database of over 9700 datasets from more than 3600 participants to date. The Birkbeck
        BASIS team has also led on the biomarker development for large global health initiatives
        to improve diagnosis and screening in low-to middle income countries (n=4500 South
        Africa, n=3500 Malawi/India).

       The Toddler Attentional Behaviours and Learning with Touch-screen (TABLET)
        project (led by T Smith) investigates the impact of digital technology (specifically
        touchscreen devices) on the early development of toddlers and pre-school children. Their
        initial research (on which basis Smith has recently obtained funding for a large-scale
        randomised control trial) revealed both positive (fine-motor control) and negative (sleep,
        attention control) effects of toddler touchscreen use. These findings have directly

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        contributed to the policies and practices adopted by various national and international
        agencies and charities. Their findings were cited in the Canadian Paediatric Society and
        the American College of Pediatricians’ recent screen time guidelines, and have
        contributed to new guidance and professional practices around screen time for the
        National Childbirth Trust (NCT, the UK’s largest pre and postnatal charity), the Early-
        Years Alliance (EYA, the UK’s largest union/provider of nursery provision) and the Infant
        and Toddler Forum (a national not-for-profit organisation focussing on early-years health
        and nutrition). Their research findings directly informed the decision by Hopster (the UK’s
        highest grossing pre-school educational app) to limit video autoplay.

       The Study of Cognition, Adolescents and Mobile Phones (SCAMP), led by Thomas
        and Dumontheil, investigates whether teenagers’ use of mobile phones affects their
        cognitive development and language development. SCAMP is the world’s largest
        longitudinal cohort study of this question. Initial research reports have focused on health
        outcomes, including sleep disruption due to late night device usage and the impact on
        health-related quality of life of social networking site use. The main results are likely to
        have a significant impact on government health and educational guidance regarding
        mobile phone usage in adolescents, as well as empowering teenagers around the world
        to make informed choices about their device usage.

       The Centre for Educational Neuroscience (CEN) is regularly called upon to provide
        expert advice to policy makers and practioners. As director of CEN, Thomas gave
        evidence on the importance of early years’ investment to the Work and Pensions and
        Education Select Committees (July 2016), and on the role of AI for future educational
        practice to the All Parliamentary Group on Artificial Intelligence (March 2020). Thomas
        and the CEN were commissioned by the World Bank to write a report (published in
        January 2020) on the neuroscience of adult learning, focused on improving adult literacy
        programmes, which now feeds into World Bank advice on new programmes in the
        developing world. Another CEN initiative led by Mareschal developed a computer-game-
        based learning intervention designed to improve maths and science academic
        performance in primary schools. An evaluation in a randomised control trial (completed in
        collaboration with Learnus, a think-tank linking basic science with classroom practice, the
        Wellcome Trust and the Education Endowment Foundation) across 89 primary schools in
        England involving 6,700 children found significant performance improvements in maths
        and science tests, at a cost of less than £6 per child. A larger-scale efficiency trial is
        currently in the planning stages with the Education Endowment Foundation. This award
        was also used as an exemplar of the College’s approach to knowledge exchange in its
        recent KEF return.

       The Integrative Centre for Building Resilience in Breast Cancer (BRiC), led by
        Derakhshan, currently has just under 2000 active women members with breast cancer
        (in the UK), and combines neuroscience and clinical science to facilitate the practice of
        resilience in breast cancer. The Centre is developing neurocognitive training aimed to
        produce sustained reductions in anxiety and depression in women with breast cancer. It
        has collaborated with the popular mindfulness app Headspace to assess the efficacy of
        combining this training with mindfulness meditation. It also provides networked support
        for women with breast cancer through face-to-face meetings, emotion regulation
        exercises, and online interactive discussions. In collaboration with the biggest charity for
        research and care in breast cancer, Breast Cancer Now, it also offers popular blog posts
        on Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (8000 listeners) and anxiety and depression in breast
        cancer (26,000 listeners), as well as a psychoeducational blog (Panning for Gold; 89,000
        followers) that was rated amongst the top 10 best breast cancer blogs by @healthline in
        2020.

 A critical dimension of these impact activities is the close coupling of rigorous basic research
 with clear end-user input to identify practical needs. While this has already resulted in significant
 impact, many of these projects are in their early stages, and are likely to produce even more

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact-related outcomes in the coming years.

 1.5 Promoting best practice in research and impact development

         Collaboration and integration within and across research clusters: We place strong
 emphasis on coherence and communication not only within research clusters, but across the
 entire department. This is ensured by regular seminars, specialist reading and discussion
 groups, and training workshops for staff and postgraduate students. The CBCD organises a
 weekly seminar series, frequent social events, and a variety of short courses, several under the
 auspices of our numerous EC funded international Innovative Training Networks (ITN). The
 Centre for Educational Neuroscience organises a cross institutional weekly seminar series
 involving external academics, practitioners, and policymakers. The Department holds a weekly
 lunchtime seminar series with national and international speakers. MERLiN runs a weekly
 journal club and regular external seminars. The GEL lab holds a fortnightly genetics journal club
 and organizes regular training events. Ronald co-founded the London Genetics Network, which
 hosts an annual meeting and training events for over 300 human geneticists in London from over
 30 institutions. The department publishes its own newsletter each term, which highlights awards
 and prizes, successful grant applications, major publications, successful impact and
 dissemination activities, and media coverage of research. Together these mechanisms create
 real synergies that have led to exploration of cross-cutting innovative initiatives. For example,
 our burgeoning groupings in experiential neuroscience and applied epistemology bring
 together researchers from all four research clusters, with the explicit aim of exploiting our
 strengths in cognition, development, and neuroscience on the one hand, and social/experiential
 and health-related research on the other, thereby generating genuine synergies between fields
 of psychological research that still too often exist in splendid isolation.

         Open Science and Reproducibility: The department is committed to Open Science.
 Wherever possible, we encourage staff to publish open-access under the terms of the Creative
 Commons Attribution License (CC BY). With the support of the College, the department regularly
 incudes a budget line for open access publication to supplement the funds made available by
 the College. Distribution of these funds is made on request via the departmental Research
 Committee. In line with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, the department hosts the
 Birkbeck Reproducibility Network (M Smith, Chair). M Smith is also the College lead for the UK-
 wide Reproducibility in Science network. All staff are required to deposit all accepted
 manuscripts in open access format (Gold or Green) in the Birkbeck Repository (BiRON).
 Researchers are also encouraged to deposit their data in openly accessible repositories as, for
 example, provided by the Open Science Foundation (OFS), or the Birkbeck Data Repository
 (BiRD).

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Over the census period, we have made 6 new academic appointments: 2at the Professorial
 level; 2 at the Reader level, 1 at the SL level (now Reader), and 1 at Lecturer level (now
 Reader). These appointments were targeted to consolidate our staffing position consistent with
 our research strategy and to complement our existing areas of research excellence against the
 backdrop of leavers retirements and bereavements. 2 senior appointments were formerly on
 research fellowships or funded via grants. Our strategy for research-related staff support and
 development has four key elements: we provide of state-of-the-art research facilities and other
 research support, offer multiple structures for career development and mentoring, prioritise
 research over other academic roles, and support and incentivise external research funding.

    (a) To ensure that newly recruited staff member (as well as existing staff) have access to all
        facilities required to successfully conduct their research, new laboratories have been
        adapted to provide qualitative research space, and a new Faraday-insulated lab for high
        frequency brain recordings has been made available. Further infrastructure support is

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        provided by our research support, technical and IT staff. All newly appointed staff receive
        substantial start-up funds to set up their own labs. Internal research funding is available
        from the School of Science and the Department. In addition to the initial start-up funds
        participant panel (approx. £20K per year), which is essential in a College with part-time
        students and evening classes, where an unpaid undergraduate participant panel based
        totally on course credit is not feasible.
    (b) Mechanisms are in place to facilitate career and research development of individual staff
        members, and in particular early-career staff. All staff members have an Annual
        Academic Review (AAR) meeting with the HoD, where career progress is discussed,
        resource and training requirements are identified, and milestones for the attainment of
        specific research and career goals (e.g., external grant funding, publications, academic
        promotion) are agreed. In addition to the AAR, all researchers (and especially early-
        career researchers) are assigned a Mentor in a cognate research area. Mentors are
        senior staff members who arrange regular one-to-one mentoring meetings, where
        research-related strategies and goals are discussed and agreed, and problems and
        obstacles for successful career development are identified. Senior Professorial staff are
        mentored by another Professor with cognate interests. Whenever appropriate the mentor
        acts in coordination with the HoD to resolve any problems.
    (c) In line with our status as one of the UK’s leading research-intensive psychology
        departments, academic roles and commitments among staff are positively balanced in
        favour of research-related activities. Teaching loads are equally distributed among all
        members of staff, with reduced loads for new appointees. Our advanced student
        teaching is research-driven, with final year research projects and options as well as our
        MSc courses directly reflecting active areas of research. We have strengthened our
        postgraduate demonstrator system for time-intensive courses such as practical research
        methods classes. This minimises the day-to-day demands of these courses on staff and
        frees up time for research. Administrative duties are efficiently structured and widely
        distributed, to engage all staff in college and departmental activities. A workload model is
        used to monitor the allocation of teaching and administration. A research sabbatical
        system is in place (one year for every seven served), with all staff members equally
        entitled to sabbatical leave.
    (d) Mechanisms are in place to support and incentivise the acquisition of external grant
        funding. Internal research funds (described above) are preferentially allocated as “seed
        funding” to projects aimed at obtaining pilot data for grant applications and impact
        generation. The discussion of external funding sources and the procedures involved in
        obtaining funding are a central part of all AAR and mentoring meetings. We have
        installed a grant support network (coordinated by the departmental Research
        Committee), where experienced senior staff provide advice and support in all practical
        aspects of grant writing by early-career researchers. To reward successful applications, a
        proportion of the grant overheads allocated to the department is directly allocated to the
        award holder and is freely available to fund research-related expenses. The successful
        acquisition of external grant funding is also incentivised through the College’s promotion
        and contribution-related pay award procedures.

 Research staff are an integral part of the department’s long-term staffing strategy. Birkbeck has
 received the HR Excellence in Research Award (HRER), which reflects the fact that we fully
 implement the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Senju chairs the
 College-level Academic Advisory Board for HRER Award, further illustrating the department’s full
 commitment to the support and career development of the researchers that play such a critical
 role in our highly successful research output. Long-term commitment and long-term stability are
 integral parts of our research staffing strategy for fixed term contract researchers.
 2.2 Training and Supervision of Research Students

 Our PhD programme has continued to thrive, with 89 PhD completions during the assessment
 period, an increase of 41% on the REF2014 figure. Fifty-one new external studentships were
 awarded to the department during the census period, including 29 from the ESRC, 4 awards of
 studentships for collaborative projects with industry (CASE awards through the ESRC, and the

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 MRC), 2 BBSRC awards, 6 awards from the Leverhulme Trust and other scholarly organisations
 or patrons of the College, and 10 through European Commission funded schemes. These were
 complemented by 5 studentships from a joint scheme with other central London Colleges. In
 2016, the department was awarded ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership DTP status, together
 with University College London, University of East London, and other Bloomsbury colleges
 (Institute of Education, School of Oriental and African Studies, London School of Hygiene &
 Tropical Medicine). Birkbeck hosts the Psychology Pathway of the DTP, and now receives
 studentships for experimental psychology, developmental science, educational neuroscience,
 health and well-being, and computational modelling. The department is also part of the BBSRC
 London Interdisciplinary Doctoral Programme (LiDo) DTP as well as the UCL-Birkbeck
 MRC DTP, ensuring a steady stream of research council funded studentships. In addition, the
 department has maintained its Graduate Teaching Assistant programme during the assessment
 period, which allows students to complete a PhD over four years while contributing to the
 teaching in the department (and enhancing transferable skills), with 7 students funded through
 this programme in the census period. Finally, the department has received a further 4
 studentships directly from the College through an internal competition process – including
 Birkbeck Diversity 100 Studentships targeting BAME applicants.

 The international quality of the department's research training was recognised when the Centre
 for Brain and Cognitive Development was awarded a European Industrial Doctorate (EID)
 programme by the European Commission, building on its previous status as Doctoral Training
 Centre of Excellence in 2004 and 2010 (an award scheme now discontinued by the EC). The
 EID award provides 5 fully funded postgraduate studentships. A unique feature of this training
 programme is the extensive participation of private sector partners from the technology,
 manufacturing, and services industry (e.g., Procter & Gamble, Tobii, Artinis, EGI). These
 collaborations bridge the gap between basic developmental neuroscience research and private
 sector applications. For example, all PhD students in this programme receive in-house training
 at Proctor & Gamble’s global research centre in Germany on how to translate basic science into
 marketable products. In additional, the CBCD has been a participating member of a further 4
 European Commission ITN training networks (ACT, MOTION, BRAINVIEW, SAPIENS)
 attracting and supporting further doctoral students from across the EU.

 We have restructured and expanded our programmes for postgraduate research students in
 response to changes in student demand, staff expertise, and advances in research. Since 2014,
 the department has introduced further taught Masters courses, reflecting its core areas of
 research excellence, most recently the MSc Health and Clinical Psychological Sciences –
 designed to complement our existing programmes in Computational Modelling, Developmental
 Sciences, Psychological Research Methods and Educational Neuroscience. These programmes
 serve the dual strategic purposes of disseminating our internationally recognised expertise in
 specialist domains and as a means of recruiting top calibre doctoral students in our areas of
 research excellence. A structured PhD training programme is provided for all doctoral students
 in line with UKRI supervision guidelines. This programme includes training in neuroscientific,
 quantitative, and qualitative methods used in our research, as well as generic skills training
 (including impact-related topics such as interacting with the media, collaborating with non-
 academic beneficiaries, and conducting translational research), contemporary issues
 (replicability of research; open science initiative; impact creation), specialist seminars, and funds
 for complementary skills training (e.g., MatLab, EEG/ERP, neural network modelling, brain
 imaging, eye-tracking). The department provides funding for research students to travel to
 international and national conferences, for participants in PhD student research, and for
 specialist research training costs. Finally, as a reflection of the international reach of our
 innovative research, several members of the department have been invited, during the census
 period, to provide advanced research methods training courses for professionals and
 postgraduate students abroad in Educational Neuroscience methods (Thomas, Mareschal,
 Dumontheil), the use of fNIRS with infants (CBCD members), and IPA (J Smith) in the United
 Arab Emirates, Singapore, the USA, and several European countries.

 The quality and international impact of our doctoral training programme is further demonstrated

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by international prizes awarded to individuals who completed their doctorates during the
 census period (e.g., Robert Glushko Dissertation Award, Cognitive Science Society, USA;
 American Psychological Association Division 7 Dissertation Prize; Society for Research
 in Child Development Dissertation Award). Since 2014, our former PhD students have also
 been awarded postdoctoral fellowships (Leverhulme Fellowship, Junior Fellowship at the
 University of Cambridge, and a URKI Future Leaders Fellowship at Cambridge), and have
 obtained numerous faculty positions (e.g., Queen’s University Belfast, UCL, Essex, Bath,
 Swansea, Goldsmith’s College, University of California Riverside) or other research positions
 (e.g., postdoctoral posts at University of New South Wales, University of Arizona, Brown
 University USA, McMasters University Canada, Newcastle University, University of York,
 University of Cardiff, Royal Holloway, University of Oxford, University of Cambridge, University
 College London, University of Bath). In their first post after completing their PhD, 50% of our
 students entered postdoctoral fellowships or faculty positions, and a further 20% entered
 government or commercial positions (e.g., in data analytics, artificial intelligence, machine
 learning, genomics). Other destinations include positions in the NHS, clinical training, and
 counselling/therapy.

 2.3 Promotion of Equality and Diversity

 During the census period, Forrester has served as the Assistant Dean for Equalities and
 Diversity in the School of Science, ensuring that best practice was implemented in the
 department. As an example, the department published a clear statement of its diversity activities
 on its web pages in response to the Black Lives Matter protests:
  (http://www.bbk.ac.uk/departments/psychology/supporting-black-and-ethnic-minority-students-
 and-staff). These pages outline both the department’s positions and concrete mechanisms in
 place to redress the inequalities that have existed in research and research institutions for
 decades. Birkbeck’s core mission of broadening participation in higher education naturally
 permeates through to the research students and research topics that the department supports.
 The department is making full use of the College’s newly introduced Diversity 100 Studentships
 and engages with young people with little or no experience of the research world to promote the
 realisation that research can be a career choice for minority groups (e.g., in collaboration with
 IntoUniversity and Cardboard Citizens).
          In 2015, we successfully applied for a Bronze Departmental Athena SWAN Award, which
 was successfully renewed in 2018. We are also a member of the Athena SWAN Psychology
 National Forum (ASPoN), a UK-wide organisation of Psychology departments working together
 to share best-practice and work collectively to address sector-wide equalities issues. Supported
 by a Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF), Birkbeck offers 6-month
 fellowships for finishing PhD students to write-up their results and complete ongoing projects.
 Since 2015, 27 of our students (21 women, 6 men) have received these fellowships. In 2018 the
 Department created an early career group for PhD students and postdoctoral researchers
 (SLICE: Science, Life and Career Evenings), including a range of internal and external
 speakers, which provides a supportive and friendly environment for early stage researchers to
 discuss various aspects of career development. Other initiatives have been targeted at more
 established researchers and members of staff. In 2015 Birkbeck implemented a new Shared
 Parental Leave policy, allowing fathers to share paid parental leave. Since then, three men in the
 Department have taken extended periods of paid parental leave (one twice), something that had
 not previously occurred in the department. In recognition of the non-traditional career paths of
 women with caring responsibilities the Department has co-funded two Daphne Jackson
 Fellowships aimed at providing a part-time route back into academic work for women with PhDs
 who have taken extended career breaks. In 2016, we started a regular Women in Psychological
 Science (WiPS) lecture series. In 2017 we renamed this series in honour of Prof Annette
 Karmiloff-Smith, an internationally renowned developmental psychologist in our department, who
 passed away in 2016. The aim of this series was to provide a highly visible, prestigious, and
 influential forum for talks by inspiring female psychologists. We have now held four WiPS
 lectures, featuring talks by Prof Virginia Valian, Prof Dorothy Bishop, Prof Dame Uta Frith, and
 Prof Clare Elwell. Our recent staff survey showed wide agreement that our efforts to promote


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 equality has been successful, for example, 95% of respondents agreed that the department is a
 women-friendly place to work.

 Recruitment and selection are guided by the College’s official recruitment and selection policy.
 Selection of new staff is based on excellence in one of our core research areas, and the
 selection process involves all existing staff members. Selection panels are all balanced by
 gender (as are all departmental committees). Once recruited, we place a high premium on
 retention by proactively proposing excellent staff members for promotion and/or contribution-
 related pay awards. In line with our key Athena SWAN objectives, we actively encourage women
 to apply for promotion. Birkbeck is committed to maintaining its status as a world class research
 institution and is therefore responsive to requests for resources to retain outstanding research
 staff. Diversity and equality of treatment is a key feature of all procedures in the department and
 College. We are a diverse department in terms of nationality, with a balanced gender mix: 49%
 of staff in this census period are women. All staff with responsibility for recruitment receive
 diversity and equality training to ensure that all relevant principles are upheld. At the College
 level, the HR department and the Research Committee review these procedures and monitor the
 department’s commitment to good practice.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income

 The department has maintained its excellent track record in obtaining external grant funding
 since 2014. Since 2014, the department has earned new grants totalling £20.8M, and it currently
 houses 21.7 FTE grant-supported postdocs and research assistants. Total research expenditure
 has remained steady (from £2.18M pa vs. £2.11M pa in RAE2014 and £1.16M pa in RAE 2008).
 Funders include the European Commission, MRC, ESRC, BBSRC, EPSRC, Wellcome Trust,
 Royal Society, British Academy, Leverhulme Trust, Nuffield Foundation, Waterloo Foundation,
 Simons Foundation, Autistica, US National Institutes of Health, US National Science Foundation,
 National Institute of Health Research, The Swedish Foundation for Humanities and Social
 Sciences, the Education Endowment Foundation, the Department for Children, Schools, and
 Families, and the Department of Health, as well as donations to support research students and
 infrastructure projects (such as the TodderLab) from private benefactors. While income from UK
 central government has fallen relative to the previous census period (primarily due to the end of
 the Sure Start project), external research grant income from other sources have either remained
 stable (BIS Research Councils: down 11% from £922K pa to £815K pa) or increased
 remarkably: EU sources: 169% (from £341K pa to £918K pa); UK charities: 33% (from £423K pa
 to £563K pa); Other international charities: 189% (from £57k pa to £165k pa).

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

         Our MERLiN lab (Mace Experimental Research Laboratory in Neuroscience) in the Malet
 St. Building has 6 acoustic booths for electrophysiological, optical and psychophysiological
 research and 8 sound-attenuated booths for eye-tracking and behavioural research, as well as
 office space for 33 postgraduate and postdoctoral researchers. There are further 12 testing
 booths on the 5th Floor. Equipment in MERLiN includes two 64 channel EEG systems, an
 EyeLink eye tracker, a BIOPAC system, fEMG modules, state-of-the-art equipment for auditory
 and tactile stimulation, and a device for measuring macular pigment density. The GEL and
 BRIDGE labs include wet lab facilities for on-site bio-banking of samples, molecular genetic
 experimentation and postgraduate training in cutting-edge statistical genetic methods. Further
 state-of-the-art facilities for EEG/ERP testing of adults, children, and infants, eye tracking, optical
 imaging, EMG, Kinematics and motion capture, and patient testing are available in the Henry
 Wellcome Building, which is shared by the CBCD and the Brain and Behaviour Lab.
         In this census period, recently refurbished office space (41 desk spaces for staff,
 researchers and PhD students) and new research labs for CBCD are located at 32-33 Torrington
 Square. With considerable funding from the Wohl and Wolfson Foundations (£3.2M) and the
 College, these facilities include a new £8.5m building to house the state-of-the-art ToddlerLab,

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (additional 436 m2 high quality research lab space) - the first of its kind in the world focusing on
 using wearable and wireless technology in naturalistic settings. The ToddlerLab includes
 specially designed home and preschool environments equipped with motion tracking, wearable
 eye-tracking, and combined wearable EEG and fNIRS systems (including cutting-edge
 cytochrome oxygenation measurement capacity –providing direct measures of cellular function)
 for monitoring children’s behaviour when engaged in natural interactions embedded in normal
 environments, a Nap lab for completing sleep studies and an intervention lab for developing
 family-based behavioural interventions. Further major equipment funding from the Wellcome
 Trust (£0.85m) means that this ground-breaking facility has been fitted out with Cave Automatic
 Virtual Environment (CAVE) enabling us to transport children into any environment using the
 latest interactive audio-visual technologies. In collaboration with ARTINIS, we have also
 developed technologies for co-registering fNIRs with EEG in freely mobile toddlers and pre-
 schoolers. The ToddlerLab provides continuity to the existing Babylab and enable us to now
 track development seamlessly over the first 5 years of life (instead of focusing exclusively on the
 first 2 years).
          The Birkbeck/UCL Centre for NeuroImaging (BUCNI), located in the ground floor of 26
 Bedford Way, just across from the other department labs, is a highly collaborative, inter-
 institutional initiative with UCL. Led by director Dick and an associate director at UCL, BUCNI's
 capacities have been considerably expanded with the purchase and installation of a Siemens 3
 Tesla Prisma scanner, made possible through considerable ring-fenced recharge fees from
 BUCNI PIs, and capital funds investment from Birkbeck and UCL. This state-of-the-art MR
 scanner has exceptionally stable high-performance gradient coils and RF chain, facilitating faster
 high-resolution imaging in all modalities with considerably less artefact. BUCNI has also
 completely retooled its electronics and machine workshops and expanded behavioural testing
 and reception facilities. It has also retained the existing Siemens 1.5T Avanto - a vital tool for
 scanning young children, participants with medical implants, for demanding applications such as
 simultaneous TMS/fMRI, real-time supralarygneal vocal tract imaging, and for translation of MR
 protocols and approaches from high- and ultra-high magnetic fields to standard clinical settings.
          During the census period, we have also established a Qualitative Research suite to
 support in-depth interviews underlying IPA and other qualitative method approaches in the
 Health and Lived Experience cluster. This facility provides a safe, confidential and supportive
 environment for participant to come into the department and engage in interview-based research
 projects.

 A vital component of the department’s research infrastructure, which ensures maximum usability
 of the research infrastructure, is its investment in professional research support teams. For
 example, the department funds a senior research support leader at CBCD with over 25 years of
 research support experience, who leads a team of up to 4 research assistants and 3
 administrative staff at the Centre. The Brain and Behaviour Lab is also supported by a full-time
 lab manager. The Toddler Lab CAVE environment is serviced by a full-time Senior Research
 Technician (Res3) coordinating technologies and creating scenarios for easy usability of the
 facility. Similarly, our technical and computing support team is led by an experienced senior
 specialist in charge of IT support. The department funds a further 3 general technical and IT
 staff, a 0.5 FTE administrator, and a 0.5 FTE MRI physicist at BUCNI, and also has an Assistant
 School Manager focusing on research and the postgraduate provision with a team of two
 administrators.
           All research within the department falls under the BPS codes of conduct, including the
 BPS Code of Human Research Ethics and the BPS Guidelines for the Conduct of
 Psychological Research within the NHS. Research governance is an individual and a
 collective responsibility. Training is regularly provided to make all research staff aware of these
 codes. These are monitored by the Departmental Research Ethics Committee. All research
 proposals must be submitted to this committee, which can refer specialist proposals to internal
 or external experts. The departmental ethics committee reports to the College Research Ethics
 Committee, which oversees its operations and provides a further level of scrutiny. There are
 tailored ethics forms for our key research areas of particular sensitivity such as genetic research
 and research with minors. Patient-based research with NHS partners is submitted to the relevant
 NHS local or multi-centre research ethics committees and must conform to the appropriate NHS

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 guidelines. EC funded projects go through full EC ethical review. All BUCNI-related MRI projects
 with healthy adults are reviewed by the BUCNI ethics committee, with developmental or clinical
 populations reviewed by the appropriate UCL Bioethics or NHS bodies. All research given
 ethical approval from NHS partners and other boards/institutions is reviewed by the
 departmental ethics committee, and records are maintained. A five-yearly internal audit of
 research governance and ethics procedures is carried out, and procedures are regularly
 reviewed and updated by the research ethics committee, to ensure best practice

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The excellence of our contributions to psychological science, our focus on interdisciplinary and
 collaborative work, and our strong emphasis on impact-related research has been widely
 acknowledged at the national and international level. For example, 3 members of staff have
 been invited to write authoritative articles for the very prestigious by-invitation-only Annual
 Review of Psychology (Csibra, 2015; Kirkham, 2018; Oaksford, 2020). During the census
 period, 3 of our staff were sitting Fellows of the British Academy (Eimer, Johnson, Karmiloff-
 Smith) and Mareschal held a Royal-Society Wolfson Research Merit Award. Since 2014,
 both senior and early-career members of the department have received many national and
 international awards for research excellence, including: 9 Fellowships of the APS (Ronald
 2014; Dick, 2014; Hahn, 2015; Derakhshan, Richards, Thomas, Dumontheill, all 2016; Melhuish,
 2018; Cooper, 2020); BPS Developmental Section Distinguished Contribution Award
 (Karmiloff-Smith, 2016); BPS Honorary Fellowship (J Smith, 2020); Fellowship of the British
 Academy (Eimer, 2016); EPS Midcareer Award (Eimer, 2014); Fellowship of the German
 National Academy of Science - Leopoldina (Hahn, 2015); Order of the British Empire
 (OBE) for Services to Social Science (Melhuish, 2016); Doctorate Honoris Causa,
 University of Lundt (Hahn, 2017); US Academy of Sciences Foreign Associate (Csibra,
 2017; Johnson, 2019); Associate Member of the British Academy (Csibra, 2018); 2
 Spearman Medals (Dumontheil, 2017; Cook, 2020); 2 EPS Early Career Prizes (Longo, 2014;
 Cook, 2017); 2 Elizabeth Warrington BPS Neuropsychology Society Prizes (Dumontheil,
 2015; Cook, 2018); Nakayama Award (Shorei-sho) (Senju, 2015); Humboldt Foundation’s
 2014 Anneliese Maier Research Award (Hahn, 2014); APS Mentor Award (Johnson, 2018);
 Huttenlocher Prize FLUX Society (Johnson, 2015); European Association of Developmental
 Psychology William Thierry Preyer Award (Johnson & Karmiloff-Smith, 2017); APS Janet
 Taylor Spence Award (Ronald, 2014); APS Rising Star Award (Cook, 2015); Margaret
 Donaldson BPS Developmental Section Prize (Senju, 2015); British Academy Rising Star
 Engagement Award (Gliga, 2016); Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences (Barnes,
 2016).
          The department is a major hub for national and international research networks and
 collaborations, placed in the top 5 worldwide for ‘Psychiatry/Psychology’ by the Best Global
 Universities Ranking (2016). Using the strategic advantage of our multi-national faculty and our
 central London location, we have further strengthened these links since 2014. In London, we are
 full partners in inter-institution facilities such as BUCNI and the Centre for Educational
 Neuroscience. Nationally, we are the co-ordinating hub for large-scale research networks such
 as the British Autism Study of Infant Siblings, and the national evaluation of the Effective Pre-
 school, Primary, and Secondary Education programme. CBCD is also a key partner in the large-
 scale EU-Aims project “European Autism Interventions” and participates in four other EU-wide
 research networks. The department is also recognised as the worldwide centre of Interpretative
 Phenomenological Analysis (IPA) research and training. The GEL lab co-founded the Genetics
 Society-funded London Genetics Network in 2020 which involves over 30 nearby institutions.
          During this census period, members of the department have served (or are serving) as
 Editors or on the Editorial Boards of many leading international journals, examples include but
 are not limited to: Psychological Review (Hahn, Mareschal, Oaksford), Cognition (Oaksford),
 Cognitive Psychology (Hahn), Developmental Science (Mareschal, Dumontheil),
 Neuropsychologia (Eimer), Cognition and Emotion (Derakhshan, Richards), Anxiety, Stress
 and Coping (Derakhshan, Richards), Cognitive Science (Cooper), Emotion (Richards), Child
 and Adolescent Mental Health (Barnes), Journal of Child Psychology and Child Psychiatry
 (Ronald), JEP: General (Davelaar). Members of the department have organised many

                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international conferences at Birkbeck and elsewhere, including the 39th International Conference
 of Cognitive Science Society, London, 2017 (Davelaar); the International Congress on Infant
 Studies, 2014, Berlin (Mareschal, Johnson) and 2020, Glasgow (Kirkham); and the 11th
 International Conference on Thinking 2016, Providence USA (Oaksford).

         Our strong focus on interdisciplinary research and collaboration reflects our long-term
 strategy to develop specific areas of interdisciplinary research excellence in fields where we are
 internationally leading. Two of our core research areas, developmental cognitive
 neuroscience and computational modelling, were already identified as world leading in the
 UK by the RCUK/AHPD/EPS/BPS Benchmarking Review of Psychology (2011), and we have
 continued to build on these strengths during the current census period. We have now emerged
 as the world centre for IPA-based basic and applied qualitative research (as documented in one
 of our Impact case studies), and are constantly exploring novel interdisciplinary avenues of
 research such as Experiential Neuroscience. Another important aspect of our emphasis on
 collaborative and interdisciplinary research is our strong involvement in translational, applied and
 impact-related initiatives. These have resulted in connecting with the numerous national and
 international networks described throughout that have underpinned our research for decades.
 The policies and structures put in place since 2014, and our focus on recruiting and nurturing the
 very best early career faculty, will ensure that the department will continually assess, improve,
 and sharpen its research profile and impact in the long-term. We are optimistic that our
 reputation for international quality research will continue to grow.




                                                                                             Page 15
