Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of East London

 Unit of Assessment: 18 Law and Criminology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Context

Since its establishment in 1975, the Law and Criminology Department at UEL has focused on
improving access to innovative, interdisciplinary and inclusive legal education, while facilitating local
and global impact through its theoretical, policy-oriented and collaborative research. Research in the
department has organically evolved its priorities, strongly influenced by the diversity of our local and
international staff and student body, leading to approaches to human rights, gender equality, social
justice, sustainable communities and financial inclusion that are distinctively ours. In 2014, the
department joined the Royal Docks School of Business and Law (RDSBL), which also hosts UoA17.
This extended the interdisciplinary ethos of both, creating links with the social sciences through
economic perspectives and enhancing the focus on communities, economy and society. Since
REF2014, significant research activity has been in the areas of human rights and sustainable
development. Terrorism and youth studies refocused on social justice, with research around
inclusive policing, cyber-safety, and healthy and connected communities. A fourth theme developed
since REF2014 is inclusive and ethical Islamic finance and communities. The research culture has
been resilient with significant improvements in research activities, events, collaborations and global
leadership, increased PhD completions and an uplift in research income with diversification of
sources.

1.2 Research and impact strategy and implementation
The RDSBL Research and Impact strategy (2015-20) has three strategic aims and two enabling
aims:
   1) To strengthen the diverse and inclusive research environment, making research in law and
      criminology accessible to all
   2) To create high-quality scholarship and research outputs in priority areas for our community
   3) To generate high impact participatory research, co-created with our communities,
      professionals and industry

This is enabled by
   4) Growing the post-graduate numbers to increase the vibrancy of our research community,
      whilst ensuring a positive doctoral research experience with timely completion
   5) Supporting research income generation from diverse sources and encouraging
      interdisciplinary collaborations

The Departmental Action Plan on Research and Impact (2015-20) is regularly monitored through
the Law and Criminology Research Support Group (LCRSG) which reports to the School Impact
and Innovation Committee (SIIC) headed by the School Director of Impact and Innovation (DII).
The DII advises RDSBL Senior Management and along with directors of the school research
centres contributes to the University Impact and Innovation Committee. The Department’s strategic
interventions to enrich its research environment have been as follows:




                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.2.1   Implementation of the Research Strategy
The department has an ethnic, gender and age diverse staff comprising of researchers, scholars,
teachers and legal professionals. ECRs, developing researchers and PGRs are active members of
research centres, where they are given support through mentoring, skills support, collaboration,
participation. Academic staff have annual Performance and Development Review (PDRs) with
agreed workload allocations and research expectations. Through public debate, civic engagement,
research base, economy and society, staff have produced quality outputs in publicly accessible
formats. The outputs we are submitting to REF2021 showcase the UoA’s cross-cutting expertise
across the four main thematic areas covering issues of social justice; discrimination (gender, youth,
racism, sexuality); land, housing and urban planning; finance; employment; immigration; pedagogy;
ethics; whistleblowing; and historical memory.
Through its research and impact strategy, the department has invested in high quality research in areas
of relevance to industry, professions, community and society. UoA staff have co-created outputs with
local councils, schools, student unions, Ofcom, London Met, NHS, businesses such as Anglo-American,
Islamic Development Bank, UN agencies, International City Leaders, Global Land Tool Network, World
Association of Sustainable Development. The UoA’s two contrasting impact case studies are on
transforming women’s land rights globally (Sait) and confronting racism and hate crime through civic
engagement (Winter). Both are outcomes of institutional seed-funding, departmental skills support and
peer review and collaboration through the research centres. The research impact action plan, monitored
by the SIIC, supports a range of strategic partnerships, event hosting and dialogues, conferences, media
outreach, stakeholder engagement, and policy contributions, with the oversight of the UoA’s Impact
Champion and support from UEL’s Research Impact Officer.

Improving the quality and timely completion of PGR degrees has been a key enabling priority for the
UoA in creating an inclusive and responsive research environment. During the REF submission
period, there were 9 PhD completions (with a further 6 delayed by the pandemic, but still completing
within time and by March 2021) compared to 3 completions during the REF2014 period. Research
grant generation has been another key enabler of the Departmental strategy on scholarship, staff
development and collaborations, leveraging research for knowledge exchange and impact. As a
result, research income significantly increased from GBP271,300 to GBP1,600 with 10 researchers
succeeding in funding applications. The sources of funding diversified and included UN, EU H2020,
UKRI, GCRF government Departments, Modern Law Review, Network. This has diversified revenue
streams, with consultancies, education and research grants.

1.3 Research Themes and Centres

Departmental expertise on human rights, sustainable development, social justice and inclusive
finance have considerably evolved since REF2014. The research centres have taken an active role
in ensuring innovation in leveraging investment opportunities. Three globally recognised research
centres are led by UoA staff: The Centre for Human Rights in Conflict (CHRC), the Centre for Islamic
Finance, Law and Communities (CIFLAC) and the Noon Centre for Equality and Diversity (Noon).
Additionally, the newly established (2020) university Institute of Connected Communities (ICC), led
by staff from this department, has brought experts from across the university to engage with
communities on inclusive policing, youth victims of violence, online harms and public health, offering
new opportunities for interdisciplinary research. A successful Terrorism and Extremism Centre
(TERC) operated in the department between 2016-18.
The research centres reflect the department’s expanding expertise, interest and interdisciplinary
collaborations and enjoy university-wide support, including inter-School collaborations, membership,
and joint projects. The UoA has been conscious of ensuring sustainability by strengthening research

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
impact, funding and collaborations. Though different in mandate and operations, the interdisciplinary
institutes work in partnership to support research, scholarship and impact across the university
through their leadership, mentoring, research, dissemination, impact, funding and civic
engagement. The centres have related synergies and have some overlapping foci, including
addressing the UN SDGs, inequalities, epistemic justice, and human rights.

1.4 Structure of the UoA
The UoA has its own research grouping (LCRSG) and joins the Business Department in forming
RDSBL committees. The DII has oversight of research in two UoAs and heads the SIIC, which has
representatives from the professoriate, centre directors, lecturers, research degree leaders, impact
champions, research income coordinators, early career researchers and PGR representatives. The
SIIC reviews and recommends interventions for supporting infrastructure for research outputs,
impact, income, research informed teaching, collaborations, and budgetary oversight. It advises the
School management team on research priorities through dialogue on thematic areas, research
strengths and potential, opportunities and entry points, especially through the research
communications plan.

1.5 Future Research and Impact Strategic aims and Implementation

The long-term research and impact strategy of the Department involves monitoring and updating the
five pillars of its current strategy, through indicators and milestones. In particular, the Department
will:
   1. Strive to recruit and retain high quality researchers and ensure an inclusive research
      environment for all staff groups including ECRs through sustainable research centres to
      support all career stages, including staff development and promotions
   2. prioritise socially relevant and high impact research activities through multi-stakeholder
      collaborations, investments in key researchers and partnerships while improving
      dissemination through website, social media and showcasing
   3. build on inter-disciplinary and multi-stakeholder approaches and collaborations that
      generate innovative tools, research income and practical interventions to real life
      challenges


 2. People

2.1. Research Environment in Thematic Areas

The activities of the four centres reflect the research activities of its staff from the Department, as
well as its ethos and environment.
Human Rights

Work on human rights in the Department is led by the Centre on Human Rights in Conflict (CHRC),
which since its establishment in 2006 with Sriram as Director, has carried out funded academic
policy-orientated research and capacity development initiatives on human rights, particularly conflict,
gender and land rights. Examples are Holt’s Youthopia project on human rights and conflict
resolution in Greece (2015), and the Europe Foundation training and consultancy on minority rights
in Georgia (2016). The Folke Bernadotte funded programme on peace and accountability in
Columbia peace (2018) was coordinated by Sriram. Gilbert led three projects on land and human
rights with Modern Law Review project (2014), Minority Rights Group International (2015) and Open

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Justice Institute (2017). These contributed to the UN General Comment on Land (2015) and expert
witness statements in the case of Kaliña and Lokono Peoples v. Suriname before the Inter-American
Court of Human Rights (2015).
After Sriram passed away in 2018, the new directors Collins and Strawson have further developed
gender, land, and other human rights dimensions. CHRC member Sait led the development of
human rights-based approaches (HRBA) to land, funded by UN Habitat, and he provided training on
land HRBA to senior UN officials (Nairobi, 2017), at the World Urban Forum (Kuala Lumpur, 2018),
and at the World Bank (2018). His lead paper on Human Rights and Urban Development with the
UN High Commission on Human Rights had 65 delegates (April 2020). In May 2020, under the
auspices of CHRC, he organised a high-profile side-event on HRBA with leading human rights
organisations at the UN-Habitat Assembly that was shared with over 3,000 government delegates.
CHRC member Jackson’s publications on human rights and housing (2019) have contributed to
community dialogues on protecting rights of marginalised communities, while Hobby’s work on
whistleblowing and public interest concerns had drawn industry interest (2020). CHRC hosts regular
dialogues on various dimensions of human rights, an example being Collins and Strawson’s
Routledge collection on Injustice, Memory and Faith in Human Rights, drawing on the work of
political scientists, anthropologists and legal scholars (2017). Four CHRC members are submitting
outputs (Collins, Sait, Jackson, and Hobby), with co-authors including doctoral students and recent
graduates (Namwase, Salmone, Farid, Nartey) and academics from other departments (Korac,
Dona, Afaf).
Examples of CHRC’s local impact is the UEL Legal Advice Centre (established 2017) offering free
legal advice to members of the public, on family, housing and welfare benefits through caselaw
research from staff and students at this UoA. It works in partnership with Sycamore Trust, Romford
Autism Legal Clinic and Duncan Lewis Solicitors. From April 2020, the Centre advice sessions
moved online. Another example is the UEL Centre for Mediation and Conflict Management was
established in 2019 and run by Hobby and Hayes. A key function of the centre is to contribute to the
research agenda on conflict resolution, mediation and restorative practices.
Sustainable Development

Work on sustainable development has been led by the Noon Centre for Equality and Development
(Noon) was set up by Lord Noon MBE in 2012 with an initial focus on increasing skills and
opportunities for young people and students from disadvantageous backgrounds through
partnerships with industry and communities. Beyond its successful projects such as London Scholars
and Young Black and Ethnic Professionals Programme (YBEP), Noon Centre sought to promote a
more inclusive and fairer society and economy. For example, through the Annual Global Equality
and Diversity Awards with Stewart Associates, Noon showcases research and best practices in
equality and diversity areas. In 2019, a strategic review of Noon Centre recommended a more
research focus and Sait was appointed as Director, mapping its mandate to the UN SDGs. Five
Noon Centre staff are submitting outputs to UoA18 (Sait, Winter, Balan, Javaid and Dimitros), but
the membership includes colleagues from business, health, social sciences and education (Sharpe,
Roy Mukherjee, Tiwari, Morgan and Ravenscroft).
Noon Centre research on the SDGs, particularly gender equality, was recognised by UN Habitat by
the appointment in April 2019 of Sait as co-chair of the UN Habitat Stakeholder Advisory Group
Enterprise (SAGE) and as advisor to the UN Habitat Executive Board (July 2020). At the World Urban
Forum (WUF) in Abu Dhabi February 2020 attended by 13,000 delegates, Sait co-drafted the Abu
Dhabi Declaration and read the declaration at the main WUF closing ceremony, telecast live by UN
television. Sait’s research has been acknowledged in the influential GLTN gender and land strategy

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2019-2030, launched at the Africa Land Policy Initiative meeting (Addis Ababa, November 2019). As
a member of the UN-Habitat Advisory Group on Gender Issues (AGGI) Sait contributed to drafting
of the UN Habitat Assembly Gender Resolution on gender equality and inclusive and sustainable
cities adopted in May 2019. Through the Global Challenge Research Fund (GCRF), Sait developed
a gender and land framework to promote women’s land rights in India, Malaysia and Morocco, and
convened a forum of over a hundred women leaders in London with the World Association of
Sustainable Development (July and August 2019). Sait’s research led to gender-responsive
voluntary slum relocation guidelines, which were adopted by the government of Liberia, Habitat for
Humanity, and Cities Alliance at Monrovia (April 2019). Sait’s research on BAME-disproportional
socio-economic impact of the pandemic has informed the work of Newham’s BAME Impact Task &
Finish Group (2020), which has been funded GBP7,000 by UKRI. The UN has funded GBP50,000
to Noon for 2 projects on Climate Change and on Gender and Youth land rights.
Balan has interrogated the challenges of globalisation in legal education, the Oxford tutorial system,
using Interpretive Phenomenological Analysis (IPA) for analysing legal ethics and competencies in
the widening participation agenda (2018-20). Winter’s research has addressed improving community
cohesion through the project ‘Step Up To Stop Hate’ (2017-18) with North and East London Citizen
groups, student unions and advised Citizens UK Redbridge Alliance. Winter organised a ‘Hate Crime
in London’ workshop and study day with 62 students at the Museum of London (MoL) (2019). His
workshop ‘Engaging with Criminology’ for A-Level Sociology Teachers organised by the British
Sociological Association (19 Nov. 2019) developed the resource pack now being used by teachers
of A-Level Sociology and Criminology nationally. Javid’s extensive exploration of gender, sexuality
and violence with Zed (2018-20) have been influential in overcoming male sexual victimisation.
Kivodatis explores the relationship between rights and social struggles, especially in the context of
Greek referendum (2019).
An example of Noon Centre’s local research and impact is its work with Newham Council, with Sait
as member of the Stratford Masterplan skills development, member of the task and finish group on
addressing BAME disparities, participating in the ‘50 steps to a Healthier Newham’ and its report on
socio-economic impact of Covid-19 in East London. As part of its commitment to promoting a fairer
and more inclusive society the Centre provides advice to local business and helps to link students
with employers through the Elite Scholars programme.
Social Protection
Work on social protection initiated in the department is now one of the focus of the interdisciplinary
ICC. Appointed to the department in 2018, Davidson strategically united three initiatives: the TERC,
the Centre of Professional Policing (established by Fox), and the Online Harms and Cyber Crime
Unit (OHCCU) led by Davidson. In taking on the Directorship of the ICC, she incorporated a fourth
unit, the successful Institute of Health and Human Development, to form an interdisciplinary cluster
including world leading academics from criminology, cyber-criminology, psychology,
cyberpsychology, policing and law as well as health and wellbeing. Inter-disciplinarity and
sustainability are two reasons for this consolidation that has created a particularly vibrant hub that is
already attracting significant international funding and the interest of policymakers (e.g., DCMS,
Ofcom).
Davidson was awarded an OBE in the Queens Hons list 2020 for internet safety. She works with
governments worldwide, industry, service providers, practitioners, NGOs and charities in the online
harms and cybercrime arenas. Davidson chairs the UK Council Internet Safety Evidence Group on
behalf of the DCMS investigating online harms and the drivers of cybercrime through a H2020 grant
and ongoing research for the UK Government. She developed an evidence-based child online

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
protection policy for the Rwandan Government (with Baroness Beeban Kidron/5Rights) and
completed a Rapid Evidence Assessment on online harassment, revenge pornography, image-
based abuse and hate crime for the DCMS with Choak, Phillips, Jenkins and Ike that informed the
Online Harms White Paper. World-leading cyber-psychologist Aiken, author of The Cyber Effect was
appointed as a Professor in Forensic Cybercrime attached while policing and cybercrime expert Fox
has been co-leading the OHCCU the Centre of Professional Policing since 2018.
The ICC also builds on the work of TERC, developing expertise on counterterrorism, radicalisation
and extremism and political violence. TERC was led by Morrison, with its members including
Richards, Silke, Strawson and Winter. Silke worked with UK government, the UN and the EU, and
was interviewed by media outlets including The Guardian. TERC members produced outputs
including Historical Perspectives on Organised Crime and Terrorism (2018) and The Routledge
Handbook of Terrorism and Counterterrorism (2018) which was recognised by UN Global Counter-
Terrorism Research. With the departure of Morrison, Silke and Richards, the UoA took the strategic
decision not to keep alive a truncated TERC but to redirect its efforts toward a broader inter-
disciplinary centre under incoming criminology professor Davidson.
The UoA has retained the valuable publications and outputs of TERC where strategic, for example
the successful weekly podcast called Talking Terror, in which Morrison interviewed over 40 experts
in the field of terrorism and a range of subjects. Some of the TERC work has been taken up by the
other centres, for example Winter’s continuing research on counter-extremism has been used by the
UN Security Council, Counter-Terrorism Committee Executive Directorate (CTED) Global Counter-
Terrorism Research Network (GRN) the US National Intelligence Council (NIC) (2018-19) or the
Commission for Countering Extremism: Brexit and Extremism Roundtable (2019). Fox writes
regularly on cyber-terrorism in aviation preparedness (2016). Winter’s ICS case study on far-right
extremism stems from the work done by TERC and followed up as part of the ICC’s active work on
promoting social protection.
Inclusive Finance

Work on inclusive finance in the UoA has been led by The Centre for Islamic Finance, Law and
Communities (CIFLAC), set up in 2014 to focus improving access to Islamic finance as well as
exploring innovative, ethical finance for inclusive growth, especially for women and young people.
CIFLAC is co-directed by Sait and Allam (Honorary Professor) and has 3 members submitting
outputs to this UoA (Sait, Salami, Kufuor) as well as members from the department of business (Roy-
Mukerjee, Fouskas, Abd Razack, Gbadamosi). CIFLAC has contributed to UN strategy and policy
development, capacity development and development of tools. CIFLAC has organised over a dozen
high profile events, for example on affordable housing and land development through innovative
finance, supported by 18 organisations including the UN and civil society and attended by over 200
participants in October 2016.
CIFLAC was one of the few university-affiliated groups invited to organise an official side event at
the UN World Conference on Sustainable Urbanisation attended by over 25,000 participants in
October 2016 in Quito, Ecuador. The session co-organised by International City Leaders, Huairou
Commission and other partners on ‘Innovative Financing for Urban and Land Development’ provided
inputs to the New Urban Agenda. Sait contributed to three papers on ethical finance and land-based
financing at the World Bank (2016-18), at various finance summits such as the World Islamic
Economic Forum (Malaysia 2015), contributing to reports such as Islamic Finance Human Capital
Report 2015 (Bahrain). Sait’s pioneering research on Municipal Islamic finance with the Islamic
Development Bank was forwarded by the UN Under Secretary General and included in the UN
Finance for City Leaders publication (2017).

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Salami’s research on fin-tech and cryptocurrencies has led to her participation in several high-profile
events. She was invited by the UN Development Programme to present a paper at a high-level side
event panel at the 73rd United Nations General Assembly in New York in 2018 on HRBA for business
for sustainable development in Africa. She chaired a panel and participated as a panellist at the Fin
Tech in the UK conference organised by the Westminster Business Forum in 2020. CIFLAC
organised a meeting on FinTech in Islamic Finance in 2017 at UEL co-sponsored by Qatar
Foundation. In 2019 Salami participated as a panellist in a parliamentary debate entitled
Cryptocurrency and Blockchain: Where Next? organised by Parliament Street. Salami’s research
was placed as an agenda contributor for the World Economic Forum in 2017, and in 2020 she
responded to the Financial Stability Board’s consultation on addressing the regulatory, supervisory
and oversight challenges raised by “global stablecoin”.
Kufuor has been a key contributor to African legal and economic debates, with his papers on Bitcoin
and Africa development at the 2019 Blockchain Conference in Ghana, research on African
Continental Free Trade Agreement with Routledge (2020) and his Afronomics Law Blog for the
American Journal of International Law. His research has ranged from assessing market trends such
as Uber ride sharing to housing rent deposits (2018), while charting the emergence of African
continental law (2016).
CIFLAC has organised meetings with the UN, industry and civil society networks for example on
curriculum on land-based finance through a UN expert Group Meeting in 2017 at UEL, involving over
a dozen universities. Sait has delivered UN funded finance training to Saudi policy makers in Riyadh
in October 2017, DfiD training of 45 Indonesian officials in Jakarta, April 2016), 36 Saudi officials
(Riyadh, October 2017) and 30 GCC experts at the Qatar Foundation (Doha, January 2018). The
UN has funded GBP20,000 to CIFLAC for a dissemination project on land-based financing.
An example of local impact is the RDSBL Tax and Accountancy Clinic, established in March 2020.
Modelled on the Law Advice Centre, it offers a free online service to support local businesses and
communities managing the impacts of Covid-19. The main aim was to raise awareness and help
access the various government funded schemes, grants and welfare payments made available to
businesses and households. The clinic has two co-directors (Amber and Hussain) and is supported
by staff in this UoA, drawing upon the research expertise of CIFLAC.
2.2 Staffing Strategy

Support and retention of research-active staff has been a major priority of the Department through
the RDSBL recruitment strategy. Since REF2014 there has been significant staffing change within
the Department. At REF2014, the UoA had three professors (Kufuor, Sriram and Silke). Kufuor
remains while in 2018 Sriram passed away and Silke left. For the loss of Professors Sriram and
Silke, Professors Davidson and Aiken were brought in 2018 to lead Department work on criminology,
specifically online harms within an inter-disciplinary field. Sait was promoted to Professor in 2014
and has taken research leadership responsibilities across the centres, UN work and impact case
study.
Senior UoA members have taken active roles in mentoring, supporting professional development
and strengthening the research environment. There has been an increase to four professors in the
Department. Salami and Winter who submitted to the last REF have stepped up, with the latter’s
work being an impact case study. Researchers Meloni, Collins and Balan, who did not submit outputs
to REF2014, will submit outputs this time. In addition, outputs are also submitted by new members
Fox, Jackson, Javaid, and Kivotidis. The new researchers have provided new impetus to the UoA’s
priority areas while strengthening the potential for new impact. Newly inducted scholars or
practitioners recruited with teaching or administrative responsibilities (Davies, Doyle, Joseph, Reid,

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Scarlett and Sycz) are being encouraged to pursue research interests. The institution is committed
to promoting ‘research literacy’ for all academic staff, even those recruited to a predominantly
professional-academic role.
2.3 Staff development strategy
All staff in the department, including those in the UoA, are provided with genuine staff development
opportunities. Every member of staff is encouraged to attend a conference to present a paper, with
an annual grant of GBP750 available and an opportunity to make a case for additional support. The
School annual research budget of GBP96,000, which covers both UoA17 and UoA18, is available
for impact activities, organising conferences, collaborations and seed-funding for research. This has
facilitated regular staff participation in international and national conferences and seminars. From
2017-19, an additional annual budget of GBP30,000 was allocated to fund short term leave, and
during the period of assessment, a new mini- sabbatical policy was implemented, providing members
of staff up to four weeks of research leave. Hughes, Javaid, Meloni, Salami and Winter were awarded
sabbaticals under this scheme.
All academic members of staff participate in the PDR process. This provides individuals with an
opportunity to reflect on their performance and research activity. It also ensures that members of
staff receive appropriate support for their research, through workload allocation, support for
conference attendance and the organization of events, training or mentoring from senior colleagues.
All new members of staff are allocated a research mentor to advise on publication, funding
applications and impact activities. The UoA recognises the increasing importance of impact activities
and income generation for research-active academics, including in the criteria for promotion to
reader and professor. The UoA promotes guest lectures from external speakers and academics as
well as UoA staff to share their experiences at other institutions, and through civic engagement.
All UoA staff, especially ECRs, new staff and staff who self-identify as developing researchers as
well as PGR students are encouraged to participate in the School Researcher Development
Programmes, as welll as the university RDP. The School organises staff research seminars, where
all staff have been encouraged to present research in progress. Where appropriate, staff are
encouraged to complete research degrees at UEL, and in most cases, a full fee-waiver is available.
For example, at present, Joseph and Sycz are completing their PhDs at UEL while remaining active
members of staff.
2.4 PGR Students and Doctoral Supervision

During the period of assessment, the PhD completions notably increased from 3 in the last REF
period, to 9 PhDs completions in the current REF period. This number would increase to 15
completions if the 6 submissions in January-March 2020 had not been delayed due to Covid-19. The
improvement in the research degree outcomes has been due to the university PGR strategy putting
emphasis on timely completions, proactively supported by the departmental Research Degree
Leader (Salami) and the monitoring, recruitment, supervision, enrolment, and progression decisions
and arrangements oversight of the Research Degrees Sub-Committee (RDSC). PGR students are
supervised by at least two members of staff who receive training, including an experienced Director
of Studies, with regular supervisory meetings, annual monitoring meetings and transfers recorded
through the online PhD Manager introduced in 2016. The department has improved its recruitment
strategy, and 4 PhD students receive studentship funding (Acheampong, Luis-Prior, Namwase and
Solmone), while others, such as Rashid, received support for field work at the International Criminal
Court. There are 17 candidates currently enrolled on the PhD via MPhil programme. PGR students
undertake a centralised Research Development Programme (RDP). The School runs a discipline-
specific RDP, open to open to all staff, but aimed at PGR students and ECRs, with sessions on

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research methodologies, research ethics (Hitchens), income generation (Davidson), civic
engagement (Winter), and equality, diversity and inclusion (Sait).
The UoA enlists PhD candidates as co-creators and equal participants in the research environment.
All PGR students are encouraged to be part of research centres and participate in the regular events,
for example Namwase, Solmone and Luis-Prior organising CHRC dialogues, blogs or initiatives. The
School provides minimum GBP200 funding for all PGR students to attend conferences, publish
articles or organise events, with opportunity to apply for additional funds. PGR students regularly
present papers for example Solmone (Dubai), Luis Prior (San Franciso), Ike (BISA, Bath), Rashid
(International Criminal Court) Hepzibah (Harvard 2018) and Arabi (Commonwealth conference
2019), and several including Namwase and Akinwunmi have published. PGR students led by Yalley
organised UEL funded high level conference on Oil and Gas (2019). PGR Students can earn
supplementary income by offering teaching on undergraduate degree programmes (Onafuwa,
Solmone, Arabi and Yalley) or being research assistants on funded projects (Ike, Solmone). CHRC,
Noon, CIFLAC organise regular skills and employability workshops with speakers including Peace
Brigades International, UN Association UK, Overseas Development Institute and Minority Rights
Group. Several recent PhD graduates hold key positions in the profession, academia or government
(for example Kureembokus, Government of Mauritius, Abdallah Senior Counsel OGH or Nanwase
University of Copenhagen).
2.5 Equality and Diversity

The UoA is committed to promoting equality, diversity and inclusion as part of research, as well as
its day-to-day working practices. Each of the research centres has a mandate to promote equal
opportunity and prevent discrimination, especially through the Noon Centre for Equality and
Diversity. The School has an Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee chaired by Sait and whose
members include Collins, Jackson, Akoto and Doyle. Our REF-submitted research staff are 45%
female, 38% BAME, 23% are professors and 15% are fractional, both women. In accordance with
UEL’s commitment to epistemic justice, all members of staff can carry out research if they wish,
regardless of any protected characteristic. To ensure this, an Equality Impact Assessment is
conducted after every Annual Research Review. A workload allocation policy and the PDR process
ensure that work is distributed equitably in the Department, taking account of the interests,
experience and expertise of members of staff.
During the period of assessment, UEL obtained an Athena SWAN Bronze award in October 2017
and the Race & Equality Charter Mark in February 2019, with active inputs from Gunter and Sait.
RDSBL received its own Athena SWAN Bronze award in October 2020. Staff are further supported
in their career development through external initiatives with other universities, such as Aspire, the
Diversifying Leadership Programme and the Aurora Leadership Development Programme.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income
Since 2014, the department has seen a four-fold increase its external grant capture from
GBP271,300 in the last REF period to GBP1,300,000. The number of successful bidders increased
to 10, with 7 other unfunded applicants. The source of the successful bids has expanded to include
EU H2020 (Davidson), Global Land Tool Network/UN Habitat (Sait), Open Society (Gilbert), MAGEM
(Holt), Morrison (Minerva), Richard (CoJiT- UK) and Sriram (Folke Bernadette). The success is
attributed to receiving personalised support from Grantcraft in one-to-one sessions or through
attendance at its Grants Academy training programme. The DII overseas a peer review system for
all funding bids, and the Research and Development Support team (ReDs) also communicates

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
opportunities for grant capture though the Research Professional online alerts and the department’s
Income Generation Leader.
The scope and range of funding is highlighted in the various successful bids by Department members
over the current assessment period. A significant boost came from Davidson receiving GBP654,000
from the EU H2020 fund to co-lead part of a grant (5 million Euros) with Aiken exploring the human
and technical drivers of cybercrime and focusing on youth pathways into cybercrime (5/20-5/23).
Sait received GBP29,000 in 2014-15 and $135,000 from UN-Habitat for the Global Land Tool
Network Programme Phase 3 (2018-2023). Sriram won a GCRF bid with LSE of GBP800,000 in
2018 but sadly could not carry it out. Holt (2014) was awarded GBP18,461 by MAGEM to provide
trainings on human rights in conflict situations for vulnerable youths, while Gilbert (2015) was
awarded GBP37,997 by the Open Society for research on indigenous land right, and Morrison (2015)
was awarded GBP84,250 by Minerva for "The Social Ecology of Radicalization Richards (2016) was
awarded GBP45,000 by CoJiT-UK Limited for a project on Combatting Jihadi Terrorism in the UK.
This was alongside internal UEL competitive allocations such as the London Scholars grant on ‘Stop
the Hate’ to Winter (2017), GBP5000 GCRF on women’s rights (Sait) and GBP7,000 UKRI on socio-
economic impact of COVID-19 (Sait, 2020). UoA members also received external travel grants to
attend UN meetings, for example Salami. The department administered six international research
events which were funded approximately GBP187,000.
3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

Since 2014, the research infrastructure and facilities have significantly improved with the department
shifting to its new location at University Square Stratford (USS), easily accessible by public transport.
This investment in the USS Harvard Lecture Theatre, Moot Court Room and large conference halls
has facilitated regular research activity and ‘open campus’ for non-academic partners. USS is
regularly used for public events, research validations and civic engagement. Examples are high
profile panels and dialogue by the CHRC and Law Centre, UN Expert Group Meetings by CIFLAC,
Training Programmes by Noon and IIC.
The Department has the advantage of a dedicated Research Hub, with facilities for ECRs and
postgraduate researchers. The Department receives support for its research through a School
Research Administrator, as well as an Academic Services Librarian. The Academic Services
Librarian provides students and members of staff with assistance in locating subject-specific
resources, as well as training in the use of key legal and research databases, such as Lexis-Nexis,
Scopus and Westlaw.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Research collaborations, networks and projects with academics in other institutions
Projects
Several collaborative research projects were carried out with external academic partners. Sriram
was co-investigator on multi-academic partnerships on two ESRC-funded projects led by Ainley and
Kostovovica respectively in Colombia and four former Yugoslav countries, and with the International
Nuremberg Principles Academy. In 2018 Fox established the Pan-London Policing Research
Network (LPRN) jointly with the University of West London, Brunel University and London
Metropolitan University. Since 2016, Sait has been co-chair of the academic partners of Global Land
Tool Network (GLTN) which has a large membership, including 30 academic institutions, globally.
Sait has been a key player in the implementation of the African Union’s NELGA curriculum project,
collaborating with universities in Algeria, Egypt, Mauritania, Morocco, Sudan, and Tunisia (Rabat

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
October 2019) with over a dozen Arab universities as part of the Arab Land Initiative (Dubai February
2018, Cairo December 2019). Following a UN Expert Group Meeting at UEL in December 2016, Sait
has worked with over a dozen universities including Universities of Florida, Aalborg and West Indies
to develop an open access structured knowledge base on HRBA to land-rights. The Noon Centre
entered into contracts with the Namibia University of Science and Technology, Royal Melbourne
Institute of Technology, Technical University of Munich and others for collaborative projects on
climate change, youth and gender land tools and curriculum development. CIFLAC has worked
closely with the Qatar Foundation with joint conferences on finance in London and Doha (2017-20)
RDSBL has a visiting fellowship scheme, hosting academics from overseas during the period of
assessment, alongside visiting fellows attached to the research centre.
Membership of associations

Winter was the Convener of the British Sociological Association (BSA) Race and Ethnicity Study
Group 2013-2017, and elected BSA Trustee 2014-2018. Salami is a member of the Governing
Council of the British Institute in Eastern Africa (BIEA), one of the British Academy’s funded
international research institutes, and was responsible for coordinating the BIEA annual event on
FinTech in East Africa: From Local Incubator to Pan-African Hub in 2018. Sait has been member of
International Federation of Surveyors presenting papers at its meetings of professionals (Helsinki
July 2017, Hanoi March 2019, Amsterdam May 2020).
Conferences and publications

Most of the UoA staff presented papers at conferences in the UK and overseas. In addition to regular
conferences, Kufuor was invited speaker at the African Union’s Sixth Forum of International Law and
African Union Law in December 2017. Sriram spoke at the University of Copenhagen; the Harvard
University and Chinese University in Hong Kong; and the Grotius Centre at the University of Leiden.
Sait was invited to present at World Bank meetings (April 2017, March 2018) Winter spoke at the
University of Toronto, the British Library and KCL. Staff have also collaborated with academic
colleagues in the UK and overseas on producing several edited collections for publishers such as
Hart (Meloni), Palgrave MacMillan (Gunter and Winter), Routledge (Collins, Gunter, Jackson,
Kivotidis, Sait and Winter), and Springer (Sait), as well as special issues of journals (Fox and Meloni).
Winter co-authored Reactionary Democracy (2020, Verso Books) with Mondon (Bath).

4.2 Interaction with key research users and engagement with diverse communities and
publics
Collaborations with research users
Staff’s research has spilled over into the policy realm through several collaborations with a wide
range of governmental and non-governmental bodies and stakeholders active in addressing local,
national and international concerns. Davidson, for example, presented papers at EC, WHO,
UNICEF, UK Government and the UN. Fox sits on various expert groups including Europol (Airpol)
for policing-technology. She is a listed expert with the EU and UK parliaments and a consultant-
adviser to the Malaysian Aviation Commission (MAVCOM). Aiken is a member of the Academic
Advisory Board at Europol’s European Cybercrime Centre (EC3).
Since Sait’s appointment by UN-Habitat (2019) as co-chair of the Stakeholder Advisory Group
Enterprise (SAGE), he co-led the Global Stakeholder Forum (May 2019) with over 200 delegates
adopting a ‘new stakeholder model’ declaration emphasising land rights, gender, human rights,
affordable finance and governance. Sait’s has been project leader on an UN-Habitat project for
Developing Curriculum for Land Rights (2017); the Global Land Tools Network Land and Gender
Strategy, (2017). He has acted as an advisor in relation to the African Union GIZ project on Land

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Governance (2018). Sait has also been invited to Chair land-related panels at conferences in Dubai,
2018 (Arab Land Conference) and the EGM on Gender and Land, World Urban Forum (2018,
Malaysia).
Hobby wrote the Institute of Employment Rights (IER) consultation papers on protection of official
data and whistle blowing in 2017. The UEL Centre for Mediation & Conflict set up in 2019 with Hobby
(director) Davies, Scarlett and Stoke is part of Pan-London mediators’ community of practice and
provides mediation support to other London universities including City, Greenwich, Goldsmiths,
Imperial, Queen Mary and SOAS. The Centre held two conferences (2019, 2020) in collaboration
with London CIPD, with the 2020 conference focusing on on-line mediation in the light of Covid-19.
Meloni collaborated with the CEELI Institute in Prague on a project, funded by the Oak Foundation,
on the treatment of human rights defenders under the EU visa policy, involving several international
NGOs. Her research findings formed the basis of an exchange of views between CEELI and the
European Parliament’s Subcommittee on Human Rights in January 2020, leading to an ongoing
dialogue between a Vice-Chair of the Subcommittee and the European Commission on possible
policy changes. Hughes is a member of the Council of Experts of the Democratic Process Institute
and in 2015 produced a report for the Institute entitled Resolution of Turkey’s Kurdish Question: A
Process in Crisis.
Staff have also acted as experts in different settings. Kufuor was an expert witness in the High Court
(Family Division) in the matter of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 2008 (Cases A, B, C,
D, E, F, G and H) (2015). Winter was an expert participant in the Commission for Countering
Extremism’s Brexit and Extremism Roundtable, Westminster, (2019) and in the US National
Intelligence Council’s Counterterrorism Roundtable, RUSI, (2018), and an expert advisor for NGO
reports. Balan’s research in pedagogy in law has led to his participation in SRA Delphi group on
Solicitors Qualifying Examination (2016) and to his role as an assessor for HEA Professional
Standards Framework (2019-2020).
Engagement with local communities

Members of staff have also used their expertise to collaborate with and serve our local communities.
These collaborations have been invaluable in generating awareness among staff of the pressing
needs affecting our local communities that they have strived to integrate in their research agendas.
Most notably, the Department hosts the Legal Advice Centre, directed by Scarlett (formerly
Antoniou), serving the needs of UEL’s local communities by giving the opportunity to students to
provide, under supervision, free legal advice to members of the public unable to pay or obtain legal
aid. Since April 2020, the Centre has prioritised three areas in the light of Covid-19: landlord and
tenant, welfare benefits and family law. In partnership with Duncan Lewis Solicitors and the
Sycamore Trust, which it runs the Romford Autism Hub Legal Advice Centre, it provides free legal
advice to individuals with Autism. The Centre also runs several student projects including mooting
and debating (in collaboration with the Old Bailey) and the public legal education project. Patrons
include Imran Khan QC, a School alumnus. Open events on inclusiveness in the legal profession
have notably included two Supreme Court Presidents.
Members of UoA staff have collaborated with several local charities and bodies. Gunter, for example,
was involved in the work of Community Links, a social action charity active in East London, and in
2018 he assisted with the production of a report based on “community conversations” on serious
youth violence in East London. Jackson chairs the Newham Covid-19 Action Group on securing
workers’ rights. She has also collaborated with the charity Latin Elephant. Holt and Winter were part
of the Step Up to Stop Hate project (in section 2). Winter was also an expert advisor to the Waltham
Forest Citizens Assembly on Hate (2020).

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Engagement with public debate
Our staff actively engage in public debate on the national and international media. Davidson has
been interviewed by BBC News, BBC World News, ITV, C4, BBC R4 News, and BBC R4 Woman’s
Hour. Gunter appeared on BBC Two’s Daily Politics show to discuss the 2017/18 Report on Crime
Outcomes in England and Wales produced by the Home Office. Winter has been interviewed about
racism and the far right by Political Observer on Populism, the New Stateman, The Times, NBC, and
LBC Radio. Salami was interviewed by ABC Australian TV and by Reg Tech Associates, and Grasso
was quoted in The Telegraph newspaper on cryptocurrencies. Sait has been interviewed by various
news agencies such as the Jakarta Post (2016), China Xinhua (2019), Liberia News and Africa
Online, as well as UN news (2019).
Department conferences brought together researchers, practitioners, local community organizations
and other key stakeholders. In 2018, the School organised a panel of experts to discuss violent youth
crime, particularly knife crime in London, led Gunter and Joseph with involvement of Youth Charter,
the Evening Standard, Violent Crime Prevention Board and Generating Genius. In 2019, Gunter and
Joseph organised a second panel of stakeholders for a day of presentations and workshops on knife
crime prevention. In 2019 Gunter contributed to Youth in the Community, part of a UEL’s series of
community focused events entitled the Silvertown Sessions. In 2015 and 2017 UEL hosted two
conferences as part of a series delivered under an ESRC-funded project entitled Racism and Political
Mobilisation with contributions from Winter and Joseph. In 2018 Grasso and Meloni co-organised a
conference at UEL with the University of Coventry, entitled Rediscovering the European Project in
the light of the Brexit Referendum, bringing together academic researchers, practitioners, and
representatives of professional bodies from the UK and overseas, including the Law Society and the
Bar Association of Naples.

4.3 Contribution to and recognition by the research base

Editorial activities and Research Proposal Reviews

Department staff serve in several editorial capacities. Kufuor is one of the two General Editors of the
African Journal of International and Comparative Law, with Akoto, Jackson, Sait and Meloni having
acted as peer reviewer. Members of journal editorial boards including Sait (African Journal of Land
and Geospatial Sciences), Winter (Sociological Research Online) Doyle (Trusts Law International)
and Kufuor (Land). Meloni acts as a contracted expert evaluator for the European Research
Executive Agency and the European Commission DG Migration and Home Affairs in relation to,
respectively, Horizon 2020 and the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (AMIF). Winter has
served as expert reviewer for ESRC, Leverhulme and National Science Centre (Poland) and BSA
grants. Sait has reviewed grant applications for the World Bank land projects and UN Habitat small
grants. Kufuor has been expert reviewer for the South Africa National Research Foundation.
Invited keynotes
In 2016, Sriram was invited to deliver a special lecture in Courtroom 600 by the International
Nuremberg Principles Academy on the 70th anniversary of the Nuremberg Trials. Sait was keynote
speaker, on Sustainable Development and Urbanisation in the MENA Region’, at Sharm el Sheikh,
Egypt October 2015. He delivered Annual Public Lecture on Revitalising Islamic and Social Finance
at the London School of Economics (2016) and was high level panellist at the UN Habitat Assembly
(2019) and at the World Urban Forum Abu Dhabi (2020). Sait was keynote speaker on Rethinking
Legal, Economic and Political Rights in the Muslim World, 16 February 2017, University of Twente,
Enschende, Netherlands.


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Refereeing academic publications
Department staff acting as reviewers include Legal Studies (Balan); Griffith Law Journal (Collins);
Journal of Common Market Studies (Kufuor); Journal of Contemporary European Research (Meloni);
The African Development Review (Salami); Land Use Policy (Sait) Sociological Research Online,
Sociology, Ethnic and Racial Studies, Ethnicities, Patterns of Prejudice, British Journal of Sociology,
Identities, Social Sciences, Frontiers, Politics, International Migration (Winter). Staff have also
undertaken reviews of academic publications (including Kufuor, for Routledge and Springer; Salami,
for OUP, Palgrave and Routledge; Winter, for Routledge, Sage, MUP, OUP, Ashgate, Palgrave,
Rowman and Littlefield, Policy Press) and Sait for (OUP, Zed). Prior to her death, Sriram was a
member of the Advisory Board for the new book series Memory, Politics and Transitional Justice,
published by Palgrave Macmillan. She also edited a volume for Hurst and OUP entitled Transitional
Justice in the Middle East and North Africa (2016). With Herman and Martin-Ortega, she completed
a third edition of the interdisciplinary textbook, War, Conflict and Human Rights: Theory and Practice
for Routledge in 2017.
Fellowships and visiting positions

Aiken is a Fellow of The Royal Society of Medicine, Global Fellow at the Washington DC
Wilson Center and Fellow of the Society for Chartered IT Professionals. Davidson is Honorary
Research Fellow at Royal Holloway and Adjunct Professor in the School of Law at QUT, Australia.
Kufuor was Visiting Lecturer at the Institute of Advanced Legal Studies and is Global Diaspora
Carnegie Fellow at the Legon Centre for International Affairs, University of Ghana. Winter is a
member of the International Centre on Race at Edge Hill University and EUI. Sait was visiting fellow
at the University of Twente and GLTN fellow at the Urban Training Institute in Egypt. During the
period of assessment, Department centre organised regular events. For example, the CHRC ran a
series of high-profile public lectures and seminars, invited speakers included: the Rector of the
Central European University, Michael Ignatieff; the Rector of the UN University in Tokyo, David
Malone; Pablo de Greiff, UN Special Rapporteur on the Promotion of Truth, Justice, Reparation and
Guarantees of Non-Recurrence; Professor Castern Stahn, a leading expert in international criminal
law; and Michael von der Schulenberg, former UN Assistant Secretary General.




                                                                                              Page 14
