Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Liverpool John Moores University

 Unit of Assessment:
 UoA34 Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information Management

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure

 LJMU last submitted to Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information
 Management in REF2014. Since then this UoA has made sustained efforts to improve its
 research in both quality and quantity. With the strategic guidance and support of the University,
 the unit has developed its research activity in a number of key areas that are represented in this
 submission. Building on the research strategy outlined in the REF2014 submission and the
 research strengths of the staff, the unit is organised around two thematic clusters: 1) Journalism,
 Media and Communication (12 staff led by McLean: Brown, Chadwick, Dayan, Greene,
 Hodgson, Kooij, Lincoln, Marley, Newton, Papadimitriou, Wilkinson); 2) Culture, Identity and
 Policy (20 staff led by Li: Andrews, Blundell, Chalcraft, Hassan, Hayton, Howitt-Dring, Howson-
 Griffiths, Jimura, Knowles, Krüger Bridge, Liu, Millward, Monks, Parker, Piasecki, Tookey,
 Walker, Wise, Young). The research of some staff falls within the remits of both clusters. While
 the organisational structure of the two clusters remains unchanged since 2014, the size and
 research expertise of each cluster has expanded considerably. The total number of submitted
 staff has increased from 13 in 2013 to 32 in 2020. Together they have contributed to the
 formation of the Communication, Cultural and Media Studies Research Group (CCMRG). The
 aim of this research group is to analyse the content, operation and impact of the media including
 new media and social media, as well as the role of culture and identity in shaping public policy at
 local, national and international levels. The UoA has explored and identified synergies with
 researchers in external subject areas including Sociology, Education, Tourism Management,
 Sport Science, and Computer Science. Consequently, several core themes have emerged within
 each of these two clusters. The key themes in the Journalism, Media and Communication cluster
 include the use of digital technologies in business and society; reporting death, trauma and war;
 film, documentary, and film-making. The Culture, Identity and Policy cluster covers the research
 themes of identity discourse, security and peace; tourism, travel, culture and heritage; music,
 ethnomusicology and identity; culture, society and sports; age, gender and sexuality. There are
 important synergies and interactions among the clusters and with two research institutes centred
 in the Faculty of Arts, Professional and Social Studies: the Institute for Cultural Capital (ICC) and
 the Institute of Art and Technology (IAT), Liverpool’s international flagship entities for cultural
 and creative research. This return draws on the relevant research specialisms across three
 Faculties (Faculty of Arts, Professional and Social Studies, Faculty of Business and Law, Faculty
 of Science) and five Schools (Liverpool Screen School, School of Humanities and Social
 Science, School of Education, Liverpool Business School, School of Sport and Exercise
 Sciences), bringing together a diverse community of researchers focused on subjects within
 UoA34, which promotes interdisciplinarity. The University’s emphasis on research excellence in
 its strategic plan, coupled with its continued investment in staff, technology and infrastructure,
 has offered strong support for this cross-disciplinary research community. Indeed, the submitted
 unit has made considerable advances in facilitating and developing multidisciplinary,
 interdisciplinary, international research and collaboration with a wide range of external partners
 in the UK and around the world. It is within this context that a vibrant and dynamic research
 environment has been nurtured and sustained, which has resulted in the production of high-
 quality research outputs with significant impact nationally and internationally, increased
 generation of external funding and a growing PGR community during the assessment period.

 Research and impact strategy 2014-2020

 The research and impact strategy set out in the last REF submission has provided the strategic
 direction for the development of the unit’s research activity. This UoA consists of broad and

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 diverse research expertise drawn from a range of disciplines across three Faculties, five
 Schools, a Research Group and two Institutes. The focus of the research strategy was to
 encourage and support all staff to produce 3* and 4* research outputs, generate research impact
 and disseminate this to the relevant stakeholders. To achieve these objectives the two research
 clusters have provided robust mentoring and monitoring procedures for staff (please see Section
 2 ‘People’ below for further information). They have also offered a base for developing
 interdisciplinary and collaborative research, and generating research council and other forms of
 peer-reviewed external grant income.

 In line with the University’s Strategic Aims for Research and Impact to ‘nurture pinnacles of
 genuinely outstanding research and to embed a broad base of research and scholarship across
 the University’, the UoA has made considerable progress to achieve the following six strategic
 aims as identified in the REF2014 submission and we will continue to develop and expand our
 research within this strategic framework.

 1. To build stronger identities and profiles for the two thematic clusters within this UoA
 The identities and profiles of the two thematic clusters have been strengthened via an expansion
 and consolidation of staff research networks nationally and internationally and presentations at
 high-profile international conferences. For example, within the cluster of Journalism, Media and
 Communication, the staff have organised a series of international conferences and research
 seminars, such as the ‘Liverpool Screen School Research Seminar Series’ since 2014. Staff in
 the cluster of Culture, Identity and Policy have also organised and led a range of highly
 successful international research events such as the ‘Surveillance in the Digital Society
 Workshop’ at the European Conference on Information Systems Conference at Stockholm
 University (Sweden, 2019). In addition, the research profiles of the thematic clusters have been
 raised substantially during the assessment period through the publication of many significant
 research outputs in such internationally recognised and refereed journals as New Media &
 Society (Lincoln), Supply Chain Management: An International Journal (McLean), Sociology
 (Millward), International Review for the Sociology of Sport (Hayton), Asian Perspective (Li),
 Sexualities (Parker), and Arts & Health: An International Journal for Research, Policy and
 Practice (Howson-Griffiths). The staff in this UoA have also published a variety of refereed
 chapters in books edited by leading scholars in their fields. Some staff have served as the
 editors of prestigious research handbooks including The Oxford Handbook of Global Popular
 Music (Krüger Bridge, Oxford University Press, in press) and The Palgrave Handbook of Sound
 Design and Music in Screen Media (Greene, Palgrave Macmillan, 2016). They have also been
 invited to contribute to encyclopaedias in their research areas, such as The Routledge
 Companion to World Cinema (Papadimitriou, 2017) and The SAGE International Encyclopaedia
 of Music and Culture (Krüger Bridge, 2019).

 2. To continue to develop cross-disciplinary research and collaboration
 Since the last REF the staff within this UoA have continued to initiate and develop influential
 multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary collaborative networks and projects with external partners.
 An important collaboration between the unit and the University of Liverpool is the Institute of
 Cultural Capital (ICC). The Institute conducts interdisciplinary research funded by AHRC grants
 such as ‘Instrumental Values: Professional Ethics in Collaborative Cultural Work’, Leadership
 Fellowship (mid-career). Grant ref: AH/P009352/1, £114,140, July 2017-April 2019 (Wilson, PI).
 A major interdisciplinary collaborative initiative is the ‘East Asian Security and Peace Project’,
 funded by Riksbankens Jubileumsfond (Swedish Foundation for Humanities and Social Science)
 (Li, research grant £30,000, 2013-2015). This project involves collaboration with scholars of
 Peace Studies, International Relations, Economics, History, Sociology from Europe, East Asia
 and the United States. The leaders of the two research clusters have worked closely and
 regularly with staff on interdisciplinary research and funding applications.

 3. To increase public engagement activity, impact and evaluation
 Significant progress has been made to embed engagement and impact in our research. The
 strategy has led to the successful development of three impact case studies for submission
 (Chadwick, Li, and Tookey). At the beginning of the current assessment period, the UoA co-

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ordinator and the research cluster leaders attended various university workshops relating to
 impact awareness including impact evaluation and recording. This was followed by workshops
 designed to assist all staff to increase their understanding of the nature of impact and to build
 impact activity into their research projects. For example, the ‘East Asian Security and Peace
 Project’ was conceived and designed as a policy-oriented project at the outset with the intention
 of engaging the foreign policy-makers and diplomats in Whitehall in London. As the project
 developed with the support from its international partners, the engagement and impact activities
 were extended to the policy and diplomatic communities in Europe and Asia. This has enabled
 the research findings to underpin the development of an impact case study for REF submission
 (ICS1).

 At the same time, the projects of other staff have had considerable impact in the UK and abroad.
 For instance, Piasecki’s adaptation of Flight to Arras deploys a second-world war account by the
 author Antoine De Sainte-Exupéry to discuss contemporary concerns relating to the mass flight
 of refugees across Europe. The performance of the adaptation was shown in the UK, France
 and Armenia. Piasecki was invited to give a presentation to the EU Parliament concerning the
 work for the World Refugee Day 2018, which framed a policy debate in its ‘Promoting Peace:
 Creating a Welcoming Europe’ roundtable event. Another example is Brown’s documentary film
 that gives a portrait of Nepal’s working mules. His film has been used to create positive change
 in the wellbeing of Nepal’s working mules. This documentary was the winner of several
 prestigious film awards in Europe and America. Moreover, the film was screened in Russia and
 broadcast on a satellite TV station in Nepal reaching across South Asia.

 Indeed, staff within the two thematic research clusters have continued to use their networks to
 develop deeper and more focused links with non-academic users, including cultural
 organisations (Arts Council England, National Museums Liverpool), NGOs (United Nations,
 World Health Organisation), government departments (FCO, MoD), and leading policy think-
 tanks (Royal United Services Institute for Defence and Security Studies, International Institute
 for Strategic Studies). Moreover, special efforts have been made to identify and invest in the
 development of specific projects where the potential to generate impact can be maximised
 through local QR funding and institutional Strategic Priorities QR funding. By actively and
 consistently engaging the external stakeholders, research projects have been developed and
 supported in relation to the need to address real world problems or issues thus enhancing the
 potential for impact. Key examples from this unit include Li’s research on identity discourse and
 security relations and its impact on diplomatic dialogues and foreign policy-making in the UK,
 Europe and Asia (QR Strategic Priorities Fund: £10,000 2019/20, REF ICS Fund 2019: £853,
 Faculty QR Fund: £2,000: 2018), Chadwick’s immersive documentary campaign on the impact
 of sea-level rise in the Philippines islands on the local community – another submitted impact
 case study from this UoA (HEIF Impact Uplift funding: £1,000, 2018, QR Strategic Priorities
 Fund: £2,000, 2019), Wilson’s work on improving mental health and wellbeing by commissioning
 socially prescribed arts and cultural activities (HEIF Impact Uplift funding: £1,445, 2018).

 4. To build capacity by increasing external funding
 With the support from Research and Innovation Services (RIS) and the Faculty-based funding
 officer, staff have developed 23 applications for competitive external funding. New researchers
 have been mentored by the Professors and Readers within this UoA, encouraged to attend
 ACTivator (staff development) sessions, apply for internal pump-priming QR funding and then
 submit external grant applications. As a result, the unit has managed to secure a range of
 external research grants. Examples include Millward’s British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship
 ‘Exploring Supporter-Activism in Identity Politics-Centred Social Movements: A Cultural
 Relational Sociology Analysis of the European LGBTI+ Football Fans’ Network’ (2019-2020,
 £139,337), Li’s research grants from the Swedish Foundation for Humanities and Social Science
 and the Swedish Institute of International Affairs on ‘Identity and Security in East Asia’ (2015-
 2018, £20,000), Parker’s British Academy GCRF grant on ‘Dignity Without Danger’ (2018-2020,
 £300,000), and Chalcraft’s British Academy International Mobility and Partnership grant on
 ‘Developing Biblical Ethnography in India and the UK’ (2013-2016, £30,000).


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 5. To Build the PGR Community
 Since 2014 PGR student numbers within the UoA have increased considerably with 37 new
 PGRs enrolled in the 2019/20 academic year. Successful completions have grown from 2 during
 the last REF cycle (2008-2013) to 15 during the current period. Through the University’s
 Graduate Teaching Assistant Studentships and the University Postgraduate Scholarships, this
 UoA has attracted some high calibre PhD students. Moreover, we currently have a PhD bursary
 student funded by Knowsley Metropolitan Borough Council. Since the last REF, PGR Co-
 ordinators and dedicated PGR administrators have been appointed across the Schools and
 Faculties. Working closely with the Doctoral Academy and the Faculty Research Degrees
 Committees, the School PGR Co-ordinators and the staff have actively promoted the research
 culture within the unit through the Faculty Postgraduate Research Conferences, the ‘Lunch &
 Learn’ Seminar Series and the research seminars organised by individual Schools and
 Departments.

 6. To Develop Staff At All Stages of Their Research Careers
 With the support from the University’s Leadership Development Foundation, we have actively
 targeted development opportunities appropriate to each member of the UoA. During the current
 REF cycle, 35 members of unit staff have engaged with ACTivator. Consequently, some staff
 have progressed from Senior Lecturer to Readers (Greene, Krüger Bridge, Lincoln,
 Papadimitriou, Parker, Wise). Moreover, we have organised discipline specific research training
 and development locally. For example, we have organised various types of women researcher
 events such as Women Researcher’s Retreat, and the Women Professors Network Mentoring
 Scheme. These events have helped female staff within the UoA to gain promotion and
 strengthen their research outputs (Greene, Krüger Bridge, Lincoln, Papadimitriou, Parker). In
 addition, every early career researcher (ECR) is assigned a mentor from their research area.
 The ECRs are also supported by their heads of departments via the PDPR process. They are
 usually given lower teaching loads to enable them to develop their research. Furthermore, the
 REF Coordinator of this unit is an active member of the University’s Concordat Task Group,
 which has provided extensive support for the career development of researchers, especially
 ECRs. As a result of their engagement with the development activities, ECRs within the UoA
 have been able to complete their PhD studies (Kooij, Marley), develop an impact case study
 (Chadwick, ICS2) and produce outputs (Dayan, Howitt-Dring, Howson-Griffiths, Jimura, Kooij,
 Liu, Marley, Wilkinson) for inclusion in the REF submission. Since 2018 our staff have benefitted
 from the University’s ‘REF Upskilling Project’, which is designed to offer new, lapsed or lesser-
 published researchers the opportunity to learn and develop from more experienced colleagues
 (e.g. Rudin/Moran, Brown/Krüger Bridge, Wise/Melis).

 In sum, the development of the thematic groupings within the UoA has provided a clear sense of
 direction and impetus for a diverse and interdisciplinary research community, which has made
 immense progress in producing high-quality outputs and generate significant impact on the
 economy, society and public policy both nationally and internationally. The work we have
 achieved will continue to thrive into the next REF period.

 Future research and impact strategy 2021-2026

 The existing strategy of this UoA has been reinforced and recalibrated in response to the
 augmentation of the staff base that has occurred since 2014. Building on the dynamic growth of
 several research specialisms within the unit, our strategy for 2021-2026 seeks to address and
 capitalise on the advantages and opportunities provided by an expanding constituency. In line
 with the University’s Research and Scholarship Strategy, the UoA will utilise the Communication,
 Cultural and Media Studies Research Group (CCMRG) as the focal point for strengthening and
 integrating the diverse areas of research within the unit. The CCMRG will continue working with
 the three Faculties and five Schools to develop robust methods of research oversight and
 strategic management. On the basis of the achievements and success during the current REF
 cycle, this UoA will use the following six strategic aims to guide us towards the development of
 our research in 2021-2026.


                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1. To strengthen the identities and profiles of the two thematic clusters while supporting
 the growing research areas within each cluster
 The unit will seek to support the development of the new research areas that have emerged
 within each of the two existing thematic clusters while maintaining the overall identities of the
 clusters. For example, within the ‘Journalism, Media and Communication’ cluster, we will offer
 additional support for the staff in the growing research area of documentary and film making
 (Brown, Chadwick, Dayan, Kooij, Marley) such as offering mentorship for designing practice-
 based research projects. For the ‘Culture, Identity and Policy’ cluster, greater support will be
 provided to staff working on the research themes linked to culture, place and society (Andrews,
 Howitt-Dring, Howson-Griffiths, Jimura, Monks, Piasecki, Wilkinson). In addition, we will support
 different forms of research within the unit, especially practice-based research such as
 documentary making, immersive theatre and creative writing, regardless of which clusters the
 researchers belong to (e.g. Brown, Chadwick, Dayan, Howitt-Dring, Howson-Griffiths, Kooij,
 Marley, Monks, Piasecki). With the expansion of research specialisms, we will be well positioned
 to produce both high-quality traditional outputs (e.g. journal articles and books) and practice-
 based work. This will help strengthen our profiles across the range of academic communities
 related to the key themes of this UoA.

 2. To continue to develop cross-disciplinary research and collaboration within and
 beyond this UoA
 Building on the synergies among the researchers of different disciplines within this UoA, we will
 develop and facilitate cross-disciplinary collaboration across the unit and beyond. Drawing on
 our rich and diverse specialisms, we will identify and develop suitable projects for
 multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary research (e.g. the challenge of the Covid-19 pandemic and
 its cultural, social, economic and political implications). We may use some QR funding to start
 the projects while seeking external grants from UK research councils and other funding
 authorities. In particular, we will consolidate and expand our collaborative partners within the
 University (e.g. Institute of Art and Technology) and externally (e.g. Bluecoat in Liverpool,
 Foundation for Art and Creative Technology (FACT), UK Academy for Information Systems) in
 order to increase our profile and establish efficient working partnerships, equipping us to
 respond rapidly to relevant calls for funding and other collaborative opportunities. A major new
 initiative is underway for LJMU to establish an Entertainment Technology Centre (ETC) under
 the direction of LJMU’s Liverpool Screen School, at the Littlewoods Studios site forming an
 educational partnership with Twickenham Studios who will be the anchor tenant. As this site
 evolves into a hub for the creative and digital sector in Liverpool, staff in this UoA will work
 closely with practitioners in developing and adopting new technologies, workflows and practices
 in the fields of film, TV, games and immersive experiences through a research and innovation
 lead and PGR students working at the leading edge of this sector. The ETC will provide
 excellent opportunities and facilities for cross-disciplinary research for our ‘Journalism, Media
 and Communication’ cluster, especially for practice-based researchers.

 3. To further increase research impact and public engagement activity
 Moving forward into the next REF period there will be a continued commitment to producing
 research that has a demonstrable impact on policy, industry and society. Staff in the two
 research clusters have a track record of end user engagement, with many projects being
 founded on action research and outreach principles. Building on our established record of public
 engagement and impact activities as presented in REF3, we will continue to embed engagement
 and impact in our research from planning to execution, and through delivery and dissemination.
 As a research group we are becoming more established in practice-based research. Through
 this we have seen increased impact and public engagement. The development of the ETC
 described above, means that impact and public engagement activities will be at the fore of this
 exciting initiative. Discussions have already begun with theatres, venues, schools and colleges,
 production and technology companies, as to how we will work more closely together at the ETC.

 4. To strengthen capacity by increasing external funding
 A number of existing staff (e.g. Chalcraft, McLean, Millward, Li, Parker) and recent appointments
 (Brown, Piasecki) have track records of individual grant income generation. Building on these

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 track records, we will establish a systematic programme of support and review for grant
 submissions in collaboration with partner organisations in the UK and abroad. The key aim is to
 strengthen our capacity for interdisciplinary research and public engagement through bids to the
 AHRC, ESRC, British Academy and European funding bodies. Based on our previous
 successful strategy, we will seek external funding early in the next REF cycle to allow the
 researchers sufficient time to produce high-quality research outputs, develop impact case
 studies and apply for further grants. These efforts will be supported by a dedicated and
 experienced Faculty Research Funding Coordinator (Thomas), in addition to the advice provided
 by the University (RIS). We have received £479,701 research grants in the current REF cycle and
 are planning to attract external funding of £700,000 in the coming cycle.

 5. To improve PGR experience in both research and teaching
 Building on the vibrant research culture and postgraduate research activities within the unit, we
 will seek to improve PGR experience in both research and teaching in the two research clusters.
 The focus is on developing closer links between staff and PGR research interests and delivering
 a quality experience for our research students. This is in line with the most recent Faculty
 Research, Scholarship and Knowledge Exchange Strategy (2020). We will seek bursaries and
 other external funding opportunities for students allied to staff research. We will also attract and
 recruit PGR students of high potential and aspirations in subjects complementary to staff
 research interests. PhD students will be given more opportunities to gain teaching experience
 through the Faculty’s successful PGR into Teaching Funding Scheme. All this would help
 integrate PGRs into the research community within the UoA and prepare them for a career in
 higher education.

 6. To continue to develop staff at all stages of their research careers
 Through various University and Faculty staff development schemes, including the Leadership
 and Development Foundation’s researcher development workshops and departmental and
 School ECR mentorship schemes, we will continue to identify development opportunities
 appropriate to each member of the UoA and organise interdisciplinary and discipline specific
 research training and development locally. The main focus is to help staff to develop research
 projects, apply for external funding, and embed impact in their research. Specifically, we will
 continue to offer support for ECRs through research mentorship within the clusters and sub-
 groups in the UoA, the PDPR process and the LJMU Concordat. We will give ECRs lower
 teaching loads to allow them to develop their research work. The more experienced researchers
 will be offered advice and support on building their research profiles and seeking promotion that
 reflects their research achievements and standing.



 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 The staffing strategy and staff development policy of this UoA are designed to support and
 sustain the research of a diverse group of researchers from various disciplines. Two professors
 within the submitting unit (McLean and Li) provide overall leadership and strategic guidance for
 managing research across the structural boundaries and entities in three Faculties and five
 Schools. The strategic decision of the UoA to maintain the vibrancy and sustainability of the
 research clusters has led to a staff recruitment policy that seeks to attract research-active staff,
 especially ECRs. With the support of the Faculty PVCs and School Directors, we have
 succeeded in recruiting staff with specialisms whose work is included in this submission. Within
 the ‘Journalism, Media and Communication’ cluster, six ECRs researching in documentary and
 film making have been recruited (Brown, Chadwick, Dayan, Greene, Kooij, Marley) since 2014.
 Seven new staff members with expertise that fits in with the ‘Culture, Identity and Policy’ cluster
 have been recruited (Howitt-Dring, Howson-Griffiths, Jimura, Liu, Piasecki, Wilkinson, Wise).



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 During the current REF cycle this UoA has benefitted from investment in staff at senior level
 (appointments of McLean as Professor of Digital Media and Director of Liverpool Screen School,
 2014; Li as Professor of International Relations 2020; Piasecki as Professor and Subject Head
 of Drama and Creative Writing, 2019; Chalcraft as Professor and Head of Sociology, 2014;
 Millward as Professor of Sociology, 2019; Papadimitriou as Reader in Film Studies, 2015; Parker
 as Reader in Development Studies, 2016; Lincoln as Reader in Communication, Media and
 Youth Culture, 2017; Krüger Bridge as Reader in Music, 2017; Greene as Reader in Film and
 Sonic Arts, 2019; Wise as Reader in Tourism, 2019). The senior appointments have
 strengthened both the capability and expertise of the UoA substantially in research leadership,
 management and international collaboration. Thematically, the appointments have enhanced the
 work of the two research clusters, while introducing new directions (e.g. McLean’s work on
 digital technologies; Millward’s research on sociology of sport; Piasecki’s work on performance
 and cultural identity). These strategic appointments are closely linked to the future research
 development of the unit.

 In addition, nine members of staff at ECR level have been appointed, which has provided the
 vitality and new research specialisms that would ensure future sustainability of the UoA (Brown,
 Chadwick, Dayan, Kooij, Marley – media production and documentary making, Howitt-Dring –
 culture and creative writing, Howson-Griffiths – immersive theatres and health issues, Jimura –
 heritage and tourism, Wilkinson – children, young people and identity).

 Staff development

 As part of the University and Faculty strategies, a clear focus has been given to research as
 a distinctive element in the context of the University’s PDPR with a view to supporting
 researchers’ career development. The University’s staff appraisal and development mechanisms
 encourage both ECRs and established staff to maintain and develop robust research agendas.
 In particular, all ECRs have been given teaching remission to establish their research expertise.

 At the same time, a wide range of University and Faculty workshops have been put in place to
 offer general and bespoke activities for researchers. A notable example of this is the Research
 Cafés organised by the Library Services that have taken place regularly. Through these
 research seminars, staff across the University can share their common research interests and
 find collaboration opportunities. In addition, 35 staff members have participated in the
 University’s researcher-specific training and development programme ACTivator. This
 programme includes workshops on project development, research ethics, grant applications,
 knowledge exchange and commercialisation, and impact generation and dissemination.
 Moreover, staff from this unit have successfully applied for the University’s staff development
 scheme ‘REF Upskilling Project’ (e.g. Rudin/Moran, Brown/Krüger Bridge, Wise/Melis), which
 enables them to pair with more experienced researchers to produce 3*/4* outputs. Furthermore,
 RIS has offered ‘writers retreats’ and fortnightly drop-in sessions to staff from various Faculties.
 The Research Excellence team offers advice and support to academic staff on how to produce
 research outputs and outcomes that can contribute to the REF and how to maximise research
 impact. In relation to the development of impact case studies, staff from this UoA have been
 supported through the HEIF Follow on Funding (Chadwick; Wilson), the REF ICS Fund (Li) and
 QR Strategic Priority Fund (Chadwick; Li). The funding has led to the enhancement of two case
 studies for submission (ICS1, ICS2). The Doctoral Academy has also offered regular Supervisor
 Training workshops for staff, especially for ECRs and those who are new to PhD supervision
 (staff attended the workshops include Greene, Hodgson, Marley, Hassan, Howson-Griffiths,
 Jimura, Tookey, Wise).

 In addition, Faculty support is being provided for staff through a system of sabbatical leave and
 QR funding across Schools/Faculties. Two UoA members have benefitted from the sabbatical
 scheme (Lincoln 2017; Merkin 2018). Moreover, staff have been given support from the QR fund
 through a competitive process: 2016 (Chalcraft, Krüger Bridge, McLean, Newton, Parker), 2017
 (Chalcraft, Greene, Hassan, Li, Millward), 2018 (Hassan, Jones, Krüger Bridge, Parker), 2019
 (Andrews, Li, McLean, Wise). At the UoA level, the UoA Coordinator has organised a series of

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research workshops and events, which have helped staff gain valuable insights into developing
 both traditional and practice-based projects and producing high-quality outputs, thus contributing
 to the development of the research staff.

 Research students

 While the Doctoral Academy has the overall responsibilities for training and supporting
 postgraduate research students, this UoA has placed a great deal of emphasis on the
 development of a vibrant postgraduate research environment through the Faculty Postgraduate
 Research Conferences, the ‘Lunch & Learn’ Seminar Series and regular research seminars held
 at School and Departmental levels. PGR student numbers within the UoA have increased
 considerably and successful completions have grown from 2 during the last REF cycle (2008-
 2013) to 15 during the current period. Our PGRs have won 4 University PGR scholarships and 2
 Graduate Teaching Assistant (GTA) posts. Moreover, the UoA has established an International
 PhD Programme with a number of universities in China including Zhejiang University of Media
 and Communication and Shanghai Normal University. This will help increase PGR student
 numbers further in the next few years. The diverse range of research expertise from the two
 research clusters within this UoA provides strong supervisory capacity including interdisciplinary
 PhD projects. In the current REF period staff have supervised students to successful completion
 on topics across the spectrum of UoA34 and the supervisory teams are drawn from more than
 one subject area. Examples include: Social Media @ Global News Agencies: A Case Study of a
 Professional Culture of Practice (2016); Island Tourism and Sustainable Development in
 Thailand (2017); The Role of Welsh-language Journalism in Shaping the Construction of Welsh
 Identity (2018); A study into the Value Placed on Numeracy as Symbolic Capital within the
 Journalistic Field (2020).

 Since 2019/20 a Faculty ‘PGR into Teaching Scheme’ with approximately £40,000 funding has
 been introduced to offer teaching training linked to 3Is and paid opportunities for PGRs to
 develop their teaching skills and gain valuable experience. PGRs normally receive training from
 the University’s Teaching and Learning Academy and continuous mentorships from the relevant
 academic staff. In the meantime, specific Faculty funds are allocated for PGRs to apply for
 financial support to present papers at conferences and organise postgraduate research events
 (approximately £20,000 in 2019-20). PGRs have frequently been invited to assist staff in
 organising international conferences. PGR representatives from each School attend FRDC
 meetings (once every two months), where they have the opportunities to raise and discuss any
 PGR issues. Research students benefit from dedicated PGR rooms with full ICT workstation
 facilities in the refurbished John Foster Building and Redmonds Building. All this has contributed
 positively to the development of the PGR culture and the enhancement of PGR experiences. We
 will continue to improve PGR experience in both research and teaching in the two research
 clusters (please see Point 5 in the section ‘Future research and impact strategy 2021-2026’
 above).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 At the start of the current REF cycle, a strategic decision was made by this UoA to seek
 competitively awarded funding from UKRI and international funding agencies to mobilise
 collaboration with international partners.

 As a result of this strategic drive, the UoA has had success in attracting external funding for the
 development of individual and collaborative research. There is also a good balance of activity
 across the two research clusters within the unit. In total the unit has submitted 23 bids of which
 10 were successful. The UoA’s total external grant income during the current REF cycle is
 £479,701 compared to £130,633 in the last REF cycle. Most notably, Millward gained a
 competitive grant of £139,337 (2019-2020) from the British Academy for a Mid-Career

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fellowship; Yeoman was awarded a British Academy Small Grant to examine of the role of news
 literacy in journalism education (2019-2020, £9,000); Internationally, Li has received grants from
 the Swedish Foundation for Humanities and Social Science and the Swedish Institute of
 International Affairs to conduct research on identity discourse and security relations in East Asia
 (2015-2018, £20,000). Li’s project was funded relatively early in the REF cycle, which enabled
 him to collaborate with a group of European and Asian scholars. This led to the publication of
 three 4* and one 3* research outputs (as judged by independent external reviewers and former
 REF sub-panel members) and the development of an impact case study for submission.

 The growing volume of bids being submitted over this REF period reflects the support by both
 Faculty and University investments and systems. At the Faculty level, our staff have received
 training from RIS on the Grants and Projects system (GaP). Following the e-GaP training,
 Principal Investigators are able to add projects to GaP and create their own costings for
 externally funded projects. In addition, the University has offered financial assistance to staff for
 developing or strengthening their impact cases through several funding schemes. The unit has
 benefitted from this funding via QR Strategic Priorities Fund (£12,000 Chadwick, Li,), REF ICS
 Fund (£853 Li,), HEIF Impact Fund (£2,445 Chadwick, Wilson), and the Faculty QR Fund
 (£2,000 Li). In addition, the support for the grant application process was enhanced through two
 institutional actions. First, a Research Funding Coordinator was appointed (Thompson 2014-
 2017; Thomas since 2017) to support staff within UoA34 and other units in the APSS Faculty.
 Second, a faculty-based peer review process has been introduced with the aim of improving the
 success rate of grant applications. Grant applications are reviewed within the Faculty prior to
 submission to the Research Support Office. The pool of reviewers includes both academics who
 are experienced in writing grant applications and ECRs who will develop their own skills by
 reviewing a range of applications. In particular, staff have benefitted from the expertise and
 insights from UoA34 colleagues who are appointed members of the peer-review panels of AHRC
 (Krüger Bridge, Li, Wilson) and ESRC (Li).

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 In line with the University’s strategic aim to support and develop ‘targeted areas of world-leading
 research excellence’, the UoA’s research focuses around its research groups and research
 institutes. In particular, the Communication, Cultural and Media Studies Research Group
 (CCMRG) brings together the research staff from a number of Schools and Faculties, while
 working closely with the Institute for Cultural Capital (ICC) and the Institute of Art and
 Technology (IAT). The University’s Research and Innovation Services is responsible for LJMU’s
 overarching research strategy. It provides leadership, guidance and support for staff within the
 University to secure external funding, prepare for the REF, and facilitate research training
 programmes. The Coordinator for this UoA works closely with the University’s Head of Research
 Excellence and Research Strategy, PVC for Research and Enterprise, Associate Deans for
 Research and School Directors.

 The research staff for this UoA are located primarily in the £37.6 million Remonds Building and
 the adjacent John Foster Building. These buildings contain state-of-the-art equipment, as well as
 social learning spaces, modern lecture halls and seminar rooms. Our facilities provide research
 staff and PGR students with excellent media and film production equipment. The Liverpool
 Screen School has first-rate media tech, including IT suites with Adobe Production software,
 Apple Mac suites with Final Cut Pro X and Avid post production suites. In addition, we have a
 professionally-equipped HD TV studio as well as a TV news studio. Our studios contain post-
 production edit suites. We also have four fully-equipped newsrooms, which have Adobe Creative
 Cloud software. Research staff and PGRs can use the fully-equipped, professional radio studio,
 which has editing and audio booths. These facilities, which were provided by Sony Europe
 Limited and are valued at around £1 million, together with modern staff offices have enabled our
 researchers to conduct both theoretical and practice-based research. The close proximity of the
 buildings facilitates greater interaction and collaboration among the staff and the development of
 a cohesive research culture. Indeed, the buildings and facilities provide a substantive resource


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 base to underpin the research developments in this unit. These facilities have contributed to the
 success of many high-profile international conferences and events organised by our staff.

 In addition, the staff within this UoA work closely with the Institute of Cultural Capital (ICC).
 Established in 2010, this centre of cultural policy research is a strategic collaboration between
 the University of Liverpool and LJMU. The ICC was initially set up to examine the impact of
 Liverpool’s designation as Capital of Culture in 2008. Since then, the ICC has participated in a
 number of national research projects, forums and seminars, and community activities. It is
 particularly focused on the ways in which the university and community can work together
 through shared cultural research projects which explore the role of community as a means of
 articulating community identity and shared histories. The ICC Head of Research is a member of
 this UoA (Wilson), who has led a number of AHRC-funded projects. The Institute is currently
 undergoing a review aimed at exploring wider community and research partnerships within
 Merseyside. It is expected that the ICC will continue to operate as a university research centre
 with closer trans-disciplinary links between LJMU’s other research institutes, its university
 neighbours in Liverpool and the region’s cultural organisations.

 Finally, staff and PGRs who are working on digital technology in this unit have close research
 links with the Institute of Art and Technology (IAT), and they can use the excellent facilities of the
 Institute for their projects. The IAT is a supported and linked collective network of artistic
 research and technologies laboratories. It has a congelation of an inquisitive team of brilliantly
 talented experts; five internationally recognised Art and Technologies Labs (Art Labs), including
 the award-winning Face Lab; excellent resources including Liverpool Fab Lab; global research
 collaborations; partnerships with Liverpool’s world-renowned cultural institutions such as
 Liverpool Biennial and Liverpool Tate; a large community of PGRs; and close working
 relationships with businesses and communities in a collaborative, ambitious and edgy city full of
 culture, arts, music, storytelling, creativity, technological innovation, events and networks. Each
 specialist Lab pursues specific research interests and develops research activities across the
 IAT, including contingent Pop-up Labs. Indeed, IAT has enhanced the UoA’s research
 environment, assisted staff to expand their research networks, and helped germinate
 interdisciplinarity. For example, Woodbridge, a researcher from the Liverpool Screen School,
 was co-leader of the cross-School Experimental Technologies Lab (ETL) with Wright from
 Liverpool School of Art and Design (LSAD) to make it a Lab within IAT. He worked alongside
 LSAD researchers in X-Gallery and Fab Lab facilities in John Lennon Art and Design Building as
 a part of ETL. He also worked with Wright on a project to present the World Museum on-line
 during the Covid-19 pandemic and other immersive experiments. An interdisciplinary network
 involving Woodbridge, McLean from this UoA and Waraich in Computer Science have a joint
 PGR funded by Knowsley Metropolitan Borough Council looking at placemaking and
 regenerating the high street through immersive technology. Professor John Hyatt, Director of
 IAT, ran a research event about different ways to present research for our staff with a talk on his
 Ammemorium project. He delivered a ‘Writing for Practice-based Research’ afternoon to our
 UoA staff team. Moreover, a number of our practice-based researchers have been mentored by
 Professor Hyatt on an ongoing basis (e.g. Monks, Young, Maxwell, Jackson). Finally, staff
 working on documentary and film making have benefitted from collaboration with the IAT and the
 facilities of the LSAD in John Lennon Building (Brown, Chadwick, Dayan, Kooij, Marley).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Staff within this UoA are active contributors to the academic communities within their disciplines
 and are involved in a wide range of activities that evidence their status and esteem.
 Collaboration takes place at all levels from PhD studentships, funded research and publishing
 partnerships, to co-organising research events and developing joint research projects. Several
 staff in the UoA hold prestigious offices and positions in their research fields. They are regularly
 invited to referee academic publications and research proposals, serve as members of
 committees, Research Councils, review or advisory boards, editorial boards, and give keynotes,
 lectures and public talks. In the current REF cycle staff of this UoA have reviewed numerous

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 journal papers, book proposals and research bids for highly rated journals and for esteemed
 funding bodies.

 To facilitate research collaboration, the unit organises regular research and networking events at
 School and Faculty levels for staff to exchange research ideas, discuss potential projects and
 explore collaboration opportunities (e.g. Liverpool Screen School Research Seminar Series, the
 ‘Lunch & Learn’ Seminar Series, international conferences at LJMU). Moreover, the Co-ordinator
 and senior staff of the UoA regularly meet with the staff in groups and individually to discuss
 their research and offer advice on project development and research collaboration. The unit has
 also hosted guest speakers and visiting scholars who share similar research interests with its
 staff. Typically, the scholars would stay at LJMU between a few days and three months. Over 25
 scholars from the United States, Europe and China have visited us and developed research
 collaboration with the staff (e.g. Liverpool Film Seminar; Identity and Security Discourse Project).

 Journalism, Media and Communication cluster

 Within the Journalism, Media and Communication cluster, McLean’s individual and collaborative
 research on the impact of digital technologies on society such as surveillance is well recognised.
 She was voted by the members of the UK Academy for Information Systems (UKAIS) to the
 position of President Elect in 2015. She took up the role of President in 2016-2018 as the first
 woman to hold this office in twenty-one years of UKAIS. Since 2015, Mclean has co-chaired the
 UKAIS annual conference. She was also co-chair of the ECIS 2019 workshop ‘Surveillance in
 the Digital Society’ at Stockholm University, Sweden. The workshop invites short papers that
 reflect upon surveillance in the digital society by looking at how these practices are constructed,
 organised, experienced and regulated; other partners included University of Gothenburg and
 University of Salford. Since 2007 McLean has served as Associate Editor of Information
 Technology and People (ABS 3* rated). In 2020 she was invited to give a keynote at the Modern
 Business and Technology Doctoral Symposium at the Senate House of University of London. In
 recognition of her research expertise and status, McLean has been appointed a sub-Panel
 member for REF2021 (UoA34).

 Papadimitriou, a prominent scholar in European and Greek cinema, has established and led the
 Liverpool Film Seminar, a major collaboration between LJMU and Liverpool University. The
 seminars given by the wide range of distinguished film scholars in the UK, Europe and the US
 have offered new insights into film research and facilitated international collaboration. An
 indication of Papadimitriou’s research achievements is the invitation to act as a Member of
 Programme Committee for the 6th Conference of the ‘European Society of Modern Greek
 Studies’ in Lund, Sweden (October 2018) and for ‘Contemporary Greek Cinema Cultures
 Conference’ in Seattle, Washington (May 2015). She has reviewed research applications for the
 British Academy, the AHRC, and the Leverhulme Trust. Since 2013 Papadimitriou has been
 Principal Editor of the Journal of Greek Media and Culture. She is a reviewer for Journal of
 Modern Greek Studies, Modern Greek Studies Online, International Journal of Media and
 Cultural Politics, Studies of European Cinema, Journal of Gender Studies, and a reviewer for
 book proposals and manuscripts for Intellect, Routledge, Continuum and Edinburgh University
 Press. Since 2014 Papadimitriou has served as a member of the editorial board of Modern
 Greek Studies Online and the advisory board for the bilingual online peer-reviewed journal
 Filmicon: Journal of Greek Cinema Studies. She is the Book Series Editor for Remapping World
 Cinema: Regional Transformations and Global Transformations (Routledge).

 Another member of this cluster, Greene, is a recognised expert in the areas of film sound and
 Irish cinema. She has regularly been invited to speak at international conferences and events at
 various institutions, including University of Ulster (Magee), Northern Ireland (2020), Merz
 Akademie, Stuttgart, Germany (2019), Free University Berlin, Germany (2019), British Film
 Institute (BFI) Film Academy, Nerve Centre, Derry/Londonderry, Northern Ireland (2017, 2019),
 and Cork Film Festival, Ireland (2015). She is the organiser of the ‘12th Irish Screen Seminar
 Series’ at Dublin City University (Ireland, 2016). In May 2016 she acted as a member of the
 Conference Selection Committee for the Music and the Moving Image Conference at NYU

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Steinhardt, USA, and co-facilitator with Professor Catherine Grant (Birkbeck) of the Workshop
 on The Audiovisual Essay at Maynooth University, Ireland. Greene is a frequent reviewer for
 Alphaville: Journal of Film and Screen Media [in]Transition, Music and the Moving Image,
 Screen, The Soundtrack, Oxford University Press, Edinburgh University Press, Palgrave
 Macmillan and Bloomsbury Press. In recognition of her research specialisms, she has been
 invited to serve on the editorial boards of Music, Sound and The Moving Image (2019 to
 present), Alphaville: Journal of Film and Screen Media (2015 to present), The Soundtrack
 Journal (2012 to present).

 Culture, Identity and Policy cluster

 The most significant research collaboration in the Culture, Identity and Policy cluster is Li’s
 Identity and Security Discourse Project, which involves collaboration with many scholars and
 diplomats in the UK, Europe, Asia and the US. Working with researchers at the Swedish
 Defence University, Diplomatic Academy of Vietnam, Peking University, National University of
 Singapore, Academia Sinica in Taiwan and other prestigious partner institutions, Li’s research
 has contributed significantly to the understanding of identity discourse in conflict prevention and
 peace promotion among diplomats and foreign policy-makers. This is part of a £2.3 million
 research programme supported by Riksbankens Jubileumsfond, Swedish Foundation for
 Humanities and Social Sciences. Li has been a Research Associate of the Department of Peace
 and Conflict Research, Uppsala University, Sweden. He has acted as Associate Editor and
 Editorial Board Member of Security Dialogue, a high-ranking peer-reviewed journal published by
 the International Peace Research Institute in Oslo. He is a regular reviewer for leading journals
 including European Journal of International Relations, Geopolitics, Journal of Peace Research,
 Journal of Strategic Studies, Pacific Review, International Relations for Asia Pacific, Journal of
 Contemporary China and many other journals. He has also assessed book proposals and
 manuscripts for Oxford University Press, Amsterdam University Press, Sage, Routledge and
 other publishers. In recognition of his research expertise, Li has been appointed a Member of
 the AHRC Peer Review College (Academic College and International College, 2017-2022) and a
 reviewer of UKRI’s Covid-19 Funding Initiative (since 2020). He has reviewed a wide range of
 AHRC research proposals and has been invited to serve as a funding panel member. He is also
 a regular reviewer for the ESRC. Internationally, he has been appointed by Academia Sinica,
 Taiwan’s most preeminent academic institution, as an Expert Advisor for its research
 appointments board. Supported by a competitive grant from Academic Association for
 Contemporary European Studies, Li co-organised a two-day interdisciplinary international
 symposium ‘Brexit in a Changing Geopolitical Context’ at LJMU in June 2017, which involved
 some 40 scholars from the UK and around the world as well as think-tank specialists and EU
 officials. As part of the event, he co-organised a Roundtable that was open to the public in
 Liverpool and facilitated a lively debate around the issues relating to Brexit, which was reported
 by the media. Li’s identity research has had a significant impact on the foreign policy and
 diplomatic communities in the UK, Europe and Asia (see ICS1 for details). As an indicator of his
 esteem, Li has been regularly invited to speak to high-level academic and policy audiences. He
 is an invited Expert Member of the EU-funded Europe-China Research and Advice Network at
 the Royal Institute of International Affairs, London. He speaks regularly at the Royal United
 Services Institute for Defence and Security Studies in Whitehall. In addition, Li has delivered
 invited presentations to officials and diplomats in Belgium, Sweden, Singapore, Taiwan and
 Vietnam.

 Another internationally renowned scholar within this cluster is Millward, whose research has had
 a profound impact on our understanding of discrimination in sports events. Funded by the
 European Commission under the ERASMUS+ Sport Programme (€78,850), Millward’s
 multidisciplinary collaboration with European scholars has produced important recommendations
 on tackling homophobia and promoting anti-discrimination around major sports events. Indeed,
 he plays a leading role in the internationally-recognised network ‘Football Collective’. He has
 reviewed grant applications for the ESRC, AHRC and British Academy. In addition, Millward has
 been invited to review articles for such top Sociology journals as Sociology, The British Journal
 of Sociology, International Review for the Sociology of Sport, Journal of Sport and Social Issues

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Sociology of Sport Journal. He has also reviewed book proposals and manuscripts for such
 publishers as Sage, Palgrave, Routledge, Oxford University Press and Manchester University
 Press. In recognition of his research status in the field, Millward has been invited to serve on the
 editorial boards for Sociology [Associate Editorial Board] (2016-2017) and [Full Editorial Board]
 (2017-ongoing), Sociology of Sport Journal (2017 to present), Soccer and Society, and
 Communication and Sport (2013 to present). He is Co-editor of Special editions of journals in
 Sociology (e-special issue) 2019; Soccer & Society 20(5).2019; International Journal for Sport
 Policy and Politics 10(1) 2018; European Sport Management Quarterly 17(1) 2017; Sociological
 Research Online 20(2) 2015. He is one of the Book Series Editors for the 13 volumes series
 Football Research in an Enlarged Europe (Palgrave). A leading scholar in the sociology of sport,
 cultural approaches to social movements and relational sociology, Millward has been invited to
 give many keynote talks including Keynotes to the Football Collective Inaugural Conference in
 Manchester (2016) and Football Safety Officers Association Conference (2020).

 Andrews, a well-respected scholar in tourism, culture and identity, is the Chair of the Royal
 Anthropological Institute’s Tourism Committee. She has been invited to give Keynote speeches
 and talks on identity, discourse and tourism at University of Brighton (2015), University of Köln,
 Mallorca (2018), University of Aarhus, Hvide Sande, Denmark (2019) and other universities.
 Andrew has reviewed journal papers submitted to such leading journals as Tourism, Hospitality
 Planning and Development, Annals of Tourism Research, International Journal of Consumer
 Studies, National Identities, Tourist Studies and International Journal of Cultural Studies. She is
 also an External Reviewer for Leverhulme Grant applications. Also worth noting is Andrews’
 organisation of the Anthropology, Tourism and Photography Conference at Royal
 Anthropological Institute and British Library, London (May 2014) and the Tourism, Materiality,
 Representation Conference at Royal Anthropological Institute and British Museum, London
 (June 2018).

 Krüger Bridge, another member of this cluster, is a well-established expert on ethnomusicology
 and popular music studies. She has edited The Oxford Handbook of Global Popular Music (New
 York: Oxford University Press, in press, two volumes). The handbook contains 70 chapters by
 internationally renowned academics and is the first collection of its kind on global popular music.
 Krüger Bridge is a member of the AHRC’s Peer Review College and reviewer of its Covid-19
 funding applications. She was also a grant reviewer for Swiss National Science Foundation,
 Bern, Switzerland in 2016. Moreover, she has been Editor-in-Chief of Journal of World Popular
 Music (Equinox) since 2013. She has served on the editorial boards of Journal of Popular Music
 Education (Intellect) (2016 to present) and Ethnomusicology Forum [International Advisory
 Board member] (Taylor & Francis/Routledge) (2014-2019), Metal Music Studies [Editorial
 Advisory Board] (Intellect) (since 2019). In addition, Krüger Bridge is an editor of the book series
 Transcultural Music Studies (Equinox) and a regular reviewer for Journal of Popular Music
 Education, Twentieth Century Music Journal and Journal of the Royal Musical Association,
 Ethnomusicology.

 The research achievements of the staff in this UoA are widely respected by their peers, and
 have wide-ranging impacts within and beyond the academic community at local, national and
 international levels. In summary, the research of our staff has:

       informed decisions on the use of digital technology in business and public services
        (McLean);
       contributed to high-level policy debates and policy making (Li on foreign policy and
        diplomacy in the UK, Europe and East Asia; Chadwick on the Philippine government and
        the United Nations);
       enriched our cultural and artistic life (BBC radio programmes written by Monks and
        Young; Tookey’s engagement with Bluecoat in Liverpool, the Wirral Council and the
        general public; Papadimitriou and Greene’s work on European, Greek and Irish cinema);
       helped tackle gender discrimination (Millward’s work on homophobia in sports events;
        Parker’s research on gender based violence);


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       inspired reflection on challenging social issues (Piasecki’s staged adaptation relating to
        refugees and the migration issue);
       stimulated our thinking on the impact of major political developments and health crises
        on tourism (Andrew’s research on Brexit, Covid-19 and tourism);
       helped us appreciate the links between media/social media and youth culture (Lincoln
        and Wilkinson’s work);
       improved our awareness of the role of art in mental health issues and dementia
        (Howson-Griffiths and Wilson’s work);
       enhanced our understanding of the challenges of news reporting (Newton’s work on
        reporting death and trauma);
       increased our knowledge of human relations with animals (practice-based research of
        Brown and Kooij through documentary).

 In conclusion, through their individual research and collaboration with external research partners
 and joint research projects, the staff in this unit have made substantial contributions to advance
 knowledge in various fields. As the evidence above demonstrates, the dissemination of this
 knowledge and related impact activities have contributed significantly to public policy, the
 economy and society.




                                                                                            Page 14
