Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Newcastle University (NU)

 Unit of Assessment: UoA26 – Modern Languages and Linguistics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Our overarching goal is to foster impactful, interdisciplinary research with global reach undertaken
 in an environment that promotes equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI). Our aim is not only to
 achieve academic excellence but to generate civil, environmental and societal benefits.
 ‘Languages in the Real World’ is, in fact, a cross-cutting principle unifying the Unit’s research and
 impact strategies.

 1a. Context and Structure

 As in REF 2014, Modern Languages and Linguistics research/impact at Newcastle (NU) is
 undertaken in 3 academic Schools within the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences (HaSS):
 Modern Languages (SML); Education, Communication and Language Sciences (ECLS) and
 English Literature, Language and Linguistics (SELLL). All 3 are now led by women appointed since
 2014. There has been significant new investment in equipment, facilities and staff since the last
 REF cycle.

 Staffing has increased from 49.97FTE Category A eligible staff to 69.4FTE (producing 324
 outputs). Additional, open-ended FT posts have been created, including a Research Support
 Scientist (Ackerman) who co-directs the revamped Linguistics Laboratory (LingLab). The post
 addresses increased demand for laboratory-based methodologies, arising from the introduction of
 a cross-NU Research Group in Cognitive Linguistics that enables new inter-disciplinary
 collaborations. LingLab is accessible to staff and students across the 3 Schools and was
 significantly enhanced in 2020-2021 by a UKRI World-Class Science Laboratories award.
 Colleagues have been promoted to senior strategic roles within HaSS. Corrigan was appointed to
 the new post of Director of Research in Linguistics (DoRL) in 2018 and Harkness became HaSS
 Pro-Vice Chancellor (PVC) in the same year. We have made significant progress enhancing the
 diversity and gender balance of our staff team (particularly the number of female FTEs at the rank
 of Personal Chair (40%)). These positive trends arise from our strong EDI commitments (REF5a,
 §3.4).

 In this period, the UoA’s research portfolio improved dramatically too. Award spend has increased
 by over £1.6M in this REF cycle, with new awards topping the £6.2M mark. The Unit has secured
 membership of 4 doctoral training partnerships (3 national and 1 international) and members have
 supervised 206 PhD projects to completion since 2014.

 The Unit shares interests in language families spanning the globe, with particular strengths in East
 and South Asian, European, Middle Eastern and South American languages and cultures.
 Researchers explore questions within historical, philosophical, political and sociocultural studies
 as well as in contemporary literature, theory and thought, visual cultures, and translating and
 interpreting. Our capability in linguistics ranges from sociolinguistics and speech and language
 sciences to applied, descriptive, formal and historical linguistics. Our members have produced
 research and impact on topics as diverse as Cultures of Memory, Postcolonial Writing,
 Documentary Film and Film Spectatorship, as well as in subdisciplines of language study such as
 Acquisition and Development, Applied Linguistics and Communication, Cognition and Evolution,
 Variation and Change. Some research areas - such as Ageing and Gender - are pursued
 collaboratively in both Modern Languages and Linguistics. Projects in this cycle reflect new posts
 in Environmental and Urban Humanities consistent with our ambition to combine research and
 impact strategies that are both SHAPE- and STEM-oriented.

 This interdisciplinary approach is underpinned by active engagement with NU’s research
 structures (Centres, ECR Fellowships and Institutes (REF5a, §§2.2.3/3.2.4); Academies (REF5a,
 §2.2.5)). The University’s 2018 Vision and Strategy goals (REF5a, §2) embedded support for

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interdisciplinary research through two key programmes: (i) NU Centres of Research Excellence
 (NUCoREs, REF5a §§2.21/2.2.2) and (ii) NU University Academic Track (NUAcT) Postdoctoral
 Fellowships (REF5a §3.2.4). NUCoREs replace discipline-specific research hubs (e.g. Centre for
 Research in Language and Linguistics) with bottom-up, cross-faculty groupings where UoA26
 colleagues are extremely active. Corrigan, Jordan, Jein and Riches are executive members of the
 Heritage, Ageing Inequalities, Cities and Transformative Neuroscience NUCoREs, respectively. 5
 UoA colleagues are developing NU’s Childhood and Youth NUCoRE (currently pending approval).
 Utilising the UoA’s existing strengths in transdisciplinary research, we are likewise currently
 spearheading an NU-wide NUCoRE in Human Communication. We lead the transdisciplinary
 Centre for Latin American and Caribbean Studies (CLACS), representing scholarship in HaSS,
 the Faculty of Science, Agriculture and Engineering, the School of Biomedical Sciences and the
 Faculty of Medical Sciences. More than 30 researchers are associate members and there are 10
 visiting scholars from as far afield as Argentina and New Zealand. These clusters, alongside the
 networking and financial support offered by our cross-Faculty research institutes and academies,
 facilitate multidisciplinary approaches to important research questions both within our own
 disciplines and in others.

 We see this increasingly interdisciplinary, collaborative landscape not only as playing to the
 research strengths of our configuration across 3 Schools but also as key to the longer-term
 sustainability of our funding strategy. It combines with our efforts to diversify the portfolio of funding
 bodies from which we secure awards. Thus, in addition to support e.g. from the EU (Catalá-
 Carrasco, Satar & Seedhouse, Young-Scholten), ERC (Holmberg) or UKRI (Austin, Corrigan,
 Cuskley, Jein, Jones, Yu, Stringer), there have been awards from the National Institute for Health
 Research (Stringer) and charitable institutions such as the British Academy (Meekings),
 Leverhulme Trust (MacKenzie) and Nuffield Foundation (Law). Similarly, strategies for securing
 international funding are pursued such as the GCRF award made to Khattab and McKean in
 January 2020.

 1b. Research Objectives (2014-2020)

 Table 1 reviews our objectives from REF 2014, describes the actions taken since and gives
 examples of outcomes.


             Objective                            Actions                         Outcomes

  Prioritise publishing in outlets     Mentoring; Annual Personal       Outputs in prestige outlets
  likely to give greatest visibility   Research Planning (PRP)          have grown from an estimate
  and impact.                          Meetings (§2c); Facilitating     of 20% to 35%; Publication
                                       Open Access (OA) compliant       via both Gold and Green OA
                                       outputs and data repositories    routes; OA resources.
                                       (§§1e/4a).


  Raise external grant bid             Establishing a UoA26 Peer        Award spend risen by £1.6M;
  success rates.                       Review College; Increasing       Widescale participation
                                       levels of involvement in         in/leading NUCoREs and
                                       collaborative research           projects with international
                                       projects and/or international    partners.
                                       networks (§§2c/3a/4a/4b).


  Enhance professional                 Mentoring during probation       Each FTE Category A eligible
  development of ECRs.                 period and beyond; Annual        staff member (including
                                       PRPs; Targeted CPD               ECRs) has published, on
                                       opportunities (e.g. ‘Getting     average, 5 outputs; Yu
                                       those Grants’) (§2c).            availed of this targeted

                                                                                                    Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                                                    training, leading to UKRI
                                                                    funding (£804,058);
                                                                    Competitive external awards
                                                                    secured by colleagues of
                                                                    both genders and at all
                                                                    career stages.


  Improve recruitment,            Collaborative bids for            Membership of 4 DTPs (2
  development and training of     Doctoral Training                 new and 2 renewals); 27
  PGRs. Further enhance           Partnerships (DTP)/               studentships; New posts;
  cross-school supervision.       Studentships from major           Award from UKRI World-
                                  funders (§2d); Staff              Class Science Laboratories
                                  recruitment in areas creating     Scheme.
                                  opportunities for cross-NU
                                  supervision (see §2b);
                                  Infrastructure improvements
                                  (§3c).


  Attain community impact of      Developing a pipeline of          Successes include:
  our research.                   impact projects (§1d/§2c/         Language Acts and Social
                                  §4b); Mentoring; Appointing       Inclusion; Aphasia Research
                                  Impact Directors; Targeted        User Group; Chinese
                                  training; NU/external financial   Independent Film Archive; Du
                                  support (§§1d/2c/3b); New         (as ECR) and Hall became
                                  external partnerships (§4a);      Policy Academy Fellows.
                                  Participation in NU’s Policy
                                  Academy (§2c).


                       Table 1. REF2014 Objectives, Actions, Outcomes

 Our outcomes demonstrating the efficacy of strategies identified in Table 1, coupled with new
 appointments, opportunities and challenges, has enabled us to shape, extend and adapt aspects
 of our research and impact vision since 2014 by implementing these 6 strategies:

 • Robust succession planning alongside new posts from diverse applicant pools that strengthened
 our ability to direct research and impact themes in which we already had expertise while further
 expanding our interdisciplinary horizons (§2b).

 • Enhancing measures for Open Access and integrity in research and impact planning (§1e).

 • Equally valuing and enabling externally funded projects of differing complexity/duration and led
 either by lone scholars or teams (§3a).

 • Adopting ‘Citizen’ and ‘Global Systems’ Science models for ethically engaging with human
 participants (§§1d/1e).

 • Building meaningful research and impact strategic partnerships with other HEIs and external
 organizations in the UK and abroad (§§1d/4a/4b).

 • Recruiting diverse international as well as home applicants for our doctoral training programmes
 so as to further internationalize and balance the demographic profile of our PGR cohorts (§2d).




                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1c. Research Objectives (2021-2026)

 Our overarching goals are to:

 • Develop new research of world-leading quality within the sub-disciplines of Modern Languages
 and Linguistics in which we already have considerable research power (e.g. Contemporary
 literature, theory and thought, experimental linguistics, language acquisition).

 • Take advantage of our research range and exploit the opportunities this brings to cross SHAPE-
 STEM disciplinary boundaries (e.g. leading or developing NUCoREs in Ageing Inequalities,
 Childhood and Youth, Cities, Heritage, Human Communication and Transformative
 Neuroscience).

 • Facilitate sustainable, impactful research with global reach that brings tangible benefits beyond
 the academy responding to 5 national and international priorities: (i) Global migration crises and
 the new language ecologies they generate; (ii) Human and linguistic rights abuses; (iii) Urban
 regeneration; (iv) Social exclusion of marginalized communities (older people, children, those
 requiring speech and language therapy, refugees and asylum seekers); (v) Environmental
 degradation and precarity (§4b).

 • Create an environment that champions accessibility, diversity, inclusion and integrity while
 improving aspects of our practices where these principles have not yet been fully realised
 (§§2a/2d/2f).

 • Secure investment from NU and externally for improved estate space and more advanced
 equipment for LingLab (e.g. additional sound booth installation).

 • Build contingencies into our planning of high-quality research, impact and student projects which
 will ameliorate the consequences of world events such as Brexit, the economic downturn and the
 COVID-19 pandemic (§§2d/2f/3a).

 1d. Impact Objectives

 ‘Languages in the Real World’ is an enduring mission for the UoA. Our strategies for pursuing this
 goal in our underpinning research and its tangible benefits are outlined in §1b. These have led to
 particular strengths in impacts related to:

 • Creativity, culture and society

 • Learning, participation and understanding

 • Environment, health, social welfare and well-being

 • Public policy, law and services

 The Unit’s impact leadership team (3 Directors of Impact and DoRL) ensures that the research
 plans of staff/PGRs have significance and reach by adopting inclusive ‘Citizen’ and ‘Global
 Systems Science’ models. Researcher partnership and engagement with individuals,
 communities, practitioners and policymakers at all stages of the research cycle are encouraged.

 Our successes are linked to our expertise at embedding activities within key regional, national and
 international capacity-building initiatives with external partners. These range from the Alzheimer’s
 Society (Young) and the National Centre for the Written Word (Cuskley) to consultancies with UK
 (Law) and foreign governments (Howard, R.). Such collaborations have been facilitated by internal
 and external grants as well as in-kind contributions from stakeholders, communities and
 institutions. ICS26-5 Howard, e.g., has been supported by Faculty funding (§3b) in addition to



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 successful applications to the Translating Cultures scheme (AHRC, 2014-2016) and Global
 Challenges Research Fund (2018-2019) (totalling £185,049).

 As demonstrated by all 6 Impact Case Studies (ICS) selected, our research has impacts on a
 range of beneficiaries from wider publics to practitioners and from professional services to
 curators, educators and policymakers. A testament to our systematic, cross-UoA approach to
 impact is the fact that our ICSs are drawn from and led by each of our Schools. Our inherent
 interdisciplinarity and our strategies for mentoring impact projects led by both individuals and
 teams (comprising colleagues of different genders and career stages) gives us the capacity to
 generate ICSs with diverse leadership configurations. Thus, speech and language sciences
 projects represent our team-led research and impact, while the others are directed by individuals.

 • ICS26-2 Howard et al. demonstrates collaborative impact, furthering work undertaken during
 previous REF cycles. The team includes a research professor (Howard, D.), a reader (Morris) and
 a senior lecturer (Webster (PI and a UoA graduate)). Their Comprehensive Aphasia Tests e.g.
 guides Speech and Language Therapists in cognitive neuropsychological approaches to the
 assessment and treatment of aphasia, becoming the assessment of choice for clinical use
 (translated into 24 languages).

 • ICS26-1 McKean et al. has led to modifications of children’s services that affect the life chances
 of youngsters at risk of poor language development globally. This has been achieved through
 changes in educational and health policy, professional practice and service delivery.

 • ICS26-3 Corrigan’s work on the complex relationships between language, migration and identity
 in Northern Ireland typifies the benefits arising from lone scholar research and impact work in
 SELLL. From home to here exemplifies the Unit’s success at incubating projects within shorter
 time-scales (2014-).

 This ICS aligns with other Unit-wide research strengths (especially language acquisition and
 sociolinguistics). 3 projects from SML showcase the impacts generated from other sub-disciplines
 (archival research and educational/language policies).

 • ICS26-6 Müller locates and re-purposes rare ego-documents from youngsters representing their
 experiences of life in Nazi Germany. Like ICS26-3 Corrigan, this project secured tangible benefits
 for the education and heritage sectors especially.

 • Young learners are also a central focus of ICS26-4 Oliart which demonstrates how 20th-century
 Peruvian education policies can become more inclusive, preventing drop-out rates for girls and
 improving teacher retention.

 • ICS26-5 Howard was chosen to reinforce our expertise in post-colonialism, in the languages
 and cultures of South America and our partnerships with indigenous peoples in the region. This
 ICS highlights the key role played by Peruvian female leaders of civil society associations in
 triggering changes in public servants’ practice in the cultural sector (thereby securing linguistic
 human rights).

 Taken together, these ICS underscore our commitment to both understanding ‘Languages in the
 Real World’ and to leveraging this understanding for enabling real world benefits.

 1e. Integrity and Open Access (OA)

 Colleagues have been engaged in FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable)
 projects since the 2000s. To progress towards an open research environment (thereby maximising
 the visibility of our research (Table 1, §1b) while aligning with the Concordats on Open Research
 Data and Research Integrity (REF5a, §§2.3.2-2.3.3)), there are UoA strategies for
 sharing/managing our research data while ensuring that it is collected according to appropriate

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ethical, legal and professional frameworks. All our Schools have a trained Ethics Convenor,
 reporting to a Faculty Ethics Committee and liaising with NU’s Intellectual Property and Legal
 Services team. UoA colleagues have played key leadership roles in School and Faculty level
 Ethics Committees (Al-Samdani, Corrigan, Jordan, Pichler and Young-Scholten), guaranteeing
 that our research fits into NU-wide, UUK and UKRIO policies. The UoA’s Research Support
 Scientist and DoRL collaborate with NU’s Research Data Manager to disseminate information
 about the institution’s Research Data Service, Data Repository and data management training.
 Wherever possible, outputs are shared in OA format (through Gold routes - e.g. McKean et al.
 (2015); Levickis et al. (2020) and Heyne et al. (2019) - and via Green routes utilising NU’s own E-
 Prints Repository). White is a leading partner in the development of the OA UK Bilingual Toddlers
 Online Assessment Tool. Similarly, Reilly et al. (2018) documents the development of CLARE, the
 Child Language Repository, funded by the Australian National Health and Medical Research
 Council (Law/Levickis). Reproducibility is another important principle that the UoA embraces.
 Cuskley (2019) publishes not only results but source code data, granting free access to future
 researchers.

 Responding to COVID-19 restrictions, the DoRL is leading a FAIR project in collaboration with the
 HaSS Research Institutes and Head of Collections Management and Digital Library Services.
 ‘Raiders of the Lost Archive’ (begun July 2020) will establish ethical procedures for repurposing
 legacy data. The immediate objective is to delimit the impacts on research reliant on
 fieldwork/archives. Longer-term, this initiative will raise awareness of data sharing opportunities
 and challenges already experienced by UoA staff who have successfully created the research
 resources above, as well as OA educational materials from impact projects led by Müller, Oliart,
 Seedhouse and Young-Scholten (§§4a/4b). The Diachronic Electronic Corpus of Tyneside English
 developed by Corrigan (PI) and Mearns is another example (underpinning an ICS in REF 2014
 and AHRC-funded from 2000). They have been at the forefront of creating best-practice access
 protocols for digitizing and sustaining legacy data with tangible benefits. Philip Durkin notes that
 the Oxford English Dictionary “has been a grateful recipient”, using the database to “help inform
 its research into the history of words, phrases, and senses in English.”

 These OA collaborations and impacts have not only raised awareness within the UoA of the
 importance of FAIR practices, they have catalysed the development of collective understanding
 and UoA protocols on ethics, intellectual property and research integrity.

 Looking ahead, and in consultation with the Dean of Postgraduate Studies and the Directors of
 our Doctoral Training Consortia, we intend developing cross-institutional research supervisor CPD
 workshops on OA, ethics and research integrity tied to our exemplar ‘Raiders of the Lost Archive’
 and FAIR datasets.


 2. People

 2a. Staffing

 Figure 1 captures Category A/B staff distribution at the REF2021 Census date by School, while
 demonstrating the considerable investment overall in Category A recruitment since 2014 (a rise
 of 39%), reflecting NU’s strategy of supporting UoA’s with world-leading potential. 2 key changes
 involve internal appointments to senior HaSS Faculty positions (see §1a).




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



             Category A/B SML                            36




             Category A/B ECLS                   26




            Category A/B SELLL             16




      2020 Category A Staff FTE                                                      69.4




      2014 Category A Staff FTE                                        49.97



                                  0   10    20    30      40      50           60   70      80
                                                          N



                      Figure 1. Category A/B Staffing levels by FTE and School



 Further appointments recognised the need to broaden the base of researchers (Figure 2). Hence,
 40% of staff are in Grade F/G posts (Lecturers/Research Associates) (REF5a, §§3.4.3-3.4.4). This
 career stage balance evidences a sustainable research environment because these staff are
 either ECRs in the strict REF sense or their career began just prior to or immediately after 2014.
 They include staff funded by prestigious British Academy, Marie Skłodowska-Curie and
 Leverhulme Trust EC Fellowships. Our income since 2014 has permitted the appointment of more
 Research Associates (RAs) than previously (28). They fulfilled key roles on collaborative projects
 funded by research councils, charities and government departments. The balance between short-
 term and open-ended appointments among Category A eligible staff, however, continues to favour
 the latter (e.g. just 7 fixed-term appointments between 2013-2019). Indeed, several fixed-term RA
 staff were retained on open-ended contracts (i.e. Al-Tamimi, Ackerman, Ganassin, Mearns,
 Schartner) whilst others secured posts elsewhere. Thorburn has a permanent position at the
 University of Lausanne while Levickis was appointed to the University of Melbourne. The Unit has
 benefited too from investment in a prestigious and highly competitive NU Academic Track (NUAcT)
 ECR Fellowship (REF5a, §3.2.4). In 2020, SML’s Gilbert took up her NUAcT tenure-track
 appointment (one of just 20 across NU), bringing new expertise on Rwandan genocide and
 extending interdisciplinary opportunities.




                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


           BAME              14


           White                                                                  86




           Males                                    41


        Females                                                59




      Chairs (M)                                                   60


       Chairs (F)                                   40




      Grades F/G                                    40


      Grades H/ I                                                  60


                    0   10        20    30     40        50   60        70   80    90     100
                                                         %


                                  Figure 2. Category A Staff Diversity

 Figure 2 additionally shows a reasonable balance between male (41%) and female (59%) staff, if
 not between colleagues identifying as BAME (14%) versus those who claim White British/Irish
 heritages (86%). Although our BAME profile is 5% above the 2020 national average for non-SET
 subjects, this remains an area of our staffing where our EDI principles have not yet been fully
 realised. Key to improving our ratio here, are recruitment practices and the NUAcT scheme
 because 10-15% of awards are reserved for BAME groups. The Unit is a sector leader for gender
 equality. 40% of our Professors are women (10% above NU and 15% higher than Russell Group
 averages) (REF5a, §3.4.3). We nevertheless remain ambitious for further development here to
 better reflect the UoA’s overall gender profile. In contrast to NU’s average of 41% Heads of School
 being female, all of ours are (Morris (T&R), Robinson (UoA27) (T&R) and Wilczynski (T&S)
 (REF5a, §3.4.3).

 2b. Staff Recruitment Policies

 The Unit has implemented a robust, mixed ecology, succession planning policy. Open-ended
 replacements for retired colleagues have been secured (filled by ECRs primarily but MCRs too).
 For instance, Whaley (SELLL) and Miller (ECLS) have been succeeded by Mearns and White,
 respectively.


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to balancing/broadening our demographic base and ensuring sustainability, our
 recruitment strategy from 2014-2020 was designed to develop interdisciplinary capacity and new
 areas of research while consolidating core strengths in:

 • Intercultural/Professional Communication

 • Latin-American/Portuguese

 • Translation Studies

 • Child Language

 • Clinical Linguistics

 • Phonetics/Phonology

 • Sociolinguistics

 Fernandez and Henry-Tierney were recruited to augment Translation Studies, while Du’s
 appointment allowed us to expand provision in Translation and Interpreting. Fehimović’s profile
 broadened our expertise in Latin-American and Film studies and further boosted interdisciplinary
 activity (via CLACS, §1a). More recently, Da Silva Beleza Correia Pinto was recruited (originally
 University of New Hampshire) to enhance our research in Portuguese. All these Grade F/G staff
 were appointed on open-ended contracts.

 Senior replacement, permanent appointments include Harkness (French) (from Queen’s
 University, Belfast), first appointed as Head of School (then HaSS PVC). Jordan (formerly Queen
 Mary, University of London) and Malkmus (originally Ohio State) were recruited to French and
 German, respectively. They all bolster research leadership and raise our profile in existing areas
 (French Literature/Visual Culture; Women’s Writing; German Literature and Intellectual History)
 alongside emerging cross-faculty ones (Ageing; the Anthropocene).

 Corrigan’s promotion to a faculty position led to a new permanent ECR replacement post in
 Sociolinguistics within SELLL. Recruiting Duncan to this additionally improved our interdisciplinary
 capabilities with respect to the Cities NUCoRE, as did Jein’s appointment to SML (from an open-
 ended contract at Bangor).

 The new Cognitive Linguistics Research Group formed by appointing Ackerman (ECR), Cuskley,
 Smith (ECR), Turnbull, White and Woods further enhanced our interdisciplinarity. Three of them
 were recruited from postdoctoral fellowships (at Edinburgh and NU). The others were attracted to
 the Unit from permanent T&R contracts elsewhere (Hawai‘i at Mānoa, Huddersfield and
 Plymouth). Their profiles augment our collective, cross-school expertise in quantitative and
 experimental methodologies. This new research cluster enables further collaboration with the
 Centre for Behaviour and Evolution and the National Innovation Centres for Ageing and Data
 (REF5a, §2.2.4) as well as in cognitive science, computing, psychology and neuroscience.

 There is good evidence (new external partnerships, networks, improved grant capture and a more
 diverse funding portfolio) that all these appointments are enriching the UoA and its sub-disciplines.
 They enhanced opportunities for collaboration within and beyond Modern Languages and
 Linguistics via NUCoREs and have been a springboard for driving our research and impact in new
 and exciting directions.

 2c. Strategies for Staff Retention and Development

 All staff, irrespective of career stage or contract type, are considered full and equal community
 members (REF5a, §3.1.2) with identical access to mentoring/training and internal research
 funding opportunities both at UoA and Faculty levels. There are robust mechanisms for ensuring

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 representation. ECR appointees sit on EDI/Research/School Executive Committees. In 2014,
 following a successful external evaluation, NU was amongst the first 10 universities to retain the
 HR Excellence in Research Award for a further 4 years in recognition of our on-going commitment
 to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (REF5a, §3.2.3). The UoA
 similarly implements these principles, including open recruitment practices, flexible working,
 workload allowance for professional development and relevant training for postdoctoral
 researchers and fellows (R&I). The HEI’s commitment was reaffirmed in 2020 and includes e.g. a
 10-day allowance for pursuing development opportunities for those on R&I contracts.

 To improve promotion prospects as well as retention and development of more senior colleagues,
 formal mentoring and CPD opportunities (including those delivered by external agencies but NU-
 financed) are likewise available. Promotions in UoA26 during the cycle have ensured excellent
 research-active staff retention by rewarding performance (REF5a, §§3.1.2/3.2.7). 16 T&R staff
 became Senior Lecturers, 4 were awarded Readerships and 5 received Personal Chairs (2 males
 and 3 females). Senior colleagues mentor applicants during promotion applications. Staff at all
 career stages discuss their own strategic research, impact and training goals annually through
 formal mechanisms including Personal Development Review (PDR), Probation Review (where
 applicable) and research-specific Personal Research Planning (PRP) meetings. Informal UoA
 processes such as monthly drop-in surgeries offered by senior research leaders (including the
 DoRL) are available too. This culture of collegial support means that all staff offer and receive
 targeted advice. In addition, a UoA Peer Review College, launched in 2018 by the DoRL, provides
 reviews of funding proposals. New options at Faculty level further support grant writing application
 processes and complement Unit level training. ‘PI Essentials’ and similar workshops run by the
 Organisational Development Unit (ODU) (REF5a, §3.2.5) have underpinned successful outcomes.
 Training opportunities for impact projects include Action for Impact through Northern Accelerator
 (REF5a, §2.4.3) (places for which are confined to ECRs). UoA training is provided by our 3 Impact
 Directors and overseen by the DoRL. They are supported by the Faculty Research and Impact
 team who offer additional events such as: ‘How to Run Effective Impact Projects in Schools’ which
 was also specifically aimed at ECRs (including PGRs).

 PRPs are prepared in consultation with School Directors of Research. PDRs appraise staff
 achievements against agreed objectives and consider their training and other development needs.
 These are an important tool for transferring ECRs onto open-ended contracts at the end of
 probation. This period (with reduced workload) provides CPD opportunities such as the Faculty
 Futures programme and Principal Investigator Development training. There are development
 options too for more senior staff such as the NU Professors’ Induction training, facilitating HEI
 leader networking. Regular 1-1 research mentoring is offered for those who have just completed
 onerous administrative roles and require support setting new research and impact agendas. 5
 senior colleagues have pursued development opportunities such as the Academic Leaders’
 Programme initiative and 1-1 academic leadership coaching. Participants have built successful
 academic careers as appropriate for their grade alongside enhancing their understanding of
 research strategy and institutional strategy/operations/policies. In addition, there are 4 NU
 Academies supporting CPD in Enterprise, Global Challenges, Skills and Policy (REF5a, §2.2.5):
 Hall and Du e.g. benefited from becoming Policy Academy Fellows in 2018 and 2019, respectively.
 The DoRL has also initiated a wide range of UoA-training to meet our emerging needs and
 ambitions such as ‘All You Ever Wanted To Know About Impact But Were Afraid To Ask’ (5th March
 2019). The event (to which ECRS were specifically invited) included critical friend reviewing of
 potential ICSs from across the Unit.


 During this REF cycle, staff research and impact goals have been effectively supported by the
 instantiation of Workload Allocation Models (WAM). An extra 150 hours are allocated to ECRs so
 that they can meet research commitments while settling into new teaching/administrative roles
 and undertaking the Certificate in Advanced Studies in Academic Practice (an additional 75 hours)
 alongside the research training identified above. WAM support is complemented by sabbatical
 policies providing regular leave from all duties (bar PGR supervision). Sabbatical leave is possible
 every 6-7 semesters and 72 have been granted in this cycle to Category A eligible staff. External

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fellowship funding has supported further research leave which is not counted against internal
 rotas, e.g. Corrigan (AHRC Research Leadership), Cuskley (British Academy), Jein (AHRC EC
 Research Leadership) and Al-Tamimi/MacKenzie/Müller (Leverhulme Trust). 5 staff on T&S
 contracts have been awarded sabbaticals, leading e.g. to the publication of research-led
 textbooks. Innovation Knowledge Transfer sabbaticals for facilitating exchanges between
 academia and business, industry, public or third sector bodies have recently been agreed with
 Faculty to capitalize on recent events hosted by the UoA such as the UK Government International
 Office Policy Forum. We see this route as an important future mechanism not only to enhance our
 ‘Languages in the Real World’ vision but to give us a competitive edge for Innovate UK Knowledge
 Transfer Partnerships.


 Evidence of the effectiveness of the WAM and sabbatical leave policies when coupled with the
 training opportunities undertaken by staff at all career stages and on diverse contract types
 includes: New skills which have furthered individual ambitions for leadership roles and progressing
 research or impact plans; The marked rise in research income awarded and an increased volume
 of outstanding publications produced by researchers at all career stages (Figure 4, §2f); The
 number of Category A staff who have been retained or promoted, or have become PIs or Co-Is on
 externally funded projects; The extent and diversity of collaborative networks established by
 individuals within academia and beyond (§4a).

 2d. Student Researchers

 Despite increasingly fierce global competition for PGRs and current recruitment challenges, we
 continue to boast very high numbers of both PhD students (106 registered in the current year
 alone) and graduates (206 since 2013, at an average rate of 25 completions per year).


        Home BAME           7

        Home White                                                                                93



      BAME (Overall)                                                          69

     White (Overall)                                31



        International                                                              73

          Home [EU]         7

              Home                        20



             Female                                                     63

               Male                                      37

                        0   10       20        30        40   50   60        70         80   90        100
                                                              %


                                Figure 3. PhD Graduate Diversity, 2013-20



                                                                                                        Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Figure 3 illustrates their diverse demographics. 69% of all graduates self-selected ‘BAME’ as the
 ethnic origin with which they identified. There were fewer male than female students (37% and
 63%, respectively) while 80% of the cohort hailed from overseas (73% International and 7% EU).
 These figures, key to our long-term financial sustainability, similarly speak to the credibility of our
 reputation as an attractive, world-class, research-intensive Unit.

 Students applied from Continental Europe, the Middle and Far East as well as South East Asia
 and Africa, many of whom are attracted by our expertise in these regions’ languages and cultures.
 84% of these International graduates were from BAME backgrounds. Our strategy for maintaining
 a balanced and diverse overseas profile safeguards against potential recruitment issues (e.g.
 global downturns, Brexit or UK Border Agency regulation changes).

 The number of home students graduating from our PGR programmes is lower (just 41 out of our
 total). UK-domiciled students of White British/Irish ethnic backgrounds predominate (93%). This is
 an area of our intake we continue to address. Measures include schemes for persuading talented
 alumni to return as PGRs. We offer paid Vacation Studentship and Internship programmes at
 stages 2/3 UG level, followed by the opportunity to apply for bursaries tied to our Masters
 programmes (including one that is exclusively for black and minority ethnic applicants). Such
 strategies put alumni in an excellent position to win competitive awards via our doctoral training
 programmes. In addition, our BAME students include Syrian graduates whose experiences
 inspired NU’s Sanctuary Scholarships (REF5a, §3.4.4) and whose own fees were waived post-
 conflict.

 The UoA’s commitment to providing an accessible environment is likewise evident in the range of
 disability and well-being support offered. Applications are made through an online portal. For
 applicants who notify the Graduate School of support required relating to a protected
 characteristic, visits are organised (including contact with Student Wellbeing). The quality of all
 our applicants is assured by instigating a rigorous admissions selection process (involving at least
 2 academic selectors who adhere to NU’s Guide to Equality at Work and Study). Each PGR
 application is also reviewed by the Graduate School and each School’s PGR Director.

 There are internal NU PhD studentship schemes for attracting talented students, particularly the
 Research Excellence Academy (REF5a, §3.2.2). It supported Trebacz e.g. who became a
 postdoctoral researcher on the ESRC-funded Khattab et al. GCRF project (§§1a/4a). The 4
 external schemes from which the UoA specifically benefits (27 studentships being awarded in the
 cycle) are: (i) AHRC Northern Bridge DTP (NBDTP); (ii) ESRC Northern Ireland and North-East
 DTP (NINEDTP); (iii) Centre for Behaviour and Evolution (Leverhulme Trust); (iv) International
 Doctorate for Experimental Approaches to Language and Brain (IDEALAB). These consortia
 permit the UoA and our partners to develop an evolving suite of specialised courses, language
 study and placements with HEI and non-academic partners in the UK or internationally (e.g.
 Rowe’s placement at California’s Huntington Library or Varinelli’s attendance at the IES
 International Palaeography Summer School). Such collaborations play an important role in fulfilling
 our ‘Languages in the Real World’ vision because they leverage partnerships with a wide range
 of external organisations. This bespoke training is supported either by the consortia further
 detailed below or - at NU/UoA level - by access to competitive internal funding schemes.

 NBDTP above is a collaboration with Queen's University Belfast (QUB), Ulster University (UU)
 and 4 other HEIs in North-East England (N-E). The partnership extends our BGP1 programme
 (October 2019-September 2029). Annually, it offers 65-67 fully funded studentships to outstanding
 applicants. NINEDTP is a collaboration between QUB, UU and 4 other N-E HEIs (October 2017-
 September 2028), receiving £2 million annually. Both schemes include Collaborative Doctoral
 Awards strands, requiring an external, non-HEI partner and serving to generate new links e.g. with
 the British Library or NHS. The Leverhulme Trust is our most recent partnership (January 2020-
 December 2024). It is a collaboration between us, The Centre for Behaviour and Evolution,
 Experimental Northeast Cluster and Open Lab with Wallenberg on its Steering Committee. There
 are five, 4-year PhD studentships annually. They go to exceptional candidates destined to be the
 new generation of Behaviour Informatics researchers. We have supervised 9 PGR students to

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Masters level already, so we expect that this will become another important route for enhancing
 interdisciplinarity (§1a). Furthering other objectives in Table 1, §1b, ECLS became a lead in
 IDEALAB (2016-). This outstanding, laboratory-based 3-year doctoral programme integrates
 interdisciplinary approaches to experimental and clinical aspects of language and the brain,
 increasing PGR diversity as well as international collaboration with HEIs and external partners. A
 shared curriculum and common research training programmes were developed, cumulating in a
 joint degree. IDEALAB currently involves 3 other full-partner universities (2 EU and 1 Oceania),
 leveraging long-standing collaborative relationships and the member institutions’ research power.
 It also involves 16 associated industry partners (health, publishing and technology sectors).

 Self-funded PGR students likewise gain from the research environment/training events sustained
 by these DTPs. Given our commitment to FAIR principles, consortia-funded Events (e.g. Summer
 Schools) are open to students outwith the doctoral partnerships and are shared across the UoA
 via video archives and YouTube links so everyone benefits.

 There is joint supervision within Modern Languages and Linguistics, across Faculties and with
 additional external partners. E.g. Hall (SML) and Mearns (SELLL) supervise Buckley’s PhD on the
 computational analysis of Norman French. Henry-Tierney co-supervised McCannon’s doctorate
 ‘How Else to See the Sky?’ with colleagues in UoA27 who also collaborate with Jones on Varinelli’s
 project exploring Italian translations of Shelley. Our cross-Faculty supervisions involve
 collaborations with: Business School/Natural and Environmental Sciences (Reichard); the School
 of Arts and Cultures (Alsamdani, Bracknell); BioSciences (Corkett-Beirne, Hoogland, Hughes,
 Keeble, Outhwaite) and Population Health Sciences Institutes (Kirkman, Willoughby). Staff
 expertise is sought after via other collaborative doctoral routes too such as establishing ‘Co-
 Tutelle’ MoUs between UoA colleagues and other HEIs globally. These partnerships expand our
 capacity to collaborate internationally at doctoral level and enrich NU students’ experiences by
 further extending their research networks beyond the UK. Agreements range from Université de
 Paris (2014-2019) and the University of Bern (2018-) to the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio
 Grande do Sul, Brazil (2019-) and the University of Rennes (2014).

 Our capacity for transdisciplinary supervision is partly a reflection of the Unit’s inherent
 interdisciplinarity given its constituency but it also stems from the fact that colleagues in SML are
 formally trained in both Arts and Humanities and Social Sciences (rare amongst similar
 departments nationally). The agility for PGR collaborations and strategic partner placements which
 this unique research environment generates enhances the student experience/their transferable
 skills and better prepares our graduates for a much wider range of career paths.

 2e. Student Support and Monitoring

 Desk space, IT and relevant specialised equipment for research students are provided as
 standard. Each School has a dedicated Professional Services team member facilitating the
 smooth operation of our diverse programmes. A comprehensive postgraduate researcher
 development programme is linked to NU’s ‘e-portfolio’ system, aiding personal development
 planning by highlighting training and employability skills (REF3a, 3.2.2). We support the
 Postgraduate Certificate in Research Training (recognised by the AHRC/ESRC) as well as regular
 reading/writing groups. Students are assigned at least two supervisors (within HaSS, cross-faculty
 or inter-institution). ECR supervisors are teamed with experienced colleagues. Staff receive initial
 training and annual refreshers. One, formal supervisory meeting is mandatory monthly (likewise
 recorded on ‘e-portfolio’). Student progress is closely monitored via project approval and Annual
 Progress Reviews managed by colleagues outwith the supervisory team, guaranteeing
 impartiality. Final reports are reviewed by all School Heads/Postgraduate Research Directors and
 the Faculty Dean of Postgraduate Studies (ensuring best practices). Students receive induction,
 mentoring and monitoring support to deliver aspects of our research-led UG programmes to
 broaden skill-sets and are encouraged to follow Postgraduate Certificate modules (e.g.
 ‘Postgraduates Who Teach’), facilitating HEA Associate Fellow recognition. Faculty and PGR
 programmes annually provide over 700 hours of training, delivering theoretical/practical skills


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 relevant to diverse humanities/social science research and future careers. The UoA’s PG Student
 Voice Committees provide fora for PGRs to shape the agenda for their facilities and training needs.

 In addition to the bespoke training detailed in §2d, NU/Faculty level conferences (REF5a, §3.2.2),
 UoA workshops, seminars and 3 annual conferences are held for and led by postgraduates. They
 provide PGRs with reviewing, event organising and grant writing experiences as does their
 participation in coordinating NU research meetings. There are opportunities to contribute to and
 edit the Unit’s e-journals. The Working Papers in Linguistics series began in 1993 and the Annual
 Review of Education, Communication and Language Sciences has reached its 17th annual
 volume. Students are also encouraged to present at international ECR conferences and to
 compete for participation at regular, academic meetings (abstracts accepted e.g. at DiPVac5,
 Melbourne; SFS2020, Bath; IASCL2020, Philadelphia).

 Our PGRs are thus well-placed to secure publications in impactful, outlets (e.g. Arantzeta et al.
 (2019), Childs (2016), Holmberg & Phimsawat (2017), Partridge (2019) or Yu & Wu (2017)).
 Further evidence is provided by examples of academic first career destinations (see §4 for
 graduate successes in other professions). These include open-ended appointments at prestigious
 research institutions nationally and internationally (e.g. Al-Kendi/Ambusaidi (Sultan Qaboos,
 Oman); Balderson (Cambridge, UK); Bennison (Director of St. Andrew’s Centre for Amerindian
 Studies); Childs (York University, UK); Jie Shi (Liaoning Normal); Josephsen (Otterbein); Manresa
 (Andina Simon Bolivar, Ecuador); Nimz (Osnabrück); Traylor (Ohio State).

 2f. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

 NU’s EDI and wellbeing values are documented in REF5a, §§3.3.1/3.4 and are likewise core UoA
 principles. SELLL and SML gained Athena SWAN Bronze accreditation (2016 and 2018). ECLS
 is currently applying. Action Plans for accreditation recognised the need to create effective
 promotion routes for staff with protected characteristics (e.g. enhanced mentoring for women
 seeking promotion or to become PIs on UKRI-funded projects; Creation of pathways into
 leadership roles to ensure proportionate representation (Corrigan) or availing of Aurora Advance
 HE training with successful outcomes (McKean)). Evidence for the efficacy of these measures is
 provided in §2a/Figure 2. In addition, colleagues/students with protected characteristics benefit
 from NU-wide support networks such as BAME Staff, Disability Interest Group, NU Parents/Carers
 Network, NU Women(Professors), TechNet and Rainbow@NCL (REF5a, §3.4.2).

 The UoA leads projects addressing measures to: (i) Combat Linguistic Discrimination; (ii) Promote
 Language and Gender Inclusivity. (i) Explores the relationship between language bias and
 disadvantage arising from protected characteristics, limited educational opportunities or
 socioeconomics. Accent prejudice was thus selected as a theme for our 8th Northern Englishes
 Workshop and the Inaugural Barbara Strang Memorial Lecture. Prior to the pandemic (but already
 mindful of the ecological consequences of travel and improving participation by groups with limited
 mobility) this series was ‘born virtual’. Regarding (ii), Henry-Tierney (ECR) developed a ‘Language
 and Gender Inclusivity’ resource supported by NU’s EDI fund (REF5a, §3.4.2) to facilitate informed
 and respectful conversations about gender. The training tool is available in several of our
 languages, disseminating UoA best practice across NU and beyond. It explores gender through
 language and how language is gendered, a theme underpinning other work in the UoA e.g.
 Hansen’s AHRC-funded Gendering Murakami Haruki project (£160,358 from 2017-2018).

 The University has robust leadership supporting EDI including a Dean, Faculty Directors and
 Inclusion Advisory/Project Officers, ensuring EDI is prioritised across the UoA’s strategic planning,
 recruitment, induction/training, teaching, research and impact. The extent to which we monitor and
 seek to achieve a diverse staff/student community has already been detailed in §§2a/2d.
 Regarding other UoA-specific mechanisms, each School has an EDI Committee whose chairs
 report to the Unit’s Research Committees. Membership is governed by EDI criteria so as to include
 PGRs, ECRs and Professional Services colleagues as well as academic staff regardless of
 contract type. All promotion, appointment and student application specifications now use inclusive
 language (see (ii) above) and selectors have participated in unconscious bias and active

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 bystander programmes (REF5a, §3.4.2). This strategy is critical to improving e.g. our longer-term
 staff-student ethnic balance (Figures 2/3 above). Additionally, UoA staff determining ICS/output
 selections undertook EDI training, ensuring that decisions were made in an inclusive, transparent
 and consistent manner, complying with NU’s Code of Practice (§4.1). Peer review scores and
 feedback were shared with authors/ICS leads. Given that there were more high quality outputs
 with the same scores than required following automatic allocation, principles of collective
 excellence and EDI guided adjustments. E.g. the apparent discrepancy between the proportion of
 outputs from men (52%) and women (48%) (Figure 4) and the overall complement of 59% female
 staff (Figure 2) arises from a preponderance of women being early career. This was addressed
 when adjusting by ensuring that high quality outputs from Grade F/G pools were prioritised over
 those from H/I (promoted posts). 40% of our Category A staff have F/G contracts (i.e. are either
 ECRs as per REF criteria or their career began around 2014). The fact that our submission
 includes 35% of such outputs, thus reflects our EDI approach in the UoA more broadly.



            Grades H/I                                                                     65


           Grades F/G                              25


      Grades F/G (ECRs)                 10




                 Males                                                        52


               Females                                                   48


                          0        10        20         30       40      50         60          70
                                                             %


                          Figure 4. Output Portfolio Diversity (Category A Staff)



 Financial and other support has been offered to our EEA colleagues for securing settled/pre-
 settled status pre-Brexit (Harkness led the initiative NU-wide). The UoA additionally benefits from
 parent/carer-friendly event timetabling and flexible work patterns. Extra conference funds are
 available to support research staff/students with caring responsibilities/ill-health. The pandemic
 accelerated plans to implement videoconferencing for business meetings/research seminars,
 contributing to environmental sustainability and improving accessibility. There is support and
 guidance available for remote or home working (including equipment for safe off-campus
 workstations). Part-time and fixed-term staff have identical opportunities for career progression as
 full-time staff on open-ended contracts do (§2c). In addition, all staff, irrespective of status, have
 commensurate access to sabbaticals alongside research-related mentoring/training, promotion
 and reward procedures (§2c) or any internal research/impact funding streams (§3b). Staff have
 received parental cover/leave. Further assistance to reinvigorate research trajectories afterwards
 is offered via our Returners’ Programme (REF5a, §3.4.2). This is crucial for maintaining a level
 playing field given the growing evidence about the pandemic’s disproportionate impact on career
 trajectories. Additionally, NU has pledged to allow for such effects when assessing progression.




                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3a. Income

 New research awards in the UoA topped £6.2M in this cycle. Our spend (£4,800,234) has
 increased by over £1.6M. This remarkable growth is a result of enhanced infrastructure, alongside
 major investments in staff, research, mentoring, training and other support for career development
 at all stages. Our strategy for expanding revenue streams is already safeguarding against risks
 associated with Brexit/COVID-19. The portfolio extends to funding from UK/EU government in
 addition to local authorities or health boards. Such grants lead to high-quality research outputs or
 impacts while helping build relationships with other sectors and consolidating regional, national
 and international partnerships. There have likewise been major awards won in competitions
 administered by prestigious external funders including UKRI, Institute of Modern Languages
 Research and National Institute for Health Research. Grants have been secured from charitable
 UK and overseas organisations (e.g. Danish Council and Institute of Latin American Studies)
 alongside a wide range of foundations like Great Britain Saaskawa, Education Endowment and
 Nuffield. This represents an impressive upward trajectory from our previous portfolio (particularly
 our successes with the ESRC and EU which, until recently, had not been major investors). ESRC
 awards alone in this cycle e.g. exceeded £1.7M. The schemes supporting projects are similarly
 diverse, ranging from major, prestigious UKRI awards for complex, interdisciplinary consortia
 projects to lone scholar initiatives supported by fellowships awarded to ECRs and more senior
 colleagues alike. The AHRC-funded Screening Violence project (2018-2022) (£795,402) is an
 excellent example of the former. It is led by Austin as PI with Co-Is Morgan and Page (also in our
 UoA) alongside Co-I’s in other disciplines within HaSS and colleagues at St. Andrew’s and Ulster.
 Theirs is a transnational study of post-conflict imaginaries with additional co-investigators and
 partners in Algeria, Argentina, Colombia and Indonesia. Meekings is sole investigator of The Voice
 (British Academy (£269,121, 2018-present)), examining the acoustics of how individuals change
 their voices in context. It represents our ECR individual fellowship awards as does World Literature
 and 20th Century East Asia in which Tsang investigates how political, economic and cultural
 contact with the West helped revolutionise Far Eastern literature (The Leverhulme Trust (£43,912)
 (2018-present)).

 Funding that fulfils our ‘Languages in the Real World’ vision while simultaneously developing our
 international networks and participatory design methods was targeted too. Successes include:
 McKean et al.’s NIHRi4i award (£876,310) developing automated transcription/analysis software
 to improve Speech and Language Therapy decision-making (2019-2021); Catalá-Carrasco’s 2018
 commission (€14,018.60) from the Spanish Ministry of Education to co-curate the RENEWAL art
 exhibition with NOPHOTO, extending his Cultural Narratives of Crisis and Renewal project (2015-
 2018, EU €1,044,000); Yu’s AHRC Research Grant (£804,058) for her (2019-2023) project with
 colleagues at the Beijing Film Academy, KCL and Sussex foregrounds the inaccessibility of
 independent cinema in China. It likewise benefits marginalized groups, as does Satar (PI) &
 Seedhouse’s (Co-I) Erasmus plus-funded international networking project (2019-2021) (£272,000)
 for refugees/asylum seekers.

 3b. Infrastructure

 Our new DoRL appointment enables horizon-scanning alongside monitoring and supporting
 research and impact activities across the UoA, elsewhere at NU and beyond. Within the Unit,
 monthly meetings of School Directors of Research and Impact are chaired by the DoRL to facilitate
 regular discussion. The DoRL additionally liaises with School-based Directors for Postgraduates,
 Equality and Ethics while reporting to members of Faculty Executive Board (including the Dean of
 Research and Innovation, Dean of Postgraduate Studies and the Director of Equality, Diversity
 and Inclusion). School Research Committees work with their EDI Committees to implement an
 action plan to promote EDI. All UoA decision-making bodies have balanced memberships in terms
 of gender and career stage.



                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The HaSS Dean of Research and Innovation role is complemented by an expanded Professional
 Services Faculty research and impact team: 2 Impact Officers, 2 Research Funding Development
 Managers, 2 Business Development Managers. Additionally, the Faculty Research Office and
 Grants and Contracts teams provide local support and one-to-one advice at all stages of research
 applications as well as post-award (as do the 3 full-time Professional Services colleagues with
 responsibilities for School level research finance across the Unit). There is also a new Faculty
 Research and Projects Officer. They support our research environment more broadly but have a
 particular remit to oversee strategic planning for developing interdisciplinary clusters generating
 highly impactful research via the NUCoREs which several UoA colleagues lead (§1a). Other
 infrastructural transformations in this cycle that are specifically designed to support cross-
 disciplinary research include the launching of three research institutes (Humanities, Creative Arts
 Practice and Social Sciences (REF5a, §2.2.3)). They offer funding, facilities and the space for
 critical thinking, discussion and debate across NU, alongside provision of infrastructure and
 administrative capacity for pursuing larger and more complex grant applications.

 These organizational structures provide a range of Faculty, University and Research Institute
 competitive internal funding resources (REF5a, §§4.1.4/4.1.5): ESRC Impact Acceleration Awards
 e.g. have been won by 7 UoA staff (valuing £85,705); Faculty Impact Fund (≤£20K); HaSS Bid
 Preparation Fund (≤£10K); and Faculty Research Fund (≤£5K for small-scale projects).
 Additionally, HASS Research Institutes administer the Pioneer Award Scheme for staff/PGRs
 (between £1-5K). 6 staff (2 of whom are ECRs) have all received such awards in recent calls. A
 measure of their success is the external funding of projects led by Austin, Cuskley, Howard, Jones,
 Law, Wallenberg and Yu which benefited from these pump-priming schemes. From 2014, the
 UoA’s research environment has gained from changes to NU’s top-slicing model such that FEC
 overheads/research surpluses are instead transferred to our Schools where it is used to further
 the UoA’s research, innovation and impact ambitions. The resulting funds (comprising an Impact
 Fund, Research Contingency/Support Funds and contributions to Gold OA fees e.g.) are
 administered via a competitive bidding process to School Executive Committees of which the
 DoRL and Impact/Research Directors are members.

 3c. Facilities

 Committed to aligning our infrastructure with our research and impact strategies, there has been
 investment in dedicated, advanced IT infrastructure (e.g. High Performance Computing (REF5a,
 §2.4.3)); specialist proprietary software/licenses (e.g. FileMaker Pro, IBEX farm, LabVanced,
 Linger(3), SketchEngine, Treeform) and commercial corpora (e.g. BNC/COCA/(SP)ICE/ICAME).
 We have benefited from Faculty support for establishing a participant recruitment system for
 research requiring volunteers using a specially-designed Sona Systems database. Furthermore,
 all staff/PGRs can now draw not only on the extensive resources of the Philip Robinson Library
 but also on the Marjorie Robinson Library Rooms (MRLR). Our infrastructure has responded to
 changes in website accessibility legislation (2018) as well as the information landscape (hence
 the opening in 2016 of the MRLR, which is a truly digital library) while continuing to build on the
 rich heritage of rare book, manuscript and archival collections underpinning our work. Members
 with research/impact interests in the legal frameworks surrounding language and minority rights
 benefit considerably from the Law Library’s resources. The Walton Library (in the Medical School)
 provides extensive materials for those researching in psychology and subjects allied to medicine
 or biomedical sciences. Our environment is likewise enhanced by the collections and facilities of
 partner institutions in the region and beyond it, including Tyne and Wear Archives and Museums
 (REF5a, §§2.1.1/2.4.2). Considerable value is added too by the expert involvement of the NU
 Library staff, notably our Liaison Librarian who contributes to our PGR Researcher Development
 Programmes (§§2d/2e). They liaise closely to evaluate and prioritise the procurement of specialist
 resources for research/impact. English Language scholars/PGRs e.g. benefit from access to the
 Library’s extensive digitized, historical British/Irish archives. Purchasing the Richard Heslop
 Collection on phonetics/grammar/etymology was similarly invaluable. Since 2014, the Library has
 considerably enhanced its audio-visual, textual and electronic data resources such as Mass
 Observation Archive. Invaluable during the pandemic, they support the Unit’s research in aspects
 of visual culture, film and social history especially. Moreover, all our University Libraries operate a

                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 carefully considered Disability Policy to ensure that their joint collection of 0.8 million print books,
 0.5 million e-books, 42,000 e-journal titles and 300 online databases (JSTOR/MLA International
 Bibliograpy/OED/Scopus e.g.) are accessible remotely/via e-Readers.

 There has been additional investment in the UoA’s estate/equipment. A translation and
 interpreting suite was completed in 2019 (costing c.£1.6M). It has specialised software and built-
 in cameras, serving as a key data tool. Given our OA agenda, the suite has also allowed
 colleagues to develop a bespoke FAIR interpreting corpus. With additional financial NU support,
 a cloud-based server has been designed, utilising specialist translation-memory-based software
 and greatly improving our capacity for translation research. Early in the current cycle, NU invested
 in sound-attenuated/observation booths and eye-trackers for linguistics research. This cluster also
 has a dedicated laboratory (LingLab), with equipment for airflow measurement, ultra-sound
 imaging, electroglottography, electropalatography, nasometry, and laryngography. Investment
 continued with £79K from the UKRI’s World Class Laboratories fund (2020-2021). In lockstep, the
 Unit has recently made a capital investment bid to redevelop and expand our laboratory estate. It
 is projected to include sound-proofed and semi-anechoic booths as well as a sound-attenuated
 room.

 Our operational research infrastructure benefits from access to shared facilities within NU and
 cross-institutionally. Since 2016, the Faculty of Medical Sciences has augmented our capacity for
 studying brain reactions by giving access to their EEG Lab. Similarly, in partnership with Durham
 University, colleagues can utilize the BENC cluster for promoting and facilitating other types of
 experimental/behavioural research in the domains of academia, policy and business (ensuring the
 international visibility of Northeast England as a research leader (REF5a, §1.1)). We additionally
 profit from recent NU initiatives to invest in highly specialised equipment in major research facilities
 which are accessible to researchers across the entire institution. iLab:Learn (2011-2021) is an
 excellent example and consists of a cross-faculty laboratory for developing appropriate
 educational and applied linguistics applications of digital technology.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The UoA’s ‘Languages in the Real World’ orientation makes us ideally placed to capitalize on
 relationships built through our impactful research projects that respond to national and
 international priorities and initiatives. Tangible benefits for a range of stakeholders have arisen
 (§1d). The UoA benefits from extensive financial and research management support for
 developing effective, collaborative research teams (often undertaking interdisciplinary joint
 projects with other academic colleagues and external partners both within the UK and
 internationally). These include Centres of Research Excellence (NUCoREs) (REF5a, §2.2.1),
 Research Institutes (REF5a, §2.2.3) and Policy/Global Challenges Academies (REF5a, §2.2.5).

 This collaborative orientation extends to successfully participating in Doctoral Training Consortia
 and recognition via ‘Co-Tutelle’ initiatives supporting PGRs/external partners regionally, nationally
 and internationally (§2d). Students and staff alike make important service contributions, promoting
 and sustaining our discipline for which they have been recognised. Such external roles are further
 indications of our wider influence. The knowledge and skills acquired by our graduates e.g. have
 built capacity for public policy as well as cultural and creative engagement globally. This has been
 achieved by their securing seconded and permanent positions in Government and International
 Non-Profits. Hanna e.g. is employed by SIL International, documenting and developing indigenous
 languages to ensure their survival while Lossi is Director of the division of Cultural Industries in
 Peru’s Ministry of Culture.

 The strategies underpinning such contributions are illustrated below, alongside evidence
 demonstrating their efficacy.




                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4a. Academic Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 The instantiation of the Global Challenges Academy has been a key addition to UoA and Faculty
 level research management structures for enabling partnership working. It has supported a range
 of UoA colleagues and collaborators who are diverse in disciplinary backgrounds, career stages,
 career pathways and protected characteristics. Its resources support topic-focused networks of
 NU researchers with partners in Low-to-Middle-Income-Countries (LMIC) by hosting events that
 foster collaborative research. The extent to which the Academy is an enabler is clear from the
 GCRF award to Khattab (PI) and McKean (Co-I) (January 2020-2024) (ESRC: £1,520,611). Their
 project (Language Development in Arabic-Speaking Children) is a multi-disciplinary collaboration
 between 2 UK universities (NU and Plymouth) alongside the University of St. Joseph (Beirut),
 Jordan University of Science and Technology, and Birzeit University (West Bank). Activities extend
 across Egypt, Jordan, the West Bank and Lebanon. The collaboration brings together a team of
 educators, linguists, paediatricians, psychologists and speech and language therapists to narrow
 the gap for socially disadvantaged children in the region.

 A cornerstone of the UoA’s strategy for Open Research (§1e) is to generate sustainable,
 accessible resources that are valued not only by academic communities nationally and globally
 but that are relevant for non-HEI partners and wider-publics. Yu’s Chinese Independent Film
 Archive project (SML) generated an academic network of scholars, collaborating with prominent
 filmmakers and curators, alongside a range of industry partners (e.g. Sheffield Doc/Fest and
 CNEX). The outcomes include a research archive and online database showcasing the work of
 this marginalized group. SELLL’s internationally-renowned Diachronic Electronic Corpus of
 Tyneside English (DECTE) (2000-) is a second such resource with academic and public-facing
 front ends. In this cycle, it has informed the Oxford English Dictionary (§1e) and has generated
 not only new international academic collaborations (via the Speech Across Dialects of English
 Consortium e.g.) but outputs - both within the Unit (Corrigan & Mearns 2016) as well as outwith
 (Buchstaller et al. 2017). DECTE remains a core resource for HEI linguistics programmes in the
 UK and globally (e.g. York University, Toronto from 2013). Since 2014, the corpus’s public-facing
 front end featured in Key Stage 3/4 and Advanced Level syllabi and examinations ratified by
 Pearson/Edexcel and Council for the Curriculum, Examinations & Assessment (NI). The EU-
 funded Lancook, Linguacuisine and ENACT projects (totalling £997K between 2011-2021) led by
 Satar & Seedhouse (ECLS) exemplify the kinds of contribution typifying our applied linguistics
 research and impact. They culminated in iLab:Learn, our cross-faculty laboratory for developing
 educational and applied linguistics applications of digital technology, targeted e.g. at local
 communities including disadvantaged minorities, refugees and asylum-seekers. HundrED
 selected it as “one of the world’s most inspiring innovations in Bilingual Education.”

 Other representative examples whereby our research environment has been enriched by
 developing relationships with research users, beneficiaries and audiences to enhance the impact
 of our research include projects by Jones (SML), Young-Scholten (SELLL) and Law/McKean
 (ECLS).

 Jones’s AHRC-funded project Poetry Translation in Poet-Advisor-Poet Trios (SELLL/SML)
 explores how Dutch and UK poets translate each other’s work with the help of bilingual translator
 intermediaries (2016-2018; £332,145). Hence, it spans the fields of creative writing, intercultural
 studies and linguistics as well as translating and interpreting. The initiative is a collaboration
 between researchers in this Unit, in NU’s UoA27 and others at Roehampton University, alongside
 practitioners at the Dutch Foundation for Literature and Poetry International, Rotterdam, NU
 Centre for the Literary Arts and Roehampton Poetry Centre.

 Young-Scholten’s Erasmus-funded EU-Speak projects (2015-2018) (£786K) trained and
 developed teachers to work with low-educated adult migrants across the EU. It presented cutting-
 edge research findings, innovative pedagogical approaches and creative techniques in 6 different
 on-line modules and is currently available on OA in 5 languages, representing a range of countries
 in which these immigrants resettle.


                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Between 2018 and 2020, another EU funding stream (£1.4M) supported a consortium led by Law
 as PI in collaboration with McKean and colleagues from the Erasmus MC in Rotterdam and the
 LifBE Institute at the University of Bamberg. This research investigated the effects of social
 inequality on child development. Its findings instigated recent changes by the EU Commission to
 the wording of the EU Council Recommendation on their High-Quality Early Childhood Education
 and Care System to emphasize the importance of bilingualism to language development. This
 project was undertaken alongside their COST Action initiative (IS1406; £408,232) Enhancing
 Children’s Oral Language Skills across Europe and Beyond which included representatives from
 36 EU and geographically contiguous countries, leading e.g. to a major 2019 consultation exercise
 across Germany on the importance of language development and disorders. McKean’s
 involvement in these international collaborative initiatives was pivotal in taking advantage of the
 networks created to ensure success in the ESRC GCRF bid already noted (with Khattab as PI).

 Such projects have naturally led to outputs but they have likewise permitted colleagues within the
 Unit to fulfil our ‘Languages in the Real World’ ambitions by working closely with beneficiaries
 beyond the academy, as further documented in §1d.

 4b. Contributions to and Recognition by the Research Base and Wider-Publics

 Our significant, wide-ranging contributions in these respects are striking too (including from staff
 at all career stages and those with caring responsibilities or protected characteristics), which we
 regard as a further litmus test for the effectiveness of our EDI policies and practices (§2f).
 Colleagues regularly receive invitations to disseminate their research as keynotes. Jein’s plenary
 at Making Do in Urbanism and the Arts (Portland, Oregon, May 2020) and Schartner’s James J.
 Bradac prize and subsequent plenary at the International Conference on Language and Social
 Psychology are both examples of such contributions by our younger female staff. Staff/PGRs also
 regularly (co-)organise scholarly meetings at NU, elsewhere in the UK and abroad. Highlights
 include DiPVaC2 (2014). The conference was founded by Pichler as an ECR in 2012 and she was
 a plenarist at DiPVaC4 in Helsinki (2018). More recently, the Unit welcomed IVEC2020, the largest
 and most prominent event on virtual exchange globally (Satar (ECR)/Sercombe). CamCos9, Part
 II was held virtually in 2021 to mark Holmberg’s retirement. It was hosted by NU and co-organised
 by PGRs/staff there, alongside a similarly diverse team from Anglia Ruskin and Cambridge
 universities.

 Several colleagues have been elected as executive members of learned societies or research
 centres. To name but a few, Jordan Co-Directs the Centre for the Study of Contemporary
 Women's Writing at London University’s IMLR (2016-) and is a Research Advisory Board Member
 for the University of London in Paris. Corrigan became President-Elect of the International Society
 for the Linguistics of English in 2018. Prior to that, she was an elected Council Member of the
 Philological Society (2016-2020). Female colleagues earlier in their careers have had similar
 invitations. E.g. Cuskley serves as a Committee Member for EVOLANG and Woods was a
 member of LAGB’s Studentship Committee (2014-2016).

 Colleagues at all career stages referee peer-reviewed journals across the breadth of our
 disciplines (e.g. Applied Psycholinguistics, English World-Wide, Journal of Linguistics, Revista de
 Ciencias Sociales and Second Language Research) and act as editors or board members of
 book series for highly-regarded, specialist academic publishers or high-impact journals. Fehimović
 (female ECR), for instance, fulfils such a role for Routledge’s Remapping World Cinema) while
 McKean (female) was Editor-in-Chief for the International Journal of Language and
 Communication (the official journal of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists).
 We likewise edit OA journals, including Finno-Ugric Language and Linguistics (Holmberg being
 not only Editor-in-Chief but founder). Furthermore, colleagues have been invited to guest-edit
 special issues of peer-reviewed journals, which often have greater reach and impact than regular
 volumes. Satar (female ECR) e.g. was invited to guest-edit a 2020 special issue of the OA Journal
 of Virtual Exchange with Combe and Capellini of Aix, Marseille. Contributions focused on the



                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 topical challenges associated with pedagogical innovations arising from the telecollaborations that
 have become de rigueur during the pandemic.

 Staff contribute to the discipline as external examiners and reviewers of PGR programmes and
 research centres all over the world (including ECRs such as Chen or Fehimović). Similarly,
 invitations have been accepted to adjudicate on senior HEI promotion applications both
 nationally (e.g. Cambridge, Durham, Edinburgh, York) and internationally (Carleton, Cyprus,
 Helsinki, Pittsburgh, Toronto). Staff are sought to review grant applications submitted to UKRI
 and to international funding bodies as diverse as the Austrian Science Fund, British Council,
 Fulbright, Killam Trust and SSHRC. Contributions of this ilk have taken place in both the Global
 North and, importantly, also in LMIC countries. The range of Hentsche’s appointments are thus
 typical: Reviewed/acted as external examiner on the MRes programme in Latin American Studies,
 ILAS at the School of Advanced Studies (London) in 2016 and from 2017 onwards; Was appointed
 AHRC Strategic Reviewer and served on their Peer Review College; Has been a member of
 review panels directed by Chile’s Comisión Nacional de Investigación Científica y Tecnológica
 and Germany’s Ministry for Education and Research; Is one of 8 members of the international
 Scientific Advisory Board of Berlin’s Ibero-American Institute (appointed by its President),
 overseeing its operation and assisting the German Science Council in evaluations.

 Service roles which make the wider societal contributions that are key to fulfilling our
 ‘Languages in the Real World’ mission, respond particularly to these national and international
 priorities:

 • Second language literacy education which has become more vital on account of the global
 migrant crisis (e.g. Corrigan, Satar, Seedhouse, Young-Scholten).

 • Raising awareness of human rights abuses and the suppression of ethnic minorities/their cultures
 (e.g. R. Howard, Oliart, Smith Finley, Yu).

 • Articulating the cultural and linguistic politics of urban regeneration and the tensions between
 concerns that are global (state-oriented) and local (socially marginalized groups) (e.g. Duncan
 (ECR), Jein).

 • Improving the life chances of speech and language therapy patients and disadvantaged children
 - further reduced by the pandemic (e.g. Charlton (ECR), Law, Menger (ECR), Morris, Salis,
 Stringer, Van Eeden (PGR)).

 • Environmental degradation and precarity (e.g. Malkmus).

 Young-Scholten co-founded the international grassroots organisation Literacy Education and
 Second Language Learning for Adults (2005-), supporting low literate adults becoming literate in
 an L2 ab initio. They promote, on a world-wide, multidisciplinary and multilingual basis, the sharing
 of research findings, effective pedagogical practices and policy information. Yu has embarked on
 service work for wider publics in China, serving as a jury member for the documentary competition
 at the 2015 Chinese Independent Film Festival. That role initiated the resulting formal partnership
 with this organisation that eventually led to her successful AHRC application. Jein’s AHRC-funded
 EC Leadership Fellowship project (2018-2019) stimulated a collaboration with local artists and Le
 6B Cultural Centre to document urban regeneration in Paris by asserting the voice and visibility in
 public of socially marginalized groups. Morris is a trustee of the North East Trust for Aphasia, a
 local Tyneside charity. They have developed Aphasia Therapy resources in conjunction with
 colleagues at the Tavistock Trust. Stringer leads the Speech and Language Therapy Research
 Network in collaboration with NHS practitioner partners. It is affiliated with the Royal College of
 Speech and Language Therapists and is the first UK specialist support group for practitioners
 engaging in research. This has enabled long-term capacity building through NIHR internships and
 other pathways. We have hosted and supervised a number of practitioners as interns who were
 awarded successful NIHR PhD scholarships. Van Eeden, a former UoA intern, e.g. has begun
 one such PhD project (supervised by McKean and Stringer).

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The transformative value of Modern Languages and Linguistics has motivated the development
 of close working relationships with policymakers and third sector partners also engaged in
 addressing these national and international priorities. Smith Finley acts as ‘expert country witness’
 in Uyghur asylum cases in Europe and North America and has achieved an international reputation
 as a policy expert on account of her human rights advocacy work (with Human Rights Watch, The
 Rights Practice (London); Uyghur Human Rights Project and the Center for Global Policy (both
 Washington D.C.)). In the Global South, R. Howard and Oliart have worked alongside South
 American governments on issues tied to gender and linguistic human rights. Law led a review
 commissioned by the Education Endowment Foundation and Public Health England to identify
 priorities for improving practice in the support and management of children with atypical early
 language development. It highlights interventions that have the greatest potential to improve
 children’s life chances and reduce inequalities further exacerbated by the pandemic. Malkmus
 (who held the role of Rachel Carson Center for Environment and Society Fellow from 2015-2016)
 explores the history of ecological imaginaries and their relation to other intellectual developments
 in modernity. He has a partnership with the Bayerischer Wald (‘Bavarian Forest’) National Park
 (2018-) and has run workshops, public lectures and training for them. He is developing a new
 partnership with Cairngorms National Park and is planning an international conference on
 environmental ethics (September 2021).

 All these collaborations with policy makers and third sector organisations have the capacity for
 far-reaching societal impacts addressing national and international priorities and initiatives (of the
 type documented further in §1d).

 In recognition of the research, innovation and impact contributions of our team, Unit members
 have received awards, prizes and visiting fellowships/professorships. The latter have been
 held all over the world (including in LMIC countries): Murdoch Children’s Research Institute and
 Griffith University, Australia (Law/McKean, 2016); Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio Grande
 do Sul, Brazil (Hentsche, 2016); Kyoto University, Japan (Corrigan, 2015); Institute of Modern
 Languages Research, University of London (Jordan, 2016); Social Sciences Faculty of the
 Pontificia Universidad Católica del Perú/Advanced Research Collaborative, Graduate Center,
 CUNY (Oliart, 2017 and 2020, respectively).

 Several colleagues (irrespective of career stage) have had prizes or awards for their work. Some
 representative examples are: Al-Tamimi and Khattab were awarded the Peter Ladefoged Prize at
 BAAP (2018). Bueno-Amaro (PGR) was similarly honoured for his contribution to DiPVac5,
 Melbourne, 2020 while Woods won the Richard M. Hogg prize in 2017 for her (2020) article. The
 calibre of new ECR appointments is similarly testified to by learned society recognition (e.g.
 Duncan, 2018, LSA). Jordan was shortlisted for the Richard Gapper Book Prize for the best book
 published in French Studies in 2017 while Jones won 1st Prize in the John Dryden Translation
 Competition (2013). Finally, in the 2018 Queen’s Birthday Honours, Law was awarded an OBE for
 his outstanding services to Speech and Language Therapy.

 Our success with respect to the various awards, invitations and prizes received across the full
 spectrum of our staff and PGR community stems from our commitment to consolidating old and
 establishing new partnerships for projects that meaningfully engage with our University, other
 institutions and diverse wider-publics globally. Languages, linguistics and communication are our
 raisons d'être. We are a connected, multicultural and multilingual community whose environment
 is guided by the tenets of the Irish proverb: ar scáth a chéile a mhaireann na daoine ‘people live
 protected under one another’s shadow.’




                                                                                               Page 22
