Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: City, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: C17, Business and Management

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview
 Cass Business School1, part of City, University of London, has an international reputation for
 producing excellent research that makes a productive impact on business and the wider
 community. The School attracts staff, visiting scholars, business partners and graduate research
 students from across the globe. In REF 2014, the School was rated sixth in the country for
 business and management research, with 84% of our research classified as world-leading or
 internationally excellent. Since then, we have made great strides in strengthening our research
 and enriching our research environment. New staff have been recruited in targeted areas at both
 junior and senior levels. Our training of PhD students has been strengthened by instituting a
 mandatory coursework programme. We have also developed a sophisticated approach to
 achieving impact through our research centres as a result of collaborative initiatives with
 business and other end users of our research. A combination of incentives and research training
 workshops has improved our performance in winning UK Research Council grants and in
 increasing the number of our major research collaborations with external stakeholders, including
 business, the professions and the public sector. This has been facilitated by a University-wide
 initiative to create interdisciplinary research centres.

 The commitment of City, University of London, to academic excellence for business and the
 professions is reflected in the importance placed by the Business School on external
 engagement and impactful research. Our location in the City of London – one of the world’s
 leading financial centres and the home of local and central government agencies, policymaking
 bodies, professional and trade bodies, and Tech City – and our close proximity to Europe’s
 leading financial and professional services centres provide a significant competitive advantage,
 helping us to engage with end users of our research and generate impact.

 1.2 Summary of achievements
 The Business School is an intellectual hub for the financial and professional services sectors
 based in the City of London, where we stimulate research and debate on the key issues facing
 business and society. The ambition of the Business School is to be a research-led business
 school ranked within the top ten business schools in Europe by 2030.

 We have met the goals we set in REF 2014 and have made considerable progress in
 consolidating our position as a world-class research institution. Specifically, we have achieved
 these goals by:
    • Consolidating our position as a world-leading, research-driven business school
        through academic recruitment and internal staff development. We have nearly doubled
        the number of our staff producing research that is world-leading or internationally
        excellent.
    • Publishing a total of 1,457 papers since REF 20142. Of these papers, 156 were
        published in ‘journals of distinction’ ranked 4* by the Academic Journal Guide published
        by the Chartered Association of Business Schools (CABS) (which can be used as a
        proxy of journal quality); 304 in the Financial Times ranking of the top 50 journals used in
        business school research; 42 in the top-ranked finance and economics journals (Journal
        of Finance, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Journal of Financial

1 In July 2020, the University Council decided to remove the Cass name after reports of Sir John Cass’s

involvement with the slave trade. A consultation to find a new name is currently underway.
2 https://openaccess.city.ac.uk.


                                                                                                    Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


         Economics, and Review of Financial Studies,); 20 in the leading marketing journals
         (Journal of Consumer Research, Journal of Marketing, Marketing Science, Journal of the
         Academy of Marketing Science and Journal of Consumer Psychology); 20 in the top
         operations management and operations research journals (Journal of Operations
         Management, Production and Operations Management and Management Science); and
         63 in the top management journals (Academy of Management Review, Academy of
         Management Journal, Administrative Science Quarterly, Information Systems Research,
         Journal of International Business Studies, Journal of Management, Organization Science
         and Strategic Management Journal). We have significantly enhanced both the quality
         and the intensity of our research during this REF period.
     •   Significantly improving the diversity of our research income, targeting non-
         traditional funders alongside research councils. Funders include Arts Council England,
         the British Academy, the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, and the National Council for
         Voluntary Organisations, Our funded research covers a wide range of fields, including
         artificial intelligence, cyber security, corporate governance, digital creativity and
         innovation, and insurance.
     •   Strengthening our PhD programme by creating a mandatory 12-month research
         training programme and increasing investment in scholarships. We consider our PhD
         programme to be outstanding, judged against international standards, and regard the
         programme as central to achieving our research goals. In 2018, the School was ranked
         10th in the UK and 16th in Europe based on PhD completions and 1st in the UK and 2nd in
         Europe for the number of PhD graduates hired by the top 50 business schools3. We
         graduated 106 PhD students between 2014 and 2020 (up from 89 in REF 2014) with
         60% of PhD completions occurring within four years and an average completion time of
         4.5 years.
     •   Consolidating and growing our Executive PhD programme by recruiting seven
         cohorts since the programme was launched in 2014. Our Executive PhD (four years part
         time) offers all the academic rigour of a traditional PhD but is tailored to an executive
         audience. To date, the programme has produced five graduates, all of whom completed
         the programme within four years.
     •   Further strengthening the impact of our research pertaining to business and the
         wider economy, as outlined in our nine impact case studies (see REF3). These case
         studies show that our research has provided strategic tools for the insurance industry,
         influenced the investment strategies of financial institutions, informed government
         policies to increase disability employment, changed leadership practices in the
         healthcare industry, and influenced practices around demographic data collection and
         the management of longevity and mortality risks. In addition, numerous other studies that
         could not be submitted have had substantial impact, such as providing new approaches
         to corporate governance, developing investment strategies for improving retirement
         outcomes, and fostering innovation in journalism by enabling creativity and artificial
         intelligence.

 Independent evaluations point to the success of our strategy: we are ranked 4th in the UK, 10th in
 Europe and 73rd among the world’s top 100 business schools based on research contributions4.
 Our actuarial research is ranked 2nd in the world5, our finance research is ranked 25th in the
 world6 and we are ranked in the top five schools in Europe for banking research7. Thirteen staff
 appear in the Web of Science’s latest Essential Science Indicators, which ranks the world’s
 1,400 most influential scholars in business and economics by citation score. Twelve of our


3 http://rankings.ft.com/businessschoolrankings/global-mba-ranking-2018.
4 https://jindal.utdallas.edu/the-utd-top-100-business-school-research-rankings/worldRankings#20152019.
5https://business.unl.edu/academic-programs/departments/finance/actuarial-science/research-

rankings/?views=370.
6 http://www.shanghairanking.com/Shanghairanking-Subject-Rankings/finance.html.
7 https://ideas.repec.org/top/top.ban.html.


                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 management academics are listed among the top 2% of the world’s most highly cited authors8,
 the most among any business school in Europe.

 1.3 School research structure
 The School is structured into three large discipline-based faculties: Actuarial Science and
 Insurance (17.8 full-time employees (FTEs)), Finance (42.65 FTEs) and Management (64.1
 FTEs). Each faculty has its own subject groups (which include postdoctoral staff and doctoral
 students) and organises seminar series, discussion groups and research workshops. Relevant
 faculty heads lead the recruitment, mentoring and development of academic staff, assisted by
 the Associate Dean (Research and Enterprise).

 Research across the three faculties is organised around six broad subject groupings: Actuarial
 Science and Insurance; Asset Pricing and Financial Econometrics; Corporate Finance,
 Accounting and Banking; Marketing and Operations Management; Organisational Behaviour,
 Human Resource Management and Corporate Social Responsibility; and Strategy,
 Entrepreneurship and Innovation. In addition, the School’s research centres play a key role in
 knowledge exchange, dissemination and impact. The research performance of the groups is
 summarised in Table 1.


                                                Table 1

                       Research performance of subject groups 2014–2020
                                                                                             PhD
                                                 Research    No. of grant      PhD        candidates
  Subject group        FTEs     Publications*
                                                  income     applications   completions    currently
                                                                                           enrolled
  Actuarial Science
                        17          174          £674,022        16             11           12
  and Insurance
  Asset Pricing and
  Financial             19          136          £274,688         8             18           19
  Econometrics
  Corporate
  Finance,
                        25          176         £2,825,353       27             17           21
  Accounting and
  Banking
  Marketing and
  Operations            22          140          £88,255          7             21           10
  Management
  Organisational
  Behaviour,
  Human Resource
                        17          161         £1,605,890       42             16           12
  Management and
  Corporate Social
  Responsibility
  Strategy,
  Entrepreneurship      25          200         £3,966,627       51             23           26
  and Innovation

 * Includes only 3* and 4* ranked research outputs based on the School’s Annual Research
 Quality Monitoring exercise.




8 https://data.mendeley.com/datasets/btchxktzyw/2.


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.4 Research and impact strategy
 The School has a clear strategy that reflects the University’s mission of producing world-class
 impactful research. Our broad and systematic approach to research and engagement is
 summarised in Figure 1. While we realise that research is not necessarily produced in this linear
 fashion, the figure is intended to highlight our specific practices for enabling world-class
 impactful research.



                                           Figure 1
                                  School Research Framework




       KNOWLEDGE                      KNOWLEDGE                  KNOWLEDGE EXCHANGE
        CREATION                     DISSEMINATION                    & IMPACT


                                     Aim: To disseminate            Aim: To change business
   Aim: To produce world-
                                     and inform our                 practice or public policy in
   class research outputs
                                     research by engaging           order to produce beneficial
                                     with end users                 impacts for end users of
                                                                    our research and for
                                                                    society




   How:
   • Recruitment and                 How:                          How:
     mentoring                       • Knowledge Portal            • Knowledge Exchange
   • Research seminars               • Knowledge                     and Impact Fund
     and publishing                    Exchange and                • Research impact
     workshops                         Impact Fund                   champions
   • Paper development               • Research centres            • Impact workshops
     workshops                       • Public events,              • Research centres
   • Pump-priming grants               lectures and
                                                                   • Proof of Concept Fund
   • Sabbaticals                       seminars
                                     • Continuing                  • Consultancy services
   • Conference funding
   • Faculty Excellence                professional                • Commissioned research
     Framework                         development and             • Knowledge exchange
   • Research centres                  executive education           partnerships
                                     • Media relations             • Producing open source
                                                                     software



 The School has met the goals set in REF 2014. These included enhancing our research quality
 and intensity in our priority areas of research, further developing and implementing our
 strategies to ensure that our best research achieves the greatest possible impact, encouraging
 and enabling staff to publish their work in the most influential journals, and growing our research
 income.



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.4.1 Research goals

 Our research goals for 2021–2026 are summarised in Figure 2.




                                               Figure 2

                                    Research goals 2021–2026



            6: Increase our                                        1: Enhance our
            research income                                        research quality and
            and expand our                                         intensity
            funding sources




                                            2021-26
         5: Grow our                                                    2: Consolidate
         Executive PhD                                                  our research in
         programme                                                      strategic areas




            4: Ensure our                                    3: Promote
            research achieves                                interdisciplinary
            the greatest                                     research
            possible impact



 Our goals over the next REF period are to:
       1. Grow our research in terms of both quality and intensity, aiming for all of our
            research outputs to be ranked as world-leading or internationally excellent. We have
            created our own ranking of top journals, benchmarked against other evaluations such
            as those of the Financial Times and the CABS.
       2. Further consolidate our research on important emerging issues that cut across all
            areas of business and society, including CSR and sustainability, enterprise risk
            management, business models for the digital era, digital consumer behaviour,
            financial crises and stability, creating a capital market for longevity risk transfers, and
            leadership in professional service organisations.
       3. Promote interdisciplinary research through the new Centre for Healthcare
            Innovation Research, which brings together researchers from different disciplines
            across the Business School and the School of Health Sciences. We will also grow our
            interdisciplinary research through the work of the Centre for Creativity in
            Professional Practice, which is a University-wide interdisciplinary research hub
            hosted by the Business School.
       4. Enhance the impact of our research by growing our commissioned research

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


           projects with business and the public sector as well as increasing our commercial
           collaborations supported by Innovate UK funding.
        5. Grow our Executive PhD programme and, through collaborative research with our
           graduates, develop high-quality research outputs and impact case studies.
        6. Grow our research income from a wide variety of funders (including UK research
           councils and the EU) and explore corporate sources of income, especially in areas
           where we have strong research.

 Executing our research strategy will continue to be the joint responsibility of the Dean and the
 Associate Dean (Research and Enterprise) working with the three Faculty Heads, the School
 Research and Enterprise Committee, and Research Centre Directors.

 The sections below outline the incentives, supporting processes and structures we have in place
 to ensure that we provide an optimal environment to implement our research and impact
 strategy. Since 2014 we have engaged in a process of continuous enhancement of our research
 environment, and in the coming years we are committed to further improvement.

 Our strategies to enhance our research quality and intensity (Goal 1) are described in the staff
 development section of this document (see section 2.2). Our Executive PhD programme has
 grown steadily since its launch in 2014 and we plan to increase our promotional efforts as we
 produce more graduates (Goal 5). Our Executive PhD graduates are enthusiastic ambassadors
 for the programme and, based on their recommendations, we have recruited several outstanding
 applicants.

 1.4.2 Research impact strategy (Goal 4)
 Our goal for the next period is to increase the School’s research impact (rated as world-leading
 in REF 2014) from 60% to 80%. Pathways to impact include co-creating research projects with
 end users and beneficiaries of the research, public and policy engagement through knowledge
 exchange, industry collaboration and commercialisation of intellectual property.

 Our strategies to enhance the impact of our research include:

    (a) Expanding knowledge exchange and impact activities of our research centres with key
        beneficiaries and end users of our research. These centres play a key role in our
        knowledge exchange activities by hosting practitioner-focused conferences, public
        events and workshops to showcase our research. The centres are reviewed every five
        years to ensure that they facilitate interactions between business school academics and
        practitioners with a view to generating impact case studies and attracting external
        funding.
    (b) Developing new partnerships for knowledge exchange that aim to sustain client
        relationships resulting from specific research projects beyond each project’s lifespan.
        The School operates a Knowledge Exchange and Impact Fund to facilitate projects with
        industry, government and civil society partners.
    (c) Providing a rewards and incentives scheme for staff engaging in impact activities. We
        have incorporated impact as a performance indicator in our Faculty Excellence
        Framework, which is used as the basis for all promotion decisions. Impact and
        knowledge exchange activities are also recognised in the School’s workload allocation
        plan.
    (d) Encouraging and facilitating staff to develop the skills needed for successful
        knowledge exchange and impact. We provide workshops and training for faculty on
        how to communicate their research to non-academic users, how to engage with
        audiences and partners, understanding consultancy tools and developing project
        evaluation skills. Our aim is to help reorient senior staff (encouraging engagement in the
        short term) and help junior staff to understand the importance of developing skills that
        can enable collaborative projects with end users.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    (e) Increasing our consultancy activities by identifying new commercialisation
        opportunities, thereby generating more income to support academic research. The
        School has made a strategic decision to promote closer integration between its
        consultancy, executive education, alumni relations and business development office
        functions, in recognition of the fact that impact and engagement are not the sole preserve
        of academic staff.
    (f) Leveraging research outcomes and relationships from the Executive PhD programme.
        Research conducted by our Executive PhD candidates focuses on practice and policy,
        providing excellent opportunities for supervisors and their doctoral students to work with
        end users of their research.

 We have several initiatives and structures in place to implement our engagement and impact
 strategy, as described in the following section. Our research centres play a key role in
 implementing our research strategy.

 1.4.3 Research centres (Goals 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6)
 Research centres are a crucial link between theory and practice. This knowledge exchange is
 facilitated through seminars, events and conferences that bring together practitioners,
 academics and students. Research centres also play a key role in implementing our impact
 strategy. Seven of the nine impact case studies submitted to REF 2021 emerged from
 collaborative research projects in our research centres. Our research centres are reviewed every
 five years based on performance indicators that reflect their sustainability and vitality, which are
 (1) knowledge exchange with external stakeholders and end users of our research, (2)
 collaborative research projects with practitioners, (3) grant applications and external research
 income, and (4) professional development and executive education. A summary of the activities
 of our key research centres during this REF period is provided in Table 2.


                                            Table 2

                                        Research centres

                                             Knowledge
                                Core       dissemination,     Research      Impact case
        Research centre
                                staff      exchange and        income         study*
                                          impact activities

        Centre for
        Healthcare               8               4            £425,000       Submitted
        Innovation Research

        Mergers &
        Acquisitions             12              33           £1,711,000     Submitted
        Research Centre
        Centre for Creativity
        in Professional
                                 10              14           £2,406,614     Submitted
        Practice

        Centre for
        Professional Service
                                 12              27           £415,027       Submitted
        Firms

        The Pensions
        Institute                7               39            £49,636       Submitted




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


         ETHOS: The Centre
         for Responsible
                                    7               24              £425,136     Submitted
         Enterprise

         Real Estate
         Research Centre            6               22              £648,000     Ongoing

         Centre for Charity
         Effectiveness              9               43              £6,32,8775   Ongoing


 *Includes impact case studies that were shortlisted for the REF 2021 submission.

 To address the challenges of undertaking interdisciplinary research, the School launched the
 Centre for Healthcare Innovation Research (CHIR) in 2019 with seed funding of £450,000
 provided by the University. Led by Prof Scarbrough from the Business School and Prof
 Stavropoulou from the School of Health Sciences, the CHIR aims to mobilise expertise and
 people from a range of academic and professional disciplines to address the challenge of
 embedding innovation in healthcare systems, thereby helping to improve the organisation and
 delivery of healthcare services. It builds on the internationally leading research of faculty in the
 Business School and the School of Health Sciences to provide a ground-breaking,
 interdisciplinary approach to this challenge. The CHIR has quickly established strong
 collaborative relationships with a range of relevant partners in the NHS. Current projects include
 a collaborative study with the Academic Health Science Network (which is the major body tasked
 with spreading innovation in the NHS) and co-funding for a PhD studentship from the National
 Institute for Health Research’s North Thames Applied Research Collaboration. Research on
 expert leadership in the healthcare sector (Goodall) is also the basis of an impact case study
 submitted to the current REF.

 The Mergers & Acquisitions Research Centre led by Prof Moeller focuses on developing and
 disseminating research on the global mergers and acquisitions (M&A) industry by leveraging the
 School’s strong links to the investment banking, consulting, legal and other industries.
 Participating organisations as sponsors during this REF period include: Ardian (AXA Private
 Equity), BP, Credit Suisse, EY, Mergermarket Group, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of
 England & Wales, Bureau van Dyke, and White & Case. The Centre’s annual academic
 conference is the world's leading conference focused on research in the M&A field. The Centre’s
 practitioner focused events involving panel discussions, workshops, seminars, and
 masterclasses also attract a wide international audience9. An ongoing project researching the
 speed at which M&A activity takes place after an initial public offering (IPO) of stock has
 influenced the decision-making processes and preparedness for upcoming M&A activity
 amongst members of the practitioner community. This project will form the basis of an impact
 case study for the next REF submission. Beyond the private sector, regulators from the UK
 Department for Business, Innovation and Skills have also approached the Centre to undertake
 independent studies, as has the London Stock Exchange. The Centre is also a key income
 generator for the School and during this REF period it generated £1.7 million from corporate
 sources. The team delivers contract research for companies such as PwC, Intralinks, Acuris,
 and law firm Royds Withy King, amongst others.

 The Centre for Creativity in Professional Practice, led by Prof Maiden, is a key University-
 wide interdisciplinary research centre hosted by the Business School. It has been conducting
 annual Research Meets Practice conferences since 2015 with 120–150 participants at each
 event. The Centre has won grants from Arts Council England, the Engineering and Physical
 Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) and the EU totalling about £2M for interdisciplinary
 research projects. For example, Maiden’s £1.3 million grant from the EPSRC and industry

9 https://www.cass.city.ac.uk/faculties-and-research/centres/marc


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 partners involved collaborative research between computer scientists in the Department of
 Computer Science and researchers from the School of Health Sciences at City, University of
 London. This project resulted in the development of a new form of digitised toolkit that allows
 someone with a chronic condition, living in their own home, to self-manage their care in novel
 and creative ways. An EU-funded €1m project focusing on innovation at the intersection of
 business, computer science and journalism is supporting innovation in journalism by introducing
 creativity, artificial intelligence and new business opportunities to enable news businesses to be
 more competitive. Dr Jones was appointed as an interdisciplinary champion for the University
 and is the Principal Investigator for the Boosting Resilience project which received funding of
 £462,000 from Arts Council England. The Centre has been at the forefront of the application of
 innovative methods in business education and has twice been selected by the Association to
 Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) to run one-week intensive development
 programmes for senior leaders in Europe (in June 2015 and June 2017)10.

 The Centre for Professional Service Firms, led by Prof Empson, brings together a powerful
 combination of academics and practitioners to develop research in an area that is at the heart of
 the Business School’s and the University’s strategy – that is, professionals and professional
 service firms. Since REF 2014, the Centre has organised numerous workshops and panel
 discussions. Events have included a workshop organised in 2017 titled ‘Leading Professionals:
 Power and Politics’11 and a day-long workshop titled ‘Leadership, Professionals and Power’,
 organised in association with Allen & Overy in 2016. The latter event featured presentations by
 15 distinguished academics and practitioners and was attended by more than 100 practitioners
 and academics12. Another workshop in 2016, titled ‘Improving Political Leadership’, was
 attended by 80 practitioners and academics13 and a 2015 workshop titled ‘Responsible
 Leadership’ featured presentations by 16 academics and practitioners. A public event on
 insurance and climate action held in June 2020, organised by Prof Jarzabkowski based on her
 research with industry partners, attracted 261 participants from all over the world14. In 2019 the
 Centre formed a research collaboration with Harvard Law School’s Center on the Legal
 Profession, aimed at expanding and disseminating knowledge about the global legal,
 professional and financial services sectors. These centres work together to create partnerships
 across areas of common interest, such as leadership dynamics and the role of innovation in
 professional and financial services. Research on disruption in insurance markets in the
 aftermath of disasters (Jarzabkowski), partly funded by grants from the Leverhulme Trust and
 UK Research and Innovation (UKRI), resulted in an impact case study for REF 2021.

 The Pensions Institute, led by Prof Blake, continues to organise the annual International
 Longevity Risk conference, where leading international industry and academic representatives
 and policymakers discuss longevity risk and consider the responses of pension funds, insurance
 companies and governments. Since 2014, the conferences have been held in Santiago (Chile),
 Lyon, Chicago, Taipei, Amsterdam, and Washington, DC, and Singapore. Using the solutions
 that have been designed and discussed at the conferences – namely, buy-ins, buy-outs and
 longevity swaps – more than $450bn of longevity risk has been transferred from pension plans
 to the insurance industry and to the capital markets sine 2007. A collaborative research project
 with industry partners Swiss RE, J.P. Morgan and Prudential Financial resulted in the design of
 the first longevity bond and reinsurance sidecars, which is the basis for an impact case study
 for REF 2021 (Blake). Other activities during this REF period included presentations and

10 https://www.aacsb.edu/newsroom/2017/7/cross-continental-bridges-form-connections-between-business-

and-the-business-school-classroom.
11 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FaVCp58FWCQ.
12 http://www.cass.city.ac.uk/__data/assets/pdf_file/0008/332729/leadership-professionals-power-summary-

report.pdf.
13 http://www.cassknowledge.com/sites/default/files/article-attachments/power-personalities-principles-

impact-report.pdf.
14 https://www.cass.city.ac.uk/faculties-and-research/centres/cpsf/resources/events




                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 seminars at practitioner and academic conferences and provision of expert evidence to a host of
 private and government organisations including the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)
 on the disclosure of the costs of investment management; the Financial Conduct Authority on
 the disclosure of the costs of investment management; the Minister for the Civil Service, Taiwan,
 on reforming the Taiwan Public Service Pension Fund; the Treasury, Australian Government, on
 the UK’s ‘Freedom and Choice’ reforms; oral evidence to House of Commons Select
 Committees on the Treasury and international trade; and written evidence to the Work and
 Pensions Select Committee’s Pension Freedom and Choice Inquiry among others.

 The Business School also hosts ETHOS: The Centre for Responsible Enterprise, led by Prof
 Gond. Research at ETHOS is characterised by its critical focus on business and society. ETHOS
 provides a vibrant research culture through its monthly seminars and it has become a beacon for
 PhD students and early career researchers across the UK and Europe undertaking heterodox
 management research, as attested by its roster of visiting scholars15. ETHOS’s researchers
 undertake research, teaching and engagement on areas of responsibility, sustainability and
 governance covering a wide range of topics, such as CSR standards and responsible
 investment (Banerjee, Gond, Mena, Spicer); climate change and sustainability (Banerjee, Mena);
 corporate governance (Willmott, Veldman); ESG (environmental, social and governance) (Gond,
 Willmott); disability employment (Bacon); and business ethics (Fleming, Willmott). ETHOS’s
 events have welcomed environmental activists protesting mining expansion in Chile and India,
 as well as representatives from environmental activist organisations and human rights groups
 such as Extinction Rebellion and MiningWatch. A workshop on decolonising the Business
 School held in July 2020 attracted 439 participants from 247 business schools across 39
 countries16. ETHOS members have been commissioned to write reports by Bank of England,
 Barclays, UK Houses of Parliament (Spicer), and the International Labour Organization (Gond).
 ETHOS has also developed a strategic partnership with the UN Principles for Responsible
 Investment, which resulted in grant funding and an impact case study for REF 2021 (Gond).
 Another impact case study (Bacon) on influencing government policies to increase disability
 employment involved research users such as Disability Rights UK, the DWP and the Cabinet
 Office. ETHOS has also been successful in winning two Marie Skłodowska-Curie Marie
 Fellowships and both fellows have gone on to hold permanent academic positions in UK
 universities.

 The Real Estate Research Centre, established in 2018, has unique access to industry data and
 specialises in producing reports that address developments and constraints in the real estate
 sector. Members of the Centre have engaged with key partners such as the Investment Property
 Form which has commissioned major reports into the size and structure of the UK property
 market and the role of ESG factors in real estate investment performance. Similar commissions
 have come from Berkeley Capital Group interested in the UK hotel market. The Centre houses
 the Commercial Real Estate Lending Survey which produces, on a quarterly and annual basis, a
 unique analysis of real estate lending in the UK based on data provided directly by key lenders17.
 Sponsors of this project include Royal Bank of Scotland, Savills, Allen & Overy and Fitch Ratings
 and has generated income in excess of £461,000.

 The Centre for Charity Effectiveness is the School’s longest running research centre
 delivering professional development programs, charities masters programs, business and
 consultancy services to the non-profit sector for over 30 years18. The Centre makes a significant
 contribution to the enterprise goals of the School and has generated more than £6.3 million
 income during the REF period through contract research, consultancies, and workshops. The

15 https://www.cass.city.ac.uk/faculties-and-research/centres/cre/our-purpose/testimonials-from-visiting-

scholars.
16 https://www.cass.city.ac.uk/faculties-and-research/centres/cre.
17 https://www.cass.city.ac.uk/faculties-and-research/centres/real-estate/research2
18 https://www.cass.city.ac.uk/faculties-and-research/centres/cce




                                                                                                     Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Centre’s Schools Engagement project matches student mentors with pupils in inner-city schools
 to help raise educational attainment and aspirations. The project was central to the Business
 School’s successful application to the UN Principles of Responsible Management Education for
 Championship status recognition.

 1.4.4 Key initiatives
 In addition to the research centres, the School has several key initiatives designed to meet our
 research goals.

 Knowledge Portal (Goal 4)
 The School’s Knowledge Portal is an essential online research resource for business and the
 professions. Enhancing the Portal is a key strategy related to disseminating our research and
 demonstrates the University’s and the School’s commitment to an open research environment,
 as outlined in REF5a. The Portal showcases our practical research, making it available to
 academics and practitioners everywhere. It was revamped in 2017 and receives over 40,000
 unique visitors annually. Research papers on retail, stock market listings, digital technologies,
 M&A and business models are especially popular. The Portal is supported by a Twitter account
 with nearly 5,000 followers and has several thousand subscribers to its newsletter.

 Knowledge Exchange and Impact Fund (Goals 2 and 4)
 The Knowledge Exchange and Impact Fund is dedicated to enabling the transformation of
 research outputs into products, services, models and tools for the benefit of non-academic
 users. It exists to pump-prime or accelerate purposeful knowledge exchange activities. Awards
 are granted on a competitive basis and we invite staff to submit proposals for funding for projects
 that facilitate and accelerate engagement with businesses. The annual allocation for this fund
 increased from £55,000 in 2014 to £125,000 in 2020. During this REF period we funded 78
 projects, 6 of which resulted in impact case studies.

 Proof of Concept Fund (Goals 4 and 6)
 We also provide proof-of-concept funding to our academics to accelerate the development of
 software systems for commercial applications. For example, this fund was used by some of our
 management faculty to develop INJECT19, a digital creativity tool intended to help journalists and
 media content providers to create original content efficiently. Proof-of-concept funding has also
 been used to create a prototype for a Museum of Entrepreneurship20 (a world first), which
 gathers, and makes available on an online platform, the stories of entrepreneurs’ experience of
 setting up, running and selling their business.

 Research Impact Champions and Impact Workshops (Goal 4)
 Following REF 2014, we appointed three research impact champions (Jarzabkowski, Kaishev,
 Thomas) across the faculties. Their main responsibility is staff development for impact. Activities
 include one-on-one sessions as well as group workshops on how to identify and engage with
 end users. We also organised two workshops where staff worked with an external expert to
 develop their impact case studies.

 Consulting Portal (Goal 6)
 The Business School has a web-based vehicle that promotes the expertise of our academics to
 help businesses that may not have in-house expertise to solve problems and gain insights into
 their business. Faculty have engaged in consultancy projects during this REF period, working for
 organisations such as AXA Insurance, Bacs, the Cabinet Office, Colgate-Palmolive, the
 European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Eurofound), the
 Financial Conduct Authority, Intrinsic Financial Services, Invesco Perpetual, Lloyd’s of London,
 Ofgem, the train company Southeastern and Tullett Prebon.

19 https://media-innovation.news/media-lab/inject-a-european-journalism-and-technology-project-building-

creativity-tools-for-journalists/
20 http://museumofentrepreneurship.com.


                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Public events and seminars (Goal 4)
 Through our research centres, we regularly hold public events and seminars aimed at a non-
 academic audience. Since 2014, staff have attended approximately 350 practitioner and policy-
 based events involving organisations such as the American Bureau of Shipping, the Baltic
 Exchange, the Bank of England, the Financial Conduct Authority, the Law Commission, Lloyd’s
 List, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the Pension Investment
 Academy and the UK Parliament.

 Section 2. People

 2.1 Staff recruitment
 Since REF 2014, the Business School has consolidated and strengthened its research position.
 We have recruited 55 academic staff from leading institutions in Europe, the UK and the US
 during this period – both accomplished researchers and early career researchers with excellent
 potential to undertake world-class research. There have been fewer leavers during this
 assessment period than the last; 58% of the staff returned in REF 2014 are included in REF
 2021. Most of the professors who left did so because they retired, moved for family reasons or
 received significant academic promotions, including some with endowed chairs at top-ranked
 institutions. With University investment of several million pounds, we have grown by 46 FTEs
 since REF 2014, including the addition of eight professors whom we recruited during the current
 REF period.

 Our staffing strategy is to hire and retain the very best based upon a three-pronged approach.
 We leverage existing staff networks to make appointments in areas close to the research
 interests of existing staff, thereby reinforcing these areas; we make fast-track appointments with
 the aim of promoting new vigour into the School; and we make strategic investments to build
 research capacity in new areas. Research achievement and potential are key criteria for hiring
 junior academic staff. The inclusion of 12 early career researchers in this submission is evidence
 of the success of this policy. Junior academic staff have been recruited from the world’s top
 institutions, including Stanford University, the University of Cambridge, HEC Paris, ESSEC
 Business School, ESCP Business School, King’s College London, Utrecht University, and
 Shanghai University of Finance and Economics. In keeping with the increasing importance of
 research impact, it is now a requirement for all candidates interviewed for academic positions to
 describe their research impact strategy at job presentations.

 2.2 Staff development
 We have continued to enhance our research environment in the School, which was assessed as
 internationally excellent and/or world-leading in REF 2014. We also pay particular attention to
 supporting early career researchers and other staff in enabling them to produce top-quality
 impactful research. We emphasise equality, diversity and inclusion (see section 2.4) and ensure
 that everyone can contribute to our research strategy and impact. Our strategy to produce world-
 leading research is implemented in a number of ways, as outlined in the following sections.

 2.2.1 Mentoring
 The School has a formal academic mentoring policy that is implemented within the faculties. All
 lecturer-level staff are assigned academic mentors, who are generally at the reader or professor
 level. They meet at least once per term. Mentoring takes place within the scope of the School’s
 Faculty Excellence Framework, which sets out the criteria for promotion. Formal mentorship
 continues until the mentee is promoted to senior lecturer. Heads of faculties host a lunch
 meeting with all lecturers twice per year to foster cross-group collaboration. Mentors receive a
 workload allowance for their support. All staff undergo a formal research induction in the School
 where clear guidance is provided on our research goals and processes and on expected
 performance in education and research. The School organises a research induction event at
 which new staff meet the Pro-Vice Chancellor (Research and Enterprise), the Dean of the

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 School, the Associate Dean (Research and Enterprise) and research support staff.
 2.2.2 Promotions
 Subject group leaders support faculty heads in promotion and recruitment decisions, provide
 academic leadership and mentor junior academic staff. Research performance is the major
 criterion for promotion, with proven ability to publish internationally recognised research as the
 key criterion for promotion to professorship. Performance evaluation is by cumulative
 assessment of research outputs over the past five years. Knowledge exchange, public
 engagement and research impact are also important elements of the School’s professorial
 promotion policy. Quality standards and fairness are maintained by the Dean or Deputy Deans,
 who sit on all senior promotion panels.

 A total of 46 staff were promoted during this REF period in recognition of their research
 achievements: 10 to professor, 17 to reader, 14 to senior lecturer and 5 to lecturer. The success
 rate of promotions was 64% for both males and females. In terms of ethnicity, the success rate
 of promotions was 63% for BAME staff and 56% for white staff.

 We also developed talent internally, as evidenced by the submission of 23 staff who obtained
 their doctorates from the School (up from 18 in REF 2014).

 2.2.3 Sabbaticals
 We provide research sabbaticals of up to one year in seven to reinvigorate research by our staff.
 During this REF period, 40 faculty members (18 female and 22 male) across all faculties were
 granted sabbaticals. Outcomes of sabbaticals have included publications in top-ranked journals,
 books, research grants and collaborative research projects.

 2.2.4 Workloads
 An important part of our culture for sustaining research and impact comes from a clear and
 established workload system. It is based on an annual research performance exercise
 conducted by the School Research Committee. This uses the REF scale descriptors, calibrated
 to the School’s strategic aims relating to research and enterprise. We allocate 25% of workload
 time to research regardless of publication success, and we also provide short-term relief from
 teaching duties and teaching assistant support. We additionally provide special mentoring by
 senior staff to help junior staff develop their publications. Early career researchers receive an
 additional 10% workload allowance to facilitate their research. The University’s employment
 contract allows academics to work for one day per week providing private consultancy and
 advisory services to industry. Many staff channel their consultancy work through the University,
 thus contributing to institutional goals relating to knowledge exchange and enterprise. The
 School operates an annual research and knowledge exchange performance exercise whereby
 staff are given credit in the workload model for income from business and government sources,
 contributions to the Knowledge Portal (see section 1.4.4), publications in leading practitioner
 journals and other contributions to business development.

 2.2.5 Research funding
 All academic staff have access to a research pump-priming fund (annually £100,000 at School
 level plus £80,000 at University level and a further £125,000 from the Higher Education
 Innovation Fund for projects with business) and an annual conference allowance of £2,500 per
 annum per person. Junior staff and those newly appointed or returning to research receive
 preferential treatment in the pump-priming fund. The School returns a large proportion of
 research grants to principal investigators, enabling them to provide bridging salaries to research
 staff equivalent to one year for every three years’ employment. This ensures continuity in
 research activity and improved career security for research staff.

 2.2.6 Research seminars
 We conduct three parallel weekly research seminars across our faculties where world-leading
 scholars present their research and provide ongoing stimulus to new thinking. Early career

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 researchers and PhD students also have the opportunity to meet international scholars and
 discuss their research on an individual basis after these seminars.

 2.2.7 Paper development workshops
 We provide support to our academics to enable them to publish their research in the world’s top-
 ranked journals. To enhance our research intensity and the quality of our publications, in 2015
 we started a paper development workshop called I-share, where staff circulate their working
 papers or papers under revision to colleagues, who provide feedback and advice on revising and
 resubmitting manuscripts. Junior staff also have the opportunity to discuss their research at
 these workshops, obtaining feedback before a journal submission or at revision stage. Similarly,
 major grant requests undergo rigorous internal review by the Associate Dean (Research and
 Enterprise) and academic peers. We have also organised publishing workshops conducted by
 senior editors from Academy of Management Journal, the Journal of Management Studies,
 Organizational Studies and other top-ranked journals. Research centres and subject groups
 regularly organise writing retreats and reading groups with colleagues and PhD students.

 2.2.8 Research ethics and integrity
 We conduct research ethics and integrity workshops for our staff and PhD students. Research
 ethics is monitored by the School Ethics Panel, overseen by the University’s Senate Ethics
 Committee. Specialist advice is available on the ethical implications of research proposals.

 2.2.9 Celebrating achievements
 We continually celebrate our research achievements through events and prizes. These include
 annual research days to promulgate our successes, discuss School-wide issues and encourage
 strategic thinking about research; annual research prizes awarded to both ‘rising stars’ and
 senior academics for high-quality publications, grant successes, boosts to our external
 reputation and impact; and prizes for publishing in the Financial Times list of top journals. All of
 these prizes are awarded by the School. During this REF period, the School awarded 181 such
 prizes.

 2.3 Research students
 We consider PhD students to be the engine of our research. Our vision for our PhD programme
 is to produce outstanding researchers who are ready to take up academic positions in leading
 business schools or in key roles outside academia. We deliver a rigorous PhD programme that
 is international in scope and provide a stimulating intellectual environment for students. Our PhD
 student body is diverse and our graduates during this REF period represented 34 nationalities.
 Our PhD students also have strong working relationships with our staff and regularly publish co-
 authored papers with them. This is demonstrated in our REF 2021 submission, where 20 of the
 submitted publications were co-authored with PhD students at the School.

 Admission to our PhD programme is extremely competitive: we accept about 15 students each
 year from a qualified pool of about 250 applicants. The current male to female ratio is 60:40. We
 have awarded 106 PhDs since 2014, with 60% of PhD completions occurring within four years
 and an average completion time of 4.5 years. In addition, the Executive PhD programme
 (launched in 2014) produced five graduates during this period.

 Following a comprehensive review of the programme in 2017 we developed research training
 activities that reflect the four core areas of Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework21.

     A. Knowledge and Intellectual Abilities: The first-year modules offer a combination of a
        core course and electives, providing students with first-class content knowledge across
        subject areas and cutting-edge methodological training.

21 https://www.vitae.ac.uk/researchers-professional-development/about-the-vitae-researcher-development-

framework.

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    B. Personal Effectiveness: The development of this set of skills is facilitated via various
       activities, including the Meet the Seminar Speaker Series, where PhD students are given
       the chance to meet and engage in a one-to-one conversation with internationally
       renowned scholars. We also conduct workshops on ‘Increasing Your Productivity while
       Managing Work-Life Balance’.
    C. Research Governance and Organisation: Workshops in this area include ‘Ethics in
       Research’, ‘Writing Literature Reviews’, ‘Publishing Your Research’ and ‘Writing Up
       Research Findings’.
    D. Engagement, Influence and Impact: We have organised a series of workshops for the
       PhD Workshop Series on knowledge exchange and research Impact.

 The provision of scholarships is an important factor in attracting top-calibre students. The School
 invests £500,000 per year in the PhD program enabling us to offer 15 fully funded places each
 year. In this REF period, the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) provided one
 scholarship. A further four were provided by corporate sponsorship, one by government
 sponsorship and one by foundation-based sponsorship. Additionally, 90% of students receive a
 scholarship from Research Councils UK. From 2021, the School will be offering an annual
 scholarship for Black British candidates with a view to increasing minority enrolment.

 Successful applicants are assigned at least two supervisors, one of whom must be a senior
 academic with a strong publication record and experience in supervising PhD candidates to
 completion. The second supervisor tends to be an early career or mid-career researcher. This
 supervisory arrangement provides opportunities for supervisor training and expands our pool of
 eligible supervisors.

 In their first year, students follow a comprehensive training programme taught mostly by senior
 academic staff along with leading scholars from top academic institutions around the world. The
 programme involves 240 hours of lectures and seminars making it more comprehensive than
 comparative courses at other institutions. On successful completion of the programme, students
 progress initially to MPhil status. At the end of their second year, they prepare a comprehensive
 research proposal for evaluation by a transfer panel consisting of two senior academic staff to
 determine progression to PhD status. Subsequent progress is monitored through annual reports
 by the main supervisor and via an online Research and Progress system. From their second
 year, students attend advanced training courses and doctoral seminars and also present papers
 at international conferences. The School provides funding up to £1,000 per annum per student
 to attend conferences. The School also hosts a PhD Research Conference every July where
 students present their research. Prizes for best paper (£1,000) and best poster (£750) are
 awarded at the conference.

 We offer extensive support to PhD candidates who are preparing for the job market. We advise
 them on preparing CVs, research papers, personal webpages and job market presentations;
 offer job market information sessions; and organise mock interviews with faculty members. Our
 PhD students achieve considerable distinction both within and outside academia. Since 2009,
 60% of our graduates have joined academia, 6% have joined central banks (or equivalent), and
 the remainder have gone into finance or industry. Of the 61 graduates who went into academia,
 18 were recruited by universities among the top 200 in the world and a further 12 joined a
 business school ranked in the top 50 by the Financial Times.

 The School provides students with dedicated state-of-the-art quiet study office space and
 communal areas to facilitate socialisation among students across the three faculties. The PhD
 Programme Office has an open-door policy, offering pastoral and administrative support to
 students.

 In 2014 the School launched an Executive PhD programme, which is a part-time full-fee-paying
 programme designed for middle- to senior-level executives. The programme contributes to our

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 research impact strategy, given that research that emerges from the Executive PhD has a strong
 practitioner focus. We admit about 15 candidates per year and the programme produced its first
 cohort (five graduates) in 2018. The supervisory arrangements, thesis requirements and
 examination processes are identical to those of the traditional PhD programme to ensure we
 maintain the rigour that is expected of doctoral programmes.

 2.4 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 The School is aligned with the University’s equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) policies. We
 believe in creating an environment that respects the diversity of staff and enables them to derive
 maximum benefit and enjoyment from their involvement in the life of the School. Staff are
 encouraged to take advantage of University-wide self-organised support groups such as the
 Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic Staff Network, CityUniWomen, the Disability Staff Network, the
 LGBT+ Network, and Religion and Belief. The School has an Associate Dean for People and
 Culture, who is a member of the School Executive Committee and is responsible for ensuring
 that EDI factors are taken into account in decision-making processes, such as research
 performance evaluation and academic promotion panels.

 Table 3 summarises our staff demographics. Our academic profile is diverse, comprising staff of
 26 nationalities. Around 32% of our staff members are female, up from 26% in 2014 and 19% in
 RAE 2008. Two of the five impact case study leads are female. The selection of the output
 portfolio was done in a transparent manner: each academic was asked to rank their outputs and
 this information was then integrated with the assessments made by the School’s REF strategy
 group.

                                               Table 3

                                      Academic staff profile
                 Gender                                       Percentage
                 Female                                          32%
                 Male                                            68%

                 Ethnicity                                    Percentage
                 BAME                                           17.5%
                 Refused/not known                               3.2%
                 White                                          79.4%

                 Disability                                   Percentage
                 None/not known                                 96.3%
                 Yes                                             3.7%


 While the gender balance of the Business School is on par with that of our competitors, there is
 considerable scope for improvement, which we are committed to doing. Women occupy senior
 research and leadership positions in the School, including as Dean (2015–2019), Associate
 Dean (Research and Enterprise) (2015–2019), Associate Dean (MBA Programmes) (2014–
 2018), and directors of the full-time and Executive PhD programmes (2015 to present). Around
 18% of our staff identify as Black, Asian or Minority Ethnic (BAME), up from 16% in 2014. The
 Marketing and Operations Management group is gender-balanced, as is the Corporate Finance,
 Accounting and Banking group. In addition, research on EDI is a feature of our publications on
 entrepreneurship, corporate governance, professional service firms and organisational
 behaviour. This is important as staff research filters into teaching and School committee
 processes. Part-time staff and those on fixed-term contracts enjoy equal access to facilities, staff
 appraisal and training opportunities, and conference attendance budgets.


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We make every effort to accommodate the needs of staff with special circumstances. Their
 workloads and promotions criteria are suitably adjusted based on those circumstances. We
 recognise that retaining experienced staff is an important factor in enabling the School and the
 University to achieve its strategic aims. City, University of London provides its employees with a
 range of benefits and flexible working practices. The University offers paid maternity and
 paternity leave as well as parental and shared parental leave, adoption leave and dependent’s
 leave. Since 2014, seven staff members have taken advantage of maternity leave and two went
 on paternity leave. Staff who return from maternity leave are also given a reduced teaching load
 for one term. Workloads for staff returning from long-term illness or managing chronic conditions
 are adjusted on a case-by-case basis to reflect their special circumstances.

 EDI considerations are taken into account in providing support for funding applications and
 access to internal research funds. Mentors encourage early career researchers to participate in
 grant-writing workshops and apply for internal funding. Female academics comprised 39% of
 applicants who were awarded pump-priming grants during the REF period. In addition, 32% of
 all principal investigators in external grant submissions were female. The proportion of female
 academics funded through our Knowledge Exchange and Impact Fund ranged from 20% to 42%
 in REF 2021, averaging 34% over the seven-year period. In addition, two of the School’s
 research grant and research impact champions are female academics.

 In 2016, the Business School launched the Global Women’s Leadership Programme, which
 seeks to inspire, equip and connect women who are – or want to become – resilient, inclusive,
 ambitious, brave, confident, responsible, authentic and thriving leaders. A key pillar of this
 programme is the dissemination of our research to establish the School as a leader in the
 conversation on gender-balanced leadership. Members of the programme presented their work
 at the Financial Times Women at the Top summit (Goodall, Hughes) and conducted
 commissioned research that was included in the 2019 Hampton–Alexander Review to improve
 the representation of women on boards and in leadership positions at FTSE 350 companies
 (Falconieri).

 2.4.1 The COVID-19 pandemic
 The pandemic and subsequent lockdowns caused major disruptions across the UK and posed
 several challenges to our research environment. Our rapid and comprehensive response to the
 crisis is a testament to the collegiality and vibrant research culture in the School. Our approach
 to minimise disruption was to focus on the more vulnerable research communities in the School
 – research students and early career researchers. From March 2020, all PhD coursework
 modules were taught online. Weekly research seminars and supervisory meetings were also
 shifted to online delivery.

 At the beginning of the pandemic, the PhD directors organised meetings with research students
 across all cohorts to understand their specific concerns. A number of concerns were identified,
 including delays in PhD progress; disruption and delays in data collection and fieldwork;
 disruptions in the job market; access to online resources and risk of losing their institutional
 affiliation for graduating PhD students unable to find employment; lack of social interaction and
 disruption to the PhD student community; and constructing and maintaining a research presence
 in the online world. Our PhD team also organised online meetings with their counterparts in
 business schools in the UK and Europe and participated in the townhall meeting of the
 Consortium on Competitiveness and Cooperation for Doctoral Student Research to discuss
 responses to the pandemic.

 Our actions to minimise disruption included:
    • extending PhD funding;
    • organising a workshop on conducting fieldwork in the time of COVID-19 and remote
        interviewing techniques;


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    •   conducting a workshop on writing theory papers, assuming that field research would
        continue to be disrupted in the near future;
    •   conducting a virtual job market workshop;
    •   organising Virtual Research Days in partnership with colleagues at Imperial College
        London, University College London, King’s College London, the universities of
        Cambridge and Oxford, and the London Business School, giving PhD students the
        opportunity to present their research and network with faculty and peers;
    •   creating the position of Junior Research Fellow to allow graduating PhD students to
        maintain their institutional affiliation and access to research resources;
    •   conducting two workshops titled ‘Building a Social Media Presence’.

 In addition, supervisors were requested to provide extra pastoral care during this difficult period
 and we organised regular social Zoom meetings during the summer of 2020.

 City Doctoral College conducted a survey on the impact of the pandemic on doctoral students.
 While students reported that the pandemic had had a ‘limited to significant impact’ on their
 progress, most were satisfied with the School’s response and their supervisory arrangements
 and felt they would recover from the impacts of the pandemic on their research.

 In addition to the actions taken by our research team, there were several organic initiatives that
 emerged which is another testament to the School’s vibrant research culture: PhD students and
 early career researchers created online reading groups that met fortnightly; research centres
 organised paper development workshops around specific themes; and early career researchers
 created their own social and research network. We also welcomed two new PhD cohorts virtually
 – 21 candidates in the full-time PhD programme and 20 candidates in the Executive PhD
 programme (our largest cohort since the programme commenced in 2014). The research
 induction for new academic staff who joined the School in September 2020 was also conducted
 online.

 We also directed our research efforts at addressing the disruptions caused by the pandemic.
 Our faculty submitted 18 grant applications to several funding bodies, including the British
 Academy, the Health Foundation, the Medical Research Council and UKRI. Topics included
 organisational resilience during COVID-19, design of contact-tracing apps, building online
 platforms for public health resilience, and remote health monitoring.

 2.4.2 Implications of the School’s name change
 The Black Lives Matter movement and revelations of links to the slave trade of several UK
 institutions had a direct effect on the School. Following media reports of Sir John Cass’s active
 involvement in the slave trade, in July 2020 the University Council decided to remove the Cass
 name. The University also launched a review into historical sources of funding to determine
 whether there are any further links to slavery. The decision to remove the name was made
 because the continued use of Sir John Cass’s name would be seen as condoning someone
 whose wealth in part derived from the exploitation of slavery, which is incompatible with our EDI
 values.

 The decision to drop the name evoked strong reactions, especially among students and alumni,
 with various petitions both supporting and opposing the decision. We have started the process of
 finding a new name through extensive stakeholder engagement. The School is also committed
 to changing more than the name and we have started an internal consultation process to build
 an identity as a business school with social purpose, where we can demonstrate our
 commitment to EDI in our teaching and research. As an initial commitment, the School has
 announced one PhD scholarship for disadvantaged Black British students.




                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income
 The Business School was ranked 13th in the UK for business school research income in a 2018
 CABS report22. As indicated in section 1.4.1, one of our goals is to substantially increase our
 income from external sources.

 While many faculty do not require substantial grants to undertake research and produce high-
 quality research outputs, we encourage our academics to apply for research grants. Our
 strategies to generate research income and diversify our funding sources include:
     • appointing research grant champions (Jarzabkowski, Maiden, Novelli), who work with
         early and middle career researchers to develop grant applications;
     • conducting grant-writing workshops at the School and University levels;
     • awarding internal research funding of up to £180,000 per year to incentivise external
         grant applications;
     • providing support through full-time research development staff at the School and the
         University Research Office, who help our academics to produce grant proposals that
         meet all funder or partner requirements;
     • providing opportunities to generate contract research income through our Press Office, a
         Knowledge Transfer Manager, a Knowledge Editor and active research centres that work
         together to promote our research to end users.

 In addition, we promote funding opportunities through our bi-monthly newsletter.

 These strategies appear to be working: our total research income for the current REF period was
 £9.35 million (up from £5.66 million in REF 2014, an increase of 65%). Income generated from
 sources other than UK and EU research councils increased from £187,154 in REF 2014 to
 £331,329 in REF 2021. The total number of grant applications made by staff also increased,
 from 182 applications in REF 2014 to 304 applications in REF 2021. Our success rate for
 winning grants is 38%.

 Notable grant successes during this REF period include a £4.2 million award from Research
 England to create a National Centre for Creativity Enabled by Artificial Intelligence. Led by Prof
 Maiden, the Centre will provide new types of service to augment the creative capabilities of UK
 businesses. These services will combine artificial intelligence algorithms, interactive tools,
 creativity consulting practices and leadership training into new offerings for business partners. It
 is intended that business partners will use these new services to amplify their existing creativity
 consulting, training and leadership services, in order to maximise the value of these services to
 business clients.

 Maiden also won a £1.3 million grant from the EPSRC and industry partners for his project
 involving the design and development of a digitised toolkit that enables people living with chronic
 conditions to self-manage both their care of their condition and their daily lives. Other notable
 grants include a £590,000 EPSRC award to Li for his digital creativity hub project and a
 £541,678 EPSRC grant to Radice to develop a risk analysis model of different types of medical
 expenditure, health outcomes and insurance coverage.

 During the current REF period, the Business School funded 76 pump-priming projects totalling
 £349,486. These investments enabled a variety of research outcomes, including internationally
 recognised publications, impact case studies and external grant funding. For example, Radice’s
 pump priming award of £5,000 for her project on data analytics models for analysing insurance
 data enabled her to apply for and win the EPSRC grant mentioned above. Novel’s £5,000 pump-
 priming grant enabled her to submit a successful bid for £414,490 to Innovate UK. The Business

22 https://charteredabs.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/75287-CABS-Research-Income-Report-2019-1.pdf.


                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 School also funded PhD workshops, conferences, paper development workshops and impact
 case studies that resulted in high-quality research outputs, knowledge exchange and
 dissemination, as well as collaborative research projects with end users.

 In addition, during the current REF period, the School funded 78 knowledge exchange and
 impact projects. Seven impact case studies submitted for REF 2021 resulted from this initial
 funding (two by Bacon and one each by Gond, Goodall, Jarzabkowski, Maiden, Mayhew).

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 The School is located in a purpose-built £71.5M building in the City of London, London’s main
 financial district. A comprehensive refurbishment of this building, costing £40.5M, will commence
 in 2023 with a view to expanding the teaching and research space. We also have a second
 building for our executive education and consultancy programmes. Both buildings are designed
 to promote high-quality social science research and opportunities for informal contact. They
 have state-of-the-art facilities including electronic and IT infrastructure, several lecture/seminar
 rooms and a large auditorium. In order to provide additional high-quality space and opportunities
 for expansion, we leased a further building in late 2020. This building, also located in the City of
 London, will allow us to consolidate our estate into two high-quality buildings near to each other.
 As part of this initiative, we will relinquish the building currently housing our executive education
 and consultancy programmes.

 The School’s proximity to the City of London allows academic and research staff to be
 accessible to the marketplace and to work in close association with commerce and industry.
 Many of our visiting lecturers, guest speakers, executive clients and research partners in a wide
 variety of business disciplines come from the large City financial services corporations. As one
 of the oldest UK business schools (established in 1966), we have an impressive range of alumni,
 located across the world, who remain an important part of the School’s community. We also
 have an extremely diverse international body of staff, advisory board members and students.
 This fosters a stimulating environment for our student body and our academic and research
 staff.

 We have a world-class business library with leading collections in finance and actuarial science,
 and our research is supported through library collections and resources in print and online.
 Researchers have access to a portfolio of over 50 specialist business databases, which provide
 a vital source of information and expert analysis. These resources are supplemented by over
 250 University-wide databases that support education and research, as outlined in our
 institutional environment statement. The Business School has access to collections covering the
 fields of actuarial science, finance, and management, maintained by an annual budget of over
 £800,000 for specialist resources. Additionally, over £650,000 worth of content is received
 through corporate partnerships and a further £1.6 million is spent on cross-School and cross-
 Department content in the form of journal and e-book bundles as well as reference materials.

 The research experience at the Business School is enhanced by our positive engagement with
 corporate sponsors, which gives us access to a number of high-quality, high-cost resources.
 Representatives from our corporate suppliers also run training sessions for staff and students. In
 addition to our online resources, researchers have access to a dedicated Financial Resources
 Zone and two simulated Trading Rooms plus a Financial Resources Suite at our library.

 Library Services invests significantly in e-books to support research and education. Researchers
 also have access to approximately 25,000 print books in our library. This is supplemented by
 extensive collections held in the libraries on the main campus. We have a dedicated Research
 Librarian (Business), who is a member of the University Library Services Research Service
 Group and the Cass Research and Enterprise Committee. The Research Librarian offers one-
 on-one support for researchers in addition to running workshops in key areas (such as literature
 searching, citing and referencing) and providing specialist database support. A dedicated

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 research hub and specialist online library guides have been created to support researchers, and
 Library Services delivers a termly newsletter and runs a dedicated research blog and Twitter
 feed.

 Library Services has a Digital Repository team, which manages our institutional repository, City
 Research Online (CRO). CRO underpins our open access strategy and researcher profiles. It
 contains over 10,000 research outputs and a growing collection of over 1,500 doctoral theses.
 The repository team proactively engages with researchers via a number of channels, advocating
 open access principles and benefits and also ensuring conformity with copyright and any other
 rights relating to research outputs. This service develops continuously in line with the rapidly
 changing open access landscape.

 One of the metrics recommended by the Forum for Responsible Research Metrics to encourage
 the effective sharing and management of research data is ORCiD registration, and 91% of our
 academics are registered. The Business School is ranked tenth in the SSRN’s list of the top
 1,000 international business schools for total number of downloaded pre-prints and working
 papers23, demonstrating our commitment to open scholarship.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Our academics have extensive national and international research collaborations with some of
 the world’s best universities as well as with industry, government and non-governmental
 organisations. During this REF period, our academics collaborated with 132 institutions across
 19 countries, some of which are listed in Table 4. All of these research collaborations have
 resulted in internationally recognised publications, research projects with industry and
 government partners, or research grants from national and international funding bodies.

                                              Table 4

                               Selected research collaborations
     Country                  Institution
     Australia                Australian National University
                              University of New South Wales
                              University of Queensland
                              University of Sydney
     Canada                   HEC Montreal
                              Ivey Business School
                              Schulich School of Business
                              University of Alberta
     France                   EM Lyon
                              HEC Paris
                              IÉSEG School of Management
                              Sciences Po
     Germany                  Freie Universität Berlin
                              Heidelberg University
                              University of Cologne
                              University of Göttingen
     Italy                    Bocconi University
                              University of Milan
                              University of Naples Federico II


23

https://hq.ssrn.com/rankings/Ranking_display.cfm?RequestTimeout=5000&TRN_gID=12&TMY_gID=1&runid
=73507.

                                                                                          Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Netherlands                    Erasmus University Rotterdam
                                 Tilburg University
                                 University of Amsterdam
  Sweden                         Lund University
                                 Stockholm School of Economics
  UK                             Imperial College
                                 King’s College London
                                 London Business School
                                 London School of Economics
                                 University College London
                                 University of Cambridge
                                 University of Oxford
  US                             Columbia Business School
                                 Harvard Business School
                                 Kellogg School of Management
                                 MIT Sloan School of Management
                                 New York University
                                 Princeton University
                                 Stanford University
                                 The Wharton School
                                 University of Chicago
                                 University of Massachusetts, Amherst
                                 University of Michigan
                                 University of Pennsylvania

 4.2 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences
 The Actuarial Science and Insurance group has extensive research partnerships with
 business, government and the actuarial profession through the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries
 (IFoA), supported by research grants and other forms of funding. For example, Chronopoulos is
 a partner investigator in a major project on cyber security simulation and training funded by the
 EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (€7,476,908.75) and executed jointly by
 a research consortium of 18 major EU institutions and the telecommunications companies
 Ericsson and Telefonica.

 The Life and Longevity Markets Association and the IFoA commissioned our actuarial science
 academics Haberman, Kaishev and Millossovich to develop a methodology for assessing basis
 risk within the framework of managing longevity risk, which is the basis of an impact case study
 for REF 2021. Findings from this project had an impact on the actuarial profession by informing
 decision-making on transferring longevity risks from the private pensions sector to capital
 markets using index-based solutions developed by our researchers. Several open source R
 packages developed by actuarial science academics have had thousands of downloads by end
 users.24

 Members of the Asset Pricing and Financial Econometrics group are involved in collaborative
 research with academics from the US and Europe as well as with policymakers and businesses.
 Sarno has extensive research links with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the European
 Central Bank, the Federal Reserve Bank and the Bank for International Settlements, among
 other institutions.

 The Corporate Finance, Accounting and Banking group has strong links with international
 institutions (the World Bank; the Bank for International Settlements in Basel, Switzerland; the
 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; De Nederlandsche Bank; the Centre for
 Studies in Economics and Finance, Italy; and the Central Bank of Chile). Group members
 provided consultancy services to several institutions including the IMF, the European
 Commission and the German Development Corporation (Beck), and received research funding

24 https://github.com/raymondtsr/KSgeneral and https://github.com/alattuada/GeDS.


                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 from institutions such as the 6th Marie Curie Framework Programme and the Siv and Carl
 Malmsten Memorial Foundation.

 The Marketing and Operations Management group’s relationships with end users include
 organisations such as Pirelli, one of the largest tyre manufacturers in the world, for a project on
 inspectors’ visual patterns during quality assurance (Estes); InnoCentive, a crowdsourcing
 company, for a project on crowdsourcing innovation (Acar); Premium Cola for a project on
 strategic planning (Luedicke); and St Martin-in-the-Fields Charity, which is a large UK charity
 that supports homeless and vulnerably housed people, for a project on interactive marketing
 strategy (Wiertz). Group members also collaborate with colleagues in other subject areas within
 the School and the University, and with a variety of organisations including the European
 Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (de Menezes), Islington
 Council (Radnor), Leicester Hospital Trust (Radnor) and Royal Surrey County Hospital (Izady).

 From the Organisational Behaviour, Human Resource Management and Corporate Social
 Responsibility group, Empson served for three years on the Board of KPMG UK as
 Independent Non-executive Director and served as an expert advisor to the UK Competition and
 Markets Authority’s Review of the Audit Sector. She was also Chair of the Public Interest
 Committee, working with the Financial Reporting Council, and advised PwC’s Supervisory Board
 on its governance review and restructuring of the firm’s senior leadership. Bacon’s research on
 disability employment involves relationships with end users such as Her Majesty’s Government
 of the United Kingdom; the UK Parliament; the All-Party Parliamentary Group for Disability; the
 Cabinet Office; the DWP; the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS);
 Disability Rights UK; NHS England’s Workforce Disability Equality Standard; employers signed
 up to the Disability Confident scheme; firms competing for public sector contracts; and disabled
 people’s organisations and unions. These initiatives seek to benefit the 7.9 million working-age
 disabled people in the UK. Forth’s research on wages, benefits, management practices and
 productivity involves end users such as the DWP; the Low Pay Commission; the Chartered
 Institute of Personnel and Development; the Health Foundation; BEIS; the Advisory, Conciliation
 and Arbitration Service; the Joseph Rowntree Foundation; Eurofound; and the European
 Commission.

 Willmott led ‘The Modern Corporation Project’, an impact-oriented and interdisciplinary project
 that engages with academics and practitioners worldwide – including academics, companies,
 investors, standard setters, regulators and politicians – to identify and disseminate theory and
 best practices that support long-term value creation. The project received the 2019 International
 Impactful Collaboration Award from the Academy of Management Practice Theme Committee.

 Other collaborations and relationships with end users include a new corporate governance
 model project with Frank Bold (Willmott); corporate sustainability disclosures under the EU’s
 Non-financial Reporting Directive with DG FISMA, Novo Nordisk and Vodafone, systemic risk
 and corporate governance workshops with the Financial Reporting Council (Willmott), and ESG
 engagement with the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (Gond).

 In the Strategy, Entrepreneurship and Innovation group relationships with end users of our
 research have been supported by significant research funding from the EPSRC, Innovate UK
 and UKRI. Novelli leads a Strategy Insight Lab project in partnership with the University of
 Oxford and Bocconi University, with funding of £414,409 from Innovate UK and industry
 partners. The project provides free training, mentorship and networking for one year to 200 UK
 micro-businesses with the purpose of keeping them at the forefront of knowledge and closely
 monitoring their progress, allowing us to have a direct impact and conduct cutting-edge research
 on firms’ decision-making.

 Our academics have also been commissioned to undertake research for a wide range of
 organisations. These include the Communication Workers Union (Casu), the Institute of

                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Directors and Insight Investment (Clare, Volpin), the Civil Aviation Authority (Spicer), Slack (Li),
 the Trades Union Congress (Forth), the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (Gond) and
 PwC (Jarzabkowski).

 Maiden leads a new National Centre for Creativity Enabled by Artificial Intelligence, launched in
 October 2020 with funding of £3.6 million from UKRI and Research England. Industry partners
 include Grant Thornton, SAGE Publishing and CERN, which have committed over £1.5 million to
 support the Centre’s knowledge exchange mission and activities. Maiden also collaborated with
 a small firm, Evalucom Consulting, to develop CarePulse – a web-based, intelligent reporting
 system devised using novel user-centred design techniques. CarePulse has been rolled out to
 over 300 care homes and 80 domiciliary care services, enabling care home managers to provide
 data required by NHS commissioners more quickly, accurately and reliably. The project was
 rated as ‘outstanding’ by Innovate UK.

 Another project, led by Li, focused on bridging the innovation–execution gap with industry
 partners Imagen, a leading global player in video storage based in Oxford, and VMWare, a
 global leader in multi-cloud environments in Silicon Valley and its business partner, Amazon
 Web Services.

 4.3 Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society
 The main contributions of the Actuarial Science and Insurance group are in developing novel
 quantitative methodologies using stochastic actuarial modelling techniques that are then
 successfully applied to solve practical problems for the financial services industry and other
 sectors. Examples include research on actuarial and stochastic models and methods in general
 insurance, risk analysis and risk management, statistics, data analysis and operations research
 (Asimit, Bryce, Chronopoulos, Dimitrova, Gerrard, Glass, Kaishev, Millossovich, Nielsen, Radice,
 Spreeuw, Tsanakas, Verrall, Zhu); mortality, life and health insurance, and long-term healthcare
 and pensions (Dimitrova, Haberman, Mayhew, Kaishev, Millossovich, Nielsen, Rickayzen,
 Smith, Verrall, Wright); and finance and insurance (Asimit, Dimitrova, Kaishev, Kyriakou,
 Millossovich).

 The high academic standing of group members is also reflected by their membership in editorial
 boards of prestigious international journals and in international research funding advisory bodies
 and professional associations. Asimit is advisor to the Royal Flemish Academy of Belgium for
 Science and Arts; Kaishev is advisor to the Swiss National Science Foundation; and Tsanakas is
 advisor to Israel Science Foundation, Research Foundation – Flanders (Belgium), and Natural
 Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada. Best paper awards have been received
 by Millossovich and Tsanakas (Peter Clark best paper prize of the Institute and Faculty of
 Actuaries) and Millossovich (International Congress of Actuaries 2018).

 The Asset Pricing and Financial Econometrics group is particularly strong on empirical
 international finance (Sarno, Schmeling, Hayley); capital markets in emerging economies
 (Phylaktis); fund management (Blake, Keswani, Clare); market microstructure (Cespa); financial
 econometrics and mathematical finance (Cerny, Urga, Tapani); and shipping finance (Alizadeh-
 Masoodian, Nomikos, Papapostolou, Pouliasis). Group members are involved in collaborative
 research with academics from the US and Europe as well as with policymakers and business
 firms. Sarno is recognised as a world authority on international finance and his research has
 made significant contributions to the understanding of exchange rate movements. Sarno’s paper
 ‘Business Cycles and the Cross-Section of Currency Returns’ (co-authored with Steven
 Riddiough) won the CFA Institute’s Best Paper Prize 2017 and the Wealth Innovation, Neuro-
 and Entrepreneurial Results Best Paper Award 2019. Blake received the Robert I. Mehr Award




                                                                                               Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 in 2016 for his paper on stochastic mortality and was named among Pensions Insight’s top 50
 most influential people between 2014 and 201725.

 The Corporate Finance, Accounting and Banking group’s strength lies in various issues
 relating to the link between corporates and the financial markets, including auditing, corporate
 disclosure, information intermediaries, financial regulations, securities valuations, and the
 intersection of financial reporting and corporate finance (Bilinski, Huang, Konstantinidi, Yim);
 relationships between finance and economic development, effective financial systems, financial
 regulation and structured finance (Beck, Casu, Fabbri); and corporate governance, raising
 capital and corporate restructuring (Golubov, Lasfer, Tran, Volpin). Beck is a world-leading
 authority in the field and his research has made substantial contributions to financial
 intermediation and the impact of financial development on growth.

 Concerning the Marketing and Operations Management group, research in marketing is
 concentrated around digital marketing (Acar, Gottschalk, Wiertz), consumer psychology
 (Scopelliti, Steinmetz), consumer culture theory (Bardhi, Luedicke, Mimoun, Robinson) and
 international marketing (Balabanis).

 Contributions to operations management research include work on the topics of innovation and
 the development of strategic buyer–supplier relationships (Kocabasoglu-Hillmer,
 Son); management practices and the interface of operations management and human resource
 management (de Menezes); quality management (de Menezes, Kocabasoglu-Hillmer); supply
 chain risk (Lücker, Ries, Sodhi); sustainability (Sodhi); transportation and city logistics
 (Paraskevopoulos); pricing (Ceryan); and service delivery (de Menezes, Izady,
 Paraskevopoulos, Radnor, Sodhi). This research contributes to knowledge and practice in
 various sectors of the economy, most noticeably public services, healthcare, manufacturing and
 energy.

 Radnor holds fellowships of the Academy of Social Sciences and the British Academy of
 Management. Sodhi holds fellowships of the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications and
 the Operational Research Society; is Deputy Editor of the journal Production and Operations
 Management; and has been recognised as a leading operations management professor in the
 world based on publications in the top four operations management journals between 2001 and
 201526. Group members are also regularly involved in acting as session or track chairs at
 leading operations conferences (e.g. EUROMA, INFORMS and POMS) and they frequently
 review for Financial Times-listed journals.

 Since 2016, the group has organised a bi-annual research conference on a selected theme, with
 the main goal of showcasing faculty members’ research and increasing the visibility of the group
 in the academic community. The last two events, the Story Consumption Symposium (2018) and
 the Digital Consumption Symposium (2016), attracted speakers and over 100 attendees from
 top universities around the globe. Members of the group regularly serve as track co-chairs in
 international conferences – such as EMAC 2019 (Acar, Wiertz), EMAC 2017 (Wiertz), SJDM
 2019–2022 (Scopelliti), and ACR 2018 (Bardhi) – and in conference programme committees:
 ACR (Bardhi, Luedicke, Scopelliti, Wiertz) and SCP (Scopelliti).

 Marketing researchers have received prestigious international research awards, including the
 Sheth Foundation Best Paper Award (2015) from Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science
 (Wiertz); the Consumer Culture Theory Conference (2015) Best Special Session Award (Bardhi
 and Luedicke); and the Academy of Management (2016) Best Paper Proceedings (Scopelliti).



25 https://www.pensions-institute.org/wp-

content/uploads/2019/press/50%20most%20influential%20people%20in%20pensions.pdf.
26 https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/deci.12452.


                                                                                           Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 In REF 2021, the Organisational Behaviour, Human Resource Management and Corporate
 Social Responsibility group has raised its profile considerably in terms of size, breadth of
 research range and quality of outputs. What differentiates this community of scholars in the
 School is the use of broader social science disciplines as a heuristic lens to investigate and
 explain interactions between people, groups, decision-making and human resources practices.
 The group has made significant contributions to the study of leadership in scientific and highly
 technical organisations (Goodall) and in professional service firms (Empson). Other scholars
 have contributed to research on routines and institutional logics (Nigam); organisational control
 (Chung); critical discourse analysis and organisational theorising (Oswick); social movements
 (Augustine); the changing nature of work and employment (Kaynak); employee wellbeing and
 productivity (Forth); and paradox in management science (Lewis).

 The group was expanded to include CSR researchers in 2013 after targeted recruitment. Key
 research themes include corporate governance (Spicer, Willmott); CSR and irresponsibility
 (Banerjee, Fleming, Gond, Mena, Spicer, Willmott); power (Banerjee, Fleming, Spicer);
 responsible investment (Beunza, Gond); critical performativity (Banerjee, Fleming, Gond,
 Spicer); and governance in global production networks (Banerjee, Willmott). This group is unique
 in bringing a critical perspective to research on CSR, questioning the assumptions underlying
 current research, and asks the ‘big questions’ about topics such as climate change,
 sustainability, emancipation, poverty, inequality and global governance. Members of the group
 have held numerous workshops and conferences on a variety of themes, including responsible
 investment, conflicts in the extractives industries, CSR for practitioners and economies of worth.
 With funding from the Society for the Advancement of Management Studies, in 2019 the group
 organised a paper development workshop on the topic of degrowth for a special issue of
 Organization with participants from Australia, Europe and the UK.

 Members have also won best paper prizes awarded by journals such as Business & Society
 (Banerjee), California Management Review (Gond) and Human Relations (Banerjee), as well as
 in AoM, EURAM, EGOS and IABS conferences (Buenza, Gond, Willmott). Willmott holds
 fellowships of the Academy of Social Sciences, the British Academy and the British Academy of
 Management. Banerjee is a Research Fellow of the British Academy’s Future of the Corporation
 research programme. Buenza was Chair of the Steering Committee of the Academic Network of
 the UN Principles for Responsible Investment from 2014 to 2017. He has also provided
 ethnographic training for bank executives at the UK Banking Standards Board.

 The Strategy, Entrepreneurship and Innovation group has depth, breadth and longevity,
 making it one of the most prominent and influential research groups in Europe. Built up over
 many years (see RAE 2008 and REF 2014), its breadth reflects many of the core themes in the
 underlying fields of strategy, entrepreneurship and innovation. The group’s contribution to
 innovation research is a major theme, covering both digital and non-digital sectors, with
 strengths in technology and innovation strategy generally and biotechnology in particular
 (Aversa, Baden-Fuller, Cacciatore, Frankort, Guidici, Kamuriwo, Novelli). Faculty have made
 significant contributions to our understanding of digital innovation strategy (Haefliger, Hervas-
 Drane, Lanzolla, Feng Li, Maiden, Scarbrough). The study of strategy process from a strategy-
 as-practice perspective is another major theme, based on Jarzabkowski’s leading research in
 the field. Her work has been supported by external research grants from the Leverhulme Trust,
 the EU 7th Framework Programme, the ESRC and collaborations with the Australian
 Reinsurance Pool Corporation, Flood Re (a UK flood reinsurance pool), Pool Reinsurance Ltd
 and the Bank of England.

 This group also makes significant contributions to the field of entrepreneurship, particularly in the
 areas of entrepreneurial rhetoric, pitching and mentoring (VanWerven); paradoxes of innovation
 (Andriopoulos); founder exit (Souitaris, Zerbinati); corporate venture capital (Hill, Souitaris,
 Zerbinati), independent venture capital (Filatotchev, Souitaris); academic entrepreneurship
 (Huyghe, Souitaris); entrepreneurial emotions (Huyghe, Souitaris, Zerbinati); entrepreneurial

                                                                                              Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 identity (Huyghe); and entrepreneurial inspiration (Souitaris, Zerbinati). Group members also put
 their research into practice: for example, Zerbinati created a Museum of Entrepreneurship, which
 exhibits video-stories of entrepreneurs aiming to inspire young people.

 Baden-Fuller and Jarzabkowski were elected as Fellows of the British Academy in 2020. Baden-
 Fuller and Li also hold fellowships at the Academy of Social Sciences and the British Academy
 of Management. Furnari received the best paper award from the Academy of Management
 Review in 2014. Li received the best paper award from the British Academy of Management in
 2020.

 4.4 Editorships and media exposure
 Our academics across all groups hold over 250 positions on editorial boards of the premier
 journals in the business disciplines, including Academy of Management Journal, Academy of
 Management Review, the Journal of International Business Studies, the Journal of Marketing,
 the Journal of Consumer Research, the Journal of Consumer Psychology, Organization Science,
 Strategic Management Journal, the Journal of Management, Information Systems Research, the
 Journal of Business Venturing, MIS Quarterly and the Journal of Finance.

 Our academics have also served as senior/associate editors of leading journals – Asimit for
 Insurance Mathematics and Economics; Banerjee for Organization Studies; Beck for Journal of
 Financial Intermediation and Review of Finance; Filatotchev, Ravasi, and Spicer for Journal of
 Management Studies; Gond for Human Relations; Haberman for Journal of Pension Economics
 and Finance; Haefliger for Information Systems Research and MIS Quarterly; Kaishev for
 Stochastics and Quality Control; Soutaris for Journal of Business Venturing; and Willmott for
 Academy of Management Review. Empson and Willmott are also members of the Strategic
 Advisory Board for Journal of Management Studies.

 Our research has been widely reported in domestic and international media and our academics
 are regularly called on by print, television and online media for expert comment: 104 academics
 from the Business School were mentioned in the media during 2019 and 2020, up from 51 in
 2015. Since 2015 there have been 10,647 media mentions of the Business School in a variety of
 media outlets across 57 countries27. Our Press Office works closely with academics to develop
 and implement comprehensive media and stakeholder outreach plans for each piece of
 published research. Our academics also regularly disseminate their research through articles in
 popular outlets. For example, during this REF period, 25 faculty published pieces in The
 Conversation28.

 To conclude, the research culture and environment at the Business School is collegial, inclusive,
 supportive and collaborative. The School’s AACSB and EQUIS accreditations were renewed in
 2020 for another five years with both panels commended the stimulating and supportive
 research culture at the Business School.




27 https://www.cass.city.ac.uk/annual-media-report.
28 https://analytics.theconversation.com/uk/institutions/city-university-of-london-

1047/56/articles/dates/20201120/20201220.


                                                                                           Page 27
