Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: SOAS University of London

 Unit of Assessment: Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview
 Aligned with SOAS’ institutional mission to promote global citizenship through deep engagement
 with communities in Africa, Asia, the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), members of the
 UoA, most of whom are housed in the School of Finance and Management (SFM), are
 committed to examining contemporary global challenges from a locally grounded
 interdisciplinary perspective. The research activities of the SFM are notably situated at the
 intersection between global dynamics and local realities in Africa, Asia, and MENA. We
 foreground management techniques and perspectives from these regions, concomitantly
 achieving academic excellence and real-world impact, especially on transitioning and developing
 countries. The School is vibrant, culturally diverse, and actively bridges across national,
 geographic, and cultural boundaries. The sustainability of the unit’s research environment is
 evidenced by the significant increase, more than double, in both research income and PhD
 completions, and the publication of over 190 journal articles during the assessment period.
 Vitality is demonstrated by winning the AXA Chair Award, an accolade conferred only on
 “institutions meeting the highest standards of excellence”, organising more than 12
 international conferences and workshops in the UK and abroad, and hosting over 50
 research seminars, with external speakers from 32 universities across 15 countries.

 1.2 Structure
 Since REF 2014 and with the creation of SFM in 2016 via the award of School status to the
 former Department of Financial and Management Studies, we have built a vibrant research
 environment by reorganising academic communities and revitalising our research strategy. SFM
 is now structured into three academic communities that bring together faculty members working
 in related fields. The Finance, Governance and Accounting community (Adcock, Bo,
 Dimakou, Driver, Lawal, Murinde, Oughton, Qin, Scaramozzino, Yekini, Yang) focuses on key
 areas of finance such as corporate finance, global financial systems, financial innovation, and
 financial inclusion, as well as on corporate governance and accounting. As the Finance
 community works closely with colleagues from the Department of Economics, in this submission
 its strength is complemented by two staff members from Economics (Dimakou, Qin). The
 International Management and Organisation community (Abosag, Bachmann, Čaušević,
 Hong, Levy, Shinozawa, Zou) conducts research in the areas of international business and
 management, international marketing, and global organisation. The Public Policy and
 Environmental Management community (Asquer, Fattouh, Hardy, Sun, Zou) conducts
 research on public policy and management of renewable and non-renewable resources,
 particularly in the energy and water sectors, and on the influence of human factors on policy and
 decision making.

 Additional structural changes have been the establishment of two interdisciplinary research
 centres. The Centre for Global Finance (CGF) established in 2016 with a €1 million
 endowment from the AXA Research Fund, provides a vibrant platform for research on finance
 and on cross-disciplinary topics at the intersection between finance and global development,
 international business, economics, law, history, and technology. The Centre for Trust
 Research (CTR), established in 2015, is a multidisciplinary hub for research on trust in
 organisational and interorganisational settings. These centres significantly influence policy and
 practice through engaging with international organisations, international collaborations, and
 knowledge sharing and dissemination. Finally, the Centre for Financial and Management
 Studies (CeFiMS), our outreach professional development unit, continues to turn over £2.3m
 annually, on average, by tightly coupling knowledge generation and global engagement.

 Research is conducted both independently and collaboratively within and across academic
 communities, delivering a diverse set of research outputs on thematic, regional, and disciplinary

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 subject matters, often with strong policy implications. Further, collaborative interdisciplinary
 research is conducted by researchers affiliated with research centres across SOAS. Developing
 and sustaining an active and stimulating research environment is a collective endeavour, led by
 SFM Director of Research and supported by SOAS Pro-Director Research & Enterprise.
 Research activities are facilitated by SOAS Research Office (IES §2, §3.1).

 1.3 Research strategy
 Following the confidential feedback from the REF2014 panel, particularly the need to crystalise
 our research strategy, we have refocused our strategy on examining contemporary global
 challenges from the perspective of local communities in Africa, Asia, and MENA using
 interdisciplinary approaches and methodologies. As we sought to solidify SFM’s position as
 a leading centre for business and management scholarship on these regions, we have made a
 significant effort to raise our international profile, enhance academic excellence, and achieve
 real-world impact. During the assessment period, SFM’s research strategy focused on three key
 objectives:

 Examining contemporary global challenges. Our objective has been to explore fundamental
 global challenges and global risks, with the aim of influencing policy agenda. These included, for
 example, climate change (Asquer, Murinde, Sun, Zou), financial inclusion and income inequality
 (Murinde, Oughton, Yang), sustainable growth (Murinde, Oughton, Sun), management of
 renewable and non-renewable resources (Fattouh, Murinde, Scaramozzino), regulating
 emerging technologies (Asquer, Murinde), corporate social and environmental responsibility
 (Driver, Scaramozzino), and bridging across cultural divides (Čaušević, Levy).

 Exploring locally grounded perspectives. Our aim has been to develop a grounded and
 comparative understanding of the complex interrelation between the local and the global,
 focusing on the role of local institutions in Africa, Asia, and MENA in meeting and managing
 emerging local and global challenges. Key to realising our objective to give voice to local
 perspectives and vernacular knowledge has been expanding our networks in the regions and
 launching a number of international collaborations, working closely with local partners in Africa
 (e.g., University of Ghana-Legon, African Economic Research Consortium), Asia (e.g., Shanghai
 Climate Change Research Center, Hangzhou Met Office) and MENA (e.g., King Abdullah
 Petroleum Studies and Research Center in Saudi Arabia, Issam Fares Institute for Public Policy
 and International Affairs at the American University of Beirut).

 Employing interdisciplinary approaches and methodologies. Our aim has been to advance
 scholarship from an interdisciplinary perspective. We have seamlessly forged combinations
 between management studies, finance, and accounting, as well as between disciplinary and
 regional knowledge and have used interdisciplinary methodologies, such as modelling and
 scenario planning, based on the latest developments in climate and hydrodynamic modelling
 and administrating exogenous synthetic steroids to mirror physiological processes. In the REF
 period, we have taken significant steps toward implementing this strategic objective through: (1)
 advancing management ideas and empirical knowledge from Africa, Asia, and MENA,
 incorporating these into mainstream management theory, research, and practice; (2) expanding
 our interdisciplinary collaborative projects and successfully competing for major funding, which
 increasingly gives precedence to large-scale projects that span disciplinary and institutional
 boundaries; and (3) engaging in interdepartmental collaborations, especially with SOAS
 Economics Department, and participating in SOAS regional and interdisciplinary research
 centres.

 1.3.1 Implementing our strategy in the current REF cycle
 These strategic objectives have been implemented primarily through SFM academic
 communities and research centres, the former providing a thematic community and the latter a
 meeting place for interdisciplinary collaboration and dissemination of research. We therefore
 present strategy implementation by each organisational unit.



                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (i) The Finance, Governance, and Accounting community has continued to conduct research
 on finance and financial systems from a global perspective, with a marked strength in the area of
 finance in Africa and Asia. In the REF period, research on global finance has intensified with
 appointing Murinde as the AXA Chair in Global Finance, establishing the Centre for Global
 Finance (see 1.3.1.iv), winning of two ESRC grants (£2.2m) to study financial inclusion, income
 inequality, and growth (Murinde, Oughton), and engaging with policymaking institutions, such as
 the United Nations (UN), the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, the African
 Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, and the World Bank. Research on China has
 stepped up, with Bo and Driver analysing stock options adoption and corporate investment by
 Chinese companies, Scaramozzino examining the determinants of Chinese corporate leverage,
 and Yang analysing the effect of corporate liquidity on M&A decisions. Funded research on
 China includes an ESRC (£294k) project on China’s financial system and sustainable growth
 (Murinde, Oughton), Beijing Cairncross Economic Research Foundation (£40k) on econometrics
 modelling of international financial conditions in the case of China (Qin), and China Ministry of
 Education project (RMB 800k; c£10k) on restructuring macroeconomic models (Bo). Research
 on Africa has also burgeoned with Driver examining South African manufacturing, Murinde, the
 finance and banking sector in Africa, Oughton, Financial Systems Resilience Index for South
 Africa, and Yekini workplace fraud. In other areas of research, Driver, Scaramozzino, and Yekini
 have further developed their work on corporate governance and corporate social responsibility
 with Driver publishing an edited book with Oxford University Press on corporate governance.
 Over the assessment period, the Finance community has published 92 journal articles, five
 monographs, nine book chapters, and two books.

 The strength of the Finance community research has been decisively recognised by the 2016
 AXA Chair Award. This strength is also evident in the centrality of the group within an
 expansive network of high-level executives and civil servants in the finance and banking sectors
 in Africa and in Asia and extensive engagement with practice and policy-oriented financial
 institutions and international organisations (see 4.2.1). Members also engage in interdisciplinary
 research through SOAS research centres, such as the China Institute, South Asia Institute, Food
 Studies Centre, and the Centre for Trust Research and collaborate with colleagues in HEI in
 Canada, China, Ghana, Italy, New Zealand, Nigeria, Pakistan, and South Africa.

 (ii) The International Management and Organisation community has continued to conduct
 locally grounded research on China, Japan, and South Korea, particularly on the effects on FDI
 and M&A activity on local outcomes, such as new firm creation, entrepreneurship, and
 employment. In the REF period, Hong, Shinozawa, and Zou have further developed this
 regional-comparative perspective, comparing between intra-regional and inter-regional M&As,
 conventional and non-conventional FDI, performance of domestic and cross-border acquisitions
 made by firms headquartered in emerging economies in Asia, gender composition of Boards of
 Directors across six regions, and the role of Guanxi (China) and Et-Moone (Saudi Arabia) in the
 development of business relationships.

 Research in international marketing has further developed its critical studies of the production
 and commodification of heritage and history for touristic consumption, specifically in the context
 of the Balkan countries after communism (Čaušević). In the REF period, Čaušević has
 organised two international conferences on critical tourism (Opatija, Croatia, 2015; London,
 2017). Impact in this domain has also been achieved though engagement with UNICEF country-
 level organisations in the Balkans and Central Asia, as well as executive briefing for the UK
 Department of Trade and Investment. International marketing research has also focused on
 comparative consumer behaviour, especially on the effect of online communities and social
 networking sites on trust, satisfaction, and experience (Abosag).

 In line with our strategic objectives, two new interdisciplinary research streams have been
 developed during the REF period: (1) organisational and institutional trust with hiring Bachmann
 and establishing the Centre for Trust Research in 2015; (2) the role of cosmopolitans, as well
 as of social and cultural capital, in bridging across transnational networks and global
 organisations with the recruitment of Levy.

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Demonstrating strength, members of this community have published 65 journal articles—
 including in leading management journals, such as Journal of Management, Journal of
 International Business Studies, and Organization Studies—four monographs, 12 book chapters,
 and two books.

 The distinctive characteristics of this community, namely its locally grounded and
 interdisciplinary perspective, has been enduring and is facilitated by significant links with
 regional research centres across SOAS (IES §1, §2.2), such as the China Institute, Japan
 Research Centre, Korean Studies Centre, and the Centre for Ottoman Studies (co-chaired by
 Čaušević) and by extensive international collaborations with colleagues at HEI in China, Croatia,
 Hong Kong, South Korea, Japan, Switzerland, Turkey, and the US.

 (iii) The Public Policy and Environmental Management community has addressed a set of
 emerging local and global challenges, including environmental policy (Sun, Zou), resource
 management and reforms in the energy and water sectors (Asquer, Fattouh, Sun), regulatory
 response to emerging technologies, such as the CRISPR gene editing (Asquer), and the effect
 of affective and physiological processes on risk taking and decision making (Hardy). This
 research is central to the SFM’s research strategy and is predicated on interdisciplinary
 collaboration with researchers in the natural sciences, health, medical and decision sciences.
 Research projects have been supported by major grants from the EPSRC and the Newton Fund,
 as well as from the public sector (e.g., the Met Office, the European Commission, the Foreign
 and Commonwealth Office), totalling approximately £1.13m.

 In the area of resource management, research has focused on new developments and
 strategies in the global energy industry with particular attention to the energy sector in MENA
 in an era of rapid and systemic changes, such as the rise of low-carbon technologies, decline in
 oil reserves, increased opposition to fossil fuel, and climate change. For instance, Fattouh
 proposes a new approach that balances fiscal sustainability with political stability to enable the
 gradual scaling up and development of markets for renewable energy, especially in resource-
 rich countries in MENA. Sun also focuses on sustainable energy and is a co-Principal
 Investigator on large research grants, including Horizon 2020 (€3,736,000) and the National
 Natural Science Foundation of China (RMB 800,000). Sun and Zou work on the water-land
 sector focusing on developing sustainable solutions for managing land use, flood risks, and
 climate change in China and the UK and Asquer works on reforms of the water sector in Italy. In
 the area of physiological processes, research has examined the influence of prolonged
 uncertainty on physiological processes with their concomitant impact on policy and decision
 making in financial markets in collaboration with medical and health institutions. This research
 documents the effect of stress and self-awareness on risk taking profile under varying levels of
 volatility and has implications for market policy and regulation. Over the assessment period, the
 group has published 52 journal articles, 5 book chapters, and 5 books.

 Research by this community has been conducted in collaboration with academics from China,
 the US, Italy, and Singapore, and staff at research centres and laboratories in the UK and
 overseas and through SOAS Centre for Water Development (Asquer). It has contributed directly
 to public policy making in China, MENA, and the UK, in issues concerning managing risks due to
 climate change, energy sector reforms, and water sector reforms.

 (iv) In line with SFM strategic objectives, the mission of the Centre for Global Finance is to
 conduct research on global challenges and mega trends and in global finance, which has
 significant policy and practice implications. Major areas include inclusive financial development
 and growth, climate risk finance, FinTech, usage of ‘big data’ and machine learning methodology
 in finance, financial markets and institutions in Africa, China and India. In the REF period, CGF
 research has been supported by three highly competitive grants from the AXA Research Fund,
 ESRC, EPSRC, FCDO and NSFC, totalling approximately £3.1m.

 CGF provides a platform for interaction among SOAS staff, the wider academic community, and
 senior policymakers through a weekly research seminar hosting academics from the UK and

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 abroad and through the Distinguished Guest Lecture Series at SOAS, featuring senior officials,
 particularly from the Global South, such as H.E. Dr Mahamudu Bawumia, Vice-President of the
 Republic of Ghana and Dr Kupukile Mlambo, Deputy Governor, Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe.
 CGF has also increased the visibility and impact of our global challenges research by organising
 more than 10 international conferences and workshops on the Global South in both the UK and
 abroad. Recent overseas conferences include the KBA-CGF Banking Symposium at the Kenya
 School of Monetary Studies in Nairobi, the Financial Inclusion and Risk Management for
 Agricultural Development Conference at the University of Ghana, and the CGF-KIPPRA Field
 Experiments, Fintech, and Financial Inclusion Workshop at the Kenya Institute for Public Policy
 Research and Analysis.

 (v) The mission of the Centre for Trust Research is to develop and deliver high quality
 research on organisational and interorganisational trust, as well as to examine trust
 comparatively, from Asian, Middle Eastern and African perspectives. Research is distinctively
 interdisciplinary, drawing on sociological, psychological, marketing, and finance perspectives.
 Recent projects focused on emerging societal and technological changes (e.g., Blockchain, AI,
 Business Analytics) where trust plays a crucial role. The Centre draws on the expertise of core
 members, all of whom are SFM staff, who collaborate with a group of associate members from
 other IHE, including Tübingen University, University of Birmingham, University College London,
 and University of Arizona. CRT facilitates trust research through collaborating with other IHE in
 the UK and the US and through organising international workshops. In the REF period, two
 major international workshops on trust were held in SOAS, featuring high-calibre speakers.

 1.3.2 Future research and impact strategy
 We are well placed to further enhance our reputation as an innovative management school
 dedicated to finance and management systems in Africa, Asia, and MENA and driven by an
 overarching concern with global justice. Therefore, research committed to promoting global
 citizenship will continue to be the defining characteristic of SFM’s strategy. In the next
 assessment period, we aim to build on our current strategy and pursue the following strategic
 priories:
      • Expand research portfolio on global challenges. In line with our strategic focus, we
         will expand our thematic portfolio on global challenges, such as financial stability, poverty
         reduction and inclusion, and innovation and climate change, utilising our capacity to
         provide deep understanding of the core elements of these issues in Africa, Asia, and
         MENA. We also plan to focus on the economic, human, and health challenges faced by
         the Global South because of the COVID-19 pandemic;
      • Nurture emerging research domains. We plan to further develop emerging research
         streams, including social impact-oriented entrepreneurship, artificial intelligence (e.g., Big
         Data and machine learning algorithms), and FinTech. We have already secured an
         ESRC-ICSSR grant for the next REF cycle to study UK-India bilateral trade in FinTech
         and other technology-enabled financial services;
      • Engage in international research collaborations. We will further develop significant
         institutional research collaborations with key strategic partners in the Global South,
         particularly in countries that can potentially be at the forefront of economic development
         in Africa and Asia. This will also facilitate our efforts to collect up to date (and often
         proprietary) data and to achieve meaningful influence on policymaking institutions;
      • Double research income. We will seek to double our research income as we have done
         in the current REF cycle where our research income has been doubled from £738k to
         £1.86m. To accomplish this, SFM will build on SOAS’s enhanced grant development and
         application infrastructure and target large collaborative grants (see IES §2);
      • Enhance quality and influence of publications. We plan to encourage the production
         of research outputs that are world-leading and internationally excellent in terms of
         originality, significance and rigour through carefully managing the Personal Research
         Plan (PRP) process, further cementing mentoring relations, and actively supporting the
         submission and revision process to top tier journals;
      • Promote real-world impact. We will seek to enhance our impact through innovative
         policy-oriented research, particularly in the domains of finance, climate change, and

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        management of renewable and non-renewable resources, with a focus on managing risk
        and mobilising finance and financial institutions to support transition to a sustainable
        economy in Africa, Asia, and MENA.

 1.4 Interdisciplinarity
 As interdisciplinarity is fundamental to our research strategy, we engage in interdepartmental
 collaboration across SOAS through regional centres, such as the China Institute (Bo, Hong,
 Scaramozzino), Korean Studies Centre (Hong), the Japan Research Centre (Shinozawa), the
 Ottoman Research Centre (Čaušević), the Middle East Institute (Fattouh), Water and
 Development (Asquer), and in CGF and CTR—SFM’s own interdisciplinary research centres.
 We have launched many interdisciplinary projects across institutional boundaries, including in
 environmental science with the UK Met Office, the Shanghai Climate Change Research Center,
 and the Hangzhou Met Office, and in health and medical sciences with the Institute of Metabolic
 Science and the National Institute for Health Research at Cambridge, the Faculty of Medicine at
 the University of Bern, and the Institute of Anaesthesiology at Zurich University Hospital.

 1.5 Open access and research integrity
 1.5.1 Open access
 Staff members are committed to using the institutional repository—SOAS Research Online—to
 share their research whenever possible; they also make research accessible through online
 research platforms such as Academia, ResearchGate, and SSRN. Over the REF period,
 approximately 300 items were deposited in SRO, of which 190 are journal articles. Compliance
 with the Open Access policy has been high: out of the total pool of outputs considered for
 inclusion, 96% of journal articles in scope of the REF OA policy were compliant or had a valid
 exception. Staff members have published 10 articles via the gold OA route in the last three
 years, funded by the SOAS Publications Fund with a total value of £18,567, and 2 articles
 funded by the UKRI Open Access Block Grant with a total value of £1,257. SFM publishes two
 series of working papers online: CGF has published 55 Working Papers since 2018 and
 CeFiMS, 35 Discussion Papers in the period of 2015-20.

 1.5.2 Research integrity
 In line with SOAS policy (IES §4.1), all staff complete the Epigeum Research Integrity online
 course; PhD students are required to complete the course before undertaking fieldwork or data
 collection. External funding applications are evaluated by SOAS Research Office and internal
 ethical approval is mandatory, as it is for PhD upgrade.

 Our strategy embodies a strong commitment to openness and integrity in research practice.
 Specific practices include:
    • Knowledge cocreation with external stakeholders (e.g., institutional partners, NGOs,
         beneficiary communities) throughout the research life cycle, as appropriate;
    • Public recognition of contribution of parties involved in research, including research
         partners, research assistants, and communities;
    • Knowledge sharing with stakeholders through a verity of dissemination mechanisms;
    • Reducing barriers to knowledge through making research accessible via the institutional
         online repository SOAS Research Online, as well as other platforms.

 1.6 Impact and engagement
 1.6.1 Impact strategy
 Real-world impact is fundamental to our research agenda. While we were pleased that REF2014
 panel found “very considerable and outstanding impact in the case studies,” we also have taken
 the feedback that “the strategy for identifying and supporting potential for impact was not clear”
 to heart. In response, SFM, in coordination with SOAS’s Impact Officer, has developed new
 systems and mechanisms to work on impact plans and make sure colleagues develop research
 bids with careful consideration of impact pathways (see IES §2).

 Our research has strong policy implications and frequently involves collaboration with
 practice- and policy-oriented local institutions (e.g., Shanghai Meteorological Bureau,

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hangzhou Climate Centre, South African Reserve Bank, Bank for International Settlement, the
 Central Bank of Kenya, Bank of Zambia, Reserve Bank of Malawi, Bank of Uganda). Externally
 funded research projects typically have practical implication and impact plans components built
 into them (e.g., Murinde ESRC and Sun EPSRC, Met Office, and FCO funded projects), which
 facilitates the realisation of impact down the road. Our key audiences are governmental
 agencies, international organisations, and large organisations in the private sector, as well as
 other stakeholders such as trade unions, NGOs, and political parties.

 1.6.2 Implementation of impact strategy and 2021 case studies
 Initially, seven potential ICSs were identified, and their development was systematically
 supported by a dedicated Impact Officer. The two ICSs that were chosen for the REF2021
 submission showcase the reach of SFM research and depth of its impact:

 1. ICS1: Climate Risk and the Cost of Capital in Climate-Vulnerable Countries by Murinde and
    Volz. Research on the influence of climate vulnerability on the cost of capital in developing
    countries prompted the Ministers of Finance of the Vulnerable Twenty Group to develop and
    launch new financial instruments in collaboration with international partners to mitigate this
    problem;

 2. ICS2: Improving climate-change risk management in Shanghai and Hangzhou, China by Sun
    and Zou examined risks of extreme events under future climate change conditions in
    Shanghai and Hangzhou, thereby contributing to the design of Shanghai’s five-year
    implementation plan addressing climate change and to long-term capacity building of
    monitoring and managing climate change risks.


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 SOAS institutional strategy has a dual focus on enhancing existing areas of expertise and
 opening new and emerging fields of enquiry through academic staff recruitment and
 development (see IES §3.1). In line with this strategy, and despite a period of financial
 stringency at SOAS, we were able to make four strategic appointments (3.2 FTE) to enhance
 our expertise in finance and further develop our research on global finance and accounting. We
 have won the highly competitive AXA Chair endowment and appointed Murinde as the AXA
 Professor in Global Finance; Adcock, the founding editor of the European Journal of Finance,
 was appointed Chair in Quantitative Finance; Yekini was appointed Professor of Accounting. In
 developing new areas expertise, Bachmann, a distinguished scholar on trust, has been
 appointed Professor of International Management and established the Centre for Trust
 Research. We also made one Readership (Levy) and two SL (Hardy, Yang) appointments. In
 addition, 7 staff were promoted during the period: 1 to Professor, 3 to Reader and 3 to Senior
 Lecturer.

 Our staffing strategy combines the use of appointments, staff development, support for
 promotions, and strategic utilisation of distinguished research associates and visitors to help
 build human capabilities in our core research areas. All new staff are appointed a mentor and
 lecturers are supported via tri-annual probation meetings, lower teaching loads, a full
 probationary panel meeting in year 3 to provide post-probation guidance, and a 1-year period of
 research leave on successful completion of probation. Our criteria for promotion to Professor
 and Reader recognise the importance of high-quality research activities, including publications,
 successful PhD supervision, and externally funded research projects. The development of long-
 term PRPs and mentoring relations are facilitated by the departmental Director of Research.

 As a comparatively small unit in the context of Business and Management schools we make
 strategic use of Visiting Research Fellows, including Professorial Research Fellows. For
 example, Luo, a co-investigator from Zhejiang University working on our ESRC-NSFC funded
 project on the financial system in China, spent one year at SOAS in 2018-19 mentoring early

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 career researchers and postdocs in the field of finance and entrepreneurship in China. Gehrig,
 HoD of Finance, University of Vienna, was appointed to a SOAS Centenary Fellowship and
 spent 3 months at SOAS in 2014 to inspire and mentor colleagues working on finance in Asia. In
 addition, our Newton Fund/Meteorological Office project on developing an integrated urban
 framework for climate services in the Yangtze River Delta Region enabled four visiting research
 fellows from Shanghai and Hangzhou to each spend 2-3 months at SOAS providing additional
 interdisciplinary and mentoring capacities.

 2.2 Research students and postdoctoral researchers
 Our strategy for research students has focused on four key elements: (i) the selection of high-
 quality applicants; (ii) the provision of disciplinary and subject specific research training; (iii)
 improved tracking of progress, supervision and agreed actions via an online PhD Manager
 system; and (iv) availability of full scholarships made possible by the AXA Research Fund grant
 that finances 2 PhD scholarships in SFM every three years.

 All PhDs are supported by primary and secondary supervisors throughout their PhD. Supervision
 meetings are held every two weeks or more and meetings and agreed actions are recorded via a
 computer-based system: PhD Manager. In May of first year, students complete and present an
 upgrade paper to a panel of three members of staff and are either upgraded to PhD, or their
 paper referred for revision, or advised that they have not met the required standard for upgrade.
 In all cases, students are given detailed advice and feedback from the panel.

 SFM provides extensive PhD training. During their first year students follow a customised
 research training programme, which normally combines subject-specific quantitative and
 qualitative research methods and principles subject area courses. In addition, the SOAS
 Doctoral School offers foundational skills training, including systemic literature review, project
 design, surveys, interviews and focus groups, participant observation and research ethics. A
 wider range of more specialist courses and training is provided through the Bloomsbury Doctoral
 Training Centre. Students attend our weekly SFM PhD Research Seminar that interweaves
 student presentations with presentations by staff showcasing a range of research methods. The
 CGF also convenes a weekly Reading Group, mainly for PhD students and ECRs, that is
 designed to encourage tracking publications in top journals in finance and accounting,
 generating new research ideas, initiating joint papers, and helping members to draft and polish
 manuscripts for journal submission.

 Our strategy has borne dividends in terms of the number and quality of our PhD graduates. In
 the current REF period, a total of 25 PhDs successfully completed—a significant increase, more
 than double, on the previous REF period. Moreover, this REF cohort has gone onto an
 impressive range of jobs that is testament to the quality of our PhD programme. For example,
 Markelov is currently employed as Lead Economist at the South African Reserve Bank,
 Lakshimanaraya is currently Lecturer at Brunel University, Merrino is Lecturer at University
 College London, Buckingham is Professor of Management at Monash Business school, Monash
 University, Australia, Pesque-Cela is currently Senior Lecturer at Liverpool Hope University,
 Kwan Yoon, is Lecturer at University of Coventry and Nge became Deputy Governor of the
 Central Bank of Myanmar (until his arrest on 1 February 2021 under a coup d’état and his
 subsequent disappearance).

 As part of our strategy for career development some of our PhDs have gone on to hold
 postdoctoral positions on funded projects in SFM. For example, Pesque-Cela was Postdoctoral
 Fellow on our ESRC-NSFC funded project on Finance in China from 2017-20 working with PI
 Kling and Co-PIs Harris, Oughton and Murinde, while Xie was a Research Fellow from 2018-20
 on our AXA Research Fund project on mega trends and global finance working with Murinde,
 Bachmann, Harris and Oughton. Both appointments were made in open competition and these
 candidates stood out from the field in terms of their research training and strengths.

 In addition, we have used our funded research projects to appoint ECRs from other universities.
 For example, Wang was a joint SOAS-Imperial postdoc working with Sun on the EPSRC project

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and is currently Research Associate at Imperial College London having received his own
 research grant; Kanga was a postdoc on our AXA Research Fund before securing a permanent
 position in the Research Department of the Central Bank of West African States; Demir was a
 postdoc on our ESRC-DFID funded project before taking up a permanent Lectureship in
 Economics and Finance at University of Coventry. Our capacity to raise funding to employ
 postdoctoral researchers has added significantly to the vibrancy of the department and enabled
 us to make a significant contribution to the training of ECRs.

 2.3 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI)
 SOAS has a decisive emphasis on equality, diversity, and inclusion and holds an Athena
 SWAN Bronze University Award (see IES, §3.3). Our strategic objective to give voice to
 localised non-Western perspectives and to traditionally marginalised groups fosters a strong
 commitment to the principles of EDI. In line with this commitment, SFM organises seminars,
 conferences, and guest lecture series to showcase diversity of views and role models. For
 example, the Annual Penrose Lectures showcase the work of outstanding female scholars in
 management and business and provide positive role models for female staff and students;
 previous lectures were given by Bronwyn Hall (UC Berkeley) and Rita McGrath (Columbia
 University). The Centre of Global Finance Distinguished Guest Lecture Series hosts high-level
 officials from the Global South (see §1.3.1, iv).

 SFM is diverse, with staff members originally from 13 countries, including China, Ghana, Japan,
 Lebanon, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, and South Korea, bringing culturally and geographically diverse
 perspectives and life experience to their research roles, as well as specialised academic training
 and expertise. The percentage of BAME staff submitted to the REF under this UoA is 55% and
 of female staff is 46%. Our PhD students also come from very diverse backgrounds. The
 percentage of BAME PhD students ranges between 67%-75% throughout the assessment
 period and of female PhD students between 55%-75%. All staff members receive extensive EDI
 training, which is mandatory, providing them with the knowledge and skills required to work
 effectively in a diverse environment and to mentor diverse student body.

 We remain particularly committed to maintaining equality in leadership, senior and decision-
 making roles and responsibilities, and in the organisation of the REF process. In the SFM, five
 out of the seven senior role holders, including Director of Research, are currently women; the
 previous HoD was an African professor; and an African woman professor heads our doctoral
 programme. Promotions during the assessment period were split fairly equally by gender on a
 ratio of three women (one to Professor, two to Reader) to four men (one to Reader, three to
 Senior Lecturer).

 We have structured our REF decision-making processes as to our commitment to diversity and
 ensure the substantial and procedural protection of ascribed characteristics. The percentage of
 outputs that have been provisionally selected for inclusion in the submission is 45% for BAME
 and 34% for female staff, which is on par with their representation in the UoA. We observe
 similar patterns for age and declared disability. We are therefore proud that our REF submission
 selection is inclusive and representative.


 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities

 3.1 Research income
 As funding is crucial to sustainable and vibrant research environment, researchers are
 supported at both the University and School levels in submitting grant applications, inducing
 proposal and budget development. This facilitates a steady stream of research income that
 sustains innovative research projects and collaborations. During the assessment period, staff
 have submitted 63 proposals for approximately £14.5m, including 18 ESRC applications, of
 which five were successful—a success rate of 27%.

 3.1.1 External funding

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SFM has received research awards with a total value of £4.3m from external sources,
 generating research income of £1.86m, more than doubling our research income of the £738k in
 the previous assessment cycle. This increase can be attributed to significant and sustained
 investment by SOAS and SFM in developing a supportive research environment. Over 60% of
 our research awards—a total of £2.8m—are from Research Councils, particularly ESRC and
 EPSRC. For example, Murinde is PI for an ESRC grant of £2m on delivering inclusive finance
 and growth in Africa. We were also awarded €1m from AXA Research Fund in recognition of our
 outstanding research environment. Other major sources include the Newton Fund, British
 Academy, the Royal Society, the Royal Academy of Engineering, as well as public sector
 funding (e.g., Met Office, the European Commission, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office).

 Our research is also partially funded by grants provided or managed by our international
 collaborating institutions. For example, Sun and Zou’s project on managing compound flood
 risks is co-funded by EPSRC (£300k), NWO (the Netherlands, €280k) and NSFC (China, RMB
 3m; c. £344k); Our researchers are also Co-PIs on large grants managed by other institutions.
 For example, Asquer is Co-PI on a project strategic planning in the water sector with the
 National University of Singapore (SGD 50,000; c. £27k); Bo is Co-PI on a China Ministry of
 Education project on restructuring macroeconomic models (RMB 800k; c. £90k); Sun is Co-PI on
 a Horizon 2020 project on low-carbon economy (€3.7m), a Foreign, Commonwealth &
 Development Office project on malnutrition (£2.7m), and a NSFC project on growing oil crops in
 China under climate change (RMB 800k; c. £90k). Zou has been awarded a British Academy
 Mid-Career Fellowship (£123k) to continue her work on sustainable entrepreneurship in China.
 In the next REF period, we will further target large collaborative research bids such the ESRC bi-
 and trilateral funding calls, similar to our recent successful collaboration with the University of
 Essex on the ESRC UK-India Bilateral Trade grant awarded for period of 2021-2024.

 3.1.2 Internal funding
 In line with SOAS institutional policies, SFM invests significant resources in nurturing its
 research culture and developing research activities. These include the following: Research
 workload allocation (40%); Research Leave (after eight terms of normal duties; two terms of
 research leave for ECR); Research Activity Support (currently £1,000 per annum, with ECRs
 receiving £1,500); Internal Research Fund, supporting research proposal development (currently
 c. £10,000); also available to staff members are SOAS Internal Funding Schemes, such as
 Seed-corn Fund, Impact Acceleration Fund, and Impact Case Study Enhancement Fund (see
 IES §4.1). In the assessment period, our members have obtained c. £18,000 from these
 schemes.

 3.2 Research infrastructure
 Research activities are developed and supported through administrative infrastructure and
 facilities at both the University and School levels. At the University level, the Research Office
 supports research at the pre- and post-award stages, including proposal development,
 application support, budgeting, risk/ethical review, and post-award management (see IES §4.1).
 The University regularly offers workshops on all aspects of the research life cycle. At the School
 level, research is especially supported through two dedicated positions: Director of Research
 and Director of Doctoral Studies. Both roles have clear job description and teaching remission.
 Director of Research (Levy) is responsible for SFM research and impact strategies, PRPs and
 mentoring relations, supports various research collaborations and initiatives, conducts ethical
 reviews, and convenes the School’s Research Committee. The Director of Research also acts
 as the REF Coordinator, participating in SOAS REF working groups and putting together SFM
 REF submission. The Director of Doctoral Studies (Yekini) is responsible for PhD research and
 coordinates research training of doctoral students. They are supported by the Head of School
 who coordinates financial planning and research strategy, especially by approving research
 leave and overseeing staff development reviews.

 Dedicated research facilities include SOAS Library and the Centre for Global Finance. SOAS
 Library houses unique and extensive African, Asian, and Middle Eastern research collections, as
 well as a variety of business and management collections and data resources (e.g., Orbis Bank

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Focus, Eikon, GTA China, Nikkei Telecom 21, Oriana, Zephyr, China Statistical Yearbooks,
 International Energy Agency Data, World Bank Data); Library staff and the Library Liaison
 Officer for SFM provide ongoing active support of research activities. The Centre of Global
 Finance subscribes to four databases that are available to staff members. Research is also
 supported through access to research facilities of the five Bloomsbury colleges and through
 trans-institutional collaborative infrastructures such as CYGNA, a research network of female
 academics based in the London area.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society

 4.1 Collaborations, networks, and partnerships: Academic research collaborations
 During the assessment period, SFM has raised its profile both within the global academic
 community and among policymaking institutions. This has been supported by significant
 collaborations with colleagues at other institutions in the UK and abroad, including:
     • Asquer on strategic planning in the water sector with the Institute of Water Policy at the
        National University of Singapore;
     • Bachmann with the Centre for Trust Peace and Social Relations at Coventry University
        and the Centre for Trust Studies at University of Arizona;
     • Bo on restructuring macroeconomic models in China with Xi’an Jiaotong University,
        China;
     • Driver on forecast accuracy tests on the manufacturing survey capital investment series
        of the Bureau of Economic Research Stellenbosch in South Africa;
     • Levy with George Mason Business School in the US and IESE Business School in Spain
        on the future of cultural capital;
     • Murinde on inclusive financial growth with a research network of 12 institutions in the UK
        (e.g., Loughborough University, University of Birmingham), Africa (e.g., University of
        Ghana-Legon, the African Economic Research Consortium), Europe (e.g., University of
        Groningen) and North America (e.g., Columbia University);
     • Murinde, Oughton, and Sun on sustainable growth in China with academics from Nankai
        University and Zhejiang University in China;
     • Oughton with INSEAD on organising the Edith Penrose Centenary Conference held at
        SOAS;
     • and Sun and Zou on climate change in China with a research network in China, UK, and
        the US.
 These and other collaborative projects have attracted significant funding from major prestigious
 bodies, including from ESRC, NSFC, the AXA Research Fund, UK Met Office, EPSRC, and the
 Royal Academy of Engineering. Staff members have also engaged in international
 collaborations, publishing numerous articles with colleagues from universities in China, Croatia,
 Hong Kong, Israel, Italy, Japan, Nigeria, Portugal, South Korea, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey, and
 the US, among others.

 4.2 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries, and audiences
 4.2.1 Collaborative links with government, public organisations, and industry
 The School has a long tradition of engaging with government, public organisations, and industry
 and contributing a board range of stakeholders, some examples of which include:
     • Bachman was commissioned by the Cabinet Office to write a report, analysing the
        decline in public trust in public services in the UK;
     • Driver’s expertise on corporate governance as it relates to the UK Industrial Strategy has
        led to engagements with the Trades Union Congress, UK Government Office of Science,
        and the Commission on Industrial Strategy headed by Dame Kate Barker;
     • Levy is an appointed member of the UK Innovation Caucus, providing thought leadership
        to Innovate UK and the ESRC on bridging between people and ideas across cultural and
        national boundaries;
     • Murinde been collaborating on research projects on the interbank market, FinTech and
        financial inclusion with the Central Bank of Kenya, Bank of Uganda, Bank of Zambia,

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Reserve Bank of Malawi, Central Bank of Kenya, and engaged in policy dialogues with
         Office of President of South Africa, Office of the King of Swaziland, Office of Vice-
         President Government of Ghana, African Development Bank, UK Foreign,
         Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) and the UK All Party Parliamentary
         Committee. CGF is engaged in active collaboration with international institutions,
         including UN, UNEP, United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, African
         Development Bank, Asia Development Bank, the World Bank, and the Bank for
         International Settlement;
     •   Oughton has been an invited Panellist at House of Lords Launch of the Report of the
         Financial Resilience Index in 2015. She has been an appointed Research Fellow of the
         South African Reserve Bank in 2017 and co-organised a symposium with the Building
         Societies Association in 2017;
     •   Qin organised a workshop in econometrics at China Central Bank, 2018;
     •   Yekini has provided expert review of the Economic Report on Africa 2020 to the United
         Nations Economic Commission for Africa.

 4.2.2 Engaging with diverse communities and publics
 The SFM engages with diverse communities and end users through three tracks: professional
 development programs, bespoke executive education programmes, and media engagement:
     • Professional development programs. Building on SFM research activity and expertise
        in finance, management, and public policy, CeFiMS—our outreach unit—offers a wide
        range of professional development programs and Master’s degrees. With 2,000 active
        students from 160 countries, including Canada, Germany, Ghana, Kenya, Malaysia,
        Nigeria, Pakistan, Switzerland, South Africa, and the USA, these programs form an
        important component of SFM global engagement;
     • Bespoke executive education. Through bespoke executive education programmes,
        SFM has engaged with diverse organisations worldwide, such as the Economics
        Relations Department of the Ministry of Finance of Bangladesh and National Maritime
        Administration and Safety Agency of Nigeria;
     • Media engagements. Staff members provide expert commentary on local and
        international media outlets, including on the BBC World News, BBC World Service (TV
        and radio), ITV News, Sky News TV, Radio 4, CNBC Europe, China Daily Europe, TRT
        WORLD, RT TV, CCTV, CNN, Al Jazeera, Phoenix TV (Chinese), France24, Radio
        France Internationale, Rotan TV, and Saudi TV. Faculty research has also featured in
        the Financial Times, the Times, BBC, Wall St Journal, Reuters, Sky News, the Daily Mail
        and the Sun.

 4.3 Contributions to the discipline and research base
 SFM is committed to play a key role in the wider research community and to enhance the
 sustainability and vitality of its research activities. The School therefore actively encourages and
 supports staff to raise the scientific quality and international standing of its research and
 contribute to the discipline through promoting new research areas, creating new research
 platforms, and participating in professional activities. These contributions have received
 significant recognition.

 4.3.1 Promoting new research areas
 Staff members have engaged in developing emergent research streams, inducing emerging
 technologies (e.g., FinTech CRISPR Gene Editing, nanomaterials, artificial intelligence, Big
 Data) and response to COVID-19. They have contributed to conferences on emerging
 technologies, including Asquer on regulations of Cyber-Physical Systems, CRISPR Gene
 Editing, and nanomaterials at the International Conference of Public Policy in Montreal and in
 Singapore, Murinde at the Afro-Asia FinTech Festival (Kenya) and ENSEA (Cote d’Ivoire),
 Scaramozzino on governance and management of digital transformations at the University of
 Sussex, and Yang at the Nottingham FinTech Research Network (Nottingham) and the FinTech,
 Social Finance and Financial Stability Conference (Shenzhen, China). Faculty have begun to
 develop research COVID-19 with Levy contributing to a joint chapter on the role of global
 leadership in the COVID-19 crisis, Murinde founding, with others, the Pan-African Scientific

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Council created to mobilising the African research community to respond to COVID-
 19, and Yang developing research proposals on the economic impact and implications of
 COVID-19 for households and small to medium-sized enterprises.

 4.3.2 Creating new research platforms
 With the establishment of CGF in 2016, SFM has created a research platform that brings
 together academics from diverse HEIs, as well as high-ranking officials, particularly from
 financial institutions in the Global South. Thus far, 33 external speakers from 32 universities
 across 15 countries have presented their work at weekly seminars organised by the Centre.

 4.3.3 Participating in professional activities
 Senior editorial roles are held by Adcock (The European Journal of Finance), Čaušević
 (Hospitality and Society), Sun (Cleaner Production Letters, Journal of Chinese Economic and
 Business Studies) and Yekini (ICTACT Journal on Management Studies). Staff members are on
 the editorial boards of 17 leading journals, including Advances in Global Leadership, Advances
 in Environmental Accounting and Management, Frontiers in Political Science - Politics of
 Technology and Sustainability, Industrial Marketing Management, International Business
 Review, International Journal of Financial Studies, International Journal of Multinational
 Corporation Strategy, International Journal of Services Economics and Management, Journal of
 Inter-organizational Relationship, Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial
 Management, Journal of Public Policy, Journal of Resources and Ecology, Journal of Trust
 Research, Management Decision, Energy, Ecology and Environment (E3), and Organization
 Studies.

 UoA members have served as editors of six special issues in Organization Studies, the
 European Journal of Marketing, Asian Business and Management, Industrial Marketing
 Management, International Review of Applied Economics, Advances in Environmental
 Accounting and Management, and Accounting Research Journal. Staff members contribute to
 the peer-review process with members serving as reviewers for major funding bodies in the UK
 and overseas, including the ESRC, NERC, the British Academy, NWO (the Netherlands), SNF
 (Switzerland) FWF (Austria), DFG (Germany), SSHCR (Canada), FWO (Belgium), NSF (USA),
 NSFC (China) and RGC (Hong Kong). Others have acted as reviewers for over 100 journals
 including the world leading Academy of Management Review, Academy of Management
 Journal, Journal of Management Studies, Journal of International Business Studies,
 Organization Studies, Human Relations, Journal of Corporate Finance, and Journal of Financial
 Research.

 School staff gave keynote addresses and prestigious presentations at major conferences
 and events during the REF period, including (an indicative selection):
    • Abosag: Keynote at the 3rd Saudi Marketing Conference in Jeddah, 2015;
    • Bachmann: Keynote at International Conference on Trust at Chuo University in Tokyo,
        2017;
    • Levy: Keynote at the Global Mindset symposium at the Academy of Management
        Conference in Atlanta, 2017;
    • Murinde: Keynote at event celebrating the 50th Anniversary of the Central Bank of Kenya
        in Nairobi, 2016;
    • Oughton: keynotes at the Research Symposium on Financial Mutuals, SOAS, London,
        2017; Financial Stability Research Conference, South African Reserve Bank, 2017;
        Kenya Institute for public Policy Conference, Nairobi, Kenya, 2018; Bridging the Gap
        from Research to Practice Conference, University of Cambridge, 2019;
    • Sun: Keynote at the 1st International Bay Area Circular Economy Conference in Macao,
        2019.

 4.3.4 External recognition and awards.
 External recognition for staff achievements has been significant:



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Fattouh received the OPEC Award for Research and the Lifetime Achievement Award
        from the Abdullah Bin Hamad Al-Attiyah International Foundation for Energy and
        Sustainable Development;
    •   Levy received the Emerald Literati Network Award for Excellence and the Best Paper
        Award from the European Institute for Advanced Studies in Management for her work on
        cosmopolitanism;
    •   Murinde is Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences, Governing Council member of the
        British Institute of Eastern Africa, and member of the Econometric Society Africa Region
        Standing Committee;
    •   Oughton is a Board Member of the Financial Inclusion Forum that brings together key
        financial sector players and academics to address issues of financial inclusion and
        development;
    •   Sun is a Fellow of the British Academy of Social Sciences.




                                                                                         Page 14
