Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northampton

 Unit of Assessment: Biological Sciences (UoA5)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and structure

 Research within Biological Sciences, maps extensively to the researchers (6.8 FTE) within the
 Division of Life Sciences with the addition of contributions from researchers (2.2 FTE) within the
 Division of Sport and Exercise. In August 2019, the Faculty structures within the institution were
 refined, contributing to further developments in Biological Sciences as a merger into the Faculty
 of Arts, Science and Technology to create a more coherent and balanced portfolio.

 This rebalancing from a Faculty perspective is seen as a positive step with greater opportunity to
 develop interdisciplinary work and lead the research agenda. Biological Sciences has seen a
 notable expansion in activity since 2014 and a growing interdisciplinary research culture.
 Research staff are affiliated to the Physical Activity and Life Sciences Research Centre (PALS),
 established in 2017 led by Kay, which is a cross-faculty research centre currently containing two
 research groups. These groups are the Neuromuscular and Musculoskeletal Research Group (led
 by Baross) and the Molecular Biosciences Research Group (led by Machado and Anthony).

 PALS focuses on bringing together researchers examining physiological, psychological and
 biomechanical aspects of physical activity interventions in sedentary, active and clinical
 populations, and the microbiological, genetic and molecular aspects of disease progression. Staff
 within the Molecular Bioscience Research Group fall into four distinct themes which we continue
 to develop as a unit:

 Microbiology

 Microbiology research has historically been a strength in the Life Sciences and continues to be an
 active and productive area. Research is currently focused on two main areas:

    •   pathogenic mechanisms of infectious bacteria and
    •   detection and identification of microbial species in environmental and clinical samples.

 Current projects include analysis of genetic diversity and function of cell surface molecules in
 Campylobacter jejuni, metal metabolism and regulation in Streptococcus pneumoniae and the
 anti-biofilm properties of natural antimicrobials. Research has also been undertaken on applied
 microbiology projects including improved methods for detecting microbial contamination of
 medical devices, diagnosis of antimicrobial infections including MRSA and detailed
 characterisation of bacterial isolates from deep-seated head and neck infections. Close research
 collaborations have been established with industrial (20/30 Labs Ltd, GFC Diagnostics), clinical
 (Northampton General Hospital) and academic colleagues (University of Leicester, Loyola
 University Chicago).

 Molecular Medicine

 This is a broad theme combining expertise in gene therapy for rare diseases, skin tissue
 engineering, molecular orthopaedics and biomechanics in clinical and older populations. Research
 within this theme is a mixture of basic, translational and clinical research that broadly aims to
 understand molecular mechanisms of ageing, disease or sports injury and repair and to develop
 molecular-based interventions and diagnostics. Active projects include the pre-clinical
 development of RNA reprogramming strategies for spinocerebellar ataxias and exon skipping for
 Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Collaborations in this area include the Dubowitz Neuromuscular
 Centre (University College London) and Leiden University Medical Centre, Netherlands. Our

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers are active members of networks such as the EU-funded COST Action on delivery of
 antisense RNA therapeutics.

 Genetics and Genomics

 Research in genetics covers two broad topics: i) Rare disease gene identification using next
 generation sequencing (NGS) and bioinformatics; ii) Genetics of cardiovascular health and
 disease. Genomic studies include understanding the role of complex copy number variation and
 its association with autoimmune and infectious diseases. Currently, studies are being undertaken
 on host genetics in relation to COVID-19 as part of the COVID Host Genetics Initiative with an
 international consortium of researchers. Our research involves collaborations with scientists and
 clinical colleagues based regionally at Northampton General Hospital, as well as nationally and
 internationally including the universities of Cambridge, Stanford and Harvard.

 Bioethics and Welfare

 The bioethics and research ethics themes explore the dilemmas and controversies that arise in
 the biosciences. Topics and dilemmas explored include:

    •   the ethical dilemmas arising from genetic testing in neonates and adults;
    •   the ethical dilemmas arising from the use of embryos in embryonic stem cell research;
    •   the ethics of using human tissue in research and clinical medicine;
    •   the controversy between altruistic and commercial surrogacy;
    •   the role and function of a research ethics committee in protecting the public image of
        science and protecting participants from harm; and
    •   the codes of conduct that govern clinical trials and finding alternatives to the use of animals
        in research.

 There is a healthy balance of researchers in the Centre including 18 Postgraduate Researchers
 (PGRs)and 21 academics, of which 9 are included in this Unit of Assessment (UoA) (others are
 included in UoA2 Public Health). Within the staff included in this unit is a deputy subject leader,
 two Professors, three Associate Professors, three Senior Lecturers and one Lecturer. As a new
 area that is developing, we are pleased to already have several post-doctoral researchers on fixed
 term contracts and this is something that we intend to develop further and provide opportunities
 for permanent faculty positions. Within the staff submitted to Biological Sciences, Machado is the
 Faculty Research Lead, Eckberg is a Bioethicist and leads the Faculty ethics committee. There
 is a vibrant research culture and collaborations continue to develop with external stakeholders (i.e.
 Pharmeron, 20/30 laboratories, Northampton General Hospital, Northamptonshire Healthcare
 Foundation Trust, the Oakdale Group) and other HEIs both nationally and internationally.

 1.2 Research objectives

 As a relatively new area of research within the University objectives have been measured against
 institutional objectives set in the PALS Research Centre operational plan and have sought to
 increase and diversify research and enterprise income generation streams. We are working
 towards focussing our research in-line with the UN sustainable development goals (SDGs) 3 -
 Good Health and Wellbeing and 10 – Reduced Inequalities with research that is cross-cutting
 across all areas.

 To provide an environment in which researchers can develop and flourish, providing training and
 teaching in research methodologies and techniques, developing writing skills in order to
 disseminate research widely and ensure that this is accessible to those within and outside of
 academia. It is important that we continue to provide opportunities to collaborate with senior
 researchers, improving the overall quality of the research that is produced within Biological
 Sciences. We have developed a robust training and development/mentoring system for all stages
 of the research career to ensure staff and student researchers are supported/guided towards

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developing excellent research that informs their disciplines and teaching. This support includes a
 mentoring scheme to provide bespoke individual assistance to staff members who have
 traditionally been more teaching focused. To ensure sustainability both in terms of capacity and
 financial viability for research the Centre provides peer mentoring and performance &
 development review (PDR) objectives for researchers. This training is developing a strong
 research culture in a supportive environment for doctoral researchers and all staff including novice,
 early career and experienced researchers.

 Historically as a teaching focused HEI research has not been fully embedded as a core activity of
 all academic staff. An institutional commitment to invest in ‘Teaching & Research’ contracts has
 provided Biological Science colleagues with additional time allocated to research and scholarship
 activities. Within the framework of the Faculty of a suite of research objectives has been
 developed, with all colleagues on ‘Teaching & Research’ contracts having research-focused
 objectives via their PDR and a wider goal of supporting more teaching-focused colleagues to
 become research active. The multidisciplinary Faculty of Arts, Science and Technology structure
 provides a stronger, consolidated infrastructure for our peer review process, research support,
 governance, impact enhancement and public engagement,

 Over the next five years Biological Sciences objectives are to strengthen research relationships
 whilst building new regional, national and international partnerships, developing further research
 excellence through collaborations with external partners. We particularly wish to develop and
 expand a regional Life Sciences cluster to leverage opportunities across the Oxford-Cambridge
 Arc. We are expanding clinical studies with local NHS partners and will develop more robust
 governance structures to achieve this. This will support high quality translational research leading
 to high quality outputs with a measurable impact. The aim is to expand and diversify income by
 targeting UKRI priority themes and specific medical research charities having built on specific
 partnerships, for example by increasing the number of collaborative funded studentships.

 Our longer-term goal is to develop a critical mass of academic research activity that will support
 and underpin the development of a medical school with close links to NHS partners wishing to
 achieve teaching hospital status. To accomplish this, we are working closely with centre members
 who are engaged in interdisciplinary research that are been submitted to UoA 2 (Public Health,
 Health Services and Primary Care).

 Our longer-term strategy for 2020 – 2015 is to increase academic staff in this discipline. As a
 research informed but teaching led institution, we have expanded our portfolio of new taught
 Bioscience courses which will require further (technical and academic) expertise supporting
 development of the four themes described above. The expansion of academic staff will provide a
 succession plan to future-proof research/teaching areas in case a staff member leaves. This
 expansion will require additional space for laboratories and a proposal will be considered for
 inclusion in the capital building programme early in 2022.

 1.3 Impact strategy

 Research staff in the unit work closely with an institutional impact officer to develop their pathways
 to impact before, during and after the project’s lifecycle. Since 2018 a number of impact training
 sessions have been held to educate staff into considering impact during the conception of a
 project, through to research activities, publications and follow up to effectively measure impact.
 Impacts from research can be recorded in our Current Research Information System (CRIS)
 enabling the linking of relations between projects, datasets, events, outputs and activities. The
 “impacts” are then able to be made publicly available through our research portal.

 Our approach to impact upon the wider community involves a focus in two areas; namely, how a
 new evidence base may be developed and the development of biological research impact that has
 clinical utility. For example, innovative practice and research has led to new applications of the
 InternalBrace, a product in the treatment of soft tissues injuries amongst sports-players, widening
 the product’s reach and providing long term treatment for a new segment of the population

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Ribbans). Our second pathway to impact has included research on the neuromuscular
 mechanisms determining the efficacy of various types of stretching and their effect on athletic
 performance, range of motion and injury risk. Kay has provided a new evidence base and
 developed methodologies that have been widely adopted by other researchers, and used robust
 study designs to clarify ongoing neuromuscular, biomechanical and methodological
 misconceptions reported in the literature by governing bodies, and by the media to influence public
 perception, clarifying the efficacy of different types of stretching. These findings have been broadly
 disseminated original research and systematic and meta-analytical reviews in high impact
 international academic journals and in Position Stands for governing bodies. They have also
 informed clinical exercise guidance for the NHS and been widely disseminated in the media
 including the BBC and internationally including the New York Times.

 1.4 Interdisciplinary research

 Biological scientists have directly collaborated with several other disciplines expanding our
 interdisciplinary networks. For example, as members of the PALS Research Centre, researchers
 work closely with staff who across other disciplines. This is achieved by having shared seminars
 and workshops where researchers from other disciplines are invited to participate, share and
 develop ideas and concepts. McCormick has collaborated with staff in the Faculty of Business
 and Law to ensure compliance around animal vegan food products. In addition, we have
 interdisciplinary projects with Computer Science evaluating sensor technology to detect lameness
 in sheep. We encourage project supervisory teams to have members of staff from different subject
 areas/specialisms where appropriate. For example, we have clinical colleagues from the NHS that
 have provided valuable support on PhD supervisory teams particularly for cancer and
 microbiology-based projects (Machado and Woodacre). Lehner has worked with colleagues in
 the Institute for Creative leather technology to develop porous gelatin scaffolds for tissue
 engineering. Score has worked with GfC diagnostics, a small company specialising in point of
 care testing for detection of pathogens including MRSA. Nasir has several ongoing collaborations
 on the genetics of rare diseases, including the Institute of Neurology (University College London
 (UCL)) and Imperial College. Anthony has active collaborations with King’s College London and
 the Dubowitz Neuromuscular Centre and University College London.

 1.5 Open research

 Staff receive training and support in open access, copyright and data-management. In 2019 the
 University launched its CRIS (Current Research Information System) enabling greater visibility of
 not only research outputs, but also research activities and datasets. In 2020 the University
 purchased a platform for digital preservation, and staff are now moving towards a more open
 research environment, where open research has progressed from being encouraged, to becoming
 an integral part of the research life-cycle, including the use of preprint servers, e.g., bioRxiv).
 Datasets are uploaded to the CRIS on submission, where they are checked for replicability and
 long-term digital preservation. A strong emphasis is placed on ensuring that our data adheres to
 the FAIR (findable, accessible, interoperable and reasonable) principles of sharing of data, striving
 to be as open as possible, but understanding when necessary restrictions are required. To enable
 this a data management plan is required for all research projects as part of the ethical approval
 prior to any research being carried out. Staff are encouraged to use DMPonline and examples of
 well-written data management plans, and one-to-one training sessions are available to all staff.

 Staff have been provided with training in the selection of places for publication, use tools such as
 Sherpa/Romeo and the creative commons to check funder requirements, restrictions relating to
 copyright, and the selection of appropriate licencing of research outputs. An institutional fund is
 available to cover the cost of open access where a green (non-payment) route is either not an
 option, or where the embargo period is extensive. This fund covers the payments for articles,
 chapters and monographs. Where possible scholarly chapters are made open access. Research
 activities, such as presentations at conferences, workshops and educational resources are made
 available under a creative commons licence.


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.6 Research integrity

 We fully support a culture of the highest standard of research integrity and rigor conducting
 research that is ethical, legal and conforms to professional frameworks, obligations and standards.
 We have transparent, robust and fair processes to deal with allegations of research misconduct
 should they arise and are detailed in our institutional Research Integrity Policy. Research integrity
 training and ethical approval processes are integrated into the training programme for
 postgraduate researchers and are mandatory for the transfer from Advanced Postgraduate
 registration to PhD candidate status. We work together to strengthen the integrity of research and
 to review progress regularly and openly. This is reinforced more specifically within Biological
 Sciences by Eckberg having a key role at subject, faculty and university level around integrity and
 Bioethics. For access to clinical samples, staff apply to publicly available Biobanks. Where clinical
 samples are collected from NHS providers, NHS ethical approval is sought by working with the
 NHS Research & Development team and the National Institute for Health Research design
 service.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Since 2013 we have had several promotions within Biological Sciences including Machado, Nasir,
 McCormick, Anthony, Woodacre and Kay. In recruiting staff, we consider publication records,
 and whether their work aligns with the strategic aims/themes of the Centre. We assess supervisory
 suitability and their future research vision during the selection and interview stage. We require a
 PhD (or equivalent) or near completion, and identify specific research requirements in job
 applications to maintain and expand the critical mass in specific areas of interest to enable the
 University to be recognised as a centre of excellence for certain research areas. Staff have
 Research and Enterprise goals embedded as part of their annual review process. All staff within
 the unit are on permanent contracts demonstrating the unit’s commitment to the University’s
 research agenda and this strategy will continue to be encouraged. Recent post-doctoral
 researchers have gone on to secure international fellowship positions (i.e. El-Khoury to the Mayo
 clinic). The institution has an Associate Professor Scheme to support development of current and
 future research leaders. Machado is currently halfway through the scheme, Nasir and Anthony
 are new entrants and the PALS Centre lead (Kay) was promoted to Professor in 2017 after
 successfully completing the scheme.

 For new academic staff line managers ensure there is a reduced teaching workload compared
 with members of staff already in post. This allows staff to develop their research vision and apply
 to external bodies for funding. This is something Group and Centre Leads facilitate by working
 with the line managers to ensure workloads are carefully managed and scrutinised. We have an
 institutional commitment to invest in ‘Teaching & Research’ contracts which have provided all
 colleagues with additional time allocated to research and scholarship activities on top of the hours
 already allocated to scholarly activity. The policy for research leave, impact leave and sabbatical
 leave includes payment of fees (for academic staff undertaking PGR), study leave (25 days) and
 a flexible approach to timetabling/workloads to allow proper engagement with their research
 studies.

 Retention and reward of staff has been supported by the continuation (since 2011, with an updated
 scope in 2020) across the University of an Associate Professor Development Scheme aimed at
 developing the brightest talent with the potential to have a significant international track record in
 research. Associate Professors are offered mentoring (either from internal or external Professors
 in related subject areas), CPD and support, for a minimum period of two years. In consultation
 with the relevant Dean, Research Institute Leader or Director, a suitable mentor will be identified.
 Typically, the mentor will be internal but can also be external to the University. Where the mentor
 is external to the University, the relevant Faculty, Department or Institute bears the cost. The role
 of the mentor is to enable progression and development of the Associate Professor through work
 towards pre-agreed annual targets during the first two years. Associate Professors are expected

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to fully engage in workshops and activities designed specifically for Associate Professors -
 developed and coordinated by the Dean of Research, Impact and Innovation.

 As a new area of research we have strengthened activity by identifying researchers with external
 collaborations that allow appointment of Visiting Professors or Fellows. For example, where
 clinical expertise was limited we appointed Visiting Professors (i.e. Agarwal) to support PhD
 projects. This provides access for the students to clinical multidisciplinary team meetings, to
 mentor junior staff members and to help with writing manuscripts for publication. We also link to
 other institutions by some of us within the unit being Visiting Fellows at other institutions (Machado
 and Woodacre, Visiting Fellows at the University of Leicester, Kay Visiting Fellow at Derby
 University and Edith Cowan University).

 To support early career researchers (ECRs) we provide a mentor scheme (led by Anthony) to
 ensure individuals at the beginning of their research careers are supported and integrated into the
 unit’s research culture. This is particularly relevant for colleagues pursing research alongside their
 often-intensive teaching or other contracts, and we provide support and guidance for personal and
 professional development of individuals in this position. ECRs automatically join one of the
 research groups within the Centre after consultation with the Centre and Research Group leads.
 Early career researchers play an increasingly important role in supporting PGRs (i.e. in the
 laboratory). We as a unit fully support the concordat to support the career development of
 researchers. This includes recruiting, selecting and retaining high calibre researchers with
 potential for research excellence. We recognise their value, promoting access to professional
 recognition schemes, and provide opportunities to engage in performance review through our PDR
 process. We support the career development of our researchers by promoting our centre
 researcher development programme as well as institutional development activities. We have
 institutional structures to ensure researchers take responsibility for their own professional
 development and are pro-active in seeking out opportunities for broader engagement in research
 though knowledge exchange, public engagement or external collaborators.

 ECRs receive centre specific training including regular group and centre meetings with external
 speakers (i.e. Prof. King speaking on the Richard III project, Prof. Giakas speaking on European
 funding opportunities, Prof. Behm speaking on neuromuscular responses to foam rolling) enriching
 the research culture within this unit. Groups provide discipline- and project-specific training
 complementary to the generic training provided by the Graduate School including specific training
 on data visualisation, programming in R and training with specialist equipment (i.e. electron
 microscopy, cryosectioning, kinetic, kinematic, blood and respiratory analyses including isokinetic
 dynamometry, ultrasound, posturography, 3D real-time motion, electromyography, and
 reflectance photometry). In addition to the training on specialised equipment and analyses, ECR’s
 can also present and discuss their own research at a monthly seminar series to gain experience
 and confidence. Experienced researchers also present their latest research in these seminars to
 enable ECRs to develop a wider understanding of the research ongoing within the Centre, to
 enable a wider knowledge and understanding of research and to promote the development of
 collaboration across disciplines.

 There is inter-faculty support for staff writing bids including writing retreats. The University has a
 dedicated Research and Innovation Funding Support (RIFS) team that include bidding and project
 officers, ensuring that there is support for all stages of the research life-cycle. Staff have access
 to two data repositories of funding opportunities, dedicated support for bid-writing, project
 management support and post-award support. Award Management has moved over from a
 bespoke system to our CRIS enabling additional real time updates including deadlines for bids,
 milestones for projects and built in monitoring of hours allocated and spent on research projects.
 This also allows for funding applications to be reviewed by senior researchers prior to being
 submitted, giving feedback to the applicant and increasing possible successes.

 To stimulate and facilitate exchanges with non-academic bodies Biological Sciences encourages
 exchanges between academic and industrial bodies. For example, we have developed a regional
 life science forum with dedicated support from The Universities Key Sector and Knowledge

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Transfer Manager and working in partnership with East Northamptonshire Council. We also have
 strong links with the NHS through our Working Together Group between the University of
 Northampton & Northampton General Hospital Collaborative Meetings and other healthcare
 providers (i.e. Northamptonshire Healthcare Foundation Trust). NHS staff have been recruited as
 Associate Lecturers to support and strengthen clinical research and teaching and have been co-
 applicants of several research funding applications.

 2.2 Postgraduate research students

 In 2018 all PGRs across the university were relocated to a designated space within the new
 Senate building to give them a dedicated research suite on campus facilitating a strong sense of
 community. This is a considerable improvement compared with before where PGRs had limited
 dedicated space and were isolated across different University locations. This co-location with each
 other and closer location to their supervisors, laboratories and the broader undergraduate
 population provides a supportive research culture. Students are provided with funds to support
 their studies including GBP300 for part time and GBP500 for full time students as well as
 GBP1,000 Bursaries. This can be claimed once per year, per student to support their research.

 Supervisory teams are suitably balanced providing expertise, seniority and a history of prior
 successful completions. All supervisors must complete the Graduate School run Supervisory
 Training before they can form part of a supervisory team. On top of this mandatory training
 supervisors can enrol on the University run Post Graduate Certificate in Research Degree
 Supervision (PGCRDS) to provide professional development for staff in this area. To date 8
 members of the unit have completed the mandatory Supervisory Training and of these, a further
 4 have completed the optional PGCRDS. As part of this training staff attend workshops and
 observe and interview another supervisory team, practice giving written feedback to postgraduate
 researchers and engage in the pedagogical literature around research supervision as teaching
 practice.

 Within Biological Sciences the majority of our PGRs are self-funding although some have tuition
 fees waived if they are a member of staff or funding has come from industry (i.e. staff from
 companies undergoing PGR study have tuition fees and consumable costs covered). We have an
 extensive programme of structured doctoral support noted in the recent Post-Graduate Research
 Experience Survey where we were ranked 4th in 2018 and 1st in 2020. This most recent survey
 includes 1st for overall satisfaction, 1st for resources, 2nd for progression and development and 5th
 for research culture.

 We recognise that within this area that there is additional support required for Biostatistics and
 Bioinformatics. We provide bespoke training in programming languages (i.e. R/Python) through
 intra-faculty collaboration. Our centre writing workshops promote enhanced development of
 writing skills (particularly for international non-native English speakers).

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) are key to staff within Biological Sciences, and all staff
 comply with institutional requirements and policies around EDI. All staff undertake a mandatory e-
 learning module on Equality and Diversity as part of their induction programme. Workshops are
 provided by HR on fair recruitment practice, how to conduct recruitment interviews and
 unconscious bias training. All interview panel chairs must undertake this training before they can
 appoint. Staff receive on-going training through faculty away days and colleague-led institutional
 support and advocacy groups which include a Global Ethnic Majority (GEM) Staff Network,
 LGBTQ+ group and Staff Disability Network. The University has a Springboard+ (women, trans
 and non-binary) and a Navigator (men and transmasculine) staff development programme which
 provides an opportunity for staff to develop themselves and their careers. The University has
 arrangements that support flexible and/or remote working. In response to occupational health
 assessments specialist office equipment has been provided, and staff are supported through
 periods of sick leave and parental leave with phased returns to work and flexible working patterns.

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Such periods of leave are taken into account when staff are considered for ‘Teaching and
 Research’ employment contracts (which give additional hours for research based on research
 activity) so no staff members are disadvantaged for taking leave.

 Biological Sciences complies with regulatory requirements around equality and diversity,
 supported by a central institutional Equality and Inclusion Unit and Faculty Equality and Inclusion
 Champions. All institutional, faculty and centre research policies and strategic plans undergo a
 formal Equality Impact Assessment (as per our institutional REF Code of Practice), which has
 proved very positive in enhancing practice and prompting new conversations about equality and
 inclusion in research. All colleagues participate in mandatory, regularly-refreshed institutional
 training on equalities and diversities in the workplace. Colleagues regularly participate in
 workshops on equalities and inclusion within termly faculty staff development days and are
 signposted to focused institutional training on unconscious bias and other equality and inclusion
 topics via individual PDR objectives


 The demographic profile of the unit is 50 male and 50% female with 20% BAME staff. This is made
 up female staff - one Associate Professor, two Senior Lecturers, one Lecturer and one Deputy
 Subject Lead. Male staff include two Professors, two Associate Professors and two Senior
 Lecturers.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding and strategies for generating income

 As a newly submitted UoA a major proportion of our research income is largely derived from post
 graduate research fees. We have developed strategies to coordinate applications for funding to
 prestigious organisations and charities. For example, we co-ordinate applications for small-scale
 funding for Wellcome Biomedical Science Studentships and have been awarded 12 over the REF
 period. Research students are encouraged and supported to apply for external travel funds to
 facilitate their attendance at international conferences. For example, students in the Molecular
 Biosciences Research Group, have received funding from the Society for Microbiology to present
 work at annual meetings. We recognise as a teaching led institution that success for larger
 research funding will depend on collaboration with external HEIs and commercial organisations.
 Therefore, staff are encouraged to seek visiting researcher positions with partners and currently
 20% of staff have visiting fellowships at other HEIs. We have had some notable successes,
 including Score who has secured Innovate Northamptonshire funding working with GfC
 diagnostics to develop commercial diagnostic tests for infectious disease. Anthony has received
 international funding from the French Muscular Dystrophy Association (AFM) to support a full-time
 research assistant to work on understanding how Duchenne muscular dystrophy affects the brain.

 We have key areas of strength in Cellular and molecular biology as well as applied microbiology.
 These areas are growing (evidenced by investments in capital equipment, increase in PhD
 students and pump priming funding success). Therefore, our funding strategy will build on the
 results of these pump priming awards and PhD projects to develop them into larger translational
 collaborative projects applying with external partners to major funders including UKRI and
 charitable organisations (i.e. Wellcome, Rosetrees, Cancer Research UK) as well as applying for
 funding to work with SME and larger business partners (i.e. through Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships).

 Bidding targets and income generation is discussed at Performance and Development Reviews
 (PDRs) and individual research meetings. A system of peer review is in place across the unit
 supporting colleagues with applications to funders prior to submission. Support for bidding activity
 and grant management is also provided by the university’s RIFS team. Staff are trained in the use
 of GRANTfinder and Funding Institutional to identify opportunities that are suitable for their level
 of career experience. RIFS advise on potential partnerships or collaborators for projects in early


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development. They support applications to any Early Career Fellowships working out costings,
 adhering to funders guidelines and obtaining institutional sign-off.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 Biological Sciences has two technicians (1.8 FTE) and one Clinical and Laboratory Support
 Manager (2.0 FTE) that oversee the smooth running of the teaching and research laboratories.
 They provide general support for academics, PGRs and research staff to run experiments and
 develop techniques. The unit benefits from a dedicated Radiation, Biological and Chemical Safety
 consultant to ensure that the unit complies with all aspects of Bioscience related safety and
 regulations.

 Researchers have access to specialist Bioscience laboratory research and teaching space on our
 new GBP330,000,000 Waterside Campus. This dedicated research space (within the Creative
 Hub) supports research across the themes identified in section 1. For example, we have a
 dedicated cell culture facility, and additional laboratories for molecular biology, genetics and
 microbiology (including cabinets for culturing anaerobic micro-organisms) all of which are category
 2 laboratories. In addition, there are dedicated exercise physiology, neuromuscular rehabilitation,
 and musculoskeletal biomechanics labs in the Sports Science Hub. Institute of Creative Leather
 Technologies have new state of the art facilities that they have moved into in 2020. This includes
 advanced imaging (i.e. electron microscopy and fluorescent and luminescent imaging), histology
 (cryo-sectioning of snap-frozen tissue samples), and chromatography including high performance
 liquid chromatography and gas chromatography. There are dedicated technical staff that ensure
 researchers receive appropriate training and induction for use of specialist equipment. Research
 equipment information is entered into our CRIS (Pure) with details of how staff/students can use
 the equipment. Procedural risk and Control of Substances Hazardous to Health (COSHH)
 assessment are securely and safely electronically stored (with version control) and accessible
 using iPassport software.

 We collaborate extensively with research intensive HEIs (University of Leicester, St George’s
 University of London, King’s College London, University of Cambridge and Stanford University) to
 access major research facilities and infrastructure. This includes Next-generation sequencing
 technology (exome and whole genome sequencing) as well as bioinformatics computing
 resources and advanced data analysis centres, advanced imaging equipment (i.e. confocal
 microscopy and flow cytometry), Laser Capture Microdissection, access to Biobank tissue
 samples and digital droplet PCR technology. This allows researchers to engage in internationally
 competitive research.

 Notable donated items of equipment have greatly facilitated opportunities for research. This has
 included a Fluorescence Activated Cell Sorter (FACS) for advanced cell analysis supporting PhD
 student projects. Northampton General Hospital has provided access to liquid handling systems
 for automated RNA and genomic extraction for genotyping and transcriptomic studies in
 collaborative R&D projects and imaging ultrasound was provided by Manchester Metropolitan
 University.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Effectiveness of research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 As a small subject area, we recognise the importance of supporting researcher collaborations,
 networks and partnerships. In recognition of their standing in the Biosciences, staff have been
 awarded several Visiting Fellowships. For example, Machado and Woodacre are Visiting Fellows
 at the Department of Genetics and Genome Science at the University of Leicester and this has
 led to publications in the areas of bacterial and human genetics. Nasir has several ongoing
 collaborations on the genetics of rare diseases, including the Institute of Neurology (UCL) and
 Imperial College. Anthony is collaborating with the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology &
 Neuroscience (King’s College London) and the Dubowitz Neuromuscular Centre (UCL). Over 50%

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of our research outputs from research involves international partners. Anthony, Nasir and
 Machado are founding members of the Northamptonshire Life Science Cluster which supports
 regional sustainability and growth. To promote collaboration with local NHS partners (i.e.
 Northampton General Hospital) we have a Memorandum of Understanding that supports project
 development and effective working. All members of the department are members of scholarly
 societies including the Genetics Society, Biochemical Society, the Society for Microbiology and
 the Royal Society of Biology. Anthony is a founding member of the EU-funded COST Action on
 delivery of antisense RNA therapeutics as well as its predecessor Action on exon skipping.
 Participation in these networks has led to high impact outputs and new international collaborations
 for example with Dr Avale at the National Scientific and Technical Research Council, Argentina
 and Dr Buijsen at the Leiden University Medical Centre (Netherlands).

 4.2 Relationships with key research users/beneficiaries

 Members of the centre have worked closely with NHS partners to contribute to Pillar 1 testing in
 the region. For example, two of our post graduate researchers Young and Brookes worked at
 Northampton General Hospital (NGH) to develop and implement testing of staff and patients for
 Covid-19. Our MSc Molecular Bioscience students are now continuing this effort by testing clinical
 samples at NGH as part of their work placements. A current graduate researcher (Smart) is CEO
 of 20/30 laboratories and she has redirected the microbiology testing efforts of her company to
 include COVID-19 testing in the community and the University has provided them equipment to
 support this effort.

 Beyond our submitted impact case studies, there is collaborative research which has contributed
 to societal impact. For example, research by Machado has supported patent applications in the
 areas of T cell therapy for cancer (T-cell receptor and uses thereof) filed by Cancer Research
 Technology and work by Anthony has supported a patent application (Methods and agents to
 increase therapeutic dystrophin expression in muscle) filed by Alyson Fiorillo and Eric Hoffman.
 McCormick has developed a research that explored the diet choices that owners were making
 for their dogs. This work featured as a two-part story within the BBC’s The ONE Show, allowing
 engagement with a wide sector of the public around alternative pet feeding methods and raising
 awareness of the risks of new diets. As a result, this also identified a potential issue with non-
 compliance in industry following changes to EU legislation. This was explored directly with the
 affected companies and led to discussions with the Food Standards Agency about how they
 engage with companies around supplementation of alternative pet food diets.

 The Unit engages with the public and diverse communities in several ways. For example, there
 are termly Café Scientifique public engagement events (where researchers host public lectures
 and workshops in a local café). We have organised a sepsis roadshow in collaboration for
 Northampton General Hospital and Sepsis UK to improve understanding of this disease. Kay has
 conducted an experiment on imagery training and muscle strength for the BBC flagship health
 programme 'Trust me I'm a doctor'. He has contributed to public awareness and been involved in
 international news sources, including The Guardian, ABC Life, the New York Times and Men’s
 Health including developing national guidelines in the NHS Choices public website on latest
 research examining muscle stretching.




                                                                                            Page 10
