Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of York

 Unit of Assessment: 17 - Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Strategic development
 Since its creation in the mid-2000s, the University of York Management School (UYMS) has grown
 strategically to become one of the largest departments in the University, although still small
 compared with other Russell Group business schools. We focus on building distinctive areas of
 expertise that fit our social values and intellectual culture. Our research vision and strategy
 emphasise enabling scholars to apply their disciplinary expertise to socially and economically
 relevant problems, increasingly within interdisciplinary teams.

 As the School matured in this REF period, we strengthened our research strategy within a shared
 vision aligned with University values (REF5a:1). Our underlying principle is captured in our Vision
 statement: “To be a Management School that is globally outstanding in its academic excellence
 and contribution to the wellbeing of society”. Our strapline of “Creating sustainable business,
 community and society” stresses our priority of being socially engaged, speaking to the impact of
 management in all settings.

 Long-standing areas of expertise have been strengthened to build further critical mass,
 emphasising shared themes outside traditional disciplinary boundaries:

    •   Ethical dimensions of management and the experience of marginalised groups,
        including ethnographies of front-line responders (McCann); “dirty jobs” (McMurray); fast-
        food workers (Royle); in-work poverty (Swaffield); and human-animal interactions at work
        (L.Hamilton). Equality and diversity (EDI) is important including women’s leadership
        (Trehan); gender inequalities in pay and employment (Mumford and Smith ICS3), LGBT+
        employee networks (Einarsdottir); disability (Kumar); migrant labour (Jiang ICS5), as is the
        philosophy of ethical management (Linsley, Sinnicks).
    •   Development of non-traditional research methods, combining insights from
        organisational studies, anthropology, sociology and psychology to develop novel
        approaches to data collection, analysis, presentation and dissemination. Innovative
        research methodologies include participatory art and video (Jiang ICS5; Einarsdottir);
        visual methods, drawing and interactions with objects and other species to elicit
        experiences (Baxter; L.Hamilton); photo elicitation, photo mosaic and film as
        methodological tools (Jiang; McMurray; Roberts; Powell), and photography, film,
        animations and poetry as research outputs (Linstead; McMurray).
    •   Evolution of modern businesses and their environment. Members of the Centre for
        Evolution of Global Business and Institutions (CEGBI) and the Management and
        Organization History Research Cluster (MOHRC), represent one of the largest groups of
        business historians in the UK, combining historical research with management (particularly
        international business and marketing), economics and geography, led by Da Silva Lopes
        and Cooke.

 As researchers coalesced around shared interests, new areas in line with our vision for academic
 excellence and contribution to society’s wellbeing were identified and invested in:

    •   Novel ways to calculate risk, wellbeing and social value, combining management
        studies, finance, actuarial science, and consumer psychology with mathematics,
        statistics and economics. Distinctive in theoretical focus and application outside
        traditional finance subfields, research includes models, algorithms and apps to improve
        decision-making under uncertainty, policy in relation to wellbeing, banking sector risk
        management and pension funds’ investments (Bregantini; Cornea-Madeira; Dias;

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Freeman; Hoque; McNeil; Myrseth; Ramsden; Smith ICS4; Thijssen);
    •   Environmental sustainability, food supply chains and circular economy,
        particularly food security (Doherty, ICS1) and agricultural supply chains (Jia) within an
        overall interest in operational efficiency and how organisations contribute to
        environmental and social wellbeing (Ball; Garnett; Huatuco; Kapetanaki; Linsley;
        McMurray). Consumer behaviour expertise is applied to sustainability issues, such as
        Wells examining social marketing that facilitates pro-environmental behaviour in the
        workplace and Lin on use of electric bicycles in China and electric vehicles in Nordic
        countries. Ball leads circular economy research, funded by BBSRC, ESRC, THYME and
        the White Rose consortium.
    •   Healthcare management and organization. Notably, Kirkpatrick on medical
        management, Suter and Kowalski on impacts of shift patterns, Luca and Kapetanaki on
        social marketing and health. Angeli leads research on inclusive healthcare delivery and
        poverty alleviation, especially in India.

 Our primary strategic commitment is to “consistently employ UYMS’s disciplinary research
 expertise for the study of socially and economically relevant problems that require an
 interdisciplinary approach”. This reflects that there are few economic and societal challenges that
 are not, in part, caused by underlying organisational dynamics, and that organisational problems
 rarely focus on a single research discipline.

 To deliver this strategy, we foster a lively and supportive environment for researchers at all levels
 to excel in their area of expertise and actively engage across research communities. We support
 staff to engage with other disciplines within the Faculty of Social Sciences and beyond to biology,
 computer science, environment, mathematics, and health sciences, supported by University
 interdisciplinary research themes (REF5a:4). This approach is exemplified by IKnowFood (see
 ICS1); and York Cross-disciplinary Centre for Systems Analysis (Ball; Garnett; Thijssen); LGBT+
 research with Social Policy (Einarsdottir; Mumford); Interdisciplinary Global Development Centre
 (Angeli; Banerjee; Cooke; Jia; Kumar; Linsley), and the Science and Technology Studies Unit (co-
 director Garnett, also Baxter; L.Hamilton).

 Faithful to our interdisciplinary approach, we support our researchers to publish in a wide range
 of leading academic outlets, beyond management journals. Our REF outputs reflect the focus on
 interdisciplinarity, with 23 allocated an interdisciplinary research flag. In addition to submitted
 outputs, we provided management expertise to a variety of interdisciplinary projects. Noteworthy
 is Kapetanaki in the Lancet (Swinburn et al., 2019), contributing marketing expertise to examine
 child obesity alongside co-authors from nutrition and climate change (over 600 citations since
 publication in 2019). Further examples include Garnett using complexity theory to understand
 climate change (Science of the Total Environment, 2018) and Garnett, Doherty and Heron,
 examining vulnerabilities in UK food supply chains exposed by Covid-19 and Brexit, combining
 complex systems, networks and politics expertise (Nature Food, 2020).

 Structure
 In 2018 we introduced a gridded academic structure to advance interdisciplinary working while
 maintaining disciplinary expertise. Subject groups were reduced from six to three, significantly
 increasing critical mass in each, and we introduced four interdisciplinary research themes. Staff
 and research students are members of one subject group, and align with one or more
 interdisciplinary themes.

 Subject groups provide disciplinary expertise, line management, staff development and research-
 led teaching. They give junior staff and research students a safe environment within which to
 develop subject-specific skills and learn from experienced research leaders. They comprise:

    •   Accounting and Finance (AF), engaging in a diverse range of Accounting and Finance
        research, including quantitative and qualitative approaches to risk;


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   People, Operations and Marketing (POM), researching functional aspects of businesses
        including Marketing, HRM and Operations for all types of organisations, employees,
        consumers and citizens;
    •   Work, Management and Organization (WMO) emphasising critical and historical studies
        of organisations, covering Organizational Behaviour and Theory, Strategy, and Industrial
        Relations.

 Our four research themes are interdisciplinary, tackle societal challenges and generate research
 with impact. They enable our strategic aims by: (i) increasing collaboration across the School to
 deliver impactful research that crosses management sub-discipline boundaries; (ii) dovetailing
 with University research themes to facilitate cross-University teams; and (iii) strengthening
 institutional links with research funders and non-academic partners to engage with national and
 international priorities:

    •   Equality, Justice and Ethics (EJE), focusing on issues relating to people and
        organisations, particularly “marginalised voices”;
    •   Management and the Humanities (M&H), deriving methods for management research
        that straddle creativity, culture, heritage, history and management. MOHRC is supported
        by this theme;
    •   Risk, Innovation and the Economy (RIE), examining technological and economic
        change, including risk modelling, organisational responses, creative disruption and
        innovation. This theme includes CEGBI and has developed new links with researchers in
        risk and innovation.
    •   Sustainability and Resilience (S&R), addressing questions of sustainability, broadly
        defined, including sustainability of organisations, environments, organisational
        responsibilities and resilience.

 Theme membership is more fluid than group membership, enabling intellectual responsiveness
 as priorities and interests evolve. The vitality and sustainability of each theme is enabled through
 professorial leadership, seminars, events and publication support. By working alongside subject
 group line management, this has substantially enhanced our ability to offer early career
 researchers effective mentoring and career development.

 Figure 1 illustrates how faculty from the three subject groups align with interdisciplinary themes,
 demonstrating that each captures different elements of our research activity.




               Figure 1. Relationship between subject groups and research themes

 There is clear evidence of these structural changes bearing fruit. Our scholars have brought
 management expertise to collaborate with national and international policymakers, industry
 bodies, charities, public sector and private organisations, plus employees, especially vulnerable
 or marginalised voices, as well as academics in other disciplines (Section 4 and ICSs).


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All UYMS Category A faculty are submitted to UoA17, plus Fredona, a Category A full-time
 researcher at UYMS for two years from Harvard Business School, holding an H2020-MSCA-IF-
 2017 Marie Sklodowska-Curie Individual Fellowship. Mumford joined UYMS from the Department
 of Economics and Related Sciences (DERS) in August 2020 while Thijssen holds a joint
 appointment with the Department of Mathematics. Smith (RIE theme) and Swaffield (EJE theme)
 from DERS are also submitted to this UoA; they have long-established research links with UYMS
 and were submitted to this UoA in REF2014.

 The University Pro Vice-Chancellors (PVC) for Research (Ruth, S&R theme) and Partnerships
 and Engagement (Trehan, EJE theme) are submitted to UoA17. That the University leaders for
 both Research and Impact fall within this UoA shows the central role that Management as a
 discipline plays in framing York’s institutional academic agenda.

 Attainment of REF2014 Objectives
 Development over this REF period remained true to the vision articulated in REF2014; to conduct
 “...methodologically rigorous research of international quality that makes a distinctive and effective
 contribution to scholarly, policy, business, and societal debates about the role, purpose, and
 outcomes of management at all levels (individual, group, organisation, society) and in all settings”.
 We have made substantial progress, exceeding many REF2014 objectives:

    •   Category A staff exceed the growth target of 50FTE (Section 2);
    •   Research income was increased from £20k in 2012-13 to £493k in 2019-20 (Section 3);
    •   PhD completions were more than doubled from averaging 4.4 to 9.9 annually, with 82% of
        vivas requiring no or minor corrections (Section 2);
    •   Infrastructural support for research was increased, including a full-time Research
        Facilitator, a Director of Business and Community Engagement, additional research
        leadership roles and internal funding schemes (Section 3);
    •   Impact was enhanced by formalising supporting structures, expanding engagement
        opportunities and increasing financial support for impact activities and relationships with
        research users (Sections 3 and 4).


 Impact Strategy
 Generating research with impact is fundamental to our mission of “creating sustainable business,
 community and society”. Our research themes provide key structural mechanisms to deliver
 impact, alongside formal impact strategies and processes that have been strengthened since
 2014. These are driven by our Director of Business & Community Engagement (DBCE, Ball). As
 PVC, Trehan plays a pivotal role in linking School and University impact agendas (REF5a:12).

 Figure 2 provides examples of how our impact strategy and gridded structure have helped
 contribute to “...business, community and society”. Five examples in bold represent our ICSs,
 spanning a variety of contexts affected by management decisions and representing each of the
 four research themes (ICS1 S&R; ICS2 M&H; ICS3 EJE; ICS4 RIE; ICS5 spans EJE and M&H).
 ICS5 is led by a BAME female lecturer, demonstrating support for impact across our faculty. We
 return to other examples in Section 4, included here to highlight impact variety and
 interdisciplinarity. Some examples represent more traditional knowledge transfer (yellow
 background), but most reflect our preferred co-creation strategy (white background).




                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                          Figure 2. Examples of engagement and impact

 The University and UYMS encourage and support scholars at all career stages to develop the
 impact of research across its life cycle, recognising that impact generation may involve lengthy
 time periods. Lasting impact often goes beyond traditional knowledge transfer and key to our
 impact strategy is the co-creation of knowledge, with emphasis on developing long-term
 relationships with non-academic organisations (REF5a:49). For example, the University’s strategic
 research partnership with Tees Esk and Wear NHS Trust facilitated Suter and Kowalski to study
 healthcare workers.

 All our ICSs provide examples of ongoing long-term relationships generating impact: Doherty
 (ICS1) with the World Fairtrade Organisation, Coop Group and Oxfam; Linstead (ICS2) with the
 National Union of Mineworkers and charity People and Mining; Mumford (ICS3) with the Low Pay
 Commission and Resolution Foundation; Smith (ICS4) with various pensions funds; and Jiang
 (ICS5) with the Voice of Domestic Workers. (Further examples in Section 4).

 Open Research
 We are committed to enabling research to be as open as possible, ensuring research findings are
 shared widely, methodologies are clear and detailed, and data are shared, to facilitate
 reproducibility. We go beyond funder compliance: all research outputs (except books) are
 deposited in the University open access repository (White Rose Research Online), consistent with
 University policies (REF5a:16). Datasets can be lodged with the York Research Database
 (REF5a:17); examples include the international banking database (Mollan), and data from the first
 Citizen Food Assembly (Doherty) involving the National Food Strategy, DEFRA, community
 organisations and the North Yorkshire & East Riding Enterprise Partnership. ICS2 provides an
 example of lodging a historical dataset for public use.

 Staff commitment to open research has increased in this period and eight staff currently edit open
 access journals, including Angeli, academic editor of interdisciplinary science journal PLOS One.
 Open research is included in induction and PGR training. Staff access additional learning and
 support on open research from University training; librarians advise and facilitate open access to
 publications and datasets, including Practical Guides.



                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research Integrity
 Researchers comply with University policies on research integrity and ethical governance,
 benefiting from shared best practice through the Russell Group Research Integrity Forum and the
 University Research Integrity Forum (REF5a:14).

 New projects are required to obtain ethics approval before data collection. The Economics, Law,
 Management, Politics and Sociology (ELMPS) Ethics panel (Chair: Royle) includes an additional
 School representative (Luca). ELMPS meets 6 times per year and produces an annual report to
 the University Ethics Committee, of which Royle is a member. The ELMPS panel is especially
 aware that Management research on marginalised voices and increasing work in healthcare raises
 particular issues around GDPR and protection of participants. Additional sections have been
 added to ethics applications forms to ensure researchers explicitly consider mitigation of risks to
 participants, themselves and the University. Health research involving the NHS requires approval
 through the UK Integrated Research Application System. Training on ethics requirements is
 provided at staff induction and separately for PGR students and research integrity has formed a
 dedicated session at the School’s annual Research Away Day.

 Future Strategy

 We will further increase the social legitimacy of our research by: (i) applying and advancing our
 disciplinary academic excellence, (ii) co-creating knowledge with non-academic partners and, (iii)
 increasing collaboration with scholars in other disciplines. In order to achieve these goals, we have
 been working on two major strategic developments since 2019.

 In line with our commitment to sustainable business, community and society, we will formalise and
 deepen collaborations with the University’s Social Policy department, a global top 10 department
 within its discipline (QS World University Rankings 2020). This radical collaboration is well-
 advanced, aiming to create a unified School of Business and Society, aligned with the University’s
 heritage and ethos, and the City of York’s identity, particularly the Rowntree family’s legacy as
 ground-breaking business leaders and social reformers. Complementary strengths will allow us to
 address challenging problems aligned with international priorities and our shared purpose around
 (but not only) policy frameworks and management practices that best enable reductions in poverty,
 inequality and social harm, and enhance wellbeing, in the context of public services, not-for-profit
 organisations and business management.

 Additionally, we will increase the breadth and depth of our research collaboration with other
 disciplines, at York and elsewhere, providing a management perspective to joint projects and
 funding bids. Sustained investment in the School’s research themes will enable focused
 interdisciplinary collaborations around environmental sustainability, food supply chains,
 mathematical approaches to risk, and historical approaches to management, amongst others.

 Second, the School will retain a foothold in the EU and further enhance its international research
 and impact through the University of York Europe Campus (CITY College, Thessaloniki). This
 collaboration opens new opportunities for socially and economically relevant management
 research, increasing understanding of poverty, inequalities and environmental responsibilities in
 South-Eastern Europe. This complements our existing York-Maastricht partnership (REF 5a:6),
 which will be developed further.

 These strategic developments alongside progress made during this REF period will ensure that
 management research continues to thrive at York. We will further increase our community of
 Category A staff and doctoral students to increase critical mass, while remaining small- to medium-
 sized to retain our agility and strong research culture. We will continue to increase research
 income, generated through more joint funding bids enabled by established structures including the
 University’s interdisciplinary research themes, the White Rose consortium, and the N8 network.
 We will deliver even greater impact through our partnerships with government, third-sector and

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 community organisations, as well as businesses. And we will continue to produce world-class
 research, disseminated through a range of outlets including, but not limited to, leading academic
 management journals.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy
 A three-fold staffing strategy enabled us to exceed our target of 50FTE Category A staff:

    1. Recruit and retain international research leaders;
    2. Recruit early career faculty;
    3. Build mid-career capacity by retaining, developing, and supporting internal promotion of
       early career faculty.

 Recruitment stressed the School’s distinctive strategy, aiming, at all levels, to appoint faculty who
 wish to be impactful in their research and actively participate in interdisciplinary research themes.

 Figure 3 shows appointments (all open contracts; new lecturers serve two years probation) and
 resignations of UYMS Category A faculty (data from 01/14-07/20). This evidences strong retention
 alongside significant investment in recruitment. All but five of our REF-submitted outputs are
 authored by faculty employed by York on the census date.

 Consistent with our staffing strategy, appointments have been mostly Lecturers (23) and
 Professors (20). A strong mid-career presence has been built through promotions, with seventeen
 Category A Senior Lecturers and one Reader on the census date. Of these, three have been
 Senior Lecturers throughout this REF period, four were appointed at their current level, eleven
 were internally promoted including one promoted twice (Hollow).




                          Figure 3. Recruitment and resignations in UYMS

 Figure 4 illustrates increased success with internal promotions. Of nine staff who were initially
 unsuccessful, five achieved promotion in later rounds. Wherever possible, we avoid moving staff
 to non-research contracts because we are committed to early and mid-career researchers’
 development - only three faculty (two pre-2017) permanently, and one temporarily, converted from
 Category A to non-research contracts.


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                       Figure 4. Internal promotions applications from UYMS

 Linsley was promoted to Professor, and professors achieved grade promotions including to the
 highest grade (Band 3) We have identified and are actively supporting a number of mid-career
 researchers to achieve professorships in the next 1-3 years.

 Succession planning includes expected progressions of mid-career faculty, is facilitated by
 providing deputies for all leadership roles, and is aided by our demographic profile. Over 90% of
 all UYMS Category A non-Professorial faculty were younger than fifty on the census date. The
 median age of UYMS Professors was fifty-two.

 Grade 6 post-doctoral research assistants (non-Category A) form a small but important part of our
 research community (2014-2016 = 1FTE; 2017 and 2019 = 4FTEs). These are generally fixed
 term contracts associated with externally funded projects. Destinations include UYMS Senior
 Lecturer (Hollow); Surrey, Essex and Northumbria Universities; Senior Research Fellow (NHS).

 Staff Development

 Our success in recruiting, developing, internally promoting and retaining staff can be attributed to:

 Vision and Culture
 The vision to create “sustainable business, community and society” through a highly
 interdisciplinary and impactful approach resonates with existing staff and new hires. A very high
 proportion of people we offer jobs to accept the offer with anecdotal evidence suggesting it is
 primarily for this reason. UYMS is also recognised for a strongly supportive research culture where
 success is celebrated and staff are encouraged to be creative and take considered risks.
 Feedback from a recent staff survey described UYMS as ‘friendly and open’ and colleagues as
 ‘supportive’, ‘collegiate’, and ‘good’ people.

 Mentoring and Line Management
 The gridded structure of groups and themes has enhanced academic mentoring and line
 management, facilitated by significant expansion of the professoriate. All staff have a performance
 development review annually with their Head of Group, to reflect on successes, areas for
 improvement, personal and career development aspirations and priorities. Performance
 expectations are in line with the University Statement on Research Performance Expectations
 (REF5a:22). UYMS endorses the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Researchers and the European Charter and Code of Conduct and the University holds a European
 Commission HR Excellence in Research award (REF5a:27-28).

 Probationers are appointed a mentor from within UYMS and other staff may request one. The
 University Mentoring Scheme (REF5a:22) enables staff to engage with a senior member of faculty
 outside their department (e.g., McMurray is mentored by the Dean of Faculty). For specific
 disciplinary or methodological expertise, we have formally engaged mentors from other HEIs to
 support our staff.

 Formal review schemes have been introduced for pre-submission feedback on outputs and grants,
 and for revise and resubmit advice. The first, led by Theme Leads, provides two reviews, from
 more and less experienced members of staff, thereby capacity building through improving
 reviewing skills, as well as providing feedback to authors. Large grant applications benefit from
 Faculty and University review processes.

 Support with promotions
 The School has increased support to help staff achieve internal promotions. Promotions criteria
 and guidance are openly available. We actively work with faculty to help them achieve these
 criteria. In 2018, the Deputy Dean role was divided into two with one dedicated to staff
 development and HR. This Deputy Dean sits on the Faculty promotions panel and works
 proactively with Heads of Group and the School Dean to help identify and develop promotions
 cases with individual staff, including identifying mentors from the Professoriate.

 Time for research
 More than 50% of total contracted workload hours for Category A faculty is allocated to research
 activity, comprising (i) 40% annual research allowance, (ii) sabbatical leave every ninth term, (iii)
 supervision hours for research students (iv) allocated hours for impact activities, and (v) buy-out
 for externally funded research.

 Heads of Group manage workload, aiming to block teaching into one term where possible and
 provide cover for staff with revise and resubmit decisions in high-ranking journals, revisions of
 eminent monographs and preparation of major funding bids. Heads of Group proactively identify
 faculty due for sabbatical leave and assist with applications. Figure 5 illustrates sabbaticals that
 have been approved by the School over this REF period. A 60%:40% male:female balance for
 sabbatical leave reflects our Category A gender mix.




                             Figure 5. Sabbaticals approved by UYMS.



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research and Impact Training and Support
 Career development and non-discipline specific research and impact training are provided by the
 University Research Excellence Training Team’s extensive programme (REF5a:32). Within
 UYMS, staff share their expertise in workshops examining effective doctoral supervision,
 publishing in top tier journals, writing research grants, leading research teams, engaging policy-
 makers, developing research impact, and career development. Leading journal editors have
 provided seminars and workshops including UYMS professor Muzio (Editor, Journal of
 Management Studies), visiting professor Suddaby (former Editor, Academy of Management
 Review) and Barczak (Editor, Journal of Product Innovation Management).

 Regular writing retreats provide staff with space to develop written work, encourage reviews and
 facilitate interaction and mentoring relationships between senior and junior staff. The ‘writing for
 publication’ on-site activities continued from REF2014 through this REF period, including virtually
 during Covid-19. In 2019, writing retreats were held at Ampleforth Abbey and in conjunction with
 the EGOS conference in Edinburgh. Writing retreats are frequented more by women faculty,
 contributing to women’s career development.

 Early Career Training and Support
 In addition to all the above, ECRs receive specific support to develop their careers. All new
 appointees have 100 hours ‘new start’ reduction in workload. We have formalised an ECR Forum,
 with thirteen staff regularly engaged in 2020. Chaired by a different ECR each year (Kowalski,
 2020), who sits on the School’s Research Committee, the Forum organises workshops and
 training by senior researchers from York and externally, including ‘Meet the Professor’ and
 ‘Insights Into…’ series. It also helps ECRs build professional relationships and access training and
 development specific to their needs.

 A sub-group of the Forum successfully bid (2020) for funding from the National Productivity
 Investment Fund - Accelerating Business Collaboration scheme, to help them create an ECR
 Manifesto and undertake training on making their research more visible to businesses.

 ECRs are actively encouraged to access additional advanced research training and networking
 opportunities through the Northern Advanced Research Training Initiative (NARTI). Postdoctoral
 researchers have the same support as other ECRs, with their specific training needs being
 overseen by Principal Investigators.

 Postgraduate Research Students
 PGR students (all PhD, we do not offer professional doctorates) form a core part of our research
 community, often attracted to York by our distinctive academic vision. They benefit from being in
 a relatively small Management School that can provide individualised training and close
 engagement with senior faculty. This is enabled through our gridded structure (Section 1), two
 supervisors, and an assigned Thesis Advisory Panel member providing additional expertise and
 oversight of the supervision relationship (REF5a:31).

 Up to 2018-19, PGR recruitment was below target, averaging 10 students per year. To address
 this, we created three fully funded School PhD scholarships from 2019-20, which increased the
 number of high quality applicants and recruitment rose to 18 students. PhD applicants can
 compete for scholarships from the White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership (WRDTP;
 REF5a:34), with four funded in this REF period. We also contribute to funding for Chinese PhD
 students via the Chinese Scholarship Council Scheme.

 Approximately 55% of PGR students are female and 70% are non-Home/EU, with a broad
 geographical and ethnic mix. Future development of the PhD programme aims to increase cohort
 size whilst maintaining high quality, supported by an increasing range of internally and externally
 funded scholarships.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 PGR training and support is extensive and comprehensive:

    •   Students must successfully complete two compulsory modules on philosophy and
        methods. Additional training is individually tailored. Training needs analysis identifies
        whether recommended modules from our Masters suite are compulsory or elective.
        Students access modules in other departments where relevant;
    •   Students gain support and specialist expertise through membership of a research theme
        and subject group and can extend their networks and knowledge by joining staff in a wide
        range of open events (seminars, Masterclasses, skills training, etc.);
    •   The Research Centre for Social Sciences (ReCSS, REF5a:48) and York Graduate
        Research School (REF5a:30) provide research and impact training and career support,
        which students are encouraged to take up;
    •   Substantial PGR training opportunities and wider networks of peers and research leaders
        are provided through our memberships of WRDTP, NARTI and N8 Universities (REF5a:6).
        In 2017, we hosted the WRDTP Conference and organised the White Rose conference on
        alternative postdoctoral careers;
    •   Our annual PGR Summer Conference and internal seminar series help students develop
        presentation skills, as well as providing valuable staff and peer feedback;
    •   International experience, conferences, training and network development are encouraged
        and financially supported. In this REF period, PGR students presented papers regularly
        at AoM, EGOS, BAM, IPDMC, Euroma, EDAMBA and EIASM conferences;
    •   Students are encouraged (but not required) to consider part-time opportunities to enhance
        employability. Part-time opportunities to teach, or to provide short-term research
        assistance, are advertised internally. PGRs who teach undertake the University’s
        Introduction to Teaching and Learning programme. Twelve (nine) students undertook part-
        time teaching in 2019-20 (2018-2019);
    •   Student health and wellbeing is paramount to their progress and is supported by a full-time
        dedicated professional counsellor in UYMS, and a mental-health first aider (Glaister). We
        provide events to raise awareness of mental health and available support with a particular
        focus on how to cope with the emotional demands of doing a PhD.

 Since REF2014, our PhD completions have risen to average 9.9 per year from 4.4. The average
 period to submission is just under four years, and since 2016, 82% of vivas resulted in no, or
 minor, corrections. Of 71 graduates since 2013 (tracked February 2020), approximately half were
 in academic jobs in UK universities, a quarter in overseas universities and a quarter in non-
 academic positive destinations. Academic destinations included the LSE; King's College London;
 Bristol; Sheffield; York; Fudan; Thammasat; Jordan; Airlangga; Ca' Foscari University of Venice.
 Non-academic destinations include the OECD; National Assembly of Nigeria; Indonesia Audit
 Board; Abu Dhabi government; Thyssen Krupp.

 87% of submitted staff supervise PhD students (exceptions are mostly new starters). ECRs are
 paired with experienced colleagues and undertake University training on supervision. In line with
 our interdisciplinary focus, PhD supervision may be across departments at York.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 Ensuring that our research culture supports, values, and encourages contributions from all groups
 including ECRs, female faculty and BAME staff is an absolute priority for UYMS. Our approach is
 informed by a number of faculty who actively research EDI (Einarsdottir; Kowalski; McMurray;
 Mumford; Suter; Trehan). The Deputy Dean for Academic HR (McMurray) and PVC (Trehan) are
 both active in this research area which lends senior management support to initiatives. The
 University holds an Athena Swan Bronze Award (REF5a:37) and the School is working towards a
 departmental Bronze award (submitted 12/20).

 Figures 6 and 7 summarise Category A faculty by gender (all staff identify as binary) and whether

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 they are white British, BAME or from another background. 59% are male and 51% white British,
 with 13% BAME. Women and non-white-British are under-represented at Professorial level. The
 School has been led by both female (Schofield) and male (Freeman) permanent Deans in this
 REF period.




                                      Figure 6. Gender mix




                                        Figure 7. Ethnicity

 Early in this REF period, promotions and retention rates suggested potential gender equality
 issues. All five successful promotion cases from 2014-2017 were men, and women were more
 likely to leave the School. There has been some improvement with four women and seven men
 promoted since 2018, but women are still under-represented. The School has successfully
 increased its female retention rate, with only two women resigning since 2016.

 Equality, diversity and unconscious bias training are provided by the University and required for
 members of recruitment and selection panels. Appointments made during this REF period were
 60% male, 42% white-British and 17% BAME, with no overall clear distinction before and after
 2017. However, professorial appointments were 88% male and 88% white-British before 2017,
 compared to 58% male and 50% white-British thereafter. Again, this suggests that equality issues
                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are improving but not fully resolved, motivating our Athena Swan application which provides a
 comprehensive action plan for our next stage of development.

 UYMS Cultural Survey shows that female and male faculty are equally likely to report that they
 are ‘actively encouraged to take up career development opportunities’ which are widely advertised
 to all, through the UoY website, emails and posters. Equality and inclusion in accessing training
 is facilitated by requiring training needs to be discussed at annual performance reviews. Heads of
 Group consider staff’s individual circumstances when allocating workload, for example providing
 a teaching free term for staff returning from extended leave or ill health and fitting timetabled
 commitments around caring responsibilities.

 Regular events are held to raise staff awareness and improve understanding of issues, including
 Equality Matters monthly Masterclasses (Section 3). We have improved the visibility of role models
 for minority staff and women, responding to analysis showing that a surprisingly disproportionate
 number of external seminar speakers were male. A ‘Women Leaders’ initiative (lead: Angeli) was
 launched to provide support to female faculty, run a seminar series, identify potential visiting
 fellows, and organise events specifically targeted at the needs of female faculty. The School
 Advisory Board has members with expertise in EDI, including the Director of Future Inclusion and
 former Chair of Scope.

 We actively support flexible working arrangements, both for equality purposes and to ensure staff
 have an appropriate work-life balance. Staff can apply for flexible working arrangements including
 job share and job splitting, term-time only working, unpaid leave, career breaks, flexitime and
 flexible retirement. In 2020, we had one flexible retirement (male) and two professors working part-
 time (female).

 Our REF submission evidences the School’s commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion. An
 Equality Impact Assessment was undertaken on outputs selection. Analysis of gender and
 ethnicity variables identified no significant differences in number of outputs submitted or predicted
 grades (multivariate analysis, p>0.1). Our five impact cases include two led by women, three led
 by men, and one from a BAME member of faculty.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding
 Our strategy for growing research income has been to increase the number and value of external
 bids as Principal Investigator (PI), and to facilitate staff involvement as Co-Investigators (CI) in
 inter-institutional bids, consistent with our aim to apply disciplinary expertise within interdisciplinary
 teams. Figure 8 shows the significant upward trend in income since REF2014 (REF4b).
 Comparing 2013-14 with 2019-20, shows a 43% increase in number of PI bids, 300% increase in
 CI bids and 373% increase in value of PI bids. This was facilitated by cultural and organisational
 changes (Section 1), better promotion of opportunities and successes, training, mentoring and
 role modelling (Section 2), and pump-priming and dedicated bid support (detailed below).




                                                                                                   Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                   Figure 8. Research income

 We successfully bid for research income from a wide range of funders, including the EU,
 international research councils, charities, learned societies and professional bodies. Funding
 supported researchers at all career stages:

    •   Senior academics are PIs on strategically important, large and medium grants, expanding
        our interdisciplinarity and international collaborations: e.g. Doherty (IKnow Food; £3.3m,
        BBSRC); Einarsdottir and Mumford (LGBT+ Employee Networks £822k, ESRC); and da
        Silva Lopes (£167k combined Marie Curie and British Academy). The Doherty and da Silva
        Lopes grants have significant international dimensions across developed and developing
        countries. Following a bid in June 2020, Doherty (PI) and Ball were awarded a UKRI 5-
        year research programme “Transformations to Regenerative Food Systems” worth
        £5.88m, commencing January 2021.
    •   Faculty were Co-Is on large interdisciplinary projects across departments and institutions.
        Ball received two (internal) BBSRC innovation grants with BioVale/BDC on business
        waste, a THYME grant, with Biology, on anaerobic digestion, an ESRC PIN grant with
        Strathclyde on productivity and a White Rose collaboration award combining design,
        engineering, digital and management in the circular economy. Suter, Ball and Howorth
        collaborate with Aston University on an ESRC grant examining mental health management
        in SMEs. Further examples include Thijssen (NERC), Garnett (MRC, RAE), McBryde
        (HEFCE), Wells (EPSRC).
    •   Senior academics encourage and mentor early- and mid-career faculty to enhance skills
        in generating income. For example, Doherty mentored Gonzalez-Jimenez and Fastoso as
        co-investigators on a large interdisciplinary ESRC grant, and Luca and S.Hamilton to
        develop sustainability/resilience research. Luca has since independently applied as co-
        investigator for two external health-related interdisciplinary grants (MRC; NIHR).
    •   Faculty gained funding experience with applications to smaller, independent, external
        funders. Successes include: Hunter (Academy of Finland); Kumar (Rockefeller
        Foundation, Economic History Society); Mollan (Economic History Society, Wellcome
        Trust); Ha (British Academy); Huatuco (Newton Fund); Tse (British Academy); Garnett
        (BAM); Ramsden (London Mathematical Society).




                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Competitive internal grant funding provides bidding experience as well as resources.
        Examples of success by earlier career faculty include Suter and Kowalski (Wellcome
        Trust), Pecot and Matilal (Morrell Trust).
    •   Generating income from professional bodies, including the North Yorkshire Moors National
        Park (Linsley and McMurray), FIFA (Gillett and Tennent) and the Brewers’ Research
        Education Fund (Ball).

 Organisational Infrastructure

 Investing in Research Leadership
 UYMS invested heavily in building critical mass in areas aligned with our distinctive intellectual
 vision (Section 2). Chair appointments have emphasised engagement with research users and
 provided increased leadership of research impact. For example, Howorth guided Suter
 researching mental health in SMEs leading to increased outputs and successful funding bids.
 Impact within EJE has been strengthened through appointing Muzio (accounting and legal
 professions) and McMurray (marginalized industries), and within S&R by appointing Jia (supply
 chains) and Wells (sustainability). Impact in RIE has been strengthened by the appointment of
 Roberts (innovation), Freeman (social investment) and McNeil (banking; insurance). Two Chair
 appointments were made in 2019 (Kirkpatrick; Angeli) to enhance impact specifically in healthcare.

 Newly-created roles formalised responsibility for research leadership, including Director of
 Business and Community Engagement (DBCE), four research theme leads, Impact Lead and REF
 Lead.

 Financial Support for Research and Impact
 The School’s research budget is the largest component (>35%) of the operating budget. Internal
 financial support is provided for all Category A faculty, post-doctoral researchers and PGR
 students. Category A faculty have financial autonomy over an annual allocated personal research
 allowance (£2,000). In addition, they can apply for funding to support research and impact
 activities from the School’s Strategic Research Fund, Senior Management Team and other budget
 lines.

 In 2019-20, to better align research resources with strategy, the Research Director was given
 responsibility for allocating and managing the total research budget (later disrupted by Covid-19).
 Major budgeting lines included:

    •   Research dissemination, including conference attendance;
    •   Enhancing research infrastructure, pump priming, funding research databases, event and
        conference hosting;
    •   Postgraduate research support;
    •   Staff research training, in-house and external, including the ECR Forum and funding
        external staff training such as Chartered ABS and BAM programmes.

 Decisions on internal funding allocations aim to align resources with our vision and values, funding
 strategically important conferences, research theme activities and providing pump priming of
 research and impact. We recognise the importance of enabling ECRs to build their networks and
 prioritise them in internal funding decisions; for example, Pecot was supported to develop a
 relationship with Dom Pérignon/LVMH Group, enhancing his research on heritage brands.

 Each PGR student has a budget of £750 and can obtain additional support from the PGR
 conference fund. Postdoctoral researchers' needs (such as personal development) that fall
 outside their external grant funding are supported. The School Management Team has discretion
 to support funding requests outside research budget constraints.

 York hosts a series of Impact Accelerator Accounts (IAAs) (REF5a:50), with the Faculty Impact
 Manager providing proactive advice and support for applicants, as well as more general advice on

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pathways to impact and applications for funding. Eleven projects have successfully achieved
 funding from ESRC and GCRF IAAs and some interdisciplinary research has also accessed
 BBSRC IAAs and an AHRC aligned internal fund (YIAF) (total over £85k). IAAs have enabled the
 development of research impact across a wide range of interdisciplinary topics including
 volunteering (Suter); diversity (Einarsdottir); NHS workers (Kowalski); food security (Doherty);
 migrant workers (Jiang). The School has also promoted KTPs, with Jia successfully applying in
 July 2020 (£220k, Innovate UK), sharing expertise on agri-food supply chains in Ghana.

 Infrastructure, Facilities and Expertise Utilised in Impact Activities
 We invest in regular events to build relationships and develop research agendas between faculty
 and potential research users. An extensive series of regular Masterclasses (8-10 a year pre-Covid;
 weekly post-Covid) led by practitioners has included CEO Nestle; CTO Siemens; ex-Deputy
 Governor of the Central Bank of Turkey; Head of Sustainability, Adnams; CFO Silicon Valley;
 Equality and Diversity Manager Staffs Fire and Rescue, and the Institute of Management
 Consultants. Particular emphasis is placed on EDI and Circular Economy talks, the latter in
 partnership with Circular Yorkshire/York & North Yorkshire LEP. Speakers come from Europe,
 South America, South East Asia and North America, and half of the talks are given by young ‘rising
 stars’.

 The School offered a free, confidential Business Advisory Service as a direct response to the
 Covid outbreak. This was used by a range of local organisations including start-ups, community
 organisations, consultancies, food brands and retail. Many of the enquiries related to protecting
 or growing income and drew on research expertise in innovation, finance, business models and
 strategy.

 We ensure that we publicise our research in formats relevant to potential research users. As well
 as contributing to University events (REF5a:13), we invest in a variety of media, in keeping with
 our research focus. A series of short animations presents our research in layman’s terms, specific
 projects featured in the ITN / Chartered ABS film “The Impact Factor”, and our work was exhibited
 at the inaugural Chartered ABS Research Exhibition in 2019 (2020, invited contribution cancelled
 by Covid). In addition to support from the University’s Marketing and Media Relations Department,
 the School resources dedicated website and social media content development. Researchers are
 supported financially and with training to build communications skills and engagement with non-
 academic audiences.

 Research and Impact Governance
 UYMS invests heavily in governance of its research activity. The Departmental Research
 Committee (DRC) is a lively forum that reviews and implements research policies. DRC oversees
 research in themes and groups, ensures robust ECR representation in shaping research policies
 and processes, and monitors sources of research income. Sustainability of research leadership is
 assured through diverse membership including Research Director, Deputy Director, PGR Director,
 two Early Career Researchers, plus Theme Leads, Heads of Subject Groups, Head of Ethics
 Committee, REF Lead and DBCE, supported by the School Research Facilitator. The Director of
 Research serves on the Faculty Research Group and, ex-officio, University Research Committee.

 Formal mechanisms to support impact are overseen by the DBCE and supported by the Research
 Director, Research Theme Leads and Research Facilitator. The Research Director, DBCE and
 REF Lead sit on the School Management Team, ensuring strong representation in School strategy
 and resourcing.

 PGR is governed through the School’s Board of Postgraduate Research, comprising: Director and
 Deputy Director of Research, Director and Deputy Director of PGR, Heads of Group, ESRC
 Pathway Lead, two student representatives and the Research Facilitator, supported by a PGR
 administrator. This Board reports to DRC. University oversight is through the York Graduate
 Research School. Town Hall meetings and Staff Student Liaison Committees each term enable
 PGRs to share ideas and issues and help shape the development of the PGR programme.

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The School Advisory Board, chaired by Professor Sue Cox (Emeritus Dean, Lancaster), provides
 advice and support on strategy, engagement with research users, and extends industry and
 stakeholder networks. Members are from a range of for-profit business and not-for-profit
 organisations (including the Foreign Office and charities), with a shared interest in management
 with social purpose. The Board has a wide diversity of representation and strong focus on EDI
 matters.

 Operational Infrastructure
 In 2010, UYMS moved to the newly opened Campus East that provided modern and excellent
 facilities for research faculty and PGR students. However, successful growth and ambitious plans
 (Section 1) underpinned major investment in new accommodation during this REF period (ready
 Easter 2021), re-purposing a building acquired by the University in 2016. UYMS led the
 architectural design of this building, which substantially increases available space and facilitates
 our interdisciplinary strategy by being situated near the centre of campus. It incorporates individual
 offices and outstanding shared spaces for interdisciplinary working, plus excellent spaces for
 external engagement, including a high-specification lecture theatre, boardroom, seminar rooms
 and a large flexible events space. Dedicated PhD space, at the heart of the new building, is double
 the existing space. Increased office space is available for academic visitors, and for research,
 professional and support services. The new building is adjacent to ReCSS, which provides
 additional facilities for PhD students, research groups, research meetings, workshops and
 conferences, a training suite, interview and focus group rooms.

 UYMS acquires non-standard and higher specification IT solutions for individual health-related
 reasons and specific research needs. These include staff requiring video and film editing
 capabilities particularly for humanities-based research methods, and mathematical modellers and
 actuarial scientists needing increased computational power. Those requiring the most advanced
 solutions can access University IT facilities (REF5a:41) including the £2.5m Viking Cluster, the
 Advanced Research Computing Cluster and the N8 Centre of Excellence in Computationally
 Intensive Research. Staff using film, photography and visual media in their research benefit from
 the resources and expertise of the Department of Theatre, Film and Television. A full suite of
 relevant software includes Scientific Workplace; TeXworks; Mathematica; Maple; Matlab; SAS;
 Stata; SPSS; NVivo; Qualtrics. The School has funded purchase of specific software for individual
 researchers where needed. The School also purchased strategically important research
 databases, including CRSP; Compustat; Datastream; Binleys NHS Management; IBIS World; 2iQ.
 All IT services can be accessed remotely off-campus.

 Researchers in the School are well served through remote and 24 hour access to the University
 Library (REF5a:39), including over 21,000 journals. The Library's Research Support Team
 provides wide-ranging support, including a dedicated subject librarian and facilitating our open
 access strategy. Business and management historians in UYMS benefit from the University’s
 Borthwick Archive, whose business archives include Rowntree Mackintosh; Terry's; Vickers
 Scientific Instruments; NHS York.

 Professional support for research is provided by dedicated staff at Faculty and School level, which
 has grown significantly since 2014, as well as by a substantial team within University Research
 and Enterprise Services (REF5a, 49). Faculty support includes additional pump priming funds and
 specialist development groups (e.g. Faculty Impact Group). Professional research support officers
 within the Faculty and School provide guidance on external and internal funding bids, impact
 development and data management. Within UYMS, the team of professional research support
 staff includes: (i) a full-time Research Facilitator, a position created during this REF period, who
 assists with grant funding applications, data management and research events and (ii) two full-
 time administrators supporting researchers’ travel, conferences and events needs. Increases in
 support have strengthened the School’s interdisciplinary mission and underpin increased grant
 successes, especially large interdisciplinary grants and other collaborative activity.


                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Consistent with our strapline of “creating sustainable business, community and society” UYMS
 makes substantial contributions to the research base, economy and society.

 Collaboration with Research Networks and Partnerships
 In earlier sections, we describe key features of how we collaborate with external research
 networks. These include a variety of strategic partnerships and relationships established through
 the White Rose Consortium, N8, NARTI and Chartered ABS, and plans to further extend
 international networks through the University of York Europe Campus and the York-Maastricht
 partnership. We also actively support researchers at all career stages to develop their research
 networks via our sabbatical policy, financial support and other mechanisms. We additionally
 support collaboration through:

 Visiting Positions
 Inward and outward visiting positions facilitate research collaborations and extend influence. For
 example, Da Silva Lopes held a McCraw Fellowship at Harvard Business School, leading to
 Harvard Professor Fredona’s Marie Sklodowska-Curie Individual Fellowship at York. Freeman
 visited the Harvard University Center for the Environment, alongside being an invited speaker at
 a Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation workshop on cost-benefit analysis of healthcare provision in
 LMICs. Mollan undertook an extended sabbatical as Visiting Fellow at the Centre for International
 and Global Studies at Duke University. Howorth (Babson), McNeil (Le Centre de Recherches
 Mathématiques, Montreal) and Ruth (Northeastern) have also established notable networks in
 North America. UYMS has built a strong network in Japan through da Silva Lopes (Keio, Kyoto);
 Gonzalez-Jimenez (Rikkyo); Ha (Rikkyo, Keio); Mollan (Tohoku). Additional visiting positions held
 by faculty include:

    •   Europe: D’Ippolito (Bari); Dias (ETH Zurich); Garnett (Centro de Estudos Sociais); Howorth
        (Jonkoping); Linsley (Roma Tre); Luca (Lugano); Muzio (Leeds, Oxford, Luiss Guido Carli);
        Papadas (Athens); Pecot (Lorraine); Ruth (Bremen).
    •   Asia: Doherty (Thammasat); Hoque (North South); Jia (Zhejiang); Kirkpatrick (Huazhong
        University of Science and Technology, Wuhan).
    •   South America: Cooke (FGV-EASP, Brazil), Da Silva Lopes (University of Los Andes);
        Fastoso (ORT, Uruguay, working with Unilever); Pecot (ESPM, Brazil)
    •   Australasia: Kirkpatrick (Monash).

 Academic networks have formed the basis for significant international collaborations. For example,
 Thijssen is a partner of InvestExL, a collaboration between six universities (including Tilburg;
 Northwestern) and an industry partner (Hydro), led by Norwegian University of Science and
 Technology. Einarsdottir is Chair of the European Cooperation in Science and Technology (COST)
 Action on LGBTI+ social and economic (in)equalities involving 30 members representing 14
 European countries. Howorth chaired the STEP Global Family Enterprising Project until 2018,
 involving 36 universities from five continents.

 Since 2014, UYMS has hosted over 20 visiting international scholars from Japan; China; North
 America; Europe; South America. In addition to funding through the University visiting scholar
 scheme, the School provides funding for two distinguished visiting professors per annum. Visiting
 PhD students must be approved by DRC and we have hosted students from Brazil; China;
 Germany; Netherlands; Italy. Huberts visited UYMS as a PhD student from Tilburg before joining
 the School as a Category A member of faculty.

 Engaging with Learned Societies
 Faculty make significant contributions within learned societies. For example: Mumford is an
 elected member of the Council of the Royal Economic Society; da Silva Lopes strengthened her
 leadership of business history as President of the Association of Business Historians, President

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the American Business History Conference and President Elect of the European Association of
 Business History. Examples of early and mid-career faculty developing their networks through
 learned societies include: Luca (Chair of the European Social Marketing Association); Ha
 (Advisory Committee Member, Euro-Asia Management Studies Association); Powell (Board
 Member, International Research Society for Public Management); S.Hamilton (Distinguished
 Lecturer, Organization of American Historians).

 Faculty are also Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences (Cooke; Linstead), the Royal Society
 of Arts (Garnett; Linstead; Mumford) and the Royal Geographical Society (Linstead). Trehan is
 President of the Institute for Small Business and Entrepreneurship. Faculty are supported to
 undertake leadership positions, including division leadership in the Academy of Management
 (Cooke; D’Ippolito), and active roles within the British Academy of Management, including BAM
 Fellow Cooke (elected September 2020), council member Glaister and three SIG Chairs (Glaister;
 Huatuco; Tennent). 23 faculty held formal roles on boards or committees of learned societies since
 2014.

 Engaging with EDI Networks
 We are committed to collaborating in networks that support EDI in research. Trehan served as an
 Advisory Member on the Diversity and Inclusion Council for the British Bankers’ Association, and
 Equality and Human Rights Commission. She also leads the Centre for Women's Enterprise
 Leadership Economy and Diversity and was awarded the Diversity and Inclusion Leadership
 Award for championing leadership inclusivity by Business Desk. Mumford was Chair of the Royal
 Economic Society Women’s Committee (RES WC) and a member of the European Economic
 Association Standing Committee of Women in Economics. She also established the UK
 economics mentoring system to encourage and motivate young women in the profession. Other
 examples include Swaffield, a member of RES WC, and Einarsdottir, a member of the Diversity
 Committee of the Chartered ABS. UYMS hosted the Chartered ABS 2018 workshop on Athena
 Swan and gender inclusivity in business schools.

 Organising Research Events
 Research events further support network and partnership building. Since 2013, UYMS has hosted
 over 100 guest speakers. Recent examples include Suddaby (Alberta); Hansen (Copenhagen);
 Friedman (Harvard); Leicht (Illinois). We have hosted prestigious national and international events
 including: BAM SIG Chairs 2019 (Tennent); SCOS 2019 (Baxter); N8 Food Summit 2019
 (Doherty); IFB 2017 (Howorth); ERRN 2016 (Linsley). We also run international two-day Open
 Innovation workshops (Roberts; D’Ippolito).

 We lead developmental events with other universities and learned societies (e.g. Academy of
 Management; EGOS; BAM), and events that build scholarship and professional skills, such as the
 Interdisciplinary Approaches to the Study of Brand Heritage (CEGBI). Through these activities,
 our researchers maintain an active dialogue with the wider academy, which develops their
 disciplinary expertise and fosters the exchange of new ideas and innovative research.

 Collaboration with Research Users and Contributions to Economy and Society
 Collaborations with research users and contributions to the economy and society go hand-in-hand
 through the co-creation of knowledge and end user commitment to research findings (Section 1).
 We proactively develop long-term relationships with a range of organisations, including
 corporates, third sector organisations, trade unions, central banks, public organisations and social
 movements. Our ICSs provide five detailed examples, but we have many other strands of
 collaboration and contribution, some noted in Section 1 (Figure 2) and summarised below.

 Business
 UYMS staff have made significant contributions to the field of banking regulation. The Board of
 Governors of the Federal Reserve System applies McNeil’s research as part of its monitoring of
 the trading risk management models of banks. In correspondence with the School, the Federal
 Reserve stated: “We have noticed a substantial increase in the quality of data submitted by banks

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 since we began applying the tools and informing banks of the issues found. Without this data
 quality step, the data would have been uninformative, and it forms an important part of the data
 collection process we use to supervise banks trading activities in the United States”. McNeil
 continues to work actively with the Federal Reserve on potential new impact applications of
 spectral backtesting models and other matters. He is also a member of the Validation Advisory
 Committee of the global reinsurer SCOR. Myrseth works with the Federal Reserve Bank of
 Cleveland. He helped develop and launch a daily tracking survey of consumer expectations and
 behaviour, focused on the Covid-19 pandemic. Survey data is published weekly.

 Howorth has been collaborating with the Institute for Family Business (IFB) for over 10 years, co-
 producing research around governance and next generations in family business. This work has
 fed into IFB policy and education and led to advisory roles with Family Business Network - Europe,
 whose members include some of the largest family businesses in Europe, as well as UK-based
 Family Business Network. Executive training for programmes such as ‘Quolux LEAD’, ‘Productivity
 Through People’, and IFB have helped family businesses improve their governance and increase
 understanding of next generation and succession issues. Trehan also researches leadership in
 family businesses and reported to the IFB Research Foundation on family businesses’ roles in the
 community, feeding into IFB education and advocacy. Understanding of family business
 philanthropy contributes to the Interdisciplinary Global Development Centre (Kumar).

 Our research also impacts on business from an industrial relations perspective. Royle has advised
 the European Federation of Food, Agriculture and Tourism Trade Unions, and the International
 Union of Food Agricultural Hotel, Restaurant, Catering, Tobacco and Allied Workers Associations.
 His research on employment practices in 28 EU member states has been used to advise the EU
 Economic and Social Committee and raise public awareness of the plight of marginalised groups.

 Community
 At the community level, our research on the management of healthcare organisations is
 noteworthy. Findings from their research collaboration with Suter and Kowalski on impacts of 12
 hour shift patterns led Tees, Esk and Wear Valleys NHS Foundation Trust to invest £1 million into
 trialling flexible working. Einarsdottir and Mumford’s ESRC funded research on LGBT+ networks
 was in partnership with Swansea Bay University Health Board, NHS Employers, Stonewall, and
 Employers Networks for Equality and Inclusion, and led improvements in the governance and
 impact of LGBT networks. This work exemplifies our commitment to the co-creation of research
 knowledge, involving nine case studies and over 4000 NHS staff. McCann works with emergency
 services workers, providing insights into the tensions between control and professionalism,
 including evidence for the UK Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee inquiry into ambulance
 services (2017) and the Australian Parliament Senate Standing Committee inquiry into mental
 health of first responders (2019).

 Society
 Much of our work at societal level involves influencing government policy and practice. Freeman
 co-authored detailed reports for HM Treasury, the Office for National Statistics, and the
 International Seabed Authority on long-term social discount rates and the valuation of
 intergenerational projects including climate change mitigation investment. His work is regularly
 cited in international policy guidance and underpins discounting guidance in the Treasury’s ‘Green
 Book’ on cost-benefit analysis in the public sector and on consistent discounting treatment within
 the National Accounts. Banerjee’s examination of community question-answering sites (e.g.
 Yahoo Answers) in relation to terrorism was discussed by the All Party Parliamentary Group on
 Bullying and circulated to the Military Intelligence Unit (counter-terrorism) at Catterick Garrison.
 Faculty work directly with governmental departments: Doherty is seconded on a 0.5FTE basis to
 DEFRA as a Senior Research Policy Fellow on Food Systems; Swaffield is a Member of the Home
 Office Migration Advisory Committee; ICS3 highlights Mumford’s collaboration with the Low Pay
 Commission.



                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We also inform and raise public awareness of social and business history. One example is Gillett
 and Tennent on the management of sporting events. Whilst early career lecturers, they were
 awarded a João Havelange Scholarship by FIFA and the Centre International d’Etude du Sport in
 Switzerland to undertake a pioneering management history of the 1966 FIFA World Cup. Their
 research featured in an exhibition at Wembley stadium and the National Football Museum,
 attracting 225,000 unique visitors. An invited webinar presentation to Stanford University’s Center
 for Global Projects examined the 1966 and 1994 World Cups. Their blog, Soccer-Mad Boffins, has
 over 70,000 views, globally.

 Engagement with communities and publics
 We adopt a wide range of approaches to engage diverse communities and publics. Faculty feature
 regularly on traditional mass media platforms, including The New York Times, The Conversation,
 Guardian, Reuters and Huffington Post. Topical subjects have featured on national TV and radio
 (Royle; Thijssen in the UK and regular contributions on Dutch national radio). Research may be
 aimed at particular audiences through specialist outlets such as Farming Today (Doherty;
 McMurray). Our faculty regularly disseminate their research to non-academic audiences through
 the University’s suite of public engagement activities (REF5a:13), including York Talks, YorNights,
 the Festival of Ideas and events organised by the University’s Research Champions (REF 5a:4).
 Our Masterclasses are advertised widely and attract members of the public, as well as business
 and policy audience members.

 In addition, UYMS is distinctive in using non-traditional methods for gathering data, and co-
 creating and disseminating knowledge. This is evidenced in our ICSs (notably ICS2; ICS5) but
 features in the work of other colleagues. A prime example is Wells’ collaboration with the charity
 Global Action Plan. Working closely with the public on pro- and anti-social behaviour of consumers
 in relation to the environment, Wells used social marketing techniques to engage consumers and
 facilitate pro-environmental behaviour. Linstead leads the use of film and other media to
 disseminate research. During the Covid crisis, Linstead compiled an illustrated book of poetry,
 (Viral Verses) on public perceptions of the pandemic, with a forward by Margaret Drabble and
 contributions from 30 artists and 50 writers including Ian McMillan and Mike Harding.

 Contributions to the Research Base
 Our commitment to creating distinctive world-leading research that delivers “sustainable business,
 community and society” has translated into our contribution to the research base.

 Publication Leadership and Refereeing
 Faculty engaged heavily in journal editorships and on editorial boards during this REF period
 (Figure 9, current faculty), including senior editorial roles on a number of journals, such as general
 editor of the Journal of Management Studies (Muzio); senior editor of the Journal of Risk and
 Insurance (McNeil); joint Editor-in-Chief of The International Journal of Productivity and
 Performance Management (Huatuco); co-Editor in Chief of Competition and Change (McCann).
 Faculty have also been instrumental in the creation of new journals; for example, Urban Climate
 (Ruth); Journal of Professions and Organization (Muzio); Social Enterprise Journal (Doherty). Ruth
 served as a Review Editor to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Fifth
 Assessment Report, (Working Group III).




                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




       Figure 9. Number of journal editorships and board memberships (not Special Issues)

 A majority of our lecturers held editorial board positions in this period, including Kumar (AMLE,
 Organization); Jiang (Work Employment and Society); and ECRs Powell (Public Management
 Review); Pecot (Journal of Advertising Research). Lin (ECR) is an Associate Editor of Frontiers in
 Sustainability.

 In addition, faculty provide leadership of specific topics, and gain editing experience, through
 editing special issues of journals. Since 2013, 22 staff (37%) have edited 38 special issues. For
 example, Kowalski edited the special issue on wellbeing in the workplace in the International
 Journal of HRM. All our Category A staff are actively engaged in refereeing for journals, academic
 conferences and/or grant bodies (e.g. UKRI; British Academy; Australian Research Council). A
 number of colleagues have won “Best Reviewer” awards, including lecturers Banerjee; Ha; Kumar.

 Book series editors demonstrate leadership of research agenda, often reflecting our focus on
 sustainability, equality and contribution to society, including da Silva Lopes 'The Routledge
 Companion to the Makers of Global Business' (Routledge); McMurray ‘Focus on Women Writers’
 (Routledge); Hamilton ‘American Business, Politics & Society’ (University of Pennsylvania Press).

 Prizes and awards
 Our faculty’s contribution to the research base is also recognised through a number of prestigious
 awards. Mumford was appointed a Commander of the British Empire in 2016 for services to
 Economics and Labour Market Diversity. Linstead’s multiple awards for his film Black Snow are
 documented in ICS2, including winner of the AHRC Research Film of the Year 2018 and “Best
 Short” at the Hollywood International Independent Documentary Awards. Examples of journal
 awards include: (i) Myrseth, awarded a Journal of Finance 2020 Dimensional Fund Advisors
 Distinguished Paper Prize for his 2019 paper ‘YOLO: Mortality beliefs and household finance
 puzzles’; (ii) Jia, Jack Meredith Best Paper Award “Honorable Mention” 2019, Journal of
 Operations Management; (iii) Mollan, Best Paper Award 2019, Journal of Management History;
 (iv) Manahov, Financial Review Readers' Choice Best Paper Award 2016. Three UYMS authors,
 Powell, Gillett and Doherty won the Kooiman Prize 2019 for best paper of the year in Public
 Management Review.

 Kumar was a finalist in the William H Newman All Academy Award at the Academy of Management
 conference 2016 having won the Best Critical Management Education Paper. Also at AoM 2016,
 Angeli won the Best International Healthcare Management paper and was nominated for the
 Carolyn Dexter Award. Faculty have received a number of other prizes and awards at academic
 conferences. Trehan won an ESRC Outstanding Impact in Business and Enterprise Prize and

                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 College of Social Science Impact Prize on Society. Kirkpatrick won the best paper award at the
 last two Organisational Behaviour in Healthcare conferences (2018, 2020). Doctoral students
 awarded prizes include Marzouk, top 10, EDAMBA Thesis Competition 2019.

 Keynotes
 Faculty are in demand as keynote speakers: 34 staff were invited keynote speakers at academic
 conferences, delivering 83 keynote speeches, across six continents, including multiple EIASM and
 learned society conferences such as European Risk Research (Linsley) Belgian Statistical Society
 (McNeil) and Presidential Address at the Business History conference (Da Silva Lopes, Colombia).
 Topics ranged from ‘systems thinking for sustainability’ (Huatuco, Brazil) through ‘mathematics in
 finance’ (McNeil, South Africa) to ‘animals in business schools’ (L.Hamilton, USA and Finland). 22
 staff were keynote speakers at ‘research user’ conferences, delivering 72 keynote speeches to a
 broad range of audiences from UNCTAD, MEPs, EU Commission, UK Government, NHS,
 professional bodies, charities and businesses.

 Collaboration for PGR Training
 We engage with NARTI and WRDTP on PGR and ECR training (Section 2). Faculty regularly
 provide specialised training within the NARTI partnership: for example, in 2019-20 Linstead on
 researching timing and spacing in organisations, and L.Hamilton on ethnography. Our faculty are
 actively engaged in wider leadership of PGR partnerships. For example, Mollan is Director of the
 WRDTP Sustainable Growth, Management, and Economic Productivity pathway. Glaister is a
 board member of EDAMBA, the NARTI committee, and a Council Member of the British Academy
 of Management.

 Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline
 In Section 1, we highlighted that organisational problems rarely focus on a single discipline and
 there are few economic and societal challenges that are not in part caused by underlying
 organisational dynamics. Interdisciplinarity is thus key to how we contribute to sustainability of the
 disciplines within business and management. Section 1 identified areas of expertise. Here, we
 elaborate on how we contribute to discipline sustainability by stretching the boundaries of
 traditional disciplines and frequently applying management expertise outside a business context.

    •   UYMS staff contribute to the theorisation of complex organisations such as social
        enterprises, public bodies and professional firms and how they manage competing
        demands from social and commercial pressures, particularly when related to sustainability.
        This is central to Doherty’s highly-cited work theorising social enterprises in fair trade as
        hybrid organisations (ICS1), which is extended through collaborations with Gillett, Loader
        and Powell. Hybridity and its implications has also been central to Muzio’s work on global
        professional service firms and ‘wrongdoing’, and examinations of professionalisation and
        control (Howorth; McCann), including D’Ippolito’s research on the BBC’s handling of
        disruptive effects of digitalisation and competition from new entrants.
    •   We continue to develop distinctive expertise in research methods; for example as a means
        of engaging with marginalised communities using participatory art. Linstead’s theoretical
        work on Organisational Aesthetics (ICS2) underpins this significant body of research,
        which includes video booths and theatre performances employed by Einarsdottir and
        Mumford in their LGBT+ networks project and contributions by Jiang (ICS5), McMurray,
        L.Hamilton and others on the interaction of art, film and management. We are committed
        to history research, providing insights for international business and strategy (Da Silva
        Lopes; Mollan) but also extending history’s scale and scope, such as S.Hamilton
        contributing his understanding of the history of food and agriculture to food security
        research in the N8 Agrifood project, and Cooke examining the history of management
        thought.
    •   A substantial body of research on novel ways to calculate risk, wellbeing and social value
        employs mathematical and theoretical approaches led by three professors with strong
        external relationships: McNeil (Federal Reserve; SCOR); Freeman (HM Treasury; ONS);


                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Thijssen (InvestExL). With additional expertise in actuarial science (Dias; Ramsden),
        mathematical approaches to investment under uncertainty (Bregantini; Huberts),
        theoretical econometrics (Cornea-Madeira) and the psychology (Myrseth) and philosophy
        (Linsley) of risk management, our work in this field is distinct from more traditional empirical
        finance. For example, Linsley and McMurray, in partnership with the North York Moors
        National Parks Authority, provided an important first step in theorising how National Parks
        can measure their impact on society.
    •   Empirical studies of the societal impact of organisations examine positive and negative
        impacts on sustainability, employees, communities and innovation. Led by Roberts, Wells
        and Jia, researchers often work at the intersection of marketing, innovation and operations,
        combining expertise in supply chains (Huatuco; Jia) circular economy (Ball), open and user
        innovation (D’Ippolito; Lin; Roberts) and consumer behaviour (Banerjee; Kapetanaki;
        Wells). For example, Huatuco contributes understanding of disruptions to supply chains
        and how decision-support models might help to create more sustainable societies. Ball has
        applied his expertise in improving systems performance to diverse topics from
        environmental footprints to employee mental health.
    •   Faculty bring alternative perspectives to healthcare management and organisation.
        Drawing on under-utilised, longitudinal, administrative data, Kirkpatrick mapped the nature,
        antecedents and impact of management in healthcare organisations, including the role of
        clinicians and external consultants. Angeli has pioneered the use of administrative data in
        the Dutch and Italian healthcare systems to theorise and evaluate networks and the
        dynamics of ‘coopetition’ between hospitals and other organisations. Emphasis on
        interdisciplinarity in our re-structure enabled us to align this work with that of Luca and
        Kapetanaki in the field of social marketing and healthcare, and Suter and Kowalski in
        healthcare HRM.

 We will continue to build on our strengths in the coming years. Our commitment to deeper
 collaboration with colleagues in Social Policy and formalisation of international partnerships makes
 York an exciting research environment for Business and Management scholars, with opportunities
 and support at all stages of their careers. Combining academic rigour with problem focus will
 ensure that our research continues to contribute to “creating sustainable business, community and
 society”.




                                                                                                Page 24
