Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Edinburgh

 Unit of Assessment: Law


 1. Unit context, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure

 Edinburgh Law is a dynamic and inclusive community of legal, sociolegal and criminology
 scholars (74.1 FTE). We empower staff at all career stages to realise ambitious research and
 impact goals in commercial law; criminal law and evidence; criminology; EU law; international
 law; IP, media and technology law; legal history; legal theory; medical law and bioethics; private
 law; and public law. In this assessment period, we invested £35m to transform our estate,
 creating a cohesive infrastructure for interaction and collaboration; increased and diversified
 research and impact awards; and expanded the critical mass and quality of our environment.

 Significant achievements and successes include:

       growing research expertise through 15 posts in areas of strategic research need and
        expanding postdoctoral opportunities (by 30% since REF2014);

       strengthening an exceptional track record for research income with external awards at
        all career stages (£15m won in the assessment period, with average funding increased
        by 87% per year since REF2014);

       securing prestigious research fellowships (three Leverhulme Trust Major Research
        Fellowships, British Academy Global Professorship, AHRC Leadership Fellow and
        Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship);

       improving an already strong PhD completion trajectory (130.5 doctoral researchers
        successfully completed their studies in this assessment period compared to 70 for
        REF2014, with average annual completions rising from 14.17 to 18.64); and

       being recognised for the impact of our work, notably through two ESRC Celebrating
        Impact Prizes (Outstanding Public Policy Impact, McAra and McVie, 2019; Outstanding
        Early Career Impact, Murray, 2016).

 We contribute discipline-leading insights on questions concerning the devolved, national,
 European and international legal arenas as well as at their intersection; harnessing legal,
 sociolegal and criminological research to realise a more just and equitable society; and exploring
 the potential and limits of law in responding to fast-paced change. We spearhead
 interdisciplinary research through funded projects, internal appointments (notably in bioethics
 and criminology) and external collaboration; and apply diverse methodologies, with particular
 strengths in comparative, empirical and historical inquiry. A strong civic commitment is
 cultivated across our work, and we support colleagues to share and showcase the impact of
 their research. In 2018, we returned to our landmark Old College home…



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 … following transformative internal refurbishment.




                                                      Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We now have facilities and a Law Library (Section 3) fit for a global law school in the historic
 heart of the university and the city. Fulfilling a REF2014 objective, this extensive investment
 delivered unified and fully accessible accommodation for all of our community and those who
 engage with us; achieved through a new arterial staircase wrapped around a lift that connects all
 five Old College floors for the first time in its history.



 Research and impact strategy: what did we do?

 Over this assessment period, we prioritised identifying and advancing substantive research
 themes, while ensuring the quality and furthering the ambition of what we do. For
 REF2014, we implemented a policy of managed expansion, increasing activity within cognate
 areas by framing research and impact strategy around nine research centres and institutes.
 These continue to thrive and support research activity by connecting researchers at all career
 stages working in specific fields (Section 2) and facilitating dissemination through outward facing
 activities, including user engagement (Section 4). A strategic shift towards support for themes
 representing distinctive strength that traverses different areas was an important next step,
 and we have fostered three cross-cutting themes to date.

 Law and global justice

 Across multiple research contexts, Edinburgh Law scholars explore concepts and challenges
 connected to the evolution of global governance, especially for the Global South. Strands of this
 work confront urgent questions at the heart of understanding how law shapes optimal
 conditions for justice in a densely connected world.

 The ambitious ‘Political Settlements Research Programme’ led by Bell (PI, £6.4m, FCDO)
 investigates peace settlement conditions in contexts as diverse as Afghanistan, Colombia,
 Ethiopia-Ogaden and Nepal, examining how peace processes attempt to revise political
 settlements to make them more inclusive in order to end violent conflict. The project team is
 drawn from law, political science and international relations and the impact of their work is
 elaborated in Case Study 3. A major project output, the PA-X Peace Agreements Database, is
 described below. Facilitating post-conflict reform, Welikala applied his research on sub-state
 constitutionalism to support legal and cultural change in Myanmar (Case Study 1). He also
 drafted the legislative scheme that became Sri Lanka’s Right to Information Act (2016),
 independently assessed as one of the strongest freedom of information regimes in the world: in
 2017, RTI Rating (the global methodology for assessing the strength of right to information (RTI)
 laws) scored this Act at 131 points, ranking third globally and first in Asia.

 Our engagement with the Global Challenges Research Fund includes Porter’s ESRC-funded
 interdisciplinary project on ‘Smart Regulation of Antibiotic Use in India’ (PI, £515.4k), which
 investigates problems surrounding the regulation of antimicrobial resistance containment and
 brings together research and user partners in India and the UK; Ghaleigh’s ‘Clean ECA [export
 credit agency] Hub’ project to develop legal interventions against coal infrastructure in Indonesia
 (PI, £31.7k), collaborating with a wide range of partners and stakeholders; and Ruiz Abou-
 Nigm’s creation of an interdisciplinary international cluster researching implementation of the
 2018 UN Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration in Latin America (PI, £30k).



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Law and challenges of change

 Edinburgh Law researchers interrogate the role of law in supporting – or stifling – technological
 advancement through collaborative research (Section 4). For example, members of the Scottish
 Research Centre for IP and Technology Law (SCRIPT) explore the intersection of law,
 technology and society from a multidisciplinary and multi-jurisdiction perspective.
 Schafer is co-director of the AHRC-funded ‘Creative Informatics: Data Driven Innovation for the
 Creative Industries’ project (£5.6m, £3.4m to UoE), designed to encourage collaboration
 between creative industries and universities; and Urquhart works on ‘Emotional AI in Cities’ (Co-
 I, £107.3k, co-funded by the ESRC and the Japan Science & Technology Agency), investigating
 the socio-technical, design, governance and cultural dimensions of affect-sensing technologies
 in urban life in Japan and the UK from a range of stakeholder perspectives.

 McAra leads the Edinburgh Futures Institute (EFI), a £140m initiative which is part of UoE’s
 £661m Data-Driven Innovation programme established through the Edinburgh and South East
 Scotland City Region Deal (£237m awarded to UoE by the UK and Scottish Governments in
 2018). EFI is UoE’s flagship catalyser of activity in social and data science, arts and humanities
 to support society’s navigation of complex futures. Its major themes and programmes (notably
 data-driven innovation and the deploying of digital technologies for social good) spark regulatory
 challenges that connect compellingly to Edinburgh Law’s research and engagement activities.
 EFI has provided seed-corn funding for Avgouleas (knowledge exchange and conference events
 on the regulatory challenges of FinTech) and Bhuta (project on ‘AI and the Battlefield’). Bhuta
 further combined an external award (PI, £49.9k, Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland)
 with UoE pump-priming support (£20k from Edinburgh Law, the College of Arts, Humanities and
 Social Sciences (CAHSS) Challenge Investment Fund, and EFI) to establish an interdisciplinary
 network on the relationship between international legal obligations and emerging
 applications of AI, engaging policymakers, computer scientists, technologists, industry
 representatives and individuals at the cutting-edge of developing and using such systems.

 The ‘challenges of change’ theme is differently exemplified by Laurie’s Wellcome Senior
 Investigator Award (PI, £1m, ‘Confronting the Liminal Spaces of Health Research Regulation’),
 which produced the first-ever integrated, interdisciplinary and cross-sectoral analysis of health
 research regulation by exploring the spaces ‘in-between’ law and governance practice as
 experienced by actors grappling with regulation in action, such as research ethics committees
 (Case Study 4). Building on that legacy, project researcher Ganguli-Mitra won a Wellcome
 Trust Seed Award in 2018 (PI, £66k) to research ‘Vulnerability and Justice in Global Health
 Emergency Regulation’, with innovative and acutely prescient emphasis on ‘anticipating the
 future’ given the urgency and uncertainty that characterise health emergencies. Edinburgh Law
 research and impact expertise has confronted the myriad dimensions of the COVID-19
 pandemic, with work underway in areas as diverse as employment law, global justice, human
 rights, information technologies, policing, and public health policy.

 Law and (in)equalities

 McVie’s leadership of the ‘Understanding Inequalities’ project (PI, £1.5m, ESRC Research
 Grant) epitomises this research theme. This work explores the causes and consequences of
 inequalities across a range of policy domains, focusing on Scotland but with comparative work
 across the UK and beyond. The project provides robust evidence to inform new policy solutions

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to multiple forms of inequality and contributes to new data sources and methodological
 approaches (drawing from criminology and economics) for researching different types and
 aspects of inequality. It builds on the Applied Quantitative Methods Network (AQMeN), an
 ESRC-funded research centre (2013-2017).

 Our leadership in applying qualitative and quantitative methods in criminological research
 continues through the path-breaking Edinburgh Study of Youth Transitions and Crime (ESYTC).
 Led by McAra and McVie, ESYTC is a major longitudinal study of a single cohort of
 approximately 4,300 young people who started secondary school in Edinburgh in 1998, using
 multiple methods of data collection. In this assessment period, McAra and McVie published
 influential papers (e.g. British Journal of Criminology) highlighting the detrimental impact of
 poverty on offending and criminal conviction; underlining the complex cyclical interplay between
 offending, justice system contact and poverty, with particular relevance for the Scottish
 Government’s Child Poverty Action Plan. The impact of their work is presented in Case Study 5.

 On the theme of ‘navigating inclusion’, a core stream of Bell’s ‘Political Settlement Research
 Programme’ examined the neglected dimensions of gender and non-dominant minorities in
 peace processes; for example, using mixed methodologies to demonstrate how women’s
 experience of enduring gendered violence affects their ability to access and influence the realm
 in which political settlements emerge and evolve, and to propose solutions (Case Study 3).
 Finally, the Scottish Feminist Judgments Project (coordinated by Cowan and Kennedy with
 Munro, Warwick) convened academics, practising lawyers, judges and representatives from the
 third sector to rewrite historical judgments, generating interdisciplinary reflection on how laws
 can be made and applied in more gender equitable ways. A particular novelty stems from the
 project’s emphasis on creative arts (supported through several awards, including the Royal
 Society of Edinburgh, £7.1k and a UoE Innovation Initiative Grant, £4.9k) to encourage
 empathetic exploration of real cases through a gender-sensitive lens (Section 4). CAHSS
 Overseas Development funding (£10.1k) enabled an Edinburgh workshop in 2019 involving
 researchers from the African and Indian Feminist Judgment Projects.



 Research and impact strategy: how did we do it?

 Underpinned by the ambition of enabling researcher empowerment (Section 2), we evolved
 from ‘structure’ to ‘theme’ by pursuing three strategic objectives.

 Ensuring disciplinary legacy in areas of strength

 For this objective, we sought to: (a) stimulate applications for fellowships; (b) extend doctoral
 research provision across research areas; and (c) invest in areas of strength by nurturing
 research leaders. For (a), we had strong success in highly competitive fellowship schemes,
 prioritised to stimulate ambitious projects in key research areas. We won Leverhulme Trust
 Major Research Fellowships in three successive years (Nic Shuibhne, ‘(Con)founding the
 Union: Equal Treatment in an Unequal Europe’, £160.2k, 2016; Shaw, ‘Citizenship and
 Citizenship Regimes: A Global Remapping for the 21st Century’, £143.6k, 2017; Walker, ‘Law,
 Community and Utopia’, £176.2k, 2018). Collectively, these awards reflect significant
 contributions to the conceptual and supranational dimensions of constitutional governance. In
 2019, augmenting expertise in legal argumentation and virtue jurisprudence, we welcomed a

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 British Academy Global Professor (Amaya Navarro, ‘Law, Virtue and Political Community’,
 £544.3k). Demonstrating support for researchers at all career stages, Kennedy achieved an
 AHRC Leadership Fellow award (‘Identity Deception: A Critical History’, £192k, early career
 route, 2019) and Sutton won a Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship (‘Frontline Land:
 The Everyday Life of International Humanitarian Law’, £90.7k, 2019).

 For (b), Edinburgh Law had 94 doctoral researchers at census date, sustaining our position as
 one of the largest PGR communities in the discipline within the UK. As to the goal of
 extending PGR engagement across research areas, a significant achievement is that 63 staff
 were involved in PGR supervision compared to 35 for REF2014. For (c), proactive nurturing of
 research leaders is evidenced by the fact that while the number of PIs at Grade 10 mirrors that
 for REF2014, we achieved a notable increase in award-holders at Grade 9 (13 for REF2021;
 four for REF2014).

 Fostering promising fields of research

 Across the assessment period, we created 15 strategic appointments to open up seams of
 research and impact activity, especially in commercial and private law; global law; and IP, media
 and technology law (Section 2). Retaining outstanding junior colleagues was another key
 priority and the sequel to Laurie’s Wellcome Senior Investigator Award (PI, £1m) provides a
 striking example of success, doubling the medical law and bioethics team compared to
 REF2014. Transitioning from fixed-term research contracts on the project, Ganguli-Mitra and
 Sethi achieved prestigious tenure-track UoE Chancellor’s Fellowships (affirming the significance
 of law in EFI’s vision, Sethi was appointed as Data-Driven Innovation Chancellor’s Fellow); Dove
 and Sorbie are now Lecturers in Law; and MacMillan and Postan were appointed on the project
 after successful completion of their PhDs, each ultimately as Senior Research Fellow.

 Attracting external funding

 Edinburgh Law is a UK leader for external research funding. As the awards achieved by Bell (PI,
 £6.4m, FCDO), Laurie (PI, £1m, Wellcome) and McVie (PI, £1.5m, ESRC) demonstrate, we
 ensured continued success in leading large-scale projects that engage and aim to benefit
 research users and are premised on interdisciplinary approaches. Moreover, we achieved
 82 external funding awards in the assessment period, supporting a remarkably varied range of
 projects (Section 3). 72% of our research income was awarded to female colleagues. We also
 closed a PI gender gap (25 female and 22 male PIs REF2021; 18 female and 25 male PIs
 REF2014). Comprehensive and tailored pre-award support as well as rigorous internal
 peer review are critical factors in our funding strategy (Section 3) and we cascade this culture of
 peer assistance across our activities more generally through reading groups, training events and
 weekly ‘work in progress’ seminars.



 Enabling and supporting the achievement of research impact

 Edinburgh Law supports impactful research that makes a difference locally, influencing policy
 development in Scotland in areas as diverse as Brexit, criminal justice and policing, health
 research regulation, and property law reform; and makes a difference globally, engaging with
 the Council of Europe on the right to property, with the European Union on better banking

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 regulation, and internationally with actors and institutions that determine post-conflict
 settlements. Both within and beyond the UK, our researchers contribute expertise through
 advisory roles and secondments, and our work is cited regularly in the Scottish courts and UK
 Supreme Court and by Advocates General at the Court of Justice of the European Union.
 Examples of these achievements are provided in Section 4.

 To consolidate but also build on REF2014 impact success, we created a Research
 Communications and Impact Manager post in 2016 to amplify and facilitate stakeholder
 engagement. As a result, we supported researchers to exploit impact-focused support initiatives,
 especially for exploratory projects and, as a result, had notable success in CAHSS KE funding
 competitions (nine awards totalling £21.6k in the assessment period, examples in Section 3).

 We have also promoted diversity across the theories, methods and applications of our research,
 which extends our local and global reach; facilitates cross-fertilisation and interdisciplinarity; and
 enables the forging of new research and impact collaborations and partnerships. For example,
 for REF2014, we identified reinvigorating the Empirical Legal Research Network (ELRN) as a
 central objective. Led by Dove, ELRN has deepened engagement with policymakers and
 researchers by facilitating trans-disciplinary collaboration; helping to disseminate results to users
 within and beyond UoE; and providing a resource hub of skills and legal expertise for
 academics, policymakers and practitioners. It hosts an annual Empirical Legal Research Festival
 and recently launched ECR/PGR empirical methods training with research-user focus. Providing
 an example of mixed methods in legal research with user implications, Cornwell was
 supported (£50.2k) by the RCUK-funded CREATe consortium to produce the first-ever dataset
 on IP actions at the Scottish Court of Session, also conducting interviews and a survey of IP
 practitioners. The project generated novel empirical data on and analysis of IP enforcement in
 Scotland. Findings are being used by practitioners and the Law Society of Scotland IP
 Committee in considering initiatives to enhance Scotland as a preferred jurisdiction for IP
 litigation. Investigating the migration of ideas across both place and time, research by members
 of the Edinburgh Centre for Private Law combines doctrinal analysis of contemporary
 problems with a distinctive comparative and historical approach. For example, Braun’s
 Passing Wealth on Death: Will-Substitutes in Comparative Perspective (Hart Publishing, 2016;
 co-edited with Röthel, Bucerius) is the first comparative work on will-substitutes and was cited by
 the Law Commission of England and Wales (Consultation Paper 231, ‘Making a Will’, 2017).

 Mechanisms for enabling the impact captured in our REF case studies include: tailored
 support from idea to impact from the Research Communications and Impact Manager, including
 strategies for evidencing reach and significance (all case studies); integrating ECRs and PGRs
 in research and impact culture (Mason Institute, Case Study 4; McVie and Murray, Case Study
 6); identifying potential for pump-priming support (Mason Institute, Case Study 4; PSRP, Case
 Study 3) and potential for external support (PSRP, Case Study 3; McAra and McVie, Case Study
 5); co-producing research with partners (Bell, Tierney and Welikala, Case Study 1); and
 facilitating policy-relevant external appointments (Tierney, Case Study 2).



 An open and ethical research environment premised on research integrity

 Edinburgh Law is committed to an open research environment as a means of challenging
 social inequalities caused by restricting access to academic research. We ensure

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 implementation and oversight of sectoral requirements so that these are understood and
 adhered to well in advance of required deadlines, achieving 97% overall OA compliance to date.
 We promote the values underpinning the open research agenda, progressing rigour and
 transparency as well as the availability and re-usability of our methods, data, findings and
 outputs; while also alert to ethical implications given that significant amounts of research involve
 sensitive or personal information and create concerns about data sharing. Importantly, we
 shape best practice in this context. For example, McAra is a member of UoE’s Artificial
 Intelligence and Data Ethics (AIDE) group, which develops protocols and policy for large-scale
 cross-disciplinary and cross-College research. Beyond UoE, Dove was a member of the Data
 Access Committee of METADAC (Managing Ethico-social, Technical and Administrative issues
 in Data Access), a multi-agency, multi-study data access structure that services several of the
 UK’s major cohort studies. He is also Co-Chair of the Regulatory and Ethics Work Stream of the
 Global Alliance for Genomics and Health. Schafer is a member of the Data Ethics Group of the
 Alan Turing Institute, which advises public bodies and research institutions on the ethical use of
 data; and of the expert group of AI4Society, whose reports on ethical AI were adopted by the EU
 Higher Level Expert Group on Artificial Intelligence.

 Edinburgh Law has a longstanding SSRN Legal Studies Research Paper Series, while
 SCRIPTed – our open access (since inception) journal on law, society and technologies – is now
 in its 17th year (https://script-ed.org). Evidencing an integrated research culture, SCRIPTed is
 edited by postgraduate students with Edinburgh Law staff contributing as supervising editors.
 The Edinburgh Student Law Review, supported by Edinburgh Law staff reviewers, is also
 openly available (https://www.eslr.ed.ac.uk/).

 We communicate our research and impact as widely as possible, including through ten
 Edinburgh Law-hosted blogs; for example, the Edinburgh Legal History Blog had 7,752
 pageviews in 2019-20. Over the assessment period, we were delighted to see significant
 increases in engagement with our freely accessible Research @ Edinburgh Law School video
 channel (2017-18: 265 plays; 2019-20: 936) and our @UoELawResearch Twitter account
 (2014-15: 45,576 tweet impressions; 2019-2020: 214,447).

 Exemplifying best practice in data open access, the ‘Political Settlement Research Programme’
 created the PA-X Peace Agreements Database, a dataset with a repository of 1,868 peace
 agreements coded by topic, accompanied by the world’s first gender and local agreements
 databases (1990-2020). It provides end-user tested search mechanisms; easy access to texts,
 corpus and statistics; infographics and creative visualisations that enable multiple entry points
 and ‘ways of seeing’ the data; and full integration with other conflict data. PA-X is free to use and
 open to all, benefitting mediators and parties in conflict, civic actors and researchers. It was
 developed with funding from FCDO; and supplemented by funds from UN Women and UoE’s
 ESRC Impact Accelerator and Global Challenges Research Funds. Responding to the
 limitations of open research in the face of technological constraints, the team designed the
 ‘PeaceFem’ app (with Monash University, InclusivePeace and UN Women) in both Arabic and
 English, enhancing access for low-connectivity settings.

 An Ethics and Governance Committee, led by a Director of Ethics, secures Edinburgh Law’s
 culture of research integrity. It oversees proposals and ensures that researchers are
 supported to understand and provide appropriately for the ethical dimensions of their research
 and impact activities. Postdoctoral researchers receive methods and public engagement training

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 both via UoE’s Institute for Academic Development (IAD) and bespoke to their roles in research
 projects. Research integrity is streamed throughout our PGR training programme (Section 2).
 Novel and imaginative conceptions of ethical research also spring from substantive projects. For
 example, Cairns’ work on plagiarism as ‘fine art’ produced an in-depth study not only of differing
 attitudes towards comparative legal history but of plagiarism and academic standards generally.



 The future: strategic aims for research and impact

 To sustain and build on the diversity and quality of our research and impact enterprise, our
 strategic aims for the next five years are:

 1. To deepen and extend research synergies: reflecting UoE’s commitment to research
 without boundaries and further advancing our strategic trajectory from ‘structure’ to ‘theme’,
 we will identify and shape new directions in areas of established strength. This includes
 progressing our distinctive approach to comparative research; and intensifying work under
 ‘challenges of change’ to stimulate collaborative research and engagement partnerships that
 advance UoE’s ambition to address tomorrow’s challenges. We will also animate and support
 new themes across different subject fields, such as regulating AI, and law, markets and wealth.

 2. To optimise opportunities for engagement and impact through EFI: while researchers
 have engaged with foundational EFI activities to conceive user-focused projects in areas such
 as data protection, criminal justice and FinTech, there is significant potential still to exploit in
 order to capitalise on cross-College appointments in data-use ethics, governance and justice,
 and through the framework of the Edinburgh and South East Scotland City Region Deal. We will
 also progress new opportunities for industry and practitioner partnerships.

 3. To progress a balanced research environment: we will review pressure points and further
 streamline processes in order to realise better alignment of research, impact and teaching
 activities. We will review completed and ongoing large-scale research projects to marshal best
 practice and learn from challenges experienced, especially to enhance ECR strategy.




 2. People


 Staffing and staff development strategy

 Edinburgh Law hosts 77 (74.1FTE) Category A staff (53% male, 47% female) on research and
 teaching contracts (compared to 72 staff for REF2014); and 22 researchers on funded projects
 (17 for REF2014; 71 researchers were employed to support funded projects across this
 assessment period). We made 29 Category A appointments, reflecting: succession planning for
 retired or relocated staff (9 posts); funded fellowships and/or cover for colleagues holding grants
 or fellowships (five posts); and new posts shaped to consolidate and expand areas of
 research strength (Amaya Navarro in legal theory; Burgis-Kasthala, Lang and McCall-Smith in
 international law and global governance; Oke and Urquhart in IP, media and technology law;
 Dove, Ganguli-Mitra, Postan and Sorbie in medical law and bioethics; Hardman and Richardson


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in commercial law; Xenidis in EU law; Fox and Ruiz Abou-Nigm in private law). Demonstrating
 sustainability as well as our investment in career progression, ten colleagues were promoted to
 chair, four to reader and 18 to senior lecturer.

 Two Professorial Fellows with enduring links to Edinburgh Law are appointed on a 0.2FTE basis
 (Garland, NYU, since 2013; Laurie, following his stepping down from the Chair of Medical
 Jurisprudence in 2019), contributing peer review and mentoring as well as supervision for
 PDRFs and PGRs. Evidencing institutional as well as disciplinary legacy, 11 Emeritus
 Professors retain active connections with us. We have also constructed links with both
 academics and practitioners through the appointment of three honorary professors, one
 honorary professorial fellow and three honorary fellows.

 The central objective of our people strategy is to empower colleagues to realise their full
 potential while viewing research, teaching, leadership and knowledge exchange as
 complementary and not competing dimensions of the academic role. Placing the researcher at
 the centre of our strategy ensures a responsive environment, supporting staff to conceive and
 progress their own research and impact ambitions from a position of confidence and tailored
 support. We facilitate planning and implementation through several mechanisms including
 ‘Directed Research Time’ (DRT), which provides one year of research leave in every four,
 one of the most generous schemes in UK law schools and an important factor in both
 recruitment and retention. Alongside limited ‘automatic’ entitlement for specified intensive office
 bearer roles, DRT is granted following review of the applicant’s research profile as well as the
 quality and feasibility of the proposed research plan. All eligible Category A staff benefitted from
 DRT in the assessment period. Availing of opportunities beyond the academy is also actively
 facilitated: for example, Black, MacQueen and Steven were seconded as Scottish Law
 Commissioners in this assessment period. We further protect research time through a
 transparent workload data tool, reviewed annually and adjusted as necessary.

 We have reformed internal funding processes to remove prescriptive spending caps for the
 Individual Research Allowance allocated annually (£1800). Researchers are now free to
 distribute their allowance across research assistance and/or travel as best fits their needs in a
 given year. To streamline the application procedure from the user perspective, we also
 consolidated various internal funding pathways into one Research and Impact Facilitation
 Fund (Section 3). Strategic criteria are periodically established for its distribution: for example, in
 2018-2019, we prioritised research centre bids enhancing PGR integration (examples below).
 We also provide tailored career planning and career progression workshops, which advance the
 effectiveness and transparency of promotions processes. In 2019, we deepened engagement
 with research and impact in recruitment processes by requiring applicants to submit reflective
 statements on key published outputs alongside outlining their research and impact plans.

 The COVID-19 pandemic shadowed the final phase of the assessment period, requiring rapid
 responsiveness across all activities. We prioritised staff and student wellbeing above all, overlaid
 with particular concern for equality and diversity implications across all protected characteristics.
 Examples of research environment adaptive initiatives included mechanisms to: capture and
 respond to individual and collective needs (including anonymised staff and PGR wellbeing
 surveys and confidential individual support); sustain the connectedness of our community
 (through creating a virtual staffroom and convening research seminars online); and mitigate
 cohort-specific challenges (co-producing solutions to alleviate ECR concerns, such as enabling

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 post-contract access to research resources, and conducting milestone PGR activities such as
 supervisions, review panels and research seminars online). The IT and Law Library teams
 provided exceptional support for remote working and studying throughout, rapidly expanding
 online research resources and boosting our capacity to access them.

 Staff Development

 Two priorities guide staff development strategy from the perspective of research and impact
 support: proactive planning and training; and needs-centred mentoring.

 First, researcher-centred planning and training are critical aspects of our reflective Annual
 Review process. In addition to broader discussions with line managers, the Director of Research
 and Knowledge Exchange reviews all research and impact plans submitted as part of that
 process (as well as sabbatical/DRT applications) for proactive identification of support and
 funding opportunities as well as promotion of the full range of research and impact
 training offered across UoE. This includes IAD’s research training programme and funding
 workshops provided by the Edinburgh Research Office and Edinburgh Innovations (REF 5a).
 UoE provision is supplemented by Law training where gaps or the need for tailored support are
 identified: for example, we created and convened workshops on writing, user engagement and
 impact, presentation skills, and the REF criteria for evaluating outputs. Many of these events are
 open to all researchers while others are designed for specific groups such as ECRs.

 Second, mentors provide a crucial support system for colleagues at different career stages. All
 lecturers on open-ended contracts work with an appointed mentor for the first three years,
 covering all aspects of their academic role. Postdoctoral researchers have an appointed mentor
 who is not their line manager for the duration of their contracts. Any other staff member may
 request needs-centred mentoring at any point. Mentoring needs are also identified through the
 Annual Review process and individual planning discussions with the Director of Research and
 Knowledge Exchange. In 2020, the School Research Committee was reconfigured around the
 new role of Research Mentors to capture and extend the benefit of the depth and diversity of
 research and impact experience across Edinburgh Law. Research Mentors work individually with
 colleagues on issues ranging from research and impact planning to developing or completing a
 large-scale output or project. Appointment of mentors and oversight of mentoring relationships
 are managed by a Staff Development Officer with support from the Director of Research and
 Knowledge Exchange for Research Mentors specifically.

 We fully endorse the principles of the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers and our staff development strategy makes dedicated provision for early career
 researchers. On the workload data tool, an early career multiplier is applied for the first year of
 employment for lecturers to ringfence 55% of their time for research. All ECRs are strongly
 encouraged to present their work at staff research seminars and to attend but also suggest ideas
 for relevant training workshops.

 We integrate the ECR community in strategic decision-making through elected representatives
 on School Management Group and School Research Committee. Regular meetings to address
 ECR-specific needs are convened by the Staff Development Officer and Head of School. We
 extend support for career planning and identification of career progression opportunities in full
 alertness to the impact on research staff of employment insecurity. For example, ECRs on fixed-

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 term research contracts have full access to the resources of our Research, Knowledge
 Exchange and Impact Office (RKEIO) and to internal peer review to support applications for
 further fellowships or to assist with completing existing grants. They also benefit from career
 planning discussions with PIs as well as a member of the Annual Review team; and receive an
 Individual Research Allowance of £750 per year (in addition to project-specific funds) to support
 research development if on contracts of greater than 0.4FTE for 12 months or longer. We have
 reduced reliance on teaching fellowships by creating a new Early Career Fellow template with
 protected research time for contracts connected to research award buyout/replacement.



 Research students

 Doctoral researchers are hugely valued members of the Edinburgh Law research community.
 We have one of the largest cohorts of legal, sociolegal and criminology PGRs in the UK,
 with 94 researchers undertaking doctoral studies at census date (37 Home, 11 EU and 46
 overseas). Reflecting our commitment to interdisciplinary research, 15 PGRs were co-
 supervised with other UoE schools, including Architecture; Business; History, Classics and
 Archaeology; Medicine; and Social and Political Science.

 130.5 PGRs successfully completed their studies during the assessment period (compared to 70
 for REF2014) with annual completions rising significantly (18.64 compared to 14.17 for
 REF2014). Improved completion outcomes were achieved through our intensive training and
 support programme (outlined below); an equitable and transparent process of progress review;
 and an unbroken commitment to co-supervision for all PGRs.

 Edinburgh Law recognises the vital importance of funding security for doctoral researchers
 and 37 PGRs received studentships administered by UoE across the assessment period,
 including (three) prestigious Principal’s Career Development Scholarships. Reflecting a strategic
 concern for diversification, these awards came from a wide range of funding sources. Edinburgh
 Law offered two fully funded studentships per year from 2013-2019, increased to three from
 2019-2020 onwards, and we also receive one fully funded CAHSS studentship annually. We are
 an approved pathway for two UKRI-funded Doctoral Training Partnerships: the AHRC Scottish
 Graduate School for Arts and Humanities and the ESRC Scottish Graduate School of Social
 Science (six and four awards respectively in the assessment period). In 2019, we collaborated
 with the University of Glasgow to establish four joint PhD studentships in criminology. Other
 sources of awards include: CREATe PhD Studentship; PhD Studentship in Law and
 Development (EDOLAD); Modern Law Review Scholarship; Edinburgh Legal Education Trust
 Scholarship; and Wellcome Postgraduate Research Scholarship. Further investment in PGR
 studentships is a key priority beyond REF2021 and we are working closely with UoE
 Development and Alumni to expand external support through the framework of an innovative
 Advancement Strategy.

 In terms of training and support, PGRs enjoy full access to UoE research skills training, which
 Edinburgh Law complements with a tailored research and wider skills programme. Alongside
 research and methods training, the Year 1 programme (six seminars) includes contributions from
 the Director of Ethics, the Director of Equality and Diversity, and Law Library staff; as well as
 current PGRs and recent graduates. In 2018, a PGR-led retreat reviewed the Years 2 and 3
 seminars, and refreshed these sessions around career opportunities, academic publishing, post-

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 doctoral research opportunities, preparing for thesis defence, academic writing, and achieving
 impact beyond the academy. Additional events across the academic year address planning for
 both academic and non-academic career pathways. Examples of collaborative training initiatives
 beyond UoE are outlined in Section 3.

 PGRs in Years 2 and 3 are supported to disseminate their work through an Individual
 Research Allowance (increased in 2019 from £500 to £750). The PGR community also enjoys
 autonomy to determine the allocation of an annual £7.5k PGR Research and Impact
 Facilitation Fund, administered by the Postgraduate Student Research Board. Events
 supported include writing retreats, social activities that engender community spirit and an annual
 PGR conference – now in its fourth year and attracting doctoral researchers from 14 countries
 in 2020 on the theme of ‘Law and the New World Order’. PGRs have access to the RKEIO when
 needed; for example, to support fellowship applications or impact events. A ‘town hall’ meeting
 is convened once per semester, enabling PGRs to air any issues relating to their community
 directly to the Head of School, PGR Director and Director of Equality and Diversity. PGRs have
 study space, which is shared with visiting doctoral researchers (of whom 51 were welcomed
 during the assessment period).

 Reflecting our commitment to integrating PGRs into the wider research community, PGRs
 are strongly encouraged to attend Edinburgh Law research events and a doctoral researcher
 presents their work in the Staff Seminar Series once per semester. Year 3 PGRs present at a
 weekly PhD seminar series involving Year 2 discussants and Year 1 chairs. As indicated above,
 integration of PGRs in research centres is a strategic priority and initiatives supported by our
 Research and Impact Facilitation Fund include: an Edinburgh Law/UCL Laws PhD colloquium
 organised by the Edinburgh Centre for Private Law; ‘Talking Law’ events for ECRs and PGRs
 conceived by the Centre for Legal History in collaboration with the University of St Andrews; and
 PGR workshops convened by the Edinburgh Centre for Constitutional Law and Edinburgh
 Centre for International and Global Law. PGRs serve as steering committee members for
 various centres. They are also warmly encouraged to participate in the Edinburgh Foundation for
 Women in the Law, which organises networking and career planning events, and to attend UoE
 ‘Ingenious Women’ and ‘Enterprising Women’ training, which promote entrepreneurial skills for
 female researchers. Edinburgh Law PGRs have participated in UoE’s Festival of Creative
 Learning since its inception, delivering five events since 2017.

 The quality of our doctoral community is evidenced by the fact that several researchers have
 gained recognition for their achievements. For example, Edinburgh Law PGRs won the Google
 Award for Best Student Paper at the BILETA conference in 2016 (Diver) and 2017 (Jewell); the
 British Society of Criminology’s Policing Network Joint-Author Prize in 2017 (Harkin and Murray);
 and the award of Laureate of the International Academy for Arbitration Law in 2018 (García
 Martínez). Doctoral research has produced significant impact beyond the academy, notably
 Murray’s work on ‘stop and search’ in Scotland (Case Study 6). Malik’s PhD thesis was cited in
 two Scottish Parliamentary debates on policing and police governance. The calibre of our PGRs
 is further demonstrated by the fact that while our graduates pursue many career routes, most
 continue to work in academia and a significant majority of PhD graduates in the assessment
 period now hold positions at lecturer level or above – including, in the UK, at Birmingham,
 Bristol, Cambridge, Durham, Essex, Glasgow, Sheffield and Swansea Universities, as well as in
 Australia, Chile, China, Thailand, the United States and the West Indies.



                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and diversity

 Edinburgh Law is committed to ensuring equality of opportunity for all members of its research
 community. Both staff and PGR profiles are multinational (from 21 and 30 countries respectively
 at census date), enriching the range and reach of what we can achieve. UoE is a member of the
 Athena SWAN Charter and was awarded a Silver Award in 2015. Edinburgh Law achieved a
 Bronze Award in 2017 and is working towards submission for a Silver Award in 2022. Our staff
 are active participants in and promoters of the UoE Staff BAME and Staff Pride (LGBT+)
 Networks. For example, Kennedy and Rauhofer introduced LGBTQ+ advocates to Edinburgh
 Law in collaboration with Stonewall and students from Pride Soc; and Valsan launched a funding
 campaign for Waverley Care Edinburgh and the National AIDS Trust. Substantive research on
 ‘law and (in)equalities’ also informs research leadership practice. For example, Cowan,
 Professor of Feminist and Queer Legal Studies, worked with Kennedy (first as lecturer, later
 promoted to senior lecturer) to co-lead the Scottish Feminist Judgments Project. This team
 supported Black (consolidating a mid-career transition from commercial law to the regulation of
 family relationships) and PGR Jaiswal to contribute commentaries; and integrated an
 interdisciplinary (bioethics) commentary from ECRs Ganguli-Mitra and Postan.

 Crucially, the Old College refurbishment enabled us to transform the accessibility and
 inclusiveness of our estate. That investment delivered fully accessible accommodation, with
 provision for gender-neutral toilets and publicly accessible baby changing facilities (clearly
 signposted in staff and student handbooks as well as throughout the building). An appropriate
 space to express and store breast milk, which can be accessed by visitors, staff and students by
 arrangement, was also created.

 Across the assessment period, our equality and diversity strategy set two main priorities:
 mainstreaming equality and diversity across all activities; and supporting and celebrating
 female researchers in leadership roles.

 Mainstreaming equality and diversity

 While Edinburgh Law worked towards its Athena SWAN Bronze Award as a key objective over
 the assessment period, the wider remit of our Equality and Diversity Committee is to implement
 a culture of inclusiveness alert to all protected characteristics.

 Key enhancements include: making e-Diversity in the Workplace and Unconscious Bias
 training compulsory for staff with responsibilities for admissions, recruitment, promotions, annual
 review and studentships; ensuring representativeness across our redesigned website and other
 online platforms; and introducing scheduling guidelines, which encourage organising seminars
 and social events in working hours where possible and publicising events 4-6 weeks in advance
 to allow staff with caring or other responsibilities to attend. We produced guidelines to ensure
 gender balance at seminars with respect to speakers and chairs; and we fund trans awareness
 training for staff and PGRs. The Director of Research and Knowledge Exchange also developed
 an equality and diversity ‘toolkit’ for research centres and emphasised these issues when
 providing feedback on centre annual reports.

 Edinburgh Law evolved the CAHSS Annual Review Discussion Mandate to ensure that
 questions around training, mentoring opportunities, leadership responsibilities, family leave,

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 flexible working and workload concerns are articulated and addressed. Requests for flexible
 working are reviewed by the Head of School, who oversees monitoring of agreed arrangements
 (five researchers benefitted in the assessment period). We also provide Returner Career
 Support of £1000 per person above and beyond the £1800 annual Individual Research
 Allowance allocated to all researchers plus a 30% reduction in teaching for the first year after
 return to maximise training, development and dissemination opportunities.

 Edinburgh Law job adverts are framed by a declaration of commitment to equality in recruitment
 processes and include links to information on family-friendly policies, to our equality and diversity
 website, and to other information reflecting our inclusive culture. Recruitment exercises make
 explicit reference to diversity and include welcoming statements for those currently under-
 represented in our academic community. We have also developed targeted recruitment
 campaigns for female PGRs through use of podcasts and videos as well as hardcopy materials,
 which refer specifically to funding opportunities, family friendly policies and support mechanisms
 such as needs-centred mentoring.

 As indicated above, our PGR training programme is not limited to study skills: there is
 increased attention to researcher wellbeing and to an environment of inclusion and respect. For
 example, in 2019, we piloted a seminar on micro-aggressions in cooperation with the Edinburgh
 University Students’ Association; and the Director of Equality and Diversity leads a training
 session on wellbeing and respect twice per year. One of the three Edinburgh Law PGR
 studentships was ringfenced from 2020 onwards to support projects addressing questions on
 equality, diversity and social justice across our substantive research areas. Beyond REF2021,
 we aim to raise the level of resource provided for PGR studentships from all available sources,
 including endowments that focus on equality and diversity.

 Finally, we embraced UoE’s REF2021 Code of Practice, which promotes maximum inclusivity
 through a return of 100% of eligible academic staff. In line with UoE and CAHSS guidance, we
 adopted a rigorous, fair and transparent approach to output selection, framed by a review
 mechanism to ensure equality and diversity oversight of output distribution by gender and career
 stage (noting that accurate data on other protected characteristics cannot be accessed because
 of the voluntary nature of this information and constraints on updating personal details). 44% of
 outputs submitted are authored by female staff (who comprise 47% FTE) and 58% of staff
 contributed two or more outputs. Throughout all of our REF preparation work, we endeavoured
 to implement an optimal balance between openness and transparency around our processes,
 and expectations of confidentiality and responsiveness around individual circumstances that
 have affected colleagues’ research activity.

 Supporting and celebrating female research leadership

 For REF2014, a significant improvement of female representation at chair level was an important
 strand of our equality and diversity story (two female chairs RAE2008; eight by REF2014). While
 62% of our new appointments in this assessment period were female (producing an overall staff
 ratio of 53% male/47% female), we have a relatively low proportion of females at chair level
 (33%) and are working to address this in three main ways. First, we ensured that all female
 Grade 9 staff had individual discussions with a member of the Staff Development Committee,
 above and beyond annual review, to assist with planning and achieving career progression
 goals. These discussions continue in order to support Grade 9 colleagues through appropriate

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 chair pathways. Second, we created a recruitment strategy taskforce to embed, coordinate
 and progress equality, diversity and inclusion objectives from the Edinburgh Law academic
 career starting point.

 Finally, we supported female colleagues to excel in research leadership roles, showcasing
 their successes to inspire the next cohort of female professors. For example, McAra, the first
 female Edinburgh Law Head of School at REF2014, was subsequently appointed as UoE
 Assistant Principal for Community Relations and Director of the Edinburgh Futures Institute. She
 was also elected as President of the European Society of Criminology, the second largest
 society of its kind in the world. In 2015, Nic Shuibhne was appointed as joint editor of the
 Common Market Law Review, the leading journal in EU law, becoming only the second scholar
 to have held editorships of both the Common Market Law Review and European Law Review in
 the journals’ histories. Female colleagues promoted to chair within this assessment period have
 demonstrated strong commitment to inclusiveness in their research leadership achievements. In
 2017, Macgregor was appointed as the second female editor of the Edinburgh Law Review. She
 implemented a diversity audit including gender, career stage and range of topics. As a result,
 she proactively commissioned new work, resulting in female authors contributing ten of the 12
 articles published in the May 2020 issue, on a diverse range of subjects from a historical account
 of women as pursuers of criminal actions to an analysis of gender self-declaration. In 2020,
 Macgregor was appointed as the first ever female holder of the Chair of Scots Law in its 298-
 year history. The achievements of these colleagues as research leader role models were
 enabled on a needs-centred basis through additional research assistance, teaching support
 and/or focused mentoring. We have also worked to address a gender pay gap and have now
 successfully eliminated previous disadvantage for female chairs.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 Research income

 Edinburgh Law researchers won £15m through 82 external funding awards within the
 assessment period: 54 as PI; and 28 led by other units/institutions with our researchers as co-
 investigators. At census date, PIs held 15 UKRI, 37 UK charity and two UK Government awards.
 These achievements cement our position as a disciplinary leader for research income in the
 UK. As highlighted in Section 1 and reflecting the equality and diversity commitments outlined in
 Section 2, we also closed a PI gender gap and ensured stronger distribution of success across
 all career stages.

 Funding awards support all kinds of activities and progress different strategic priorities. First, as
 outlined in Section 1, we reinforced our track record in leading large-scale research projects
 that engage and aim to benefit research users and are premised on interdisciplinary
 approaches (Bell, £6.4m, FCDO; Laurie, £1m, Wellcome; and McVie, £1.5m, ESRC). The
 ground-breaking research produced by this work has contributed to the shaping of both policy
 and practice at local and global levels, and involved disciplinary contributions from anthropology,
 bioethics, international relations, political science and sociology.




                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Second, as also detailed in Section 1, prestigious AHRC, British Academy and Leverhulme Trust
 fellowships (£1.3m in total) have stimulated projects of ambitious breadth and depth in key
 research areas (Amaya Navarro, Kennedy, Nic Shuibhne, Shaw, Sutton, Walker), underlining
 Edinburgh Law researcher contributions to the evolution and enrichment of concepts and of
 governance frameworks.

 Third, funding awards enabled the deepening and expansion of areas of existing strength.
 For example, McAra’s Nuffield Foundation grant (PI, £299.3k) established Phase 8 of the
 Edinburgh Study of Youth Transitions and Crime (ESYTC). Additionally, McVie’s ESRC
 networking funding (PI, £26.7k) extended the ‘Understanding Inequalities’ project through
 collaborative activities with international partners and Shaw’s British Academy project funding
 (PI, £35k) consolidated strands of previous work on the acquisition and loss of nationality.

 Fourth, research income inspired new seams of collaborative activity. For example, in
 addition to the examples presented in Section 4 below, Black founded the Family Law Academic
 Network Scotland (FLANS) with representation from all 11 Scottish law schools, supported by
 the Clark Foundation for Legal Education (PI, £5.8k); Ghaleigh established an ESRC-funded
 network (PI, £46.6k) to strengthen links between UK and Japanese lawyers (including ECRs and
 practitioners) with overlapping emphases on environmental, trade and constitutional policy and
 practice; and Campbell led an AHRC-funded network on corruption in commercial enterprise (PI,
 £33.3k).

 Fifth, our strategy communicates the attainability of research funding for colleagues at all
 career stages. Examples include Lock’s British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award (PI,
 £13.1k) to establish a mentored engagement network, supporting ECRs to contribute
 meaningfully and safely to public debate on Brexit; Ruiz Abou-Nigm’s British Academy funding
 (PI, £28.2k), to lead a cross-regional study of private international law and the development of
 integrated markets; and Welikala’s convening of The Keith Forum on Commonwealth
 Constitutionalism (PI, £15k, Royal Society of Edinburgh), applying a reservoir of ideas from the
 Commonwealth to UK constitutional debates and aiming, in turn, to inform Commonwealth
 states facing similar challenges (a current project, in partnership with Melbourne Law School,
 examines the idea of ‘constitutional endurance’).

 Finally, as signposted in Section 1, our Research Communications and Impact Manager
 supports researchers to exploit impact-focused initiatives, especially for exploratory
 projects. Resulting successes in, for example, CAHSS KE funding competitions include:
 Mancano’s work with criminal and immigration lawyers in Scotland as part of the preliminary
 design of ‘Protection in the Law of Expulsion and Aid in Scotland’ (PLEAS, £2.9k), which
 mapped provisions of Scots and UK law that trigger the expulsion of non-UK nationals; and
 Harrison’s SOS-LAW project (‘Save Our Seas Through Law’, £2.8k), a collaboration with the
 Community of Arran Seabed Trust that led to engagement with a range of stakeholders (NGOs,
 communities and public bodies) on several reform processes underway within Scotland,
 including the development of the marine protected area network and the modernisation of sub-
 national fisheries governance. Researchers also won UoE/ESRC Impact Acceleration Awards
 for projects on: creating tools for accessing peace agreements (Bell, £20k); the implications of
 Brexit for fundamental rights protection (Lock, £6.4k); and developing a best practice framework
 for civil society groups in Scotland to progress incorporation of international human rights
 obligations (McCall-Smith, £19.9k).

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Organisational infrastructure

 The Research, Knowledge Exchange and Impact Office (RKEIO) is crucial to the success of
 our research and impact endeavour. It works with researchers to align ideas with funding
 opportunities; to identify, signpost and respond to training needs; and to provide information and
 advice on pathways to impact and the development of public engagement and media strategies.
 We created a new Grade 8 post for Head of RKEIO to capitalise on REF2014 achievements and
 to support scaled-up project ambitions by working proactively with colleagues to model support
 options. Success can be demonstrated: between 2015 and 2017, 63% of our research funding
 awards were £10k or less and 17% were £100k+; between 2018 and 2020, only 12% were £10k
 or less with 41% at £100k+.

 Since REF2014, we have also grown the RKEIO from 4.5FTE to 6.5FTE, investing in two new
 posts to ensure sufficient resource for facilitating and evidencing impact as well as compliance
 with open access requirements for published research. Additionally, we have a 4FTE IT and web
 development team and all members of academic staff are provided with laptops to support
 flexible working.

 We mobilise funder experience and subject expertise within Edinburgh Law across all stages of
 the research funding application process through robust and supportive internal peer review
 mechanisms. Peer reviewers are provided with guidance and examples of best practice through
 a ‘peer review primer’ that harnesses collective experience from past successes. We also
 convene funder experience seminars across the academic year. We recognise research and
 impact achievements by all staff and PGRs through the sharing of success stories across
 internal and external communications platforms, including the prominent ‘Latest News’ section of
 the Edinburgh Law website.

 From internal funds, Edinburgh Law invests in staff ideas through a Research and Impact
 Facilitation Fund (£286k over the assessment period), with particular emphasis on pump-
 priming projects. The Law and Polity project co-convened by Mac Amhlaigh, Michelon and
 Walker, supported initially by a £5k RIIF award, exemplifies how internal support seeds wider
 and deeper achievements. Building on the pilot award, subsequent Royal Society of Edinburgh
 funding (£10k) enabled comprehensive exploration of the disaggregation of law and polity
 through a series of seminars and a major international conference, producing in turn a special
 issue of the International Constitutional Law Journal in 2018. Mac Amhlaigh then conceived the
 offshoot International Legitimacy project (£6k RIIF; £15k RSE) from these foundations.

 The nine research centres and institutes affiliated to Edinburgh Law receive baseline funding
 to support core activities such as annual lecture series and engagement events (Section 4) and
 may bid for additional support from the Research and Impact Facilitation Fund (examples
 prioritising PGR integration were provided in Section 2). Six highly-active PGR-convened
 research groups – in constitutional law, EU law and policy, international law, legal theory, IP
 and technology law, and criminology – also receive funding to support their activities, especially
 to invite external speakers.

 Providing an example of support for research infrastructure through external funding, the
 Europa Institute, which celebrated its 50th anniversary with a series of academic and

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement events across 2018-19, won a second Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence award in
 2018 on the theme of FUTURES (coordinated for Law by Lock then Andreangeli). As part of
 these activities, Edinburgh Law awarded two Jean Monnet Early Career Visiting Fellowships in
 2019-20.



 Estate and facilities

 As emphasised in Section 1, the most significant infrastructure investment in the assessment
 period was the £35m regeneration of our Old College estate, formally reopened in September
 2019 after an extensive five-year work programme. We actively pursue opportunities to intensify
 research interactions in the refurbished building. Accessible, flexible and optimally equipped
 spaces provide excellent locations for public events such as conferences and lectures as well
 other forms of civic engagement such as meetings, workshops, training seminars and
 exhibitions.




 Researchers at all levels and professional services staff are now co-located on the same site,
 with much improved social spaces and meeting hubs to encourage and facilitate integration and
 collaboration. Attendance at staff research seminars provides an example of the energising
 difference that unified accommodation has made. Both structural and refurbishment-enforced
 dislocation had considerably lowered engagement with these critical community-forging events;
 now, it is standing room only.

 An important change flowing from the refurbishment is that the Law Library, one of the most
 significant academic law libraries in the UK, was relocated within the building to enhance its
 visibility and accessibility for staff, students and visitors. It offers outstanding digital resources

                                                                                                   Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 alongside a world-leading print collection (59,894 items at census date, including a unique
 collection for Scots law research), with relocation providing the opportunity to adopt a unified
 classification system for the first time.

 Edinburgh Law contributes significant supplementary funding (£315k in the assessment period)
 for the Law Library over and above UoE investment. All Edinburgh Law researchers, including
 PGRs, are encouraged to make recommendations for purchase and thereby play an active part
 in the collection’s evolution: for example, in 2019-2020, student book requests were supported at
 the same level as staff book requests. The Law Library provides 226 individual study spaces;
 additionally, a combination of informal and group study spaces integrated into the overall re-
 design facilitates collaborative as well as individual research.




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 Edinburgh Law deeply values the remarkable range of ideas and influences that a research
 community of our scale produces; not least through collaboration with researchers and research
 users, and through service to the discipline and wider society.



 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Evidencing the value that we place on collaboration within UoE, Tierney’s work on repatriation
 of competences after Brexit connects to the Centre on Constitutional Change (Social and
 Political Science) and was supported by an ESRC Brexit Priority Grant (Co-I, £42.1k). Laurie

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborated with colleagues across UoE to secure a Wellcome Discretionary Award (£1.2m) to
 establish the UoE Centre for Biomedicine, Self and Society. SCRIPT is a key partner in the
 implementation of UoE’s digital strategy, with members serving on the Law and Ethics group of
 the Edinburgh Data Science Initiative. Edinburgh Law assumed stewardship of UoE’s Global
 Justice Academy in 2019. Led by McCall-Smith, the GJA is an interdisciplinary network
 supporting research, teaching and knowledge exchange. It provides an institutional forum for
 dialogue with local and global justice practitioners, notably as the secretariat of the Association
 of Human Rights Institutes.

 For collaboration beyond UoE, examples of research cooperation beyond those outlined in
 Section 3 include McVie’s contributions to the ESRC-funded Scottish Centre for Administrative
 Data Research, connecting researchers at the Universities of Glasgow, Edinburgh Napier, St
 Andrews and Strathclyde (Co-I, £271.2k); and Sparks’ contribution to an ESRC-funded project
 on ‘Place, Crime and Insecurity in Everyday Life’ led by Keele University (Co-I, £89.5k). These
 projects engage Edinburgh Law’s strengths in the conceptual and empirical dimensions of
 criminological research. Providing examples of interdisciplinary collaboration on our ‘Challenges
 of Change’ research theme, Sethi won Wellcome funding in 2019 (£11.3k) to consolidate
 international collaborations in Argentina, Australia, New Zealand and Singapore; and Schafer
 participates in a Nordforsk-funded project (‘Taking Surveillance Apart’) led by the University of
 Dundee (Co-I, £17.3k), working with police practitioners from the UK, Norway, Finland and
 Sweden on the human rights implications of surveillance legislation. Additionally, SCRIPT is an
 active member of the Global Network of Internet and Society Centers and its researchers are at
 the heart of an initiative by the Commonwealth Expert Working Group on Data Protection to
 develop a model data protection law for all Commonwealth member states.

 We have invested significantly in PGR networks and partnerships over the assessment
 period. For example, within UoE, SCRIPT works with the Institute for Science Technology and
 Innovation Studies (ISSTI) to ensure that PGRs attached to the UKRI doctoral training centre for
 biomedical AI (School of Informatics) have solid grounding in the legal and ethical implications of
 new technologies. Within Scotland, significant PGR collaboration is realised through the
 Scottish Centre for Crime and Criminal Justice Research (SCCJR). Aydin-Aitchison and Sparks
 convened the training pathway in sociolegal studies and criminology for the ESRC/SFC Scottish
 Graduate School of Social Sciences, the template for which was provided by SCCJR. Four
 Edinburgh Law ESRC-funded studentships in the assessment period are directly attributable to
 that initiative and it also underpins the UoE/University of Glasgow joint PhD projects created in
 2019 (Section 2). Further links with the University of Glasgow were forged through the
 Edinburgh Centre for International and Global Law’s co-convening of an inaugural Edinburgh-
 Glasgow International Law Workshop in April 2019 and hosting doctoral training on ‘Method in
 International Legal Research’ in June 2019. Beyond Scotland, Edinburgh Law renewed its
 participation in the League of European Research Universities (LERU), which supports PGRs to
 spend time as visiting researchers in partner institutions (23 universities in 12 countries; 16
 PGRs benefitted in the assessment period). In 2019, UoE launched a new PGR exchange
 programme with KU Leuven. The first iteration emphasised interdisciplinary legal studies,
 focusing on projects in law and economics, history, sociology, media and information
 technology. Edinburgh Law is also an associate partner in the Ius Commune Research School, a
 collaboration of the Universities of Amsterdam, Leuven, Maastricht and Utrecht, contributing in
 particular through the Edinburgh Centre for Private Law.



                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Providing another route to potential collaboration, we welcome outstanding visiting scholars,
 principally through a MacCormick Fellowship Scheme and Visiting Scholar Programme (101
 visitors from institutions in 35 countries in the assessment period). The Edinburgh Centre for
 Private Law offers a Distinguished Visitorship in Private Law funded by the Edinburgh Legal
 Education Trust; and the Edinburgh Centre for International and Global Law is a host institution
 for fellows from developing states participating in the United Nations–Nippon Fellowship
 Scheme, providing capacity-building and human resource development on the law of the sea.



 Contribution to economy and society

 Over the assessment period, illustrating the reach of our engagement beyond the academy,
 Edinburgh Law expertise supported research users locally (e.g. Amnesty International Scotland;
 Chief Economist of the Scottish Government; Community Justice Scotland; Edinburgh Poverty
 Commission; HM Chief Inspector of Prisons for Scotland; Law Society of Scotland, NHS
 Scotland; Police Scotland; Scottish Book Trust; Scottish Human Rights Commission; Victim
 Support Scotland), within the UK (e.g. British Medical Association; Competition and Markets
 Authority; National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children; Nuffield Council on
 Bioethics) and beyond the UK (e.g. Commonwealth Secretariat; Council of Europe; European
 Banking Authority; European Central Bank; European Commission; European Parliament;
 European Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group; European Union Agency for Fundamental
 Rights; Food and Agriculture Organisation; Foundation for International Law for the
 Environment; International Federation of Musicians; Irish Human Rights and Equality
 Commission; Norwegian Centre for Conflict Resolution; OECD; OSCE Office for Democratic
 Institutions and Human Rights; Swedish National Council on Medical Ethics; and several UN
 agencies/bodies). Staff also engage keenly with various modes of local, national and
 international media.

 Embedding impact into research design is a strategic priority. An example flows from the
 ‘Liminal Spaces’ project, with Dove convening a roundtable of research ethics committee
 members, research managers, regulators, patient advocates and researchers in 2019 to explore
 ‘regulatory stewardship’, a novel model of health research oversight arising from the project’s
 research findings. The event was productive for the support garnered for the stewardship model
 as well as feedback that further research was required to distinguish it more sharply from other
 models. Similarly, for the ‘Political Settlement Research Programme’, three non-governmental
 organisations – Conciliation Resources; Rift Valley Institute; Institute of Strategic Studies (South
 Africa) – and international organisations (International IDEA; UN Women) were involved in
 research design and implementation. These partners engaged networks of researchers in Africa,
 Asia and the Middle East to widen end-users of the work. Major research themes emerged
 through ‘Joint Analysis Workshops’, which included conflict actors, policymakers, peacebuilding
 organisations and mediators. The project’s agenda and methods were framed through this
 ‘praxis’ mode of identifying real-time problems in the field. Through this approach, the process of
 research design was collaborative in ways that seek to optimise end-user uptake.

 A notable example of thematic engagement with research users is provided by collaborative
 work in the area of policing. Henry is Edinburgh Law liaison for the Scottish Institute for Policing
 Research (SIPR), a collaboration between Police Scotland, the Scottish Police Authority (SPA)
 and 14 Scottish universities. He led the multi-disciplinary Police Community Relations network

                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 until 2018 and designed academic-practitioner collaboration (involving Police Scotland, the SPA,
 Scottish Government, local government, local partner agencies, and international police
 partners) through competitively funded ‘sandpit’ events and strategic Executive Sessions. Jones
 and Schafer contribute to the Evidence and Investigation Network on issues of AI, cybercrime,
 surveillance and policing. Other examples of engagement facilitated by SIPR in the assessment
 period include: Aydin-Aitchison, Henry and Malik’s study of local police governance; Mancano’s
 collaborative expert seminar series on legal aid and post-Brexit expulsion from the UK; and
 McVie’s police crime and analyst training. With project scoping facilitated through SIPR,
 Souhami’s pioneering work on ‘Policing at the Periphery’ was funded by the British Academy (PI,
 £9.1k) and Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland (PI, £7.5k). This project is an
 ethnography of policing in the northern islands of Scotland exploring, through extended fieldwork
 in two remote archipelagos, how order is maintained in remote island communities as well as the
 role and culture of police work in that context.

 Edinburgh Law informs professional practice through significant provision of CPD,
 training and consultancy – for the legal profession (including the Judicial Institute for
 Scotland), public and private bodies, and third sector organisations. We deliver a broad
 programme of CPD events across our research fields. Additionally, online courses enable
 flexible and supported access; for example, we engage our distance learning platform to deliver
 CPD on medical law and bioethics to a wide range of health care professionals all over the
 world. A Director of Consultancy and CPD has strategic oversight of these activities, a notable
 feature of which is their deployment towards funding PGR studentships. For example, Avgouleas
 consulted on global markets and crypto-assets regulation for the US tech start up IOHK.hk to
 fund two awards (held jointly with the School of Informatics); and CPD delivered by colleagues in
 our commercial and private law research centres funds an Edinburgh Legal Education Trust
 studentship. As examples of research-based training contributions, Fontanelli coordinated a
 Council of Europe working group tasked with creating a module for judges and practitioners on
 the right to property; and Harrison contributes annual training sessions to the International
 Tribunal for the Law of the Sea–Nippon Foundation Capacity-Building and Training Programme
 for government officials and researchers, mainly from developing countries.

 Finally, Edinburgh Law researchers frequently organise collaborative events engaging
 research users. For example, for his work on financial regulation and financial stability,
 Avgouleas convened a range of events in collaboration with key stakeholders, including a 2018
 Round Table Interdisciplinary Workshop on Financial Stability with the Bank of England, Scottish
 Finance Enterprise and the Chief Economist of the Scottish Government, with keynotes from the
 Chairman of the European Banking Authority and the Bank of England Director of Financial
 Stability. Also in 2018, Black organised a conference on ‘Changing Families: Family Law
 Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow’ at which academic speakers (including two ECRs) were paired
 with practitioner respondents (judges, solicitors and advocates).

 Responsiveness to national and international priorities

 Edinburgh Law researchers actively respond to local and international priorities across a
 remarkable span of topics from Brexit to media transparency to trans rights. Taking the thematic
 example of priorities identified through law reform and parliamentary processes, researchers
 have submitted oral and/or written evidence to the Scottish Parliament, Scottish Government,
 UK Parliament and UK Government; and responded to Scottish Law Commission and Law

                                                                                          Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Commission (England and Wales) consultations, both individually and collectively. As examples
 of collective responses, Campbell, Cornford, Cowan and Kennedy submitted collective evidence
 in 2015 to the Scottish Justice Committee on the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual Harm
 (Scotland) Bill; Casanas-Adam and McCall-Smith responded to a Scottish Parliament
 consultation on the Children (Equal Protection from Assault) (Scotland) Bill in 2017; and, in
 2018, the Mason Institute engaged with Scottish Government consultations on the Human
 Tissue Authorisation (Scotland) Bill, introducing presumed consent for organ donation, and
 proposals for reform.

 Andreangeli’s work on the intersection of markets and public health informed a hearing
 in the Scottish Parliament Committee on External and European Affairs in 2014; she was
 academic fellow at the Scottish Parliament Information Centre (SPICe, 2019-2020) and a
 member of the Scottish Government Task Force on Consumers and Markets (2017-2019).
 Fontanelli was SPICe academic fellow from 2018-2020 and appointed as adviser to the Scottish
 Parliament Committee on Europe and External Affairs in 2019. Richardson was a member of the
 advisory group for the Scottish Law Commission’s Discussion Paper on Remedies for Breach of
 Contract and contributed in 2020 to the UK Parliament Knowledge Exchange Unit’s COVID-19
 survey on areas of concern and priority for law and business. Tierney is Legal Adviser to the
 Constitution Committee of the House of Lords; his influence in that role is demonstrated in Case
 Study 2. Beyond the UK, researchers have contributed expertise to an extraordinarily diverse
 range of public sector consultations and reform initiatives, contributing to processes of reflection
 and reform in Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, the Gambia, Germany, Italy, Japan, Kenya,
 Myanmar, Namibia, Papua New Guinea, São Tomé and Sri Lanka. Case Study 1 exhibits a
 thematic example on constitution-making to support post-conflict transitions.

 Engagement with diverse communities and publics

 A strong theme of Edinburgh Law engagement activity taps into synergies between academic
 research and the creative arts. For example, the Mason Institute co-organises an annual
 Bioethics Film Festival at the Edinburgh Filmhouse in collaboration with the Scottish Council on
 Human Bioethics; and Cairns assisted playwright May Sumbwanyambe on three projects about
 the slavery case of Knight v. Wedderburn, including a play produced by the National Theatre of
 Scotland. Edinburgh Law researchers contribute regularly in the Edinburgh Festival Fringe
 ‘Cabaret of Dangerous Ideas’ (for example, Kheria has performed ‘No copyright, no problem?’
 annually since 2017; and McAra and McVie’s ‘Hug a Thug’ event was performed from 2015-
 2017). MacQueen was consulted on the UK Supreme Court’s ‘Chartered Voyage: The Impact of
 Magna Carta’ exhibition in 2015.

 During her tenure as Director of the CAHSS Institute for Advanced Studies in the Humanities,
 Shaw curated the ‘Dangerous Women’ project, which examined questions about the dynamics,
 conflicts, identities and power relations with which women live today. The project collected 365
 responses from across the world between International Women’s Day 2016 and International
 Women’s Day 2017 (disseminated through public events including at the Edinburgh International
 Book Festival and Book Week Scotland), which will inform two books in progress.

 The ‘Understanding Inequalities’ project team collaborated with UoE colleagues on an EFI-
 funded initiative focused on inequality and inclusion, working with a graphic illustrator to devise
 and design two data comics that illustrate the narratives behind some of the project’s research

                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 into inequalities in Scotland and beyond. Finally, communicating research concepts and
 research findings through the creative arts was a foundational aim of the Scottish Feminist
 Judgments project. Activities included an exhibition (‘Reimagining the Law from the Outside In’)
 launched at the Scottish Parliament in 2018 and then on free display in various locations
 including Old College as part of the Edinburgh Fringe; showcasing poetry, illustrations,
 performance art, photos and textiles produced as a creative response to the project.



 Contribution to the research base

 Edinburgh Law promotes the sharing and development of ideas through an array of
 dissemination events. Flagship annual lecture series include the Edinburgh FinTech Law
 Lecture (Edinburgh Centre for Commercial Law), Europa Institute Mitchell Lecture, and WA
 Wilson Memorial Lecture (Edinburgh Centre for Private Law). Across the assessment period,
 public lectures were delivered by leading academics, policymakers and judges, including the
 Presidents of the UKSC, CJEU and EFTA Court. We disseminate our own research findings
 within the UK and across the globe, with the majority of staff delivering keynote addresses in
 the assessment period. Postan was invited to deliver the Rising Star Lecture at the International
 Neuroethics Society annual conference in San Diego in 2018, exemplifying ECR esteem. Thirty-
 one researchers held visiting professorships.

 Providing examples of international dissemination partnerships, the Centre for Legal History
 hosted the 73rd session of the Société Internationale Fernand de Visscher pour l’Histoire des
 Droits de l’Antiquité in September 2019. Laurie and Sethi won Wellcome and Nuffield Council on
 Bioethics grants (£62.5k) to host the 13th World Congress of the International Association of
 Bioethics in 2016, attracting 711 delegates from 41 countries (with 40 bursaries for ECR and
 LMIC delegates). In 2019, SCRIPT co-sponsored the ‘AI Beyond the Hype – Benefits,
 Challenges and Liabilities’ conference, hosted in Edinburgh for the European Association of
 Lawyers in partnership with the Faculty of Advocates, Scottish Society for Computers and Law
 and British Computer Society.

 Demonstrating contributions to academic citizenship and leadership during the assessment
 period, nine staff were general editors of book series with leading academic publishers (e.g.
 Cambridge Bioethics and Law; Cambridge Studies in European Law and Policy; Edinburgh
 University Press Future Law; Oxford Studies in Roman Society & Law; Oxford Constitutional
 Theory). General journal (co-)editorships include Global Constitutionalism, Journal of Medial
 Law and Youth Justice, and over half of our researchers served on journal editorial or advisory
 boards. Colleagues served on UKRI Peer Review Colleges and national or international grants
 committees; and peer reviewed proposals for major funders within and beyond the UK.

 Several colleagues provided leadership through learned societies and disciplinary
 associations. For example, MacQueen chairs the Law section of the British Academy; Ghaleigh
 was the first convenor of the Society of Legal Scholars’ Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Committee; Kheria is International Liaison Officer for the Socio-Legal Studies Association; Laurie
 chaired an Expert Review panel for the ESRC, MRC and Wellcome to establish an overarching
 body on best practices in managing data access and was appointed to the AHRC COVID-19
 expert peer review group; and Sparks won an ESRC consultancy award (£10k) to prepare a
 ‘think piece’ on future UKRI investment in Crime and Justice research.

                                                                                           Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Finally, particularly notable esteem indicators and awards achieved by our researchers in the
 assessment period include: election as Fellow of the British Academy (Bell) and of the Royal
 Society of Edinburgh (Bell; McVie; Shaw; Tierney), to the RSE Young Academy of Scotland
 (Ganguli-Mitra), and as Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (Garland); the
 conferral of CBE (MacQueen; McAra) and OBE (McVie); UACES Lifetime Achievement Awards
 (Scott; Shaw); and ESRC Celebrating Impact Prizes (McAra and McVie; Murray). Mancano won
 the Common Market Law Review Prize for Young Academics in 2018. Honorary doctorates were
 conferred on Garland (University of Oslo, 2015) and Sparks (KU Leuven, 2019). In 2017, Walker
 was appointed International Francqui Professor at KU Leuven (Philosophy) and Université Libre
 de Bruxelles (Law) and awarded the Francqui Medal for outstanding international scholarship.




                                                                                       Page 26
