Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen Mary University of London

 Unit of Assessment: D26b Modern Languages

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

    a. Unit context and structure.

 The international significance of research in Modern Languages and Cultures [MLC] and
 Comparative Literature and Culture [CLC] at Queen Mary is reflected in our position within the top
 10 Russell Group submissions to this UoA in REF2014. In the present cycle, structured local
 implementation and wider institutional support has enabled the achievement of our ambitious
 aspirations and continued enhancement of our research environment. This has generated deep
 synergies between our constituent parts, and, catalysed by CLC, systematic extension beyond
 Eurocentrism to embrace global, transnational approaches and objects of study. Significant
 achievements since REF2014 include:

    -   Growth and diversification of research staff FTE (21.7 26.3, including 2 new BAME staff)
    -   Doubling of extra-European research expertise
    -   Continued increase in research income from £1.3 million (including Film Studies) to at least
        £1.89 million (excluding Film Studies)
    -   Substantial growth in Early Career Fellows and postdoctoral researchers from 4 to 11
    -   Diversification of sources of ECR and PhD funding and a substantial increase of visiting
        PhD students to 33+, including over 20 from outside Europe.

 A key development since 2014, aimed at fostering research synergies, was the establishment of a
 single MLC Department from multiple separate language units. Between MLC and CLC, the
 creation of a shared Research Board and research seminar, joint funding applications and
 collaborative PGR supervision, all ensure cross-fertilization and cohesion. Our two departments
 are part of the School of Languages, Linguistics and Film [SLLF], alongside Film Studies [FS –
 being returned to REF separately for the first time] and Linguistics [LING]. SLLF is itself one of 8
 Schools in the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences [HSS]. MLC and CLC research leads
 develop research strategy with departmental heads, the Head of School, the Director of Research,
 and the School’s Impact Lead (a post created in 2015). The strategic direction of QMUL’s research
 is overseen within HSS by a Faculty Dean for research and overall by a University Vice-Principal
 for Research and Innovation.

 We benefit from a highly interdisciplinary research environment thanks to our position within SLLF
 and our extensive engagement with the Faculty’s recently created research platform: the Institute
 for Humanities and Social Sciences (IHSS) [REF5a:2.I.5]. Collaboration with SLLF partner
 departments and other HSS Schools occurs via funded projects, PGR supervision and our cross-
 faculty research centres.

    b. Research strategy and implementation

 Our overarching mission since REF2014 has been to foster world-class research responsive to
 global intellectual concerns, to enhance and broaden the impact of our work, and to increase
 research funding in furtherance of these goals. To achieve this, we have pursued the
 internationalisation strategy developed in previous REF, intensifying investigations of non-
 European literary and cultural expression and prioritising global rather than national approaches
 to literature and culture in our specialist languages (French, German, Portuguese, Catalan,
 Russian and Spanish). We have fostered collaboration within the UoA, the institution and beyond;
 enlarged, diversified and internationalised funding streams targeted; futureproofed our disciplines
 with expansion of our postgraduate and ECR community; embedded EDI awareness and career
 development within all our selection processes and structures; and significantly improved research
 support, via the creation of the post of SLLF Research Manager.


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have continued to support research on individual languages, especially via internationally
 recognised structures, e.g. the Medieval Hispanic Research Seminar, whilst also enhancing
 conduits for collaboration across them. We have consolidated and actively invested in areas
 of established strength including world literature and cosmopolitanism; visual and material
 culture; institutional and disciplinary history; and applied linguistics. This has resulted in a number
 of key theoretical works (Tihanov, Nicholls, Goerner); landmark translations (McMorran); and
 critical editions of specific genre (Bryant Davies) and particular authors (Gillett and Köhler,
 supported by a Leverhulme fellowship; Nicholls, supported by a Humboldt fellowship). There has
 been an intensification of work on intercultural flows and the transnational, both within and
 between continents, from Köhler’s EU-funded project on European spa culture to Mangalagiri’s
 publications on Indo-Chinese intersections. Bolstered by appointments (Oléron Evans, London,
 Bryant Davies, Dorado-Otero) and postdoctoral fellowships (Murawski, Andersen), we continue to
 produce ground-breaking research on visual and material culture and on intersections between
 literature and other media (e.g. Vaclavik’s AHRC-funded project on fashion and fiction).

 We have also systematically expanded our coverage, both geographically and temporally.
 Following plans described in REF2014, we have both intensified our global approach to our
 specialist languages and substantially broadened our coverage to include non-European and
 minority languages. This has been achieved principally through new appointments
 (Pravinchandra, Mangalagiri, London) who bring philologically-underpinned expertise in Chinese,
 South Asian and Catalan literary and cultural production, as well as expertise in postcolonial theory
 and world literature paradigms. In temporal terms, we continue to have particular strengths in
 medieval and early modern cultural history and in contemporary literature. Our appointment of
 Bryant Davies as part of the highly competitive IHSS Strategic Lectureship scheme which brought
 16 new lecturers to QM in 2019 [REF5a:2.I.5] extended our coverage back to Antiquity. Bryant
 Davies also bolsters the unit’s research on the nineteenth century, material culture and the culture
 of childhood. Our continued commitment to this approach is seen in our three recent appointments
 in French, German and Russian, all of which enhance our research on language areas within a
 global frame.

 We have increased collaboration and interdisciplinarity by continued investment in research
 centres and through new initiatives. There has been substantial increase of PhD co-supervision
 between MLC and CLC and other parts of SLLF, and, through involvement in long-term
 interdisciplinary initiatives such as the Leverhulme Trust Doctoral Scholarships ‘Mobile People’
 project, across the Faculty. Colleagues have collaborated on publications (e.g. Köhler and Gillett)
 and funded projects (e.g. Hicks’ BA-funded conference with colleagues in Film). The creation of a
 joint seminar on Translation, Transmission, and Cultural Transfer (TTCT) fosters work on the
 interconnectedness of national cultures and transnational cultural flows. Away days facilitate
 collaboration via identification of research synergies. At School level, we have instituted a monthly
 Research Coffee Hour, where researchers from all SLLF departments come together to share
 research problems and methodologies. We have successfully pivoted the full range of these
 established mechanisms online, ensuring maintenance of a dynamic research environment even
 in the context of Covid-19.

 Much of the research undertaken within the UoA is interdisciplinary, from Pravichandra’s medical
 humanities research to the cluster of applied linguists whose work draws on political philosophy
 and theory (Oakes), history (Rash, Pfalzgraf) and health humanities (Koteyko). Successful
 interdisciplinary endeavours include Koteyko’s ESRC award to conduct linguistic and
 ethnographic analysis into usage of social networking sites by the chronically ill, and Holgate’s
 securing of IHSS funding to stage a series of events on cultural finance [REF5a:2.I.5].

 Collaborative and interdisciplinary work is fostered via our research centres: the Centre for Anglo-
 German Cultural Relations (CAGCR, led by Goerner), the Centre for Catalan Studies (CCS, led
 by London) and the Centre for Childhood Cultures (CCC led by Vaclavik). In addition, Oléron
 Evans co-organises the Visual and Material Cultures Forum with History and Carrera is a founding
 member and co-director of the Centre for the History of Emotions (CHE, also with History). The
 annual lectures, regular (online) seminars, postgraduate reading groups and other events of these

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 groups build networks, raise our profile and generate publications. Key achievements of centres
 in the REF period include CCC’s securing of BA Covid-19 funding, and the CHE’s £1.5million
 Wellcome Trust Collaborative Award in Medical Humanities, with Carrera one of two PIs. The
 Centres also serve as umbrellas to postgraduates and postdoctoral research fellows: in this cycle
 CCC has seen 5 PhD completions, secured 1 CDP and 2 QM studentships, and attracted 2 visiting
 PhDs from Slovenia and Brazil, while the CAGCR, in addition to 5 PhD completions and 8 visiting
 research fellows, has secured 6 BASF bursaries for its MA, 2 BASF bursaries for doctoral studies,
 a Thyssen postdoctoral fellowship (Hines) and 5 Max Geilinger fellowships for Swiss literature.

 We embrace an open research environment, making good progress towards compliance with
 the Concordat on Open Research Data. 100% of our research outputs are compliant with UKRI
 OA policies and 100% of journal articles are deposited in QMUL’s OA repository [REF5a:2.IV]. An
 increasing number are published in gold and diamond OA venues, facilitated by Faculty funds for
 this purpose (e.g. Armstrong) and UKRI block grant funding (e.g. Vaclavik). Tihanov contributed
 to the inaugural issue of Modern Languages Open and spoke at its launch event. Oakes serves
 on its editorial board and SLLF has invested in a subscription to this platform, further facilitating
 OA publication for colleagues. Practise-based research has also been published open access
 (e.g. London’s translations of poet Beatriz Viol). Vieira’s pioneering Landless Voices website which
 underpins ICS3 offers access to hundreds of resources related to Brazil’s Landless rural workers
 movement in English and Portuguese. Updated and extended during this REF cycle, it has been
 used extensively by international researchers (http://www.landless-voices.org/vieira/). We take an
 active part in debates concerning digitization in relation to our field of study and research materials
 (e.g. Goerner’s Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung article on digital editorial practice and commission
 to write a report on Bildung in the digital age).

 Our commitment to Open Access is one of the key ways in which we are developing research
 integrity. The institutional commitment to the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity
 [REF5a:2.III] is fully apparent in our research culture. All our research is undertaken according to
 the highest ethical standards. Colleagues whose research involves questionnaires (McMorran,
 Oakes) or other engagement with living subjects (Vieira) can seek advice from and must have
 their projects scrutinized by QM’s Ethics of Research Committee [REF5a:2.III]. Core values and
 responsibilities are embedded throughout the research community and form an integral part of
 PhD training, devised and implemented by Armstrong during his time as Deputy Dean for
 Research (PGR).

    c. Impact strategy and implementation

 Our research tackles issues of pressing contemporary concern including trauma, exile and
 migration, gender and sexuality, and language policy, and we maximise opportunities to effect
 change in the wider community. We aim to shape (inter)national debate; change attitudes and
 professional practice; and open up significant areas of (non-Anglophone) cultural production to
 British audiences. We harness the extensive opportunities of our East London location, especially
 its concentration of cultural and creative industries, but also generate impact at national and
 international levels. Our Head of School (Nair) is part of the leadership team of the Global Policy
 Institute which supports global policy impact [REF5a:2.I.3]. We adopt a carefully targeted
 approach towards audiences and an ethically responsible handling of sensitive materials on the
 basis that no research field should be ‘off limits’. We have embedded a focus on impact in all areas
 of our work and have formulated a specific impact strategy which commits us to i) its embedding
 in the research process through training at all career levels, ii) consolidating existing research
 partnerships with external organisations and developing new avenues for engaging different
 groups of stakeholders nationally and internationally, and iii) engaging practitioners and the
 general public in the various stages of research.

 We have implemented a range of initiatives and can marshal a wide range of resources both within
 SLLF and HSS in furtherance of these aims. In SLLF, impact is enabled via a targeted fund for
 Impact and Environment activities. In addition, colleagues have successfully accessed two
 designated HSS schemes: Support for Capturing Impact (used by all ICS leads) and Strategic

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact Awards, as well as funds made available by the University’s Centre for Public Engagement
 (e.g used by London to present the work of Brossa to British audiences for the first time) [REF5a:4].
 We have also created a specific role to ensure comprehensive support for researchers. Working
 with the Research Manager and Director of Research, the SLLF Impact Lead helps identify and
 refine ICS, designs workshops and targeted training sessions and coordinates the School’s regular
 Impact Coffee Hour. These activities encourage colleagues at all levels to think deeply and
 creatively about impact generation. This work is supported and extended at Faculty and University
 level where a Deputy Dean for Research Impact, supported by an Impact Coordinator, oversees
 funding schemes and develops workshops bringing together researchers across IHSS to share
 best practice and problem solve [REF5a:4]. Dissemination of our work via a range of national and
 international media is a core means of engagement with stakeholders, practitioners and the
 general public and colleagues are supported in these activities by designated HSS and
 International PR managers.

 The success of these initiatives is seen in the regularity with which our researchers are sought out
 to bring their expertise to bear on contemporary debates, in anything from parliamentary
 committees to interviews and opinion pieces. Our extensive collaborations with a range of
 museums (e.g. V&A, British Museum), libraries (e.g. John Rylands) and cultural organisations
 (e.g. LSO, London Chamber Orchestra) as curators, consultants or commissioners of new work
 (amongst others) are shaping professional practice in these fields. Media work, collaborations and
 our extensive translation practice all result in bringing otherwise inaccessible materials to British
 audiences. Our commitment to the sensitive delivery of all materials, regardless of their
 controversial nature, is reflected in McMorran’s prize-winning article for The Independent on the
 process of translating Sade’s 120 Days of Sodom (Best Opinion/Comment Piece at the QMUL
 Engagement and Enterprise awards 2017).

 Our three Impact Case Studies (Hicks, ‘Transforming the Visual Record and Understanding of the
 Holocaust’ (ICS1); Vaclavik, ‘Alice's Adventures in 21st-Century Creative Industries’ (ICS2); and
 Vieira, ‘Tackling Gender Inequalities and Homophobia in Brazil’s Rural Areas’ (ICS3)) showcase
 our impact-related aims in their engagement with local, national and international audiences and
 have been nurtured and supported by our strategic approach to impact. All three have benefited
 from School and Faculty investment. They include a range of external stakeholders, both existing
 partnerships (e.g. V&A) and new collaborations (e.g. LSO). In each case, partners have been
 involved not just as end users but throughout the lifecycle of projects. ICS leads received extensive
 training and have opportunities to share their own developing expertise at a range of targeted
 sessions for the unit and School, and extended their skill-sets with in-depth training on media work.
 Engagement with impact at all career stages is reflected in the fact that ICS leads were at very
 different career stages (SL, reader and professor respectively) at the start of these projects.

    d. Future Plans

 Consolidating and building on our achievements to date, our key aims for 2021-26 are to:

    -   Continue to increase and diversify our grant capture via our proven internationalisation
        strategy. In particular, we will harness the expansion of coverage and therefore
        opportunities achieved through our recent appointments. We will also combine continued
        support for individual researchers with an intensification and extension of team-based
        research, creating responsive teams to develop research-led teaching programmes,
        submit applications for studentships and other funded projects.

    -   Build and diversify our postgraduate community through our extended supervisory offering
        resulting from recent appointments and our newly introduced PhD programmes in
        Translation and Adaptation (with a specific practice-based pathway) and in Visual Cultures.
        We will also continue to target collaborative schemes.




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    -   Maximize the impact of our work by forging international collaborations and diversifying
        our range of partners and stakeholders to include galleries, commercial publishers and
        production companies.

 2. People

 Guided by the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, we seek to provide
 a supportive, stimulating and inclusive research culture for all our staff and students. Our research
 deals with gender, sexuality, mental health, migration and religious persecution, which ensures
 attentiveness and heightened awareness to these issues in the workplace. There is considerable
 diversity in the age, ethnicity, sex and sexual orientation, and religion of our staff, and we have a
 gender balance of 54: 46 (female: male). There has been significant diversification of staff and
 student body since REF2014 (with an increase from 1 to 3 BAME staff, representing 12% of our
 total FTE). Over half the School’s senior leadership roles (7/11) are occupied by women. Nair is
 Head of School and Vaclavik is Director of Research.

    a) Staffing strategy

 Our staffing has been carefully managed to ensure optimal delivery of our research ambitions and
 maintain a dynamic research community, supported at all levels with a range of initiatives,
 structures and personnel. Our strong culture of internal promotion has resulted in rising seniority.
 To guarantee succession planning, all but one of our new appointments have therefore been at
 junior level. We actively seek to nurture and retain young talent, with several former PhD students
 returning to us in permanent appointments (Oléron Evans, Dorado-Otero) and as research fellows
 (Hines, Glasheen).

 By advertising widely and taking account of international cycles, we recruit the very strongest
 candidates from a global pool, with Pravinchandra joining us from Cornell and Mangalagiri from
 Chicago. Our ambition to build capacity in the priority areas of internationalisation and
 interdisciplinarity has guided our 5 new permanent appointments over this REF cycle, all of which
 extend our temporal and/or linguistic coverage in ways which further bolster existing areas of
 expertise. Pravinchandra brings specialisms in the medical humanities, thus boosting
 interdisciplinary activity, and in South Asian literary studies, engaging with works produced in
 Gujarati, Hindi and English – in addition to Spanish. Mangalagiri reinforces strengths in world
 literature and extends our expertise into literary production in modern Chinese, Hindi and Urdu
 and intersections between the literary spheres of China and India. In MLC, Dorado-Otero’s work
 on Cuba and the Hispanic Caribbean further extends our global approach, while her interests in
 the graphic novel and Galician children’s literature bolster research on visual and childhood
 cultures. A senior lecturer in Catalan Studies was replaced by a new professor (London), recruited
 as chair of Hispanic Studies and Director of the CCS. With research interests spanning the avant-
 garde, sport, translation and theatre, London strengthens work on contemporary literature and
 culture, and practise-based research. Oléron Evans’ research on transnational histories of art, art
 museums and collections has ensured continued capacity in the field of visual culture and
 extended the range of our work on translation and intercultural transfer. Her experience working
 with international museums also supports our impact strategy. Bryant Davies brings expertise in
 classics and classical reception studies, particularly in relation to children and childhood in the
 nineteenth century.

 To build capacity in targeted areas and contribute to the vitality and sustainability of our
 discipline(s), we have continued to invest in and support postdoctoral fellows. Over the census
 period we have hosted a total of 11 fellows: two Marie Skłodowska-Curie fellows, three Leverhulme
 Early Career fellows (including Holgate and Andersen), one Newton fellow, two Humboldt
 postdoctoral fellows, one PDR funded by the Dresden Museum (Muratori), one funded by the
 MHRA, and another by the Thyssen Foundation (Hines). We have also welcomed a number of
 visiting postdoctoral and honorary research fellows (including Glasheen, 2020-23).



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    b) Career development and support

 All staff, including ECRs, receive guidance and support for their research through the Queen Mary
 Performance Appraisal Scheme, involving annual meetings and more frequent informal contacts
 with an appraiser in which individual research plans are discussed and targets set. All new staff
 apply directly for HEA accreditation. New colleagues are supported during a three-year
 probationary period by a mentoring system, through which they regularly discuss their work and
 career development with a senior colleague in their research area, with particular emphasis on
 placing publications, identifying funding streams and generating impact. For all staff, research
 mentoring is conducted by departmental research leads and provides both short- and long-term
 guidance. Yearly research reviews, conducted by the Head of School and Director of Research,
 have also offered opportunities to convey feedback to staff on their research activities and shape
 future plans. We have a strong culture of internal promotion, preparations for which occur as part
 of the appraisal process, which ensures staff retention and rewards research excellence. In this
 cycle, there were ten promotions: three to reader and five (of which 2 women) to professor. The
 increase of female professorial staff (now 5/12) has been achieved through the introduction of a
 range of strategies to facilitate career development, including encouraging women to follow the
 Women into Leadership training run by Professional Development and the Aurora programme.

 Staff research is supported by the University's sabbatical leave policy granting one semester’s
 leave in seven served [REF5a:3.II]. Since 2014, 35 semester leaves have been awarded to staff
 in MLC and CLC. Additionally, during teaching semesters, all research staff benefit from a weekly
 ‘research day’, enabling regular, concentrated research activity. Around 12-14% of the School’s
 consumables allocation is earmarked for research (av. £40,000 yearly), and all research-active
 members of staff can apply for up to £1200 per year to support their research in a range of ways.
 School policy allows holders of FEC research grants access to 10% of the overheads of these
 grants as pump-priming funding for new research. The School also sets aside £5000 yearly for the
 Research Environment & Impact Enhancement initiative, to which staff can apply to support the
 organization of conferences, initiate research clusters, or enable impact and public engagement
 activities. Further funding is available at Faculty level to support new research initiatives and public
 engagement work, to develop new impact and collaborative activity and to assist with its capture
 [REF5a:4]. These funds have been integral to the building of our ICS: all three were supported by
 Research Impact Awards, and an HSS Collaboration Fund Award of £10,000 in 2014 enabled
 ICS2’s project with the LSO. Teaching relief also enabled Vaclavik to further develop ICS2.
 Researchers are also supported by the extensive range of training (e.g. in writing grant
 applications, PhD supervision, or research ethics, as well as one-to-one mentoring sessions)
 delivered by the Researcher Development team within the newly established Queen Mary
 Academy, a central University resource for staff training and development [Ref5a:3.II]. The Library
 team provides training on open access and relevant University IT systems [REF5a:4]. Our
 Research Away Days include peer-learning workshops in which colleagues focus on questions of
 research strategy, impact generation, project planning and collaboration.

 We are fully committed to supporting and nurturing our Early Career Researchers. We currently
 have 11 early career researchers (5 permanent appointments and 6 postdoctoral fellows). Early-
 career researchers receive teaching relief and mentorship through their three-year probationary
 period. They join both a SLLF ECR network and the Faculty Early Career Researchers network,
 which provides support to researchers, including regular talks and workshops on e.g., finding and
 applying for research funding and academic peer review, as well as opportunities to exchange
 with other HSS ECRs. Temporary staff in posts created by externally funded or parental leave are
 integrated into the research community via informal mentoring and participation in our regular
 events. ECRs are encouraged to build networks within and beyond the University: thus
 Mangalagiri secured £1000 funding from the IHSS Early Career Workshop Funding Scheme
 [REF5a:2.I.5] to establish a South Asia Forum with a colleague in History; Oléron Evans co-
 organised a research workshop on the British Bauhaus with Tate Modern. Our success in nurturing
 ECRs is seen in their onward trajectories to permanent positions at Ludwig-Maximilians-
 Universität München (Dirscherl) and UCL (Murawski).


                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    c. PGR recruitment, supervision, training and support

 We have maintained a thriving postgraduate community with 23.6 PhD completions and 31
 students currently enrolled. This community has seen a marked diversification, with a significant
 increase in the number of visiting students we have hosted from countries including Norway, Brazil,
 China, Slovenia, Germany and Spain. This has been achieved by use of our research centres to
 host students and by targeting collaborative doctoral studentships as well as non-UK sources of
 funding. We have secured 2 AHRC CDA studentships, an AHRC LAHP studentship and a Balearic
 Islands Doctoral Studentship in Catalan Studies, in addition to studentships funded by the Turkish
 Embassy, Saudi government, OWRI, and the Wellcome Trust. We have also secured 9
 studentships offered by Queen Mary which attract the highest caliber of students. In line with our
 internationalization strategy, we supervise beyond the UK via a number of co-tutelle arrangements
 with Paris III, Munich and Rostock. We have also attracted over 30 visiting PhD students funded
 by e.g. the German government and Spanish Ministry of Education. These students visit as a result
 of existing collaborations between supervisors (e.g. Carrera) but also help build international
 relationships.

 MLC and CLC each have a Director of Graduate Studies who reports to the School Director for
 Graduate Studies. We have benefited from the expertise of Armstrong who held the Faculty role
 of Deputy Dean for Research (PGR). A designated programme administration team within SLLF
 deals with all aspects of the postgraduate student experience. Research students have a primary
 and secondary supervisor, with the percentage input of these flexible to take account of specific
 needs. Supervisory teams are built across departments within the UoA and School (with Film and
 with Linguistics) and across HSS, which offer students the best possible support and foster
 collaboration. Beyond the institution, we co-supervise with colleagues at the London College of
 Fashion and UCL as well as the European institutions mentioned above. The second supervisor,
 together with a third member of staff, is responsible for reviewing student progress. An initial review
 is conducted at nine months in order to support and troubleshoot effectively. The progress of all
 research students is monitored via yearly reports and reviews to the School Research and
 Graduate Studies Committee to ensure consideration of broader policy issues.

 A points-based system promotes participation in research-training and skill-development activities:
 students obtain points for research activities in the areas of knowledge and intellectual abilities
 such as personal effectiveness; research organization; and engagement and impact. After gaining
 210 points over three years students are awarded the internal Qdip diploma. The Doctoral College
 provides skills and career development for research students. The menu of courses offers a broad
 range of training in research methods and approaches for first-year students, and analytical,
 presentational and career-oriented training in subsequent years [REF5a:3.III]. Subject-specific
 training is offered at School and departmental level, and through research centres, depending on
 needs (e.g. CCC offers annual PhD training sessions on, e.g. cartooning research or submitting
 exhibition proposals). All students also have access to subject-specific research training through
 the Institute of Advanced Studies and consortia such as the AHRC LAHP, in which QMUL is a
 partner institution. In addition to practical workshops offering training in working with archives or
 developing websites, LAHP provides sessions devoted to presentation skills and public
 engagement. In preparation for an academic career, second-year PhD students are offered
 opportunities to teach on relevant modules in MLC and CLC and are encouraged to bring their
 research expertise into their teaching practice. Supervisors provide mentoring for job and
 fellowship applications and interviews, and the University’s Careers & Enterprise service has a
 careers consultant for PGRs and ECRs.

 We actively involve doctoral students in our research community. Students attend and regularly
 present their work to an audience of peers and academic staff in departmental research seminars,
 the SLLF research coffee hour, and the seminars and designated PG work-in-progress events of
 research centres. They are also involved in the organization of these seminars (e.g. Glasheen’s
 co-organisation of the Children’s Literature/Lives series). They are encouraged to take part in, and
 to organize, conferences, for which they have access to funding at School and University level
 (e.g. Hines’ organization of a graduate conference in philosophy and literature in 2016). Students

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are eligible for up to £750 of research support per year from the School for research trips and to
 present papers at conferences. Further funding is available from the QMUL Research Fund (up to
 £2,000) and Doctoral College Initiative Fund (up to £1,000 for PGR-led activities that support the
 research experience and career development, with interdisciplinary activity prioritized)
 [REF5a:3.III]. PGR students are also encouraged to build on their training in knowledge transfer,
 dissemination and public engagement to secure internal funding to develop relationships and
 collaborations beyond academia (e.g. Riedel’s Collaboration fund grant of £4534 leading to
 displays on Prince Albert in Osborne House and Coburg).

    c) Equality, diversity and inclusion

 Regular training concerning fair selection and unconscious bias for staff involved in appointment
 panels ensures that recruitment processes are rigorously undertaken with scrupulous regard for
 EDI matters. Our appointments during this cycle have both increased the number of women and
 the diversity of our researchers (4/5 new appointments are women, and 2 of these are BAME).
 CLC also secured one of the QM BAME MA studentships [REF5a:3.III].

 Since REF2014 we have considerably bolstered and extended our support processes and
 mechanisms to ensure that staff at all levels are supported in their work and provided with equal
 opportunities to develop. The School’s EDI Committee, which includes the Director of Research
 and is overseen by the University’s EDI Steering group [REF5a:3.II], advises the School, shares
 and disseminates good practice, monitors and reviews training and mentoring, and raises
 awareness and engagement in equalities matters, notably active participation in the principles of
 the Equality Act 2010 and its implementation. A detailed workload review was conducted by the
 School’s Executive Committee to ensure parity and transparency. The Research Committee,
 which now includes an EC representative and the School’s EDI lead, oversees the implementation
 and annual review of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. We
 provide tailored support for staff with long-term illness/disability, including targeted mentoring to
 devise plans for those unable to travel, and were supporting flexible working well in advance of
 Covid-19 restrictions. We have adopted a commitment to ensuring that at least 50% of research-
 related events occur within core hours to ensure that all staff, including those with caring
 commitments, can contribute to and benefit from our research culture. The School’s Research
 Coffee Hour thus takes place at lunchtime. We actively support career shifts and mobility (e.g.
 Holgate comes to us after a successful career in investment banking and journalism, and Bryant
 Davies taught at secondary school). We encourage exchanges with organisations beyond
 academia through consultancy work (e.g. for museums and production companies), through
 involvement in CDA supervisory teams, and through secondment (e.g. Nair to the United Nations
 University in Barcelona/Bonn 2012-19). Diversification achieved is regarded as a catalyst to effect
 further change and we recognise that proactive interventions must be made at an earlier stage in
 the research cycle, hence our widening participation and outreach initiatives with local schools.

 We approach our internal REF audits as an opportunity to build our research culture and with
 Equality and Diversity considerations in mind. In keeping with the Queen Mary Code of Practice
 [REF5a:3.II], we established transparent and accountable procedures for reviewing and
 selecting outputs and impact case studies for REF submission. All those involved in managing
 REF processes have undergone Equality and Diversity training, and training in unconscious
 bias. We operate an Equality and Diversity audit to check the results of REF selection processes
 against Equality and Diversity criteria. All research staff are fully informed of REF-related
 decisions and have the right to appeal, in accordance with the requirements of the University
 Code of Practice.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

    a. Income

 In pursuit of the strategic aims set out above, we have prioritized funding capture to enable
 innovative, world-leading research and to maximize its impact on the academic community and

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 beyond. Research income has risen from £858K in RAE2008 to £1,330k in REF2014 (incl FS) and
 to £1,887k (with FS now returned separately). This sustained increase is supported by our
 commitment to the diversification and internationalisation of research funding. We have both led
 and contributed to large bids developed over several years (e.g. Kohler) and been able to mobilise
 research teams rapidly in order to secure urgent calls (e.g. BA Covid-19 grant led by Bryant
 Davies).

 Our UKRI funder portfolio now includes ESRC (with funding in excess of £236k). The number of
 AHRC grants secured in the census period has doubled since REF2014, totalling over £590k,
 including a collaborative project led by Nottingham, two CDAs and two inter-institutional bids as
 part of the OWRI scheme. Funding from the Leverhulme Trust has also increased, with three EC
 fellowships (vs two in REF2014) and other awards including two major research fellowships (vs 1
 in REF2014) totalling £299k. We have secured a further British Academy Newton fellowship but
 also 7 small research grants, including a Covid-19 grant. We have also extended and diversified
 our EU funding, securing two Marie Curie IEF Fellowships, and, importantly, £224k as part of a
 collaborative project within the HERA joint research programme. Previously untapped sources of
 funding for postdoctoral fellowships include the MHRA, Thyssen Foundation, SKD (Dresden
 Museum) and Max Geilinger Foundation. Substantial additional research income, not funnelled
 through the Queen Mary research office and hence not included in REF4, includes a senior
 fellowship at the Descartes Centre at Utrecht University and Mangalghiri’s fellowship at Harvard
 University’s Asia Centre. The Humboldt foundation has also provided funds to support short-term
 fellowships for our four Humboldt fellows. In addition to regular financial support (e.g. CCS receives
 €18k/annum from the Institut Ramon Llull), our centres receive hard-to-quantify, but generous in-
 kind support from the Austrian, German and Swiss embassies, the Austrian Cultural Forum,
 German Academic Exchange Service, Goethe Institut, Lufthansa, Pro Helvetia, Thyssen
 Foundation, Roland Berger Management Consultants and BASF. Funds have been used for
 strategic capacity building, to organize events and to present research at international
 conferences, in addition to enabling extensive publications and impact work.

    b. Infrastructure

 The opening of the seven-storey £40.3 million purpose-built Graduate Centre in 2017 [REF5a:4]
 has substantially improved facilities for postgraduate students and postdoctoral fellows and has
 facilitated collaboration. The building houses a lecture theatre as well as 17 seminar rooms and
 extensive workspace for PGRs and postdoctoral researchers, including group study rooms, a
 reading room, and a dedicated common room. The Graduate Centre houses the Doctoral College,
 which provides a platform for postgraduates from different departments to sustain the
 interdisciplinary exchanges that enrich Queen Mary’s research culture, as well as to access
 support resources such as skills training and career planning. Postdoctoral fellows in IHSS receive
 a desk in one of the state-of-the-art open-plan offices, which are intended to facilitate interaction
 among researchers. All this has, for instance, assisted Holgate in forging ties with colleagues in
 the School of Economics and Finance which has led to successful joint bids for internal funding.

 We have also used both the Graduate Centre and our recently upgraded existing major investment
 buildings as venues for high-profile events. These include two major international conferences
 in the Graduate Centre (Literary anthologies 2019, Chinese Association for Literary Criticism
 2017), lectures and screenings in the refurbished Arts One Lecture Theatre (refurbishment cost
 £35k) and Hitchcock cinema, as well as an exhibition and public screening in Arts Two (as outlined
 in ICS1). These activities have furthered our strategic aims by generating significant research
 outputs, stimulating collaboration within the institution and beyond, and enhancing our public
 engagement profile (e.g. writer in residence Barbara Honigmann’s 2017 reading, also leading to
 Gillett’s organization of a conference at Senate House).

 The QMUL Library provides high quality spaces and electronic research tools to all staff and
 researchers. It offers Academic Reading rooms for staff and research students, including a recently
 refurbished and extended postgraduate area open 24/7 also comprising group study rooms and a
 common room. There has been considerable investment in levels of e-journal subscription and in

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 acquisitions of key e-books, as well as improvements to search engine capabilities. The total spend
 on books for MLC and CLC in the census period has been over £123k. In addition, the Library
 curates a unique collection of Lusophone films and Brazilian and Argentine documentaries, which
 enables our strategic aim of international coverage across media. In addition to its existing Fontane
 Collection of books, the CAGCR has attracted the deposit of two highly significant archives: papers
 from the publisher Libris, and from the writer and translator Wolfgang Held. The Swiss Collection,
 donated by Pro Helvetia, is drawn on regularly for research seminars led by the Max Geilinger
 fellows. Our researchers also regularly use of the library’s Leo Baeck collection (e.g. in Goerner’s
 monograph on Kokoschka). Research activity both benefits from Library resources and furnishes
 new materials, e.g. the writer in residences schemes of our centres are building an important
 archive of contemporary European writing. QM’s library resources and provision are
 complemented by the book, manuscript and online collections at Senate House Library, other
 libraries of the federal University of London, and the British Library (where the music collection
 provided the starting point for the collaboration with the LSO outlined in ICS2).

 SLLF provides and, on a 3-5 year basis, upgrades appropriate and comprehensive computing
 facilities including laptops, leading to key publications based on archival research across Europe
 (e.g. Armstrong, Vidal Doval, Hicks), and internationally (e.g. Mangalagiri). Research staff also
 benefit from the presence of two dedicated IT technicians in the building. The Language Resource
 Centre provides self-access audio and video recording and editing facilities. Additionally, staff and
 students have at their disposal a purpose-built Linguistics Research Laboratory.

    d) Facilities pertaining to research and research impact.

 SLLF enjoys a wide range of professional support for its research activities. Since REF2014, we
 have created the post of School Research Manager, who provides guidance on grant applications,
 manages research-related information, and fosters collaborative research synergies through
 events and training. The Research Manager also oversees a robust system of peer-review,
 undertaken for all grants £35k-£350k with two reviewers (Director of Research and a subject
 specialist, with larger bids being peer reviewed at Faculty level). Administrative support is also
 provided within the School for the organisation and promotion via social media of research
 activities.

 Beyond SLLF, a key development in 2018 was the establishment of the IHSS [REF5a:2.1.5], an
 ideas generating hub and interdisciplinary research platform for the Faculty. IHSS provides a range
 of research funding opportunities which have served a number of our staff, including large grant
 seed-corn funding to pump-prime research leading to the submission of externally funded research
 bids (up to £3000, secured by Armstrong and Tihanov); early career workshop funding scheme for
 the organization of cross-faculty events (up to £1000 – secured by Mangalagiri and Bryant Davies);
 a distinguished visiting fellowships scheme to support residential visits of up to 4 weeks by scholars
 and researchers with the potential to enrich the research environment of the host department
 (secured for Puschner’s visit from Harvard in 2019, and for Hitchcock from CUNY in 2020). HSS
 also provides financial support to develop and capture impact activities (used by all ICS leads as
 well as McMorran) and provides a Collaboration Fund to encourage the development of
 relationships based on prior research with external non-HEI partners (integral to the LSO
 collaboration of ICS2).

 In addition, the Centre for Public Engagement (CPE) offers funding of up to £20,000 for both
 one-off and longer-term projects that are particularly innovative or likely to leave a resource legacy.
 Staff and postgraduates have secured CPE funds to organise a conference on Joan Brossa (2018)
 and a translation workshop aimed at the transgender community in Northern Ireland (Huddleson).
 The University also runs a Global Engagement Research Initiation scheme to foster
 international collaboration. This was secured by Oakes in 2019 to work with a Canadian colleague
 on the ethics of linguistic integration.

 Support is also available to researchers via the Deputy Dean for Research Impact (academic lead)
 and the Research Impact Officer for HSS for advice on impact planning – both roles created since

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 REF2014; as well as the CPE for advice on public engagement activities; and the Faculty PR
 Officer for communications advice. The JRMO team provides administrative support on costings
 and contracts. The QMUL Partnerships Team assists in brokering collaborations with non-HE
 organisations and was instrumental in the 5-year partnership with the V&A Museum of Childhood
 in the first phase of the CCC.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

        a) Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 We foster collaborative and interdisciplinary ways of working through multiple mechanisms
 including away days, our coffee research hour pairing researchers from different parts of SLLF,
 and the TTCT seminar in which an MLC or CLC researcher speaks alongside a scholar from
 another institution. School-level Director of Research, Impact lead and Research Manager posts
 also enable identification of synergies across the varied disciplines of SLLF. This has borne
 considerable fruit, with colleagues collaborating on funded projects (e.g. BA Covid-19 award led
 by Bryant Davies with Vaclavik) co-supervising doctoral projects (e.g. Oléron Evans and Goerner),
 sharing mentoring on postdoctoral fellowships (Nicholls and Goerner for Anderson) and co-editing
 landmark works (Gillett and Köhler). Extensive collaboration also takes place with colleagues
 within SLLF, HSS and the wider institution via co-supervisory arrangements (12 completions co-
 supervised with English, Drama, Geography and History), and co-leadership of research centres
 and fora (e.g. Visual & Material Cultures Forum and CHE, both with History).

 National and international collaboration has led to landmark publications including Oakes’
 Normative Language Policy (with Paed, McGill), McMorran’s 120 Days (with Wynn, Durham) and
 Nicholls’ critical edition of an archival text by Blumenberg (with Heidenreich, Stuttgart). 3 PhD
 completions have occurred within co-tutelle arrangements. Notable funded projects, showcasing
 and enabling collaboration, include Köhler on European spa culture (with institutions in Holland,
 Germany and Sweden) and Anderson’s BA seed-corn funding to support UK-China relations
 examining waste (with partners in Beijing, Shanghai and Hong Kong). Our involvement as satellite
 partner of the OWRI ‘Cross-Language Dynamics’ research programme enables strengthened ties
 with UK-wide ML and CL departments, and a two-day event hosted at QM brought together
 scholars from the UK, Spain, Germany, Russia, China, Brazil and the USA, leading to a publication
 on world literature edited by Tihanov.

 Our researchers participate in and have contributed to the establishment of research networks
 locally, nationally and internationally. We are one of 7 participating institutions in the London
 Intercollegiate Network for Comparative Studies which, through regular events, promotes dialogue
 and cooperation between CLC researchers. At the European level, Nicholls was a member of
 Empirisierung des Transzendentalen, based at the University of Stuttgart and funded by the
 German Research Foundation (DFG, 2014-17). Hicks is leading member of the Russian Cinema
 Research Group, UCL-SSEES. Staff at all career stages play key roles in international networks,
 from Mangalagiri’s participation in the research group, “Beyond Pan-Asianism: China-India
 Connections, 1911-1949,” funded by the Chiang-Ching Kuo Foundation, to Tihanov’s membership
 of, and contributions to, the ICLA Committee on the Comparative History of Literatures in the
 European Languages.

 We regularly host world-class researchers and (co-)organize events staging opportunities for
 crucial exchanges and the production of new research outcomes. We have made a series of
 successful bids to the IHSS Distinguished Visiting Fellow programme, which promotes visits by
 established scholars whose period of residence of up to 4 weeks enriches the research landscape
 by active participation in events and activities in collaboration with academic staff and research
 students. Russian benefits from a Queen Mary-funded programme which each year brings two
 scholars from Russia for a month to contribute to the research culture and provide enrichment
 activities for students. A particularly fruitful source of funded mobility has been the Humboldt
 Foundation: with four Humboldt fellows in our ranks, our researchers have both undertaken
 research stays in Germany (Nicholls at ZfL Berlin) and hosted postdoctoral fellows (Liedke

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mentored by London, Fromholzer by Goerner). Colleagues have co-organised events with
 researchers in a range of institutions including the ‘Urban Microcosms 1789-1941’ conference at
 the University of Bristol (Köhler with Dirscherl) and a conference on ‘Friedrich Max Müller and the
 Role of Philology in Victorian Thought’, held at the German Historical Institute (Nicholls, with Davis
 (HRP) leading to a book in 2017).

 Our work invigorates our core fields and shapes their future direction by staging new intellectual
 and methodological encounters between disciplines (e.g. Koteyko’s work at the intersection
 of digital health and linguistics). Equally, researchers at all career stages are engaged in the vital
 process of interrogating and reflecting upon interdisciplinary undertakings, from Glasheen’s
 doctoral thesis on 1930s play to Oakes’ and Paed’s Normative Language Policy – a major attempt
 at finding a new interdisciplinary framework for the study of language policy and planning in the
 global age. Editorship of book series such as Routledge’s Global Literature: Twenty-First-Century
 Perspectives (Pravinchandra with Chambers, York), with titles examining literature in conjunction
 with e.g. visual culture and the environment, means that we are helping to set the interdisciplinary
 agenda of our fields.

        b) Contributions to and recognition by the research base

 We undertake multiple activities necessary to the vitality of our disciplines which represent a
 substantial, sustained and energetic contribution to the research infrastructure. These occur both
 within the institution and beyond, involving (inter)national contributions. We have taken numerous
 leadership and enabling roles on the committees of our professional organizations, learned
 societies and institutes (e.g. Armstrong was President (2013-16), Acting President (2016-17) and
 Vice-President (2017-19) of the Association of University Professors and Heads of French, while
 Tihanov is, since 2016, an elected member of the Coordinating Committee of the ICLA). Our
 researchers serve on the advisory boards of organisations and funded projects (e.g. Pfalzgraf is
 on the board of the Institute for Cultural Relations Policy in Budapest; Vaclavik that of an EPSRC-
 funded project, ‘Playing the Archive,’ based at UCL).

 Our researchers are regularly sought out as expert assessors for over 21 funding bodies in the
 UK, Europe and internationally, including the AHRC Peer Review College, European Research
 Council and Israel Science Foundation. We have also served on several panels for research prizes
 and awards (e.g. Hicks’ contribution to the University of South California prize committee for the
 best monograph on Russia, Eastern Europe or Eurasia). Evidence of our commitment to the vitality
 and development of our disciplines is apparent in our involvement in 20+ appointment and
 promotion panels. Our external examination of 66+ PhD dissertations assists new waves of young
 scholars to enter the field and is thus a major contribution to the sustainability of our disciplines.
 Tihanov, Nicholls, and Goerner have conducted programme or department evaluations at the
 Universities of Toronto, Kent, and Cologne respectively, while Gillett participated in a review of the
 IMLR.

 We also invest a significant amount of time and energy in different roles associated with publication
 in order to ensure our familiarity with the latest research and to shape relevant research agenda.
 In addition to extensive peer reviewing for academic journals and publishers, we discharge an
 advisory role for 23 journals and 7 monograph series. Researchers in the two departments occupy
 a large number of editorial positions for both important book series and leading journals (in total,
 over 9 book series including at Yale University Press and Liverpool University Press) and 31
 scholarly journals). For instance, Nicholls co-edited the History of the Human Sciences journal
 (2013-18), while Pravinchandra is assistant editor of Comparative Critical Studies. We have also
 continued to publish internationally prominent periodicals in-house. Hispanic Research
 Journal (INT2 on the ERIH ranking, edited by Dadson and now London) expanded to 6 issues per
 year in 2013, of which two, uniquely, are thematic issues on Screen Arts and on Visual Arts. It is
 now published by Taylor & Francis who subsidize a related administrative post paid by QMUL.
 HRJ publishes in four languages and encourages debate between researchers working on Iberian
 and Latin-American cultures internationally. In this cycle, five volumes of the highly regarded series
 of short monographs, Papers of the Medieval Hispanic Research Seminar, edited by Vidal Doval,

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appeared. The CAGCR publishes Angermion, a refereed Yearbook, now in its 12th issue, which
 provides a forum for European German studies to analyse Anglo-German cultural relations since
 the 18th century (edited by Goerner). Nair founded and is Principal Editor of the interdisciplinary
 Crossings: Journal of Migration and Culture, published twice yearly by Intellect and now in its
 eleventh year.

 Indicators of our standing and recognition on an (inter)national stage also include the numerous
 lectures and scholarly talks that we have been invited to deliver. As a unit we have delivered at
 least 65 keynote lectures, several of which were delivered outside of the UK – including for
 example Antwerp (Nicholls), Tübingen, Chengdu, Istanbul, Stockholm, Seoul, Singapore, Berlin,
 Warsaw (Tihanov), Innsbruck, Cologne, Berlin (Goerner) – and 220+ invited scholarly talks in total.
 Our researchers have also been the recipients of major prizes and awards. Goerner was
 awarded the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany (2017), and the Prize of the
 Alexander von Humboldt-Foundation (Lifetime award, 2016). Hughes was elected a Fellow of the
 British Academy in 2019. Vieira has received eight awards in recognition of her efforts to promote
 Brazilian culture abroad. Tihanov was awarded a Distinguished Fellowship in the Humanities at
 Peking University and elected Member of Academia Europaea (2013). McMorran won the 2017
 Scott Moncrieff Translation Prize.

    c) Wider contributions to economy and society

 We are committed to producing impact-generating research and to engaging with the widest
 possible range of audiences. Our expertise in intercultural relations and intellectual and
 cultural history is increasingly sought out and shaping debates (inter)nationally. ICS1 has
 fundamentally changed public understandings of Soviet involvement in the Holocaust through
 films and exhibitions while ICS3 has enabled teachers and students to interrogate prejudices
 pertaining to gender and sexual orientation in rural Brazil. Goerner has written and broadcast
 extensively on Brexit and was invited by the Chair of the All-Party Parliamentary Group for British-
 German Affairs in the House of Commons to present the work of CAGCR. Oakes presented results
 from his BA-funded project on motivation for language learning at an event in Cork and in an OA
 publication sent to the Irish government, and all Irish universities and Institutes of
 Technology. Bryant Davies is leading a BA-funded project in partnership with Storytime magazine
 which deploys targeted storytelling drawing on myth and classical tradition to mitigate the impact
 of Covid-19 on children’s mental health and wellbeing.

 As well as shaping contemporary debates and issues of pressing political and cultural concern,
 our research can change attitudes and professional practice. Showcased in ICS1 and ICS2, our
 researchers are opening up curatorial and exhibition possibilities for museums and libraries
 across the UK and beyond, and are setting new agenda through their collaborations with the
 creative industries. ICS2 involved collaborations with the V&A, LSO and a commercial design
 company. Like Hicks (ICS1), Muratori has also shaped the agenda of European museums, with
 her curation of exhibitions in Dresden, Coventry and Amsterdam. Through our translation work
 (e.g. by McMorran and London) and related activities, we also open significant areas of cultural
 production to British audiences. Readings by our writers in residence and other performances (e.g.
 Global Poetry event 2020) diversify the cultural life of the capital.

 Interactions with audiences beyond academia are regarded as mutually beneficial and a two-way
 sharing of expertise. They both build the individual skill sets of our researchers (e.g. around
 processes of curation), which then feed into teaching,PGR supervision and training, and also set
 new research agenda (e.g. Vaclavik’s work with the LSO (ICS2) initiated a new approach
 foregrounding soundscapes). We utilize a range of mechanisms to interact with user groups
 which then feed back into and enrich our research environment, including CDAs, consultancies,
 funded project-based work and long-term formal partnerships with and input into high profile
 cultural organisations (inter)nationally. For instance, Vieira is a member of the Board of Directors
 of the Brazilian Endowment for the Arts in New York. We are also closely involved with the cultural
 sections of embassies, thus Pfalzgraf is a member of the ‘Round Table of Cultural Organisations’,
 held bi-annually by the German Embassy in London. Our research centres also catalyze, host and

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support external engagement through their steering groups, partnerships and activities. An online
 exhibition of the work of photographer Catrine Val is a recent CAGCR example, supported by the
 German Embassy London and the Goethe-Institut London (https://livingmemoryproject.org).

 Our researchers are regularly invited to offer bespoke, targeted public talks, and have also
 designed and delivered a number of public-facing events nationally and internationally. Hicks,
 for example, conceived and taught a British Library adult learning course as part of the Russian
 revolution centenary, 2017) while Nicolls, who served as a consultant to the British Museum’s
 exhibition on Germany, chaired a sold-out event on German Literature from Goethe to Grimm in
 2015 (300 person capacity lecture theatre). Carrera’s 2019 TEDxMadrid talk on the history of
 nostalgia and hope was attended by 1000 people and subsequently viewed 1800+ times.

 Another essential means by which we engage and interact with international audiences and
 intervene in global debates is through contributions to (inter)national media. Our media presence
 spans a variety of online and print outlets, from The Conversation to The Guardian, The
 Independent, The Daily Mail and New York Times as well as other broadcast media including
 national and regional BBC radio and TV, the Australian Broadcasting Corporation and many more.
 We act as consultants for television documentaries (e.g. Tihanov on Bakhtin; Nicholls on the
 German Lied for BBC4) and for multi-million-pound drama series (McMorran for Quills).




                                                                                          Page 14
