Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen’s University Belfast

 Unit of Assessment: 12

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 A defining feature of this UoA is the ability to sustain a pipeline of world-leading basic science
 that delivers impact through commercialisation and knowledge exchange. This is essential within
 the context of post-conflict Northern Ireland; we work with partners across the University,
 regionally, and beyond, to transform a dependency on traditional manufacturing into a
 knowledge-based, data-driven economy. Influenced by the UN Sustainable Development Goals,
 the UoA has, in this period, chosen to focus on eight core research topics: connectivity and
 cybersecurity, data analytics, future transport, clean energy, advanced manufacturing,
 smart, sustainable and resilient infrastructure, advanced liquid materials and advanced
 composites and polymers.

 We are uniquely geographically positioned between the UK, Europe and the United States, thus
 remaining at the centre of many initiatives being delivered through the research councils,
 business agencies and Foreign, Commonwealth & Development offices, to shape UK research
 in an international context post Brexit. A 30% targeted refresh of staff has significantly enhanced
 the UoA, translating to the engagement of 45.8 early career researchers (ECRs). Through an
 innovative development programme, they have been successfully embedded in the UoA
 research culture and ethos. Concurrently, the UoA has achieved a steady 6.6% growth in its
 annual research income, resulting in a cumulative total of £115.5M across the REF period.

 The UoA has had a number of notable achievements during the REF period:
     2016 Award of an esteemed Regius Professorship by Her Majesty the Queen to
       recognise exceptionally high quality research in Electronics and Computer Engineering.
     Securement of 12 prestigious fellowships (including two Research Chair/Senior Research
       Fellowships), a Royal Society Newton International Fellowship, two UKRI Future Leader
       fellowships, five RAEng fellowships, a Leverhulme Trust Research Leadership fellowship,
       and a NERC fellowship, all of which are engaged on projects directly addressing the eight
       core areas.
     The UoA’s Centre for Secure Information Technology has played a major role in
       establishing the region’s world-recognised status in cybersecurity. It is a founding partner
       in the Global EPIC3 world-wide network of 24 cybersecurity research and innovation
       ecosystems, in the London-based Cybersecurity Innovation Centre (LORCA), and has
       helped in creating 1,600 jobs across 40 Northern Irish companies.
     2015 Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further Education on Engineering &
       Technology, awarded to the Centre for Secure Information Technologies.
     Establishment and implementation of a number of major initiatives including a £50M R&D
       Engineering Centre of Excellence for Biomedical Applications (with Randox
       Laboratories), a £33M ‘Strength in Places’ project (with Artemis Technologies), a £10M
       ‘phase 2’ Innovation and Knowledge Centre, a €9.3M Bryden Centre for marine and bio-
       energy research, and a £5M cross-disciplinary William Wright Technology Centre in
       transport technology.
     Establishment of the £5M Tier-2 Northern Ireland High Performance Computing Centre
       to support data analytics research. This reflects the institution's joint strength with Ulster
       University in data analytics, which in terms of research power was ranked by the Alan
       Turing Institute as 6th in the UK.
     Large scale engagement with industry, evidenced by the contribution of nearly half of the
       University’s 133 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs), which has resulted in Queen’s
       being ranked number one in the UK for spin-outs, and has added an estimated gross
       value of £55M to the economy.
     Continued success in commercialisation: four of the UoA’s spin-out companies have
       secured over £76M in venture capital investment.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Development of a strong Equality Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) ethos, evidenced by three
        of the four UoA schools holding Silver SWAN awards, and by the UoA’s leadership in the
        UKRI-funded Inclusion Really Does Matter ‘Support for Equality Network in Science and
        Engineering’ network.

 a) Unit context and structure

 2015 saw the introduction of a new management structure within the University (Figure 1), leading
 to the establishment of the Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences (EPS) in which the UoA
 is based. A Faculty Pro Vice-Chancellor (PVC-EPS) and Deans of Education, Research,
 Postgraduate Teaching and Internationalisation were appointed with the specific aim of achieving
 the strategic goals of the University’s ‘Vision 2020’ plan. This led to the formation of a new Faculty
 Executive Board, chaired by the PVC-EPS, consisting of the individual Heads of Schools,
 supported by Directors of Operations and new faculty-embedded Professional Services staff.

 The UoA covers the schools of Electronics, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
 (EEECS) and Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering (MAE) as well as the Civil Engineering
 component of Natural and Built Environment (SNBE) and Chemical Engineering portion of
 Chemistry and Chemical Engineering as indicated below (CCE). The changes have led to the
 creation of a number of major new initiatives supporting interdisciplinary research and a
 reorganization into 18 major research themes/groups across the four schools (Table 1).




                              Figure 1. Faculty management structure

 To respond to the University’s ‘Vision 2020’ plan and Corporate Plan 2016–2021, the Faculty
 made a number of major changes, designed to improve each School’s capability to best respond
 to the major societal and engineering challenges of our time. A result has been the establishment
 of the School of Natural & Built Environment, creating a dynamic, multidisciplinary environment,
 in which civil engineers collaborate proactively with architects, planners, geographers,
 paleoecologists and archaeologists. Crucially, the development of a new Global Research
 Institute, the Institute of Electronics, Communications and Information Technology (ECIT), has
 linked researchers from a wide variety of electronic and communications disciplines on such a
 scale that rapid and successful addressing of major societal challenges is possible. The creation
 of three strong, multidisciplinary Pioneer Research Programmes has acted to stimulate novel
 interdisciplinary research collaborations to tackle challenges emerging on the global horizon.
 The changes have seen an increased research profile in terms of high profile staff appointments,
 improved grant income, increased number and quality of research publications and increased
 impact as evidenced by the UoA’s influence on impact case studies.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    Institute of Electronics, Communications and Information Technology (ECIT): this
     comprises the Centre for Secure Information Technologies (CSIT) - a leading centre in
     Europe for cyber security research/innovation, the Centre for Wireless Innovation (CWI) –
     which invents the underpinning technologies for mobile, medical and space applications and
     the Centre for Data Science and Scalable Computing (DSSC) - which conducts research
     into core machine learning and data science for heterogeneous data sources.
    Centre for Intelligent Autonomous Manufacturing Systems (i-AMS): this spans
     engineering disciplines, computer science, applied mathematics and psychology, and works
     in partnership with the Northern Ireland Technology Centre to develop innovative
     technologies and solutions for Industry 4.0. It addresses advanced manufacturing by
     focusing on three areas: (1) virtual sensing, prognostics & virtual factory simulations, (2)
     flexible automation and robotics and (3) autonomous and intelligent decision making.

     Divisions          Research Themes/Groups                Research topics
                       Centre for Secure Information         connectivity and
     Electronics,
                        Technology                            cybersecurity; data analytics
     Electrical
                       Centre for Wireless Innovation        connectivity and
     Engineering
                       Data Science and Scalable             cybersecurity
     and
                        Computing                             data analytics
     Computer
                       Energy, Power and Intelligent         clean energy; advanced
     Science
                        Control                               manufacturing
     (EEECS)
                       Artificial Intelligence               data analytics; smart,
     (68.75/55.0)
                                                              sustainable and resilient
                                                              infrastructure
                       Advanced Manufacturing and            advanced manufacturing
                        Processing                            composites and polymers;
     Mechanical
                       Bioengineering                        advanced manufacturing
     and
                       Clean Energies                        clean energy
     Aerospace
                       Composite Materials and               future transport, composites
     Engineering
                        Structures                            and polymers
     (MAE)
                       Future Aircraft                       future transport
     (38.8/38)
                       Simulation Technologies               advanced manufacturing;
                                                              future transport
                       Advanced Materials and                advanced composites and
     Chemistry
                        Nanotechnology                        polymers
     and
                       Green and Sustainable                 clean energy; advanced
     Chemical
                        Chemistry                             liquid materials
     Engineering
                       Multi-phase Flows, Reactors and       clean energy
     (CCE)
                        Process Intensification
     (9.4/8)
                       Theoretical and Applied               clean energy, advanced
                        Catalysis                              composites and polymers,
                                                               advanced liquid materials
                       Intelligent and Sustainable           smart, sustainable and
                        Infrastructure                         resilient infrastructure; data
     Natural and                                               analytics; advanced
     Built                                                     composites and polymers
     Environment       Water and Energy Resources            clean energy; smart,
     (NBE)                                                     sustainable and resilient
     (23.05/33.6)      Global Environmental Resilience        infrastructure
                                                              smart, sustainable and
                                                               resilient infrastructure

  Table 1. School, Research Themes’ organization and relationship to research topics (includes
    details included of number of returned academic staff /REF2014 returned academic staff)
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       Centre for Materials & Advanced Technologies for Healthcare (MATCH): An
        interdisciplinary research initiative with the Faculty of Medicine, Health and Life Sciences,
        this comprises leading researchers from the UoA and is centred on healthcare technology.
        It focuses on creating: (1) smarter technologies that are biocompatible and strongly
        antimicrobial; (2) future therapies to enhance solubility, bioavailability and stability of novel
        medicines and (3) optimization of strategies and technologies for enhancing patient care.
       Sustainable Energy Research Centre (SERC): this addresses the clean energy and
        advanced liquid materials themes and acts as a focal point for the technological aspects
        of energy research. It also incorporates Queen’s University Ionic Liquids Laboratory and the
        Competence Centre in Advanced Sustainable Energy (an industry-led research centre
        funded through Invest NI’s Competence Centre programme, covering all forms of renewable
        energy including marine, wind and bio-energy as well as energy systems).

 While both the Global Research Institute and Pioneer Research Programmes directly relate to
 the schools in the UoA (Figure 2), they also take a strong and active multidisciplinary approach.
 MATCH is engaged with the schools of Pharmacy, Biological Sciences, Medicine, Dentistry &
 Biomedical Sciences and Nursing & Midwifery; and SERC with the School of Biological Sciences
 and a number of external institutions (e.g. Agri-Food and the Biosciences Institute). The £1M
 ECIT-led Leverhulme Interdisciplinary Network on Cybersecurity and Society project engages
 with the Senator George J. Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice by providing
 30 studentships; and the recently funded Leverhulme Interdisciplinary Network on Algorithmic
 Solutions incorporates EEECS and the Schools Of Law, History, Anthropology, Philosophy and
 Politics (HAPP), and Maths and Physics (M&P). The EPSRC-funded ‘Advanced Research Into
 Creative Circular Economies for Plastics via Technological-Social Transitions’ project unites UoA
 researchers with the Schools of HAPP and Psychology.




      Figure 2. Global Research Institute/Pioneer Research Programmes relationship to individual
                                               Schools


 During the period, funding for a number of Innovative Training Networks (ITNs) was secured and
 the UoA was a founding member of two major international collaborations: the UK-Jiangsu 20+20
 World Class University Consortium (involving 20+ Chinese and 20 UK universities) focused on
 advanced manufacturing, environmental engineering and healthcare and; the UK-China
 University Consortium on Engineering Education and Research (involving 6 UK partners)
 focused on areas of energy and intelligent manufacturing.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 b) Research strategy

 Progress against REF 2014 strategic aims

 The UoA was returned under separate sub-panels in REF 2014. Their specific strategic aims can
 be summarised as follows:
    high performance software design, programming applications and knowledge-driven large-
     scale intelligent systems (REF2014:UoA11);
    materials, energy and manufacture with a multidisciplinary focus (REF2014:UoA12);
    higher performing antennas, context aware wireless, cybersecurity and cryptographic
     hardware, electric network Integration of high penetration renewables (REF2014:UoA13);
    structural materials, composites, structural health monitoring, renewable energy, marine
     renewables, groundwater, soil, and water management (REF2014:UoA14).
 During this REF period, the UoA’s focus has been to bolster key areas of research, whilst driving
 forward solutions to primary economic and social challenges. There is a strong and necessary
 emphasis on interdisciplinarity. This approach has led to the establishment of eight core research
 areas (highlighted at the start of the statement) which involve, in many cases, multiple schools
 (Table 1, Figure 3). These are detailed below:

 Connectivity and cybersecurity: CSIT is the UK’s Innovation and Knowledge Centre for cyber
 security. It has comprehensive excellence in cybersecurity and cryptographic hardware;
 achieved through the expansion of its activities in (1) applied cyber security technologies, (2)
 network security (3) industrial control systems security and (4) security intelligence. Founded in
 2009, CSIT’s mission is to couple major research breakthroughs in the field of secure information
 technologies with a unique model of innovation and commercialization. This enables it to drive
 economic and societal impact across the nation.

 Combining two previously separate areas of research (namely high frequency electronics and
 wireless communications systems) has utterly transformed the wireless communications
 research; resulting in the UK’s largest grouping in physical layer wireless communications. It
 comprises 17 academics and 50 researchers and is ranked 28th globally in telecommunications
 centres, and 4th in Europe (2019 Shanghai Rankings for Telecommunications). Its global impact
 has seen the granting of 6 patents, numerous British Council awards, a Royal Society Newton
 International Fellowship and the 2017 Newton Prize.




             Figure 3. Exemplar research areas included within the research strategy
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In Data analytics technology, researchers have created techniques which, unlike comparator
 research groups, include the sensor and the computer hardware in the algorithmic design space.
 This creates end-to-end optimization of modern machine learning, which in turn has led to a
 number of innovations with notable impact, for example: robust face recognition (which operates
 across the range of identities and noise profiles found in existing camera setups);
 significantly more efficient neural networks (operating on 2W chips versus 150W); enormous
 speed up of identity search algorithms (resulting in 30000% reduction in search time). This
 expertise has led to the spin out of two visual analytics companies, one of which, Anyvision, is
 an internationally recognised leader in computer vision technology. These achievements are
 central to the ambitions being espoused in the AI Council and UKRI’s ‘AI review: Transforming
 our world with AI’ reports.

 Unique aspects of this work includes the “any device virtualisation” for edge and future cloud
 architectures and AI techniques, which include sensor and the computer hardware in the
 algorithmic design space. Again, this creates end-to-end optimisation of modern machine
 learning. Measures of esteem within this period include: Distinguished Member of the ACM,
 2018; Silver Medal, 2018; and IEEE Certificate of Merit, 2016. Data Science and Scalable
 Computing was the first UK research group to receive direct funding from the Defence Science
 and Technology Agency of Singapore - a recognition of the world-leading expertise in multi-
 modal deep learning applied to defence.

 Future transport has been strengthened through the showpiece, cross disciplinary William Wright
 Technology Centre engaged in world-leading bus technology research and the £33M ‘Strength in
 Places’ project, ‘Decarbonisation of Maritime Transportation – a Return to Commercial Sailing’.
 Led by Artemis Technologies, this latter project builds on Belfast’s maritime heritage and world-
 leading expertise in advanced manufacturing and renewable energy with the aim of developing
 zero emissions hydrofoil ferries and a maritime transport system of the future.

 The William Wright Technology Centre has established new partnerships with operators in Hong
 Kong and Latin America that are being developed into longer term strategic research project. It
 has benefitted from an investment of over £1.5M by the Wright Group with an additional £4M from
 funded projects. It employs 9 post-doctoral researchers, 10 postgraduate students and a
 development engineer. Since 2017, it has been awarded an interdisciplinary EPSRC Prosperity
 Partnership, 2 Innovate Integrated Delivery Programme (IDP) projects and an Advanced
 Propulsion Centre Advanced Route to Market Demonstrator project.

 Building on our vast expertise in geometric modelling, a unique in-house expertise has led to a
 long-term collaboration with Rolls-Royce on defining and automating the creation of innovative
 and efficient structural models which will be used to understand the requirements of future
 generations of aircraft engines. The School has held multiple EU and UKRI awards related to this
 research area over the years and has received substantial funding directly from Rolls-Royce.

 Major contributions through the UoA - via the Bryden Centre for Advanced Marine & Bio-Energy
 Research into biomass and marine-based renewable energy sources - has fostered impressive
 work towards clean energy. This €9.3M ‘virtual centre of competence’ was funded under the
 INTERREG VA Programme, which supports cross-border research. By expanding research in
 marine renewables, successful commercialization and diversifying into tidal current, off-shore
 wind and solar energy, the centre has bridged the gap between academic research and industry
 needs. Extended strategic collaboration focusing on the challenges of network integration of high
 penetration renewables in the wide area has been established with AES, EirGrid, GlenDimplex,
 NIE Networks, SONI, and Statnet. Due to the ratio of available renewable resources to land
 mass, the electricity grid across Ireland is recognized as a world-class test bed. Phasor
 measurements units (installed on 44 sites) now facilitate innovative research on a power system
 operating at up to 65% non-synchronous generation. This work resulted in an IET GTD Premium
 Award in 2017 and an Innovate UK project with AES (at the time, Europe’s largest grid connected
 Battery Energy Storage System).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A £7.5M investment in the Northern Ireland Technology Centre by Innovate UK, the Aerospace
 Technology Institute and the university has significantly strengthened advanced manufacturing
 by creating an open access “Digital Enabled Manufacturing Technology Factory”. In collaboration
 with industry, it aims to develop and demonstrate advanced manufacturing and digital
 technologies. i-AMS fosters interdisciplinary, manufacturing research across engineering,
 computer science, psychology, and mathematics, with the aim of addressing the challenges of
 Industry 4.0. Research programmes have focused on (1) the development of machine learning
 based approaches to monitoring, optimization, predictive maintenance and control of
 manufacturing systems and processes, (2) the control and coordination of autonomous vehicles
 and robots, and (3) virtual reality/augmented reality and haptics for enhanced immersive
 experiences. Novel research on ’Low-cost process monitoring for polymer extrusion’ was
 recognized with an Institute of Measurement and Control ICI Prize (2015).

 Current research into smart, sustainable and resilient infrastructure has built up major
 activities into sustainable construction materials, life cycle assessment of materials, and
 structural heath monitoring. The work goes from fundamental research through to direct
 application with examples of major focus areas including: sustainable, low carbon precast
 concrete infrastructure; novel low carbon geopolymer concretes; and extending bridge life by
 developing the world’s first fibre optic Bridge Weigh-in-Motion system. The UoA has grown its
 expertise to address the impact of climate change, including the growing global challenge of
 flooding and the scarcity of clean, potable water. It has expanded its research into sustainable
 management of peatlands and contaminated water, soils and groundwater. There are
 interdisciplinary approaches taking place that explore the environmental impact of marine
 renewables and coastal processes.

 Advanced liquid materials research has been mostly undertaken by CCE staff (multidisciplinary
 team involving chemical engineers and chemists) in the Queen’s University Ionic Liquids
 Laboratory, an academic/industry partnership established to exploit QUB’s lead in ionic liquid
 technology. Ionic liquids, or deep eutectic solvents, have complex structures, which can be
 precisely engineered to deliver specific sets of properties. Applications include: battery
 electrolytes and hydrogen storage media, superhydrophobic coatings and high-performance
 lubricants, solvents for polymers, media for metals separations, and components of emission
 control systems. The team has a collaborative research partnership with Petronas, which was
 strengthened by seven new first phase, research projects with a total value of £2.4M (2020).
 Further funding plans for years 4-5 aim to reach higher technology readiness levels. All projects
 are broadly related to the area of sustainable chemistry and chemical engineering, enabling
 Petronas to develop transformative low-carbon technologies across their business portfolio.

 The team working on advanced composites and polymers is leading the field in next
 generation materials for lightweight smart nano-enhanced composites. This meets the needs of
 future transportation by upgrading performance, improving fuel efficiency and ameliorating
 crashworthiness. A £6M Northern Ireland Advanced Composites and Engineering Competence
 Centre, (a collaboration between academia and 17 industry participants, namely Bamford,
 Collins Aerospace, McFarlands, Spirit and others) was created as a locus for this activity; and it
 has a focus on researching new composites and on structural health monitoring. In 2021, the
 UoA will host the International Conference on Composite Materials, the field’s foremost
 international conference, attracting 1500-2000 delegates from over 40 countries. The Polymer
 Processing Research Centre celebrated its 20th anniversary in Sept 2016 by refocussing its core
 activities in polymer engineering and offering significant potential to provide new solutions
 needed to provide step changes in technological advances. We recognise that investment is
 needed to maintain competitive advantage, and so have recently established a new polymer
 laboratory.

 c) Impact strategy

 The UoA represents a core part of the University’s enterprise strategy and has had a
 demonstrable track record in establishing close relationships with industrial partners, in
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 identifying commercial opportunities and by encouraging the creation of - and support for - spin
 out companies. A lot of this activity is coordinated through eight dedicated business development
 personnel in ECIT and is able to avail of the EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account. The UoA's
 expertise and activities are seen as an important strand for the strategy of InvestNI, the Northern
 Ireland investment agency, in attracting inward investment into Northern Ireland.

 For two successive years (2019, 2020), the university has been ranked first in the UK for
 commercialising academic research (Octopus Ventures). Currently, 1954 employees are
 employed in 37 active spin out companies.

 Recent UoA12 successes include:
  AnyVision, a leading computer vision company specializing in face, body, and object-
    recognition software, which closed a £60 million Series A financing round in 2019.
  TitanIC Systems Ltd. who has developed pioneering technology to accelerate data search
    and analytics, was acquired in 2020 by Nasdaq-listed Mellanox - a company with revenues
    of $1.33B.
  Analytics Engines Ltd., who develop data analytics software, has secured several
    investments of up to £1.5M during the period allowing it to expand to 20 people.
  Green Lizard Technologies Ltd. (founded 2015) specializes in green chemistry
    technologies for the sustainable energy, chemical and recycling industries; and has secured
    over £14M in projects to date.

 Other on-going spin out company activity includes: Amphora Non-Destructive Testing Ltd
 (2002, sold August 2014 and now trades as Amphora NDT Ltd) which provides equipment for
 on-site monitoring of concrete; and Sengenia Ltd (2007), which provides ingenuity in sensing
 solutions using optical sensors, and is involved in high profile projects including high speed rail.

 KTP performance was ranked as ‘The Best of the Best’ in the UK in 2019, with the UoA being
 engaged in 65 of the institution’s 133 KTP projects during the REF period. This is estimated to
 have generated up to £28.5M net additional gross value added and, following completion of all
 65 of UoA12’s KTPs, will rise to an estimate of £55M (Table 2). A project from the UoA with
 Bullivant Taranto Ltd., was awarded best overall KTP in 2013; and in 2014 Taylor was awarded
 UK KTP Ambassador.

                                            Completed UoA12 KTPs            All UoA12 KTPs
   KTP Grant from Innovate UK                       £3.56M                         £6.90M
   Company Contribution                             £2.01M                         £4.15M
   Total Partnership Budget                         £5.55M                        £11.05M
   Estimate of RoI, net additional GVA         £26.7M- £28.5M                £51.8M - £55.2M

                    Table 2. Value for UoA12 KTPs for the period 2014-to date

 A number of specific examples of impact related to the eight core areas include:

 In Connectivity and cybersecurity, advanced security has been demonstrated in the creation
 of a fully homomorphic encryption hardware design, which provides encryption speed
 improvements of a factor of 130 compared to equivalent software designs. This was selected as
 an IEEE Trans. on Computers ‘Editor’s pick of the year 2016’. This advanced encryption
 technology has also been used by Thales, in a demonstration model to address electronic
 component counterfeiting in industry.

 In smart, sustainable and resilient infrastructure, research into concrete technology has
 enabled the Northern Irish concrete industry to sustain their position as UK market leaders by
 providing new, leaner products; and allowing for safer, cleaner working environments. QUB-led
 structural heath monitoring and assessment has been practically applied by the Northern Ireland
 Department for Infrastructure to 30 bridges. The UoA is leading the development of a regional
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Digital Twin network for Northern Ireland which will replace existing management databases for
 key Infrastructure, including 6,000 bridges across the region. Monitoring has been applied to the
 Irish Four Courts Building in Dublin, Senator House in St. Paul’s Quarter, The City of London. It
 has safeguarded key civil infrastructure, such as Ballylumford power stations (by sustaining
 corrosion-damaged chimneys and providing a saving of £1M) and the Thames Tideway Tunnel.

 Activities to ensure current and future clean energy supply include: the commercial deployment
 and operation of Aquamarine Power Ltd’s full-scale Oyster 800 Wave Energy Converter; creation
 of the Tidal Turbine Testing (TTT) research programme (consisting of three commercially driven
 projects bringing research to realisation through collaborations with Ocean Flow Energy, Schottel
 Hydro, and Sustainable Marine Energy); and cross-institutional collaborations with the ORE
 Catapult, UK and CNR-INM (formerly INSEAN), Italy, funded by Invest NI-sponsored TTT2
 (£125K) and TTT3 (£665K) projects.

 In addition, the UoA’s development of a peatland model proved central to the Irish Government’s
 National Peatland Strategy, where it underpins development of site-specific conservation and
 management strategies across the Republic of Ireland’s network of Special Areas of
 Conservation and National Heritage Areas. This improved management of Ireland’s network of
 protected peatland directly resulted in the Irish government avoiding €9m in potential European
 Commission fines.

 d) Future strategic aims and goals for research

 In combination with pursuing the existing strategy, the UoA can play a key role in a number of
 other major arising opportunities. For example, it plays a key role in the Belfast Region City Deal,
 which is focused on delivering economic growth and recovery through a collaborative, cross-
 sector approach. The UoA is leading two of the five projects, namely the creation of a Global
 Innovation Institute (GII) and an Advanced Manufacturing Innovation Centre (AMIC). These
 activities will drive digital innovation and sector growth, supporting Northern Ireland businesses,
 and create a transformational £190m proposition for new R&D facilities in AI and data analytics.
 It has the potential to provide the Northern Ireland economy with almost 5,000 jobs, a £200m
 annual GDP uplift and an 18% productivity uplift in key sectors.

 GII: a £53.4m project which aims to catalyse digital innovation in key sectors within the Belfast
 region through creating challenge-led solutions for the data-driven economy; and by providing
 domain-specific expertise across the One Health spectrum. The ambition is to bring together
 people, data, and systems for the benefit of society within the Belfast Region and across
 Northern Ireland. The GII’s purpose is to help foster the growth of a large and distinctive
 Innovation District, employing over 20,000 people, and growing 500 companies by 2035. It will
 be capable of offering bespoke solutions in secure, connected intelligence to international
 companies, This will be underpinned by a distinctive and flexible high-performance computing
 capability. The GII will co-locate and expand research expertise from the University’s three
 Global Research Institutes, namely ECIT, the Institute of Health Sciences and the Institute for
 Global Food Security. A 6,900m2 facility, accommodating a critical mass of 500+ people
 (multidisciplinary research expertise, engineers, public and private sector partners, fledgling
 businesses, and business development professionals), the GII will both anchor and nurture the
 creation of a Global Innovation Quarter in Belfast, comprising a community of businesses linked
 by a common digital innovation thread.

 AMIC: This £87M project will be the springboard for innovation in manufacturing in Northern
 Ireland which accounts for 11% of total employment and more than 15% of GVA. The Centre will
 be a partnership between industry, universities and government, and will be primarily focused
 on working with companies based in advanced manufacturing and materials engineering. The
 sector has annual sales of £7.2B, employs 45,000 staff and invests more than £200m annually
 in R&D. AMIC will establish a new state of the art facility, the Factory of the Future, by
 incorporating three existing innovation focused units: (1) the Northern Ireland Technology
 Centre, (2) the Polymer Processing Research Centre, and (3) Northern Ireland Advanced
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Composites and Engineering. It will focus around six themes: (1) Digital and Automation; (2)
 Polymers Processing; (3) Composites Manufacturing; (4) Metals and Assembly; (5) Precision
 and Photonics; and (6) High Value Design, Verification and Prototyping. AMIC will provide a
 unique environment for companies to develop prototypes, scale up, and experiment with new
 processes, materials and smart technologies. It will encourage and foster technology pull-
 through from university laboratories to a pre-commercialisation scale. It will focus on industrial
 sector strengths and niche areas of Northern Ireland, such as polymers and composites,
 materials handling, aerospace defence and space, advanced construction, transport, photonics,
 food and drink, and pharma. As well as involvement in the Artemis Technologies project, AMIC
 is also a member of the £66m Strength in Places bid of Seagate, which aims to create a nano-
 manufacturing corridor in Northern Ireland. This bid has recently passed the outline stage.

 Infrastructure for a changing environment: Major transformational, collaborative and
 transdisciplinary research will be undertaken with the aim to develop smart and resilient natural
 and built infrastructure solutions for our changing environment. Through a series of major grants,
 it will engage with globally leading industrial partners and asset owners to drastically reduce
 carbon emissions from our natural and built infrastructure, whilst also adapting to extreme
 weather events resulting from climate change. Transformation to net-zero carbon will be
 pursued through a portfolio of solutions, such as efficiencies arising from digital transformation,
 advanced low carbon materials, full implementation of the circular economy, effective restoration
 of peatlands and the development of clean marine renewables (wave, tidal, floating solar and
 offshore wind power). The UoA will exploit existing climate adaption strengths, including
 managing groundwater resources to ensure provision of potable water resources during periods
 of drought, mitigating the effect of extreme rainfall events and sea-level rise, and reducing
 negative impacts on health and wellbeing from pollution.

 Creating a productive and resilient society: A good indicator of the areas of most pressing
 need were identified in the Industrial Challenge Fund. They include smart sustainable plastic
 packaging, industrial decarbonisation, Faraday battery challenge and leading-edge healthcare,
 all of which align with the UoA’s research strengths. The UoA will look to enhance productivity
 by achieving sustainability through circularity of resources, through exploiting advances in
 industrial digitalization, and through automation to transform manufacturing processes; as well
 as exploring new opportunities in materials research and technology. Resilience will be ensured
 by the transition to low-carbon heat and by developing future transport solutions. The activities
 will build upon the research and development strengths of the Northern Ireland Advanced
 Composites and Engineering Centre, the Northern Ireland Technology Centre, the Polymer
 Processing Research Centre, the William Wright Technology Centre, the Queen’s University
 Ionic Liquids Laboratory and associated Pioneer Research Programmes. A key focus will be to
 broaden reach in resource management, carbon capture, catalysis etc., to allow a more
 sophisticated multifaceted approach to be developed.

 Improved health: In healthcare, we will continue to build on the strong interdisciplinary ties with
 the School of Pharmacy through MATCH and on the responsive work to Covid such as the
 software development in the successful rollout of track and trace and the asymptomatic testing
 in Northern Ireland. We will enhance this activity through the Health Innovation Research
 Alliance Northern Ireland, an alliance of universities, health organisations and other industry
 bodies, established to drive and support ambitious growth in Northern Ireland’s Life & Health
 Sciences sector. It will provide clinical as well as industrial input and will engage more fruitfully
 with the Faculty of Medicine, Health and Life Sciences to devise innovative healthcare solutions.
 An additional focus will be on engineering healthier environments and technologies to improve
 healthcare treatment.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 a) Staffing strategy and staff development within the submitted unit;

 Staffing priorities within schools are determined by Heads of School (HoS) and Research
 Directors (DRs) as part of formal rolling three-year strategic plan, created through the assimilation
 and integration of annually updated inputs from each research theme. Considerable effort goes
 into ensuring staff engagement at all planning stages. A key, strategic goal has been in
 strengthening the major investments in ECIT, i-AMS, MATCH and SERC as highlighted in Figure
 3. This has seen an increase in the number of staff in EEECS since REF2014 (see Table 1),
 particularly associated with ECIT and i-AMS. Monitoring is performed through relevant key
 performance indicators generated by the UoA which has an active and continuously on-going
 academic staff recruitment policy based on the merit principle and promoting EDI best practice.

 Even though the UoA is regional, the academic staff is diverse in international make-up, with
 58% from the UK, 12% from the EU, and 29% from other countries. Since REF2014, 51.8 new
 academic staff have been appointed, 11 academic staff have retired, 7 have taken voluntary
 severance and 39 have left with 5 changing contracts and 4 of them being no longer returnable.
 The UoA has invested in 43 ECR appointments, which has added to research-active academic
 base, helped in succession planning and acted to reduce overall age profile: 74% of staff are
 now aged 55 and below. Overall, 20 staff were promoted to senior lecturer, 11 to reader, 11 to
 professor and 3.2 FTE world class professor equivalent appointments created. In addition, as
 part of our staffing strategy, 15 staff hold visiting/adjunct Professorships. The UoA has hosted 5
 Marie Curie Fellows and has seen the appointment of 12 prestigious fellowships.



                                                   Male            Female           Total
    Combined UoAs 11,12,13,14 (2014)            132 (88%)         18 (12%)           150
    REF 2021 Submission                         131 (83.5%)       26 (16.5%)         157


                           Table 3. Comparing Gender in 2014 and 2021

 An improvement in gender balance has been achieved since REF2014 as indicated in Table 3.
 There is a clear ‘strength of opportunity’ for all and we highlight a number of notable key
 leadership appointments in the UoA, including both a female EEECS HoS and Regius Professor
 since the last REF. Diversity and inclusiveness are core activities led by the Diversity and
 Inclusion Team. Online Training is provided via the University website and UoA12 are a specific
 activities are listed below. Details of the profile of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) and
 disabled staff are given in Tables 4 and 5 respectively.



                                                   Count         Percentage
                                                                    (%)
                   BAME                              34              21.7

                   Not Known                         11               7.0

                   White                            112              71.3


                             Table 4. Details of BAME staff (157 in total)

 The UoA is represented by both technical and academic staff on the Technician Commitment
 Steering Group, and is committed to ensure greater visibility, recognition, career development
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and sustainability for our technical staff. Uniquely, through ECIT, 22 engineers are employed on
 industrial style contracts and are tasked for technology transfer. In 2012, in recognition of its
 supportive learning and development culture, the ECIT institute was the first UK University unit
 to be accredited with the Investors in People national standard.



                                                   Count         Percentage
                                                                    (%)
                   No                                124             79.0

                   Not Known                          27             17.2

                   Yes                                 6                 3.8


                                  Table 5. Details of staff disability


 Focus on Early Career development:

 A key priority is to support and develop our ECRs. A dedicated start-up grant is provided, typically
 comprising PhD leverage as a springboard for independent research, with support from an
 experienced supervisor. All new staff are assigned an independent mentor and all female staff
 are offered Queen's Gender Initiative mentoring from outside of the School, as part of Athena
 SWAN. A dedicated budget for ECR development supports networking events, the organisation
 of upskilling and training events and provision of ‘proof of concept’ grants to support more
 ambitious research proposals. These funds are assigned to ensure capacity building and create
 sustainable career paths.

 The UoA supports over 300 members of research staff and has a Postdoctoral Research Fellow
 forum which has dedicated events to support careers such as our annual conference, industry
 liaison workshop, Postdoctoral Research Fellow appreciation week including prizes. The UoA
 has set up peer reviewer and review panels. All our research staff are members of the Faculty
 Postdoc society, which aims to:

    Increase integration of research staff into UoA life;
    Help research staff, particularly those new to Belfast, to get to know other researchers;
    Increase the voice and visibility of research staff;
    Provide greater opportunities for interactions, discussion and dissemination of ideas and
     collaborations;
    Provide valuable social and networking opportunities.

 All postdoctoral staff get 10 development days which can include experience of building up a
 career outside academia. The UoA has adopted a Postdoctoral Development Centre model
 which provides discipline-specific advice and guidance, promotes a positive culture, and
 facilitates a community for all researchers.

 The UoA hosts twelve externally secured prestigious Fellowships which benefit from membership
 of the University’s new ‘Fellowship Academy’. It provides professional and career development
 support for both research fellows recruited through the University’s ‘Illuminate’ scheme and staff
 holding high profile, externally funded fellowships. All, 3-year externally funded, independent
 Fellows, new and existing, receive enhanced benefits in line with the ‘Illuminate’ Scheme: starting
 salary at AC3; track to a permanent academic post, lecturer at year 3 and senior lecturer at year
 5, subject to meeting the relevant criteria and; a PhD studentship (if not available through their
 Fellowship).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Significant funding in the £1M Global Challenge Research Fund (GCRF) is provided by the
 Department for the Economy, enabling ambitious projects at the UoA (e.g. Newton, UKRI). A
 portion of this has been ring-fenced for ECRs to allow funding of pilot projects and/or networking
 events with collaborators in development assistance countries.

 Staff development:

 All academic staff undergo annual appraisal using a recently revised Personal Development
 Review, undertaken by a reviewer identified by the Head of School. It focuses on career
 development and provides support and guidance for research strategies and opportunities in
 funding, multidisciplinary research, publication opportunities, and leadership/management
 training. It is a forum to discuss readiness for promotion. A recently reviewed academic workload
 allocation model is used to ensure a fair administrative and teaching load allowing all research
 active staff to have sufficient time allocation for research. Staff can apply for sabbatical leave
 for either one semester or one year which is different than a leave of absence which may be
 funded from external sources.

 Staff can access an extensive training programme which is integrated between the Schools and
 the University, encompassing the Postgraduate Certificate in Higher Education Teaching and a
 wide range of courses, including supervising research students, report writing, grant/fellowship
 applications, leadership training, intellectual property, entrepreneurship and career
 development. The Schools provide subject specific training (either in house or via external
 bodies) in health and safety, instrumentation, analysis of data and technique specific courses.
 Of particular note is the bespoke leadership development course developed for senior lecturers,
 readers and chairs.

 Early career staff undergo a 3-year probation, with associated support. A senior academic
 mentor and a committee (comprising of the HoS, a designated mentor and the relevant Directors
 of Research and Education) reviews progress against an agreed development plan and provides
 advice and guidance on grant applications, publications, funding possibilities, teaching methods,
 research directions and appropriate training and development opportunities. All grant
 applications are reviewed by at least two senior colleagues. Probationers have reduced teaching
 loads starting at 33% and reaching 100% after 3 years with no large administrative duties.
 Mandatory training, including PhD supervision and the Postgraduate Certificate in Higher
 Education Teaching, is an integral part of probation. There is a startup package for early career
 staffs usually involving receipt of a PhD studentship and start-up funding of up to £30K.

 All staff can bid for UoA equipment funding. University equipment funding is also available, with
 priority traditionally given to collaborative bids. Most analytical services are gratis. The UoA is
 supported with studentships from the budget provided by DfE and can be bid for via a research
 proposal mechanism based on scientific merit. Partial funding of studentships is available to
 encourage interaction with industry with some available via a QUB wide competitive process,
 including those specifically ring-fenced for interdisciplinary research. Additional opportunities
 include 45 studentships via the Leverhulme Interdisciplinary Networks on Cybersecurity and
 Society and Algorithmic Solutions, 20 via the Collaboration in Training and Innovation for
 Growing, Evolving and Networked Societies COFUND Doctoral Training Programme, and 5 per
 annum to NBE staff from the QUADRAT programme. All studentships come with consumables
 funding. A central university conference fund enables inter-institutional networking.

 There is a vibrant and extensive seminar programme of international speakers that acts to keep
 staff keenly abreast of recent developments and knowledge (both within their specialist area,
 and more broadly, from cogent disciplines). Staff can benefit from the Leadership and
 Management Framework, a tool co-created by academics and professional services staff, which
 offers support staff at the UoA access to best practice leadership strategies.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 b) Support mechanisms for, and evidence of the training and supervision of, PGR
 students:

 A dedicated Admissions Team in the UoA supports PGR development. All PGR students are
 assigned at least two supervisors and, through the student information system lifecycle platform,
 training events and meetings are formally logged. Our Graduate School has been ranked ‘Best
 Postgraduate Student Experience Initiative’ in the 2020 UK-wide ‘Find a University’s Postgrad
 Awards’, providing both specialist disciplinary study and high-level, transdisciplinary skills
 training.

 Each School has a Postgraduate Research Director who chairs the School Postgraduate
 Research Committee and is responsible for Continuous Action for Programme Enhancement,
 which forms the basis of each School PGR Action Plan (which in turn feeds into the Faculty PGR
 Action Plan). This ensures a highly creative and supportive environment for our PGR students.

 Table 6 has been created using the information only available in 2019 and 2020; and gives some
 details of progress. With regard to Covid-19, PhD students reporting a negative impact on their
 work ranged from 14% of the cohort in EEECS through to 66% in CCE.



                                                                    2019               2020
     Pass/referral/fail                                            47/2/0             51/2/0

     Pass/deferred or fail of differentiation within 1 year         48/3               69/3


                          Table 6. PhD progression details for 2019/2020


 The externally funded doctoral initiatives (QUADRAT, REMEDIATE, COFUND), the Leverhulme
 Interdisciplinary Networks and the Bryden Centre provide students with access to world-class
 bespoke training, to extensive networks, to specifically summer schools (REMEDIATE) and to
 specialist field courses (QUADRAT). In addition, industry sponsored PhDs have allowed us to
 provide timely and innovative research-led solutions to industrial challenges, whilst
 simultaneously training PGR students to be industry ready.

 The types of support mechanisms in place to support PGR training include:
  A range of university training courses including; theoretical development, research design,
    data analysis and presentation, and write up.
  Induction events where the chair of the School Postgraduate Research Committee outlines
    its purpose, training courses available, the role of supervisors and periodic reviews.
  A range of individual schools’ activities including:
         o an annual Research Day enabling all PhDs to present their work and receive
            constructive feedback (NBE,CCE);
         o a 3 minute thesis competition and chance to present in the Sir Bernard Crossland
            Symposium (MAE) or to go on to the National 3MT competition (CCE);
         o a PhD Teaching Apprenticeship Programme giving PhD students valuable mentoring
            support and teaching experience (EEECS);
         o a 3-year PhD Structured Development Plan providing specific technical and
            employability skills development (EEECS);
         o Careers workshops with guest panellists from both Industry and academic pathways
            at which advice is given on career development and opportunities (CCE).
  Research seminars where high-profile external speakers present their work, giving our PhD
    students access to the leading new developments in their field.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The types of support mechanisms in place to support PGR supervision include:
  Allocation of two supervisors and an academic panel (involving an independent chair and
    expert) who monitor progress.
  Initial review within three months involving assessment of the initial idea and the merit of the
    PhD.
  Differentiation at nine months assessing student’s idea and theoretical development, and
    initial research design. The result determines progression in their PhD.
  The Annual Progress Review (every April/May) assesses ongoing theoretical development,
    methodological positioning, conduct of fieldwork, analysis of findings, chapter completions
    and contribution to knowledge and supervision level.

 In addition to the university’s extra funding for research, utilisation of the furlough scheme and
 generic 3 month contract extensions provided last Summer, the Faculty has developed a broad
 range of support activities available to the UoA. These include a cross-faculty mental health
 initiative providing access to clinical support for mental wellbeing (informed by the Clinical
 Psychology team alongside the Students Union and PGR representatives), fitness activities, and
 social/wellness events, e.g. pet shows, bake-offs. More recently, the UoA has benefitted from
 Faculty Staff and Student Wellbeing Strategy, which has established a Mental Health
 Ambassadors Programme, involving 24 staff and students receiving training from Action Mental
 Health, EPS Wellbeing Lecture Series, and input from three new wellbeing pillar groups
 (focussing on social, physical and psychological issues).

 c) Evidence of how the submitting unit supports and promotes equality and diversity.

 The UoA is strongly committed to equality of opportunity and to creating and sustaining an
 environment that values and celebrates diversity as set out in its EDI Policy. With the university
 nationally recognised, EEECS, MAE and CCE hold Silver SWAN awards, thus representing one
 of the strongest engineering returns in the UK. This Award requires all staff to complete an e-
 learning equality and diversity training programme (“Think difference, Act differently”). Through
 its gender initiative, the University has actively sought to improve the working experience of
 women. All staff must take the “DiversityNow” online training, which raises staff awareness
 across a range of equality and diversity issues. Women are visible in all promotional material.
 Career development information is widely distributed to staff, and promotion panels have
 representation from across the University, ensuring a fair process.

 Since 2015, the UoA has led the EPSRC-funded SENSE Network partnership on ‘Inclusion
 Matters’ with the universities of Warwick and Glasgow. The mission is to improve Schools
 through connecting people to support collegiality, equality and inclusion, understand the attitudes
 of academics towards gender equality initiatives and build training tools aimed at improving their
 perception in engineering and physical sciences.

 Events attended by UoA staff and postgraduate students include:
     Unconscious Bias workshops
     Parental Leave workshop
     ‘Understanding Imposter syndrome’ workshop
     ‘How an ‘All in’ approach can revolutionise workplace culture’ course by Josh Levs, a
       leading global expert on issues facing modern fathers in the workplace
     School Family Fun Days, e.g. summer barbecues, Christmas events, where staff are
       invited to bring along family and friends
     Week of ‘Celebrating EDI’ events e.g. lunches serving International cuisine with the
       university’s Great Hall decorated with flags from various countries.
     International Women’s Day Charity Events with invited speakers (e.g. WaterAid)

 In addition to organizing events, the SENSE working group is currently establishing the following:
      An Academic Apprenticeship Programme for contract research staff planning to
         pursue an academic career, providing a valuable teaching experience with one month of
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        funding. It now includes teacher training, academic mentoring, associate membership of
        the Higher Education Academy and a CV clinic. Formal evaluation from both researchers
        and academic mentors is provided on completion, resulting in 11 research staff being
        appointed into academic roles since its introduction (4 female/7 male).
       A Promotion Ready Process providing applicants with feedback and mentors to help
        strengthen their applications. In EEECS, the impact has been that 16 members of staff
        have been promoted (3 female /13 male) including one female to Professor (from SL) and
        two to Senior Lecturer, a success rate of 94% since 2017.
       Gender Bias Language sessions exploring language in STEM further education,
        including course descriptions, brochures, course materials and spoken language and
        helps users to spot language issues and, crucially, how to use more inclusive language.
       A Women’s Leadership programme upskilling our female staff and students with the
        knowledge and behaviours, necessary to confidently and successfully navigate their
        future leadership journey.
       An Advanced HE Aurora leadership development programme supporting mid-career
        women with the potential to progress into more senior roles.
       Safe Harbours to allow staff to raise concerns about their work environment outside of
        the existing line-management structure.
       Invited talks from Industry to learn from Best in Class organisations about the work
        they are doing with regards to Equality Diversity and Inclusion.

 SENSE also works closely with the Economic Strategy Branch within the Northern Ireland
 Department for the Economy, the Equality Commission Northern Ireland (ECNI) and Diversity
 Mark NI to champion gender balance in STEM.

 Other SWAN activities include sponsorship for academic staff/PhD researchers to attend the
 Women and Leadership at the Changing World Conference, the week-long Women’s Leadership
 Conference and the prestigious Space Camp. Funded events include the SWAN sponsored
 breakfasts and a public panel talk about the Irish aviation pioneer Lilian Bland. In some schools,
 there is an annual Careers Workshop for postgraduate students and a postgraduate Mentoring
 Scheme. Guidelines for embedding diversity into lectures has been given, as well as information
 concerning unconscious bias. The UoA has secured a relationship with AESSEAL, who have
 gifted a £50k, 2-year grant for activities supporting women in STEM.

 The retention and promotion of academics and researchers, and in particular female staff, is
 critical. Flexible working patterns are promoted and our workload allocation model ensures that
 research is not swamped by an uneven balance with respect to administration/teaching. The
 returner’s policy for maternity or adoption leave and flexible working policies exist; this latter
 initiative has led to an increased number of male staff taking paternity and other leave, enhancing
 morale. We make significant efforts to accommodate all working patterns when arranging
 meetings. EDI activities are now classed within the workload allocation model, to recognise their
 importance and their positive influence on all aspects of school life. We regularly promote our
 family friendly policies, both in encouraging health and wellbeing at work and also to promote a
 healthy balance of home and work commitments.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 a) Income

 The restructuring of the UoA and investment in the Global Research Institute and Pioneer
 Research Programmes have enabled us to build critical mass in the strategic areas highlighted
 in section 1 and, through building on the collective strengths of the staff, to increase and sustain
 a diversified funding portfolio. During the assessment period, the UoA has increased its
 proportionated external award income from £12.6M p/a in 2014 to £18.3M p/a in 2020. As can
 be seen from Figure 4, the UoA has sustained an average growth of 6.6% p/a in annual research
 income (spend) over the assessment period. As shown in Figure 5, the Unit has maintained a
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 diverse source of research income, strengthening the vitality and sustainability of our research
 portfolio.


              25,000,000



              20,000,000



              15,000,000



              10,000,000



               5,000,000



                      0
                               2013       2014     2015        2016     2017        2018     2019

      Figure 4. Annual research income spent (2019 figure looks smaller due to major grant
                                  achievement in earlier year)


 The UoA has aimed to develop a portfolio of grants concentrating on large multidisciplinary
 projects, support and mentor young staff in applying for research fellowships. The result has been
 the award of 12 research fellowship with a combined income of over £4M including 2 Research
 Chair/Senior Research (Duong, Falzon), a Royal Newton International and RAEng Chair
 (Duong), a UKRI Future Leader (Ngo), 5 Royal Academy of Engineering (Almeida, Cotton,
 Lydon, Moura, Simmons), a Leverhulme Trust Research Leadership (Yurduseven), a
 Leverhulme Trust (Matthiou) and a NERC award (Newton), most of whom have been appointed
 to permanent posts.



               50,000,000

               45,000,000

               40,000,000

               35,000,000

               30,000,000

               25,000,000

               20,000,000

               15,000,000

               10,000,000

                5,000,000

                           0
                               UK Govt.     RCUK          EU      Industry     Charities   Other


             Figure 5. Research grant portfolio by source awarded during REF period.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research grant portfolio: Many major investments have acted to strengthen the core areas:

 Connectivity and cybersecurity has been strengthened through a number of strategic grants:
 (1) a £10M ‘phase 2’, Innovation and Knowledge Centre grant from EPSRC/Innovate UK/Invest
 Northern Ireland, allowing leveraged additional funding of around £15M; (2) a £5M
 EPSRC/NCSC funded Research Institute in Secure Hardware and Embedded Systems (RISE);
 (3) a £1.9M award as delivery partner on the £13.5m UK Government funded London Office for
 Rapid Cybersecurity Advancement (LORCA); (4) a £1.3M EPSRC International Centre to Centre
 ‘Secure IoT Processor Platform’ Research Collaboration with Cambridge, Bristol, Birmingham,
 NUS, NTU, (2019-2022); and the renewal of the Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber
 Security Research. CSIT led a 4-year, €3.8M EU H2020 SAFEcrypto project in the area of post-
 quantum cryptography, and has participated in a number of other major projects including a €4M
 EC Horizon innovative training network on virtual reality audio for cyber environments (EU,
 €303k) and Uniserver and PRECYSE (EU, €1.25M). Industry engagements include the 2018
 establishment of the £1M Keysight Technologies millimetre-wave laboratory. Global societal and
 economic impact is evidenced by four British Council awards totalling £571k; and a Royal Society
 Newton International Fellowship.

 Data analytics technology: Significant research grant income includes co-ordination of the
 €4.8M EU H2020 Uniserver project (€1.0M), SERT (£960K), Biohaviour (£790k), GEMSCLAIM
 (£350k), ENPOWER (£350k), and HPDCJ (£220k); as well as EPSRC grants in programming
 languages (£660k) and data centres (£140k). The group are also involved in a five-year EPSRC
 University Defence Research Collaboration Phase 3 project. DSSC was the first UK group to
 receive direct funding from the DSTA of Singapore - recognition of our world-leading expertise
 in multi-modal deep learning applied to defence. The group has undertaken a leadership role in
 electronic systems, an EPSRC-funded eFutures national network (£485k). An international
 collaboration has been established with Rice University and University College Dublin (£319k).
 There have been a number of collaborations: pathological cancer image analysis with Philips
 Digital Pathology Solutions (£298k), industry communication security with Plextek (£223k), and
 lip-reading aided in-car speech recognition with Liopa Ltd. (£145k).

 Future transport: In its first year (2017) of operation, the William Wright Technology Centre
 secured £703k (£3.2M total award) through the Innovate IDP13, in conjunction with partners
 Wrights and Go-Ahead Group. In 2018, a further £738k (£3.99M total award) was secured
 through the Innovate IDP14 for new projects in ultra-low emission bus development
 (NextGenEV). In 2019, a £2.62M EPSRC Prosperity Partnership application was awarded with
 a wider remit to develop both the vehicles and the infrastructure for new zero-emissions
 transport. Currently, discussions are ongoing to expand the Centre with new partnerships with
 JCB, Translink, Graysons and other operators in UK, Hong Kong and Latin America.

 Clean energy: A number of research units across the UoA are making major contributions in
 power systems design and renewable energy. The UoA leads the €9.3M Bryden Centre for
 Advanced Marine & Bio-Energy Research (EU INTERREG VA Programme, €3.9M). This Centre
 supports cross-border research into biomass and marine-based renewable energy sources by
 bridging the gap between industry research needs and academia in sustainable energy. The
 UoA continues to expand its world leading research on marine renewables (12 awards, £3.0M),
 with successful commercialisation and recent diversification into tidal current, off-shore wind and
 solar energy. Highlights include the deployment and operation of Aquamarine Power Ltd’s full-
 scale Oyster Wave Energy Converter (WEC), the H2020-funded LiftWEC project (£2.8M total
 award), the commercially driven Tidal Turbine Testing suite of projects, MARINET 1&2 (FP7,
 £392K and H2020, £159k) supporting trans-national access to wave and tidal testing facilities
 and the QUB-led H2020 Powerkite project (€5.1M - total).

 A range of power systems research has been undertaken and has strategic collaboration have
 been extended with AES, Statnet, SONI, EirGrid, NIE Networks and GlenDimplex, focused on
 the challenges of network integration of high penetration renewables and wide area. The
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 electricity grid on the island of Ireland is now recognized as a world class test bed. Phasor
 Measurements Units (PMUs) installed on 44 generation and transmission sites now facilitates
 innovative research on a power system operating at up to 65% non-synchronous generation.
 Our project with AES (Innovate UK, £364k) supported the commissioning of, what was at the
 time, Europe’s largest grid-connected battery energy storage system (Kilroot power station).
 Within the Queen’s University Ionic Liquids Laboratory, an academic/industry partnership with
 Petronas has been established to exploit QUB’s lead in ionic liquid. It has been strengthened by
 seven new first phase, research projects with a total value of £2.4M project in March 2020 with
 plans for the successful projects to be funded in the second 4-5 year cycle.

 Advanced manufacturing research has been enhanced by ATI, Innovate and QUB investing
 £7.5M in a state-of-the-art advanced manufacturing technology facility. A number of major
 research projects have been secured including: (1) Autonomous marine systems projects with
 Rolls-Royce: ‘Machine Executable Collision Regulations for Marine Autonomous Systems’
 (MAXCMAS, £1.3M (£179k to QUB)) and with Artemis Technologies Ltd as part of their £33.1M
 Strength in Places research programme ‘Decarbonisation of Maritime Transportation - A return
 to Commercial Sailing’ (QUB, £1.5M); (2) industrial digitilisation (I4.0) projects ‘COREF
 (Connected Reconfigurable Factory)’, a £10.3M ATI/IUK funded project with Thales (£1.1M),
 ‘Digitalised Surface Manufacturing’, an EPSRC NetworkPlus led by the University of Manchester
 (£1M), the EPSRC-funded Q-PreMan project (£358k) and an Complex Vehicle Borne Systems
 funded by Thales (£306k) and; (3) an £1.6M industry energy management project on optimising
 energy funded by EPSRC and led by Brunel University.

 Smart, sustainable and resilient infrastructure has seen an expansion in research grants and
 collaborative projects with industry in prefabricated energy-efficient buildings (€5M H2020 RE4;
 £409k to QUB), the €1.1M FP7 EiroCrete project on sustainable, low carbon, pre-cast concrete
 (£418k to QUB); and the £1.2M LowCoPreCon Newton project (£387k to QUB) on novel low
 carbon geopolymer concretes. Over the REF period, 26 KTP projects have been successfully
 awarded in increasing production, reducing waste, increasing structural efficiency and enhancing
 durability in our built infrastructure. Intelligent civil and geotechnical infrastructure has been
 supported by 3 USA-Ireland projects. A key highlight has been QUB leading on a €3.7M,
 REMEDIATE Marie Curie ITN (£458k to QUB) for improved decision-making in contaminated
 land site investigation. Collaborative research teams have been established investigating
 infrastructure resilience and the safe use of natural aquifers for potable water provision which
 has resulted in EPRSC, £1.5M SALINA (£1.1M to QUB) and CACTUS (£285k).

 Advanced liquid materials: Queen’s University Ionic Liquids Laboratory associates 18
 academic members from EPS, made up of a mixture of chemists and engineers, predominantly
 from CCE. Industrial members pay an annual membership fee, as well as contribute to joint
 projects under a range of funding mechanisms. Through ionic liquid research, the Laboratory
 addresses the major societal challenges: energy storage, urban mining through plastics recycling
 and critical metals recovery, CO2 and biomass valorisation, as well as water purification. Over
 the REF period, £4.4M of funding has been secured for more than 15 different projects. The
 funding included a £150k BBSRC project on new Technology for the Isolation and Production of
 Biopolymers and Proteins, a £100k EPSRC project on Application of Zwitterionic Salts in
 Development of Protein-Resistant Surfaces, a £110k Invest NI project on the valorisation of CO2,
 a £110k Invest NI project on plastic recycling and a £240k CASE Invest NI project on Redox
 Flow Batteries (involving CCE, MAE and EEECS). The largest sponsor, Petronas, has invested
 £13.75M since 2007, including £2.4M in 2020 – the funding that supports transition of Petronas
 beyond oil and gas, into a carbon-neutral future.

 Advanced composites and polymers: The Polymer Processing Research Centre has actively
 re-focussed its core activity to emphasise research collaborations more widely in the University.
 Within the past year, £900k of funding has been secured through the EU Interreg Programme
 ‘Renewable Engine’, which has been used to establish a new research group in rotational
 moulding (1 postdoctoral researcher and 3 PhD students). On the commercial side, the centre
 has been successful in winning a major training contract for staff from the Omani petrochemicals
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 giant Orpic (Feb 2018), which will see 11 of its staff based in the UoA for up to 6 months. The
 first major contract of this kind for Queen’s, it is planned to build on this success through wider
 links industry and academia in Oman and other Gulf States. The Centre has also been successful
 in gaining School/Faculty support for a new in-house additive manufacturing facility, designed to
 rapidly establish it as the leading unit for this emerging research technology.

 More widely, other developments have included a number of biomedical projects including a
 £1.0M project as part of the £50M investment in an Engineering Centre of Excellence for
 Biomedical Applications; and the €3.3M EU H2020 BioImplant ITN - a European Industrial
 Doctorate – EID - programme providing world-class multidisciplinary skills to 12 ECRs through
 an integrated research and training programme in the area of bioabsorbable medical implant
 development.

 b) Infrastructure

 The UoA is based across four buildings: (1) the David Keir Building (NBE & CCE), (2) the Ashby
 Building (EEECS & MAE), (3) the Computer Science hub (EEECS) and (4) the ECIT Building
 (EEECS). The UoA has benefitted considerably from the University’s £700m Capital
 Development Programme, including £14M to establish the architecturally iconic, world-class
 Computer Science hub in Belfast, which houses computing acceleration and AI research
 facilities.

 The ECIT building houses a substantial amount of EEECS research and has seen a commitment
 of £11M in new staff and a new building. Since its founding in 2004, ECIT has benefitted from a
 £37M development (2009) and a £30M EPSRC/InnovateUK Innovation and Knowledge Centre
 Cybersecurity investment. ECIT currently houses 180 staff. Its approach overlays an academic
 research environment with an infrastructure that is more common in a high-technology company,
 but in a manner that neither compromises research quality nor curtails speculative “blue-sky”
 thinking. This involves locating engineering staff with strong industrial experience directly
 alongside academic researchers. These engineers support industry engagement, create “proof-
 of-concept” prototypes, support SMEs and facilitate new spin-out companies.

 c) Facilities

 The UoA led the establishment of the £5.0M, Kelvin-2 Tier-2 high performance computing centre
 (EPSRC, £2.1M). The platform offers 8000 Dell-based cores and 32 specialist graphics
 processing units with a high performance 2 Petabyte of scratch storage, interconnected via a
 high-speed network with low running costs. An Imaging and Patterning Centre has been
 established (EPSRC, £1.8M) with the School of Mathematics and Physics. This has facilitated
 the purchase of a £420k Nanoscribe Laser Lithography and 3D Printing System allowing
 structures with submicron precision to be created; and direct writing into photoresist for 2D
 patterning at a scale between that of conventional photolithography and e-beam lithography.

 EEECS

 ECIT houses a number of state-of-the-art facilities including two purpose-built anechoic
 chambers for far- and near-field tests and measurements. The 5 x 5 x 10m3 chamber (Figure 6),
 was refurbished in 2019, bringing its range of operation from 433 MHz to 50GHz. It is equipped
 with three MVG/Orbit positioners, allowing for Azimuth and Roll as well as transmission roll,
 making the chamber capable of dual linear measurement. A new, £1M, millimetre-wave research
 lab was opened in 2018 as part of a collaboration with Keysight Technologies, Inc. It includes a
 state-of-the-art N5247A PNA-X Non-Linear Vector Network Analyzer, E8361C PNA Microwave
 Network Analyzer with N5260A mmWave controller and a N9040B UXA Signal Analyzer; it
 provides unprecedented measurement and instrumentation capabilities for microwave and
 millimetre-wave experiments.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Technologies in iAMS include next generation CNC and PKM Machining Centres, collaborative
 robot and AGV platforms, high precision metrology tools and laser-based fabrication, forming,
 and joining systems.

 NBE

 NBE has a number of world-class research facilities that underpin structural and environmental
 research projects. It has benefitted from the Central Research Infrastructure Fund and the
 EPSRC ECR Capital Investment Award. Two teaching laboratories are aligned to support
 research needs. These are in addition to the facilities listed below:

 A £230K investment in the Concrete and Heavy and Light Structures Laboratories has
 offered a range of structural and environmental testing rigs, including a large Dartec 600kN
 capacity hydraulic actuator (with loading frame and strong floor), a small Dartec 160kN hydraulic
 actuator, a Zwick Universal testing machine (retrofitted with a heated test chamber and video
 extensometer) and a refurbished large environmental chamber; which enable structural and
 material testing over a wider range of temperature and humidity.




                                 Figure 6. ECIT Anechoic chamber

 The Hydraulics Facilities includes the Belfast Wave Flume basin (Figure 7) and the Portaferry
 Coastal Wave Basin (Figure 8). Both are equipped with video capture, motion tracking, load
 measurement and conductivity measurements. Both have adjustable tank floors for tests at
 various depths. They have benefitted from a £700k investment in 3D Laser Doppler Anemometry
 and fully submersible systems to characterize (a) water flow, (b) pressure distributions, (c) heat
 and (d) salinity concentration.

 The Environmental and Materials Characterisation Laboratory provides 250m2 of laboratory
 space equipped with an extensive range of instruments to support chemical and mineralogical
 analyses; whilst the Stable Isotope Facility specialises in analysis for environmental application.

 Our Geotechnics laboratory contains an array of unique, bespoke, state-of-the-art apparatus
 and the Rheology and Bio-based Building Materials Laboratory contains an extensive range
 of equipment to test fresh properties of cement-based materials.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research is supported by extensive in-house workshops, a large mechanical production
 workshop and nine technicians; one of whom, Dr Mark Russell, was given the QUB Delivering
 Excellence Award (2018), in recognition of 20+ years of expert technical support of teaching and
 research.

 CCE

 There has been substantial strategic investment in building new state-of-the-art research
 laboratories for synthetic chemistry and catalysis research, with accommodation for over 50
 researchers. The Queen’s University Ionic Liquids Laboratory facilities and work are illustrated in
 Figure 9. An on-going £4M investment in research and teaching laboratory space (scheduled for
 completion in 2023) will significantly modernise and extend CCE’s facilities. Recent added open-
 access equipment includes an environmental SEM facility (£400k), powder (£200k) and single
 crystal (£350k) X-ray diffraction equipment, a high-end confocal Raman microscope (£250k) and
 400 & 600 MHz nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer (£500k).




 Figure 7. Belfast Wave Flume with an operating depth up to 0.8 m and a 6-paddles Edinburgh
 Design Ltd Wave Maker with active wave absorption, which can produce regular and random
 waves up to 0.55 m high
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Further open-access Departmental facilities include: three NMR spectrometers, three mass
 spectrometers, an additional powder XRD, ICP-OES, BET and Hg porosimetry, a CD
 spectrometer and a HPLC/GC chromatography, as well as standard spectrometer and
 computational facilities.

 An in-house team provides analytical services to internal and external stakeholders using their
 dedicated instrument suite. 15 technicians provide support for microanalysis, glass-blowing,
 mechanical engineering, electronics, computer management and laboratory safety.

 MAE

 New investments have occurred in key growth areas within the School, including advanced
 manufacture and future transport related research. Of significance, the Advanced Composites
 Research Group was created in 2013 by the Royal Academy of Engineering-Bombardier Chair
 in Aerospace Composites (Falzon). It leads the field in next generation, lightweight, smart nano-
 enhanced composite materials, meeting the needs of future transportation by improving
 performance, fuel efficiency and crashworthiness. The University has invested £1M in a state-of-
 the-art research laboratory (Figure 10) which boasts a research autoclave rated to 14
 atmospheres pressure and 425 ℃ for work with both thermoset and thermoplastic composites,
 and facilities for synthesis and processing of high specification carbon nanotubes (CNTs).




   Figure 8. Portaferry Coastal Wave Basin (18 x 16 m) with an operating depth up to 0.65 m
        and 24-paddles Edinburgh Design Ltd Wave Maker with active wave absorption




  Figure 9. QUB/Petronas Removal of mercury from natural gas streams. Left to right: Mercury
  removal ionic liquid containing material; pilot plant (QUB/Petronas); Queen’s University Ionic
  Liquids Laboratory/Petronas team in front of the newly developed Hycapure-HgTM process at
  Petronas.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                    Figure 10. Advanced Composites Research Group facilities

 Beyond this, strategic investing in polymer technologies has resulted in a fourfold increase in
 space with the refurbishment and equipping of a new Advanced Polymers Research Laboratory
 at a total cost of well over £1M. Equally importantly, the university has invested in the computing
 capacity and skills to establish a leading capability in design and simulation. This accommodates
 up to 40 postgraduates, postdoctoral assistants and academics.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The UoA’s international perspective is reflected in the extensive range of university networks and
 projects, as well as a number of direct one-to-one interactions. It has deliberately focused on
 carefully building relationships nationally (through collaborative research and network grants); at
 a European level (through numerous EU grant schemes and ITNs); with the US (through the
 US-Ireland funding scheme level); and internationally, (through various research collaboration
 and GCRF schemes). Our most numerous international collaborations are given in Table 7,
 however we have also had projects with Brazil (4), Malaysia (1), Thailand (1) and Vietnam (6).

 a) Research collaborations

 Major University Networks and Projects:

 Examples of some major interactions and projects include:

 National:
   £5M EPSRC/NCSC-funded Research Institute in Secure Hardware and Embedded
      Systems (RISE), which aims to improve hardware security and reduce vulnerability to cyber
      threats. One of four, multi-university UK cyber security institutes.
   eFutures 2.0: Addressing Future Challenges: an EPSRC-funded national network
      (£484k) led by the UoA, which acts as a focal point for the electronic systems research
      community, engaging academia with industry. It involves the universities of Bristol,
      Edinburgh, Glasgow, Imperial College, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle and Southampton
      and organises targeted seminars, joint industry events, social media interactions and
      funding scoping exercises for multidisciplinary/industry collaborations.
   SPIRE is a £1M cross-border Virtual Research Graduate School with Ulster University,
      University of Strathclyde and Dundalk Institute of Technology, 3 research institutes and 14
      businesses; and addresses how consumer-owned energy storage can resolve the problem
      of the variability of renewable energy output.
   QUADRAT is a joint NERC-funded DTI between Aberdeen Geosciences and Biological
      Sciences, QUB Biological Science, and engineers and geographers from the UoA’s
      Environmental Change and Resilience cluster. It provides 25 PhD studentships to the UoA
      (total funding £5M).
   The UoA is a founding member of the UK Aerospace Research Consortium (UK-ARC)
      which helps organisations engage with the UK’s best aerospace research capability in its
      leading universities. The consortium involves the universities of Bristol, Cambridge,
      Cranfield, Manchester, Nottingham, Sheffield, Southampton, Strathclyde and Swansea and
      Imperial College London.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     SALINA is a £1.5M QUB-led, EPSRC project with Imperial College London, Golder
      Associates, Ministry of Defense and Southern Water looking to develop early warning
      systems to protect coastal aquifers from saline intrusion.

                                              Number of Awards       Total Value

                 Germany                      35                     £8,556,820

                 Ireland                      31                     £13,779,201

                 USA                          27                     £5,425,140

                 France                       17                     £4,561,244

                 China                        14                     £1,114,012


                           Table 7. Top five countries for UoA12 collaboration

 EU:
   The aforementioned €9.3M Bryden Centre for Advanced Marine & Bio-Energy Research
     into biomass and marine-based renewable energy sources, funded under the INTERREG
     VA Programme.
   ICONIC, a €3.8M Marie Curie ITN, co-ordinated by the UoA is focused on improving the
     crashworthiness of composite transportation structures. It is led by QUB with partners:
     Bombardier (UK), CRF (IT), DLR (DE), University of Limerick (IE), University of Patras (GR),
     RISE/SICOMP (SE), Politecnico di Torino (IT), University of Ulster (UK).
   REMEDIATE is €3.7M, Marie Curie ITN focused on technologies to help accelerate the
     remediation of contaminated sites. It includes microbiologists, geochemists, numerical
     modellers, environmental scientists and engineers from Belfast City Council, the British
     Geological Survey, Copenhagen, Cranfield, Dublin City University, Duisburg Essen and
     partners, the Geological Survey of Ireland, the Geological Survey of Northern Ireland,
     Northern Ireland Environment Agency RSK, Shell Global Solutions, and Torino.
   UniServer was a €4.8M, Horizon 2020 project led by the UoA that facilitated the evolution
     of the Internet via an infrastructure where data is gathered in the Cloud to a distributed and
     localized manner. It brings together experts from the world’s leading processor and software
     industry, ARM, Applied-Micro and IBM and application developers: Meritorius Sparsity and
     Worldsensing.
   The RE4 EU-H2020 project (€5.1M) involved the reuse and recycling of materials and
     structures in energy efficient buildings and involved Acciona, CDE Global, Cetma (Italy),
     Fenix, Research Institutes of Sweden (Sweden), and others. The project recently won the
     Hans Sauer Award 2020 for research.
   BIOIMPLANT is a €3.3M, Marie Curie ITN focused on developing improved bioabsorbable
     materials for medical implant applications and involving National University of Ireland
     Galway, RWTH Aachen, IMDEA: Madrid Institute of Advanced Studies, Boston Scientific Ltd
     in Ireland, Vascular Flow Technologies Ltd., Meotec GmbH and ITA
     TextilTechnologieTransfer GmbH.
   ALTPACK is a €1.1M, European Institute of Innovation and Technology funded project
     “Consumer and Manufacturing Driven Alternative Packaging Solutions from Agri-Food
     Waste Streams” partnered with the Fraunhofer IVV Institute for Process Engineering and
     Packaging, ABP Food Group, Waitrose Partnership Supply Group.
   OPRECOMP is a €5.1M, 4-year EU2020 Program Future and Emerging Technologies (FET)
     proactive project which aims to build an innovative, reliable foundation for computing based
     on transprecision analytics. It is led by IBM Research GmbH, (Switzerland) and involves
     CEA (France) and ETH Zurich (Switzerland), among others.
   LiftWEC is a €3.4M H2020 project led by QUB (£622k) alongside, Aalborg University,
     University College Cork, Technical University of Hamburg, Maynooth University, University
     of Strathclyde and industrial partners INNOSEA, LHEEA Centrale Nantes, Julia Chozas
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Consulting and WavEC. It aims to develop a novel wave energy converter.
     Eirocrete is a €1M QUB-led, Industry Academia Partnership Project (IAPP) with Azichem
      Ltd, Banagher Concrete, and Politecnico Di Milano, with the aim of developing sustainable,
      lower carbon, pre-cast concrete infrastructure.
     APPFlow is a €900k, Marie Skłodowska-Curie Innovative Training Network on Flow
      Chemistry involved in investigating active pharmaceutical ingredients using continuous flow
      technologies. It is a collaboration with Almac (UK) and Arran (Ireland).
     PowerKite was a €5.1M QUB-led Horizon 2020 project to enhance the structural and power
      performance of the power take-off for the Deep Green tidal energy technology. It involves
      AC&E Ltd, Chalmers University of Technology, Engie Lab, Midroc Project Management,
      Minesto AB, Moorlink Solutions AB, SSPA Sweden and UW-Elast AB.

 USA:
   During the period, the UoA has engaged in over 15 US-Ireland tri-nation collaborations,
    pulling in over £4M. Each project is limited to £300k (non-FEC) and topics include:
    metamaterials, coastal flood management, multi-hop and millimetre-wave communications,
    composite materials, wind turbines, electrical generation, advanced manufacturing, bridge
    health monitoring, electronic devices and location-based services.
      o US universities: Alabama at Birmingham, Central Florida, Georgia Tech., Minnesota,
         New York, North Carolina State University, Purdue, Rice, University of Texas at Dallas,
         Utah, and Virginia Tech.
      o Irish universities: University College Cork, Trinity College Dublin, and University College
         Dublin.

 International:
   UK China Universities Consortium on Engineering Education and Research is an
      initiative led by the UoA, with nine other UK Russell Group universities, and is in partnership
      with China’s Excellence League universities. It was signed in the presence of the Chinese
      Vice Premier and UK Secretary of State; and is engaged in multi-disciplinary engineering
      research in energy, intelligent manufacturing, and knowledge transfer to industry.
   UK-Jiangsu 20+20 World Class University Consortium is jointly spearheaded by the
      British Council, Universities UK, and the Jiangsu Province (2nd in terms of GDP out of China’s
      23 provinces) as part of the Chinese government’s ‘World-Class Universities and First-Class
      Disciplines’ initiative. The UoA was a founding member. The consortium facilitates
      collaborative, world-leading research in advanced manufacturing, environmental
      engineering and healthcare. It is supported by research studentships in both countries.
   LowCoPreCon is a £1.2M, Newton-Ungku Omar Coordination with the University of Malaya
      and Monash University Malaysia and industrial partners, Creagh Concrete, Macrete,
      Sunway Paving Solutions, and Ikhmas Jaya Group. It researches geopolymer concretes
      manufactured using novel low impact alkali activators, and the construction and
      environmental and socio-economic assessment of demonstration projects [in Malaysia] that
      use precast geopolymer concretes.
   iGIVE was a £1.3M EPSRC/NSFC project that created Intelligent Grid Interfaced Vehicle
      Eco-charging for more reliable, more flexible and more efficient smart gird solutions. It
      involves the Harbin Institute of Technology and State Grid Electric Power Research Institute
      in China.
   CSIT has strengthened its links with Korea’s National AI Research Institute, ETRI, through
      a new MoU, 4 collaborative projects, workshops, exchange visits and 12-month
      secondments of ETRI engineers to CSIT. One £1.6M project (2016-18) involved ETRI,
      SecureIC (France), ICTK (S.Korea), Korea University, Purdue University (US) and CSIT.
      Links have been broadened to other S.Korean institutions, Kookmin University, Hanyang
      University and NSR (National Security Research Institute - equivalent to the UK's NCSC).
   ECSASDPE is a €1.6M European and Chinese partnership for Stacked Aero-Structure
      Drilling Process and Equipment, involving an extensive staff and student exchange between
      the UoA, University of Warwick, Tsinghua, Tianjin and Shanghai Jiao Tong universities.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 There are several other collaborations including: a £3M, UK-India project on valorisation of
 waste (Innovate UK, BBSRC, DBT); the establishment of three joint laboratories in manufacturing
 with Tianjin University, Chongqing University and Nanjing University of Aeronautics and
 Astronautics (funding from NSFC and EU ECSASDPE); a project with UniMaP and University
 Malaya (funded through a Newton fund Institutional Links project); a project with Tianjin
 Polytechnic (EPSRC first grant) and, with Shanghai Jiao Tong University (China), Ton Duc Thang
 University (Vietnam) and University of Peradeniya, a DfE GCRF grant.

 In addition to the collaborations highlighted above, the UoA has a range of other substantive
 collaborations with the following institutions: American University of Beirut (Lebanon), Austrian
 Institute of Technology (Austria), Caltech, (USA), Duke University (USA), Duy Tan University
 (Vietnam), Leibniz Universistaet Hannov (Germany), Linkoping (Sweden), National Taiwan
 University of Science and Technology (Taiwan), Princeton (USA), RWTH Aachen (Germany),
 Stanford (USA), University of California in Berkeley (USA), University of Granada (Spain),
 University of Kraków (Poland), University of Turin (Italy), ZRS Architekten (Germany).

 The UoA have contributed to the wider research base by engaging in a range of activities with
 professional bodies, research councils and other funding bodies. In addition, staff have
 contributed widely as journal editors, as conferences organizers and by delivering major invited
 talks.

 Fellows of Engineering and Science Professional bodies includes: Royal Academy of
 Engineering: RAEng Fellows (Whittaker, Fusco, O’Neill); Irish Academy of Engineers: Fellows
 (Fusco, O’Neill); Royal Irish Academy: (Fusco, O’Neill); Royal Society: Short Industry
 Fellowship (Varghese); Royal Society of Chemistry (Chen); Royal Aeronautical Society (Falzon,
 Johnson); Royal Society of Edinburgh (Johnson); British Computing Society (Johnson,
 Nikolopoulos); Fellows of Engineering and Science Professional Bodies including: IEEE
 (Fusco); ICE (Sivakumar, Whittaker); AIAA (Kontis); IChemE (Ranade); IET (Fusco, Woods,
 Nikolopoulos); IMechE (Kontis, Lucas, Murphy, Price); RAeS (Kontis); IEI (Taylor); IMMM
 (Sha, Chen); INA (Whittaker); FIMarEST (Karimirad); CIHT (Hughes); American Concrete
 Institute FACI (Sonebi); RILEM (Sonebi); FMICT (Sonebi).

 Research Council membership:
   UKRI: Science, Engineering and Technology Board (Taylor), UK Energy Programme
     Scientific Advisory Committee (Robertson), SAT on Manufacturing the Future (Price, Chair),
     SAT on Information and Communication Technology (Woods, Johnson), Research
     Infrastructure (Nikolopoulos).
   EU: REA Funding review Panel for Individual Marie Curie Actions programme (Manyar);
     European Science Foundation College of Review Panel Members (Robertson);

 Prizes and personal fellowships:
 Over the period, staff have been awarded 26 prizes and awards. Key examples include:
   UK Royal Academy of Engineering Silver Medal (O’Neill, 2014);
   Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award (Nikolopoulos, 2015);
   Royal Irish Academy Gold Medal for Engineering Sciences (Fusco, 2019);
   Royal Academy of Engineering – Bombardier Chair in Aerospace Composites (Falzon,
      2013-2017);
   Distinguished Member of the ACM -Association for Computing Machinery (Nikolopoulos,
      2018);
   Newton Prize, RAEng Chair (Duong, 2017);
   Leverhulme Trust Research Leadership Award (Yurduseven, 2020).

 Plenary and keynote lectures (selection):
  Several hundred staff in the UoA have engaged in a wide range of invited talks at universities
  and industry over the REF period. In all, 12 plenaries and keynote lectures have also been
  delivered. Examples include:
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     2nd International Conference on Ionic Liquids in Separation & Purification (Atkins, 2014);
      International Conference at Advanced Fibres and Polymer Materials (Chen, 2019);
     7th International Conference on Smart Materials and Nanotechnology in Engineering, China
      (Falzon, 2019);
     2nd International Conference on Emerging Trends in Engineering, Sciences and
      Technology (Naeem, 2017);
     Royal Irish Academy Discourse, Royal Irish Academy, Dublin (O'Neill, 2018);
     UK Royal Academy of Engineering AGM (O'Neill, 2014);
     Asia Pacific Catalysis Conference (Ranade, 2017);
     5th European Conference on Environmental Applications of Advanced Oxidation Processes,
      Czech Republic (Robertson, 2017);

 Conference Chairs (selection): International Conference on Ionic Liquids in Separation &
 Purification (Atkins); Asilomar IEEE Conference on Signals, Systems, and Computer (Woods);
 CFD Symposium at World Congress of Chemical Engineering (Ranade); International
 Conference On Manufacturing Research (Price); EU-US Frontiers of Engineering Symposium,
 Seattle, USA (Falzon); International Conference on Body Area Networks (Cotton); IEEE
 International Conference on Computing, Management and Telecommunications (Duong);
 Intelligent Computing for Sustainable Energy and Environment (McLoone); IEEE International
 Conference on Cluster Computing (Nikolopoulos); International Conference on Advanced
 Composite in Construction (Taylor); International Conference on Bio-Based Building Materials
 (Sonebi); International Conference on Unsaturated Soils (Sivakumar); International
 geoENV2018 Conference (Ofterdinger)

 b) Economy

 During this period, the UoA has continued its strong focus on economically-driven impact as
 evidenced by the extremely high number of spin out companies and by major achievements in
 KTP projects. A key component of the Faculty’s activities, ECIT, is the anchor tenant for Catalyst
 (the NI Science Park) which now accommodates over 150 companies. ECIT has had a major
 influence on acceleration of SME ecosystems in the area of cybersecurity, both in the Belfast
 Region (with >1700 jobs over last 10 years, resulting in NI becoming the number one region
 worldwide for USA FDI in cyber security); and by knowledge transfer to numerous digital
 technology, defence and security primes, e.g. Analog Devices, IBM, Intel, ARM, Thales, QinetiQ,
 BAE, Bosch; and by acting as a key delivery partner of the £13.5M UK Government funded
 London Office for Rapid Cyber Security Advancement alongside Plexal and Deloitte. ECIT
 provide academics and engineering support to cohorts of start-ups at Plexal, the innovation
 campus based at London’s Olympic Park.

 Economic interactions range from KTP projects through to major collaborations and
 commercialisation activities. A number of specific examples of impact for the economy include:
   Commercialisation of advanced scheduling software and engines through the spin-off
     EventMAP Ltd., (McCollum, McMullan) who apply their technology with the universities of
     Cambridge and Oxford, Aecom, BAE Systems, Channel 4, KBR, and Kings College Hospital
     Trust.
   Data analytics solutions from the spin-off Analytics Engines Ltd., (Woods) have been applied
     to investigative journalism (RTÉ), illegal dumping (Dublin City Council), financial fraud
     (Coriolis Technologies) and bioinformatics acceleration (Almac), and the heritage sector (The
     National Gallery, London).
   Unique stretch blow moulding technology commercialized through Blow Moulding
     Technologies (Menary) has been used by Coca Cola, Pepsi, Unilever, Kraft, Procter and
     Gamble and Nestlé, resulting in the creation of innovative, lightweight bottle designs, and
     introduction of new bio-based materials into bottle packaging, saving millions of pounds and
     reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
   Novel algorithms for accelerating network security processing and high-speed IP flow
     classification (Sezer) has been used by for Netronome’s in their next generation of flow
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      processors, leading to an increased turnover of over £80M per annum and resulting in an
      exemplar University/Industry research partnership in which they have invested $2M.
     Numerous research projects with Acheston and Clover, Banagher Concrete (RoI), BanahUK,
      Bullivant, Creagh, FP McCann, Macrete, Moore Concrete, Quinn Building Products, and
      Tracey Concrete (Taylor, Nanukuttan, Sonebi, McPolin and Soutsos), have targeted
      resource efficiency, performance prediction, rheology and textures in concrete technology,
      which has allowed these companies to sustain their position as market leaders (close to 50%
      of the precast concrete supply for UK is provided by companies based in the region).
     Face recognition software developed in the University (Robertson) and commercialised
      through AnyVision has resulted in the first commercial deployment face recognition software
      in Europe’s third largest airport, Schipol, with 200,000+ people passing through every day.
     Commercialisation of a hardware accelerated regex processor (RXP) based on the university
      research (Sezer) has been licensed to major security solution providers, including Cisco,
      Looking Glass, Trent Micro, Silicom, Valtix, and through TitanIC to Mellanox and
      Cavium/Marvell, who together supply ~50% of the Cloud Network Interface Controllers.
     Research into massive MIMO (Matthaiou) has had transformative, global engineering and
      commercial impact. It has changed the research agenda within Nokia Bell Labs and Ericsson,
      resulting in significant investment into R&D programmes by these two leading 5G telecoms
      vendors, and resulted in commercial gains through new technological product developments.
     Collaborative project with ETRI on monitoring and deriving telemetry features for Malware
      threats (Sezer), leading to a joint outcome which was successfully licensed to Anhlab, one of
      Korea's largest security companies.
     Thermal fatigue modelling, start-up cycle optimisation and runner optimization research has
      led to significant £1M annual savings per year (in terms of raw materials and energy usage)
      for Ryobi UK.
     A series of tidal energy projects have brought research to realisation through collaborations
      with industrial partners: CNR-INM (formerly INSEAN), Italy, Ocean Flow Energy and ORE
      Catapult, UK, Schottel Hydro, and Sustainable Marine Energy. Continuation of the MARINET
      1 and MARINET 2 projects, supporting a European trans-national access network to wave
      and tidal testing facilities, saw five commercial companies test and develop their technology
      in the UoA’s wave tank facilities and at its tidal energy test site.

 The UoA has extensive links and major grants with a wide range of industrial partners, ensuring
 wide applicability of our research and often creating an enhanced research base within these
 companies. The companies have included Airbus UK, Allstate, Analog Devices, Aptar, Astra
 Zeneca, BAE Systems (UK), BP, Catena, Citi, Dell-EMC (Ireland), Eastman Chemicals, Eli-Lilly,
 ExxonMobil, Petronas, Schell, Chevron, European Space Agency, Ferrari, Ford, GSK, Huawei
 (China), IBM (UK), Infineon Technologies, Infosys (UK), Intel, Invista, Johnson Matthey, Merck,
 National Instrument, Nokia Bell labs (USA), Pacific Northwest National Lab (USA), Proctor &
 Gamble, RAL Space, Rolls Royce, Solvay, Sumitomo Electric Europe, Tata Steel, Ticra
 Denmarks, Toyota, UK Centre for Earth Observation, UNESCO, UN Office for Disaster Risk
 Reduction, Umicore, Unilever, Xilinx. These collaborations have been crucial in identifying
 challenging scientific problems that have the potential to lead to commercial outputs. Efforts here
 have resulted in more than 15 patents.

 c) Society

 A key focus of the UoA’s contribution in addressing societal issues is a direct output from the
 research in the core areas as identified below:

 Connectivity and cybersecurity:
   Membership of AI Council (O’Neill) an independent expert committee created to help boost
    growth of AI in the UK, promote its adoption and ethical use in businesses and organisations
    across the country.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     Creation of the annual Cyber Security Summit (O’Neill, Sezer) in Belfast, brings together
      the international research community alongside industry leaders, government policy makers,
      start-ups and SMEs from around the world;
     CSIT’s co-authoring of the Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport’s 2020 report on
      Cyber Security Sectoral Analysis, which provides an update on the status of the sector at
      the midpoint of the Government’s Cyber Security Strategy.

 Smart, sustainable and resilient infrastructure:
   The development of a catastrophe-tolerant, communications network (Trung) has provided
    seamless connectivity for relief authorities and workers. It has been incorporated by Vietnam
    Disaster Management Authority into their national disaster response plans and has played a
    vital role in the evacuation and rescue of 5,000 people in DaNang city.
   Lack of effective bridge monitoring has led to a £6.7bn backlog of bridge maintenance works.
    Taylor has led to the world’s first, fibre optic Bridge Weigh-in-Motion system to extend bridge
    life which is now operational on the A1 in Northern Ireland.
   Flynn’s peatland hydrological model has directly underpinned the Irish Government’s policy
    for the conservation and restoration of bogs; and its application successfully prevented the
    imposition of annual EUR 9 Million in fines.
   Millions currently living in the US and UK with a hip or knee replacement are now tested with
    methods developed at QUB (Buchanan). Beyond economic benefits, this has impacted on
    quality of life, with longer lasting hip and knee joints and a reduced need for revision surgery,
    resulting in an estimated annual savings of £1.4 Billion.
   The vWa project (Ranade) is focused on valorising waste from sugar cane industries in India
    by transforming these into transportation fuels, reducing 115MT of biomass waste and
    generating employment in rural India.

 In addition, other UoA contributions include: Dr Myra Lydon’s appearances as one of ICEs
 Invisible Superheroes as ‘Dr Sensora’ in Belfast City airport, and in a BBC programme on Civil
 Engineering; a TV feature on Louise Kregting’s marine renewables in the BBC ‘Our Coast’ Series
 1:3 and BBC ‘Tides’ programmes; board membership of the UK’s leading independent Campaign
 for Science and Engineering (Price) providing a voice at government level to influence policy
 making; Chair of the IET Engineering Policy Group for Northern Ireland (Woods) which acts as a
 two-way link between the engineering profession and Government; engagement in international
 standards and bodies, e.g. RILEM Technical and American Concrete Institute Committees
 (Sonebi); the Ireland Environmental Protection Agency (Ofterdinger and Flynn); the International
 Atomic Energy Agency (Elliot).
