Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of York

 Unit of Assessment: 30 - Philosophy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Introduction
 The Department of Philosophy at York pursues an inclusive, integrated approach to philosophical
 research, which encourages dialogue between practical and theoretical philosophy, brings
 together ‘analytic’ and ‘continental’ traditions, and introduces historical insights into contemporary
 debates. We seek to maintain and further develop (a) a broad range of philosophical expertise,
 reflecting the scope and diversity of the discipline, and (b) a distinctive profile of world-leading
 expertise in Aesthetics, History of Philosophy, Moral and Political Philosophy, Philosophy of
 Medicine and Health, and Philosophy of Mind. During the current REF period, we have also
 prioritized the development of interdisciplinary, collaborative research. This has led to significant
 increases in external research income, public engagement, and impact.

 1.2 Research and Impact Objectives
 At the time of REF2014, our research strategy identified three main goals for the coming period:

    1. Maintain departmental strengths in Philosophy of Mind, Ethics, and History of
       Philosophy;
    2. Further develop expertise in Aesthetics and increase integration with Philosophy of Mind
       and Psychology;
    3. Establish a regular stream of external research income.

 Following a post-REF departmental research review in 2015, priorities for the 2014-20 period
 were revised to reflect a higher level of ambition, and also combined with specific
 implementation plans. More emphasis was placed on substantially increasing research income,
 to ensure that the Department remains financially sustainable at its current size. The following
 priorities have also been added:

    4. Strengthen our portfolio of world-leading publications, spanning all main areas of
        departmental research;
    5. Stimulate development of interdisciplinary and collaborative research projects;
    6. Increase income generation, public engagement, and research impact by undertaking
        interdisciplinary research addressing social, cultural, and policy issues;
    7. Take additional actions to ensure that our research environment provides equal
        opportunities and promotes diversity;
    8. Increase PhD recruitment via a distinctive, attractive, and visible research profile, while
        also improving the gender balance among PhD students via (7);
    9. Support (3) to (6) and also (8) by developing two areas of research: Philosophy of
        Medicine and Health and Political Philosophy (complementing the university-wide
        research themes of ‘Health and Wellbeing’ and ‘Justice and Equality’; Institutional
        Environment Statement (IES) §4);
    10. Accomplish (9) by making strategic appointments in both areas.

 Priorities (4) to (8) were articulated in our December 2015 research strategy. They were
 supplemented in 2017 by the inclusion of (9) and (10), following input from Thomas (appointed
 as Professor and Head of Department (HoD) in 2016). Our 2017 revision also involved
 prioritizing (9) over (2) and the Department is now committed to maintaining, rather than
 expanding, its expertise in Aesthetics.

 1.3 Implementation
 The following measures were introduced to implement objectives:


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Introduction of Research Clusters as organizational units for pursuing priorities (3) to
        (6);
    •   Expansion of the Director of Research (DoR) role to support (3) to (6);
    •   Increased use of Humanities Research Centre (HRC; IES§46) support for grant-writing
        and interdisciplinary activities;
    •   Engagement with University Research Themes (IES§4) to support interdisciplinary
        research;
    •   A departmental Equality and Diversity Officer (EDO), to work with the BPA/SWIP
        Good Practice Scheme and lead engagement with the Athena SWAN process;
    •   A dedicated Impact Lead to support all stages of impact-development;
    •   Strategic Appointments in Political Philosophy and Philosophy of Medicine and Health,
        to produce world-leading interdisciplinary research, increase research income and
        impact, and boost PhD recruitment.

 1.4 Success Indicators
 Since REF 2014, the number of Category A FTE has remained fairly constant. Nevertheless,
 having implemented our new strategy, we have seen a significant positive shift in performance,
 evidenced by the following:

    •   A fivefold increase in research income (average of £100,937 p.a., compared with
        £18,351 p.a. previously), with a marked upwards trajectory set to continue (due to
        AHRC, EU, and EPSRC awards extending beyond the current REF period, and other
        planned projects);
    •   Two externally funded postdoctoral fellows (compared with none over the previous
        period), and two more starting in 2020-21;
    •   Over three times as many doctoral degrees awarded (38.6 FTE, compared with 11
        previously);
    •   Thirteen monographs by Category A staff (more than doubling previous REF period);
    •   Sixteen co-authored interdisciplinary publications;
    •   New knowledge exchange partnerships and areas of impactful research (extending
        beyond previous strengths in medical and healthcare ethics, to areas including public
        policy and mental health);
    •   Strategic senior appointments in Political Philosophy (O’Neill’s transfer from York’s
        Department of Politics) and Philosophy of Medicine and Health (Ratcliffe) in 2018,
        associated with high grant income, impact, and PhD recruitment;
    •   An Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2020, following a process involving extensive
        research into student and staff experiences of our research environment.

 Success is further evidenced by substantially higher levels of research activities across all six
 Research Clusters: Aesthetics, Art, and Literature; Ethics; History of Philosophy; Mind and
 Metaphysics; Philosophy of Religion; Political and Legal Philosophy. These activities
 include forging new partnerships and collaborations, organizing high-profile events, initiating and
 building upon interdisciplinary projects, boosting research activities with external funding, and
 substantially increased co-authorship. Highlights are documented in §3 (funding) and §4
 (projects, collaborations, and partnerships).

 1.5 Future Research Objectives
 Our approach is informed by the principles of the University’s research strategy (IES§18) and, in
 particular, its commitment to producing excellent research that contributes to the public good.
 Department priorities now involve consolidating and building upon achievements during the
 current REF period. We aim to:

    ●   Generate new areas of impact: emotion and mental health (e.g., via Ratcliffe and
        Richardson’s project on grief) and emerging technologies (supported by a new
        appointment from September 2020);


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   Maintain strengths in all priority areas, while continuing to develop a distinctive profile of
        interdisciplinary research;
    ●   At least treble our average annual research income over the next period, by focusing on
        major research grants for collaborative projects;
    ●   Conduct detailed annual reviews (by the Department Management Team (DMT)) of the
        financial and strategic case for making additional appointments in one or more priority
        areas;
    ●   Continue embedding principles of Equality and Diversity into research structures,
        including implementing all actions identified in our Athena SWAN Bronze Award
        application and working towards a Silver Award.

 1.6 Departmental Structures and Support for Research
 The DoR oversees development, communication, and implementation of research strategy and
 also chairs the Department Research Committee (DRC), comprising the DoR, Impact Lead,
 Director of Postgraduate Research, Early Career Representative and three other Category A
 staff. The DRC meets twice each term and manages all aspects of department research
 strategy. Other staff contribute to strategy via regular department staff meetings and a biannual
 research day.

 During the current period, the DoR role has been expanded to include more one-to-one research
 support. The DoR obtains annual research reports from colleagues and then conducts one-to-
 one meetings, where objectives and funding plans are discussed and agreed. The DoR also
 identifies funding opportunities throughout the academic year, matches them with proposed
 projects, and provides support for all stages of application-development. As well as working with
 current staff on grant applications, the DoR encourages applications from promising postdoctoral
 fellowship candidates and assigns colleagues to help them develop their applications. (This is
 reflected a doubling of hours allocated to the DoR role by our workload model.)

 Further support is provided by our six Research Clusters, each headed by a senior staff
 member. All academic staff belong to at least one cluster. Clusters act as foci for (a) providing
 feedback on work-in-progress; (b) organizing events; (c) establishing and building on
 collaborations; (d) developing ideas for funding and impact; and (e) providing financial, practical,
 and intellectual support for activities that advance department priorities. To help facilitate
 collaborations, clusters can also nominate Honorary Visiting Professors (colleagues from
 other institutions with whom members work closely) for approval by University Senate. Current
 titleholders are Jenefer Robinson (Aesthetics); Wlodek Rabinovicz (Ethics); Sarah Hutton
 (History of Philosophy); Dorothea Debus, James Ladyman, and Jennifer Radden (Mind and
 Metaphysics), and Eleonore Stump (Philosophy of Religion). Department funding covers the
 cost of their annual visits to York and associated activities. Each cluster has an additional
 budget of up to £1,500 p.a., to support other research activities.

 The Department’s commitment to a broad, integrated research environment is reflected in other
 activities involving all staff and PGRs: weekly Staff Work-in-Progress meetings; weekly PGR
 Work-in-Progress meetings; a regular Research Colloquium (visiting speaker series); and
 Royal Institute of Philosophy Public Lectures (three per year).

 1.7 Support for Impact Generation
 Consistent with the University’s strategic vision for research impact (IES§§12,13), the
 Department has worked increasingly during the current period to embed impact into research
 activities. Since 2015, a staff member has acted as Impact Lead, coordinating impact activities
 in the Department and liaising with Faculty and University support (§3.3). In addition to sitting on
 the DRC and Faculty Impact Subgroup, the Impact Lead provides one-to-one support for
 colleagues in identifying, generating, and recording areas of impact. In their annual research
 plans, staff members outline plans for impact and public engagement. Subsequent
 conversations with the Impact Lead involve identifying priority areas and ensuring appropriate
 support is provided. The role also includes obtaining financial support by coordinating
 applications to York’s Arts and Humanities-aligned Impact Accelerator Fund (YIAF, IES§50).

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Where impact activities are time-consuming and there is a good strategic case, the Impact Lead
 informs the DoR and HoD, so that a reduction of other duties or additional research leave can be
 approved.

 This level of support has enabled us to achieve impacts in several areas. These include (a)
 providing a framework for public health research ethics (Holland; ICS1); (b) contributing to
 public policies relating to justice and equality (O’Neill; ICS2); and (c) working with therapists to
 develop support for trauma patients dealing with nightmares (Stoneham; §4.2.2). To further
 increase and diversify impact, the Department has prioritized strategic appointments with
 research programmes that integrate impact seamlessly (O’Neill; Ratcliffe), ensuring that future
 impact is ‘baked into’ current research activities.

 1.8 Support for Interdisciplinary Research
 To cultivate interdisciplinary research, the HRC and seven university-wide Research Themes
 provide financial support and facilitate collaborative activities (§3.3). Research priming from the
 HRC, Research Themes, and other University sources has helped boost interdisciplinary
 interaction with researchers inside and outside of the University, as illustrated by co-authored
 publications involving Department members and researchers in the disciplines of Archaeology,
 Biotechnological and Applied Clinical Sciences, Clinical Psychology, English Literature,
 Psychiatry, Politics, Social Anthropology, and Sociology (see also §4).

 Recent appointments in Philosophy of Mental Health and Political Philosophy have increased
 the Department’s engagement with the themes ‘Health and Wellbeing’ and ‘Justice and
 Equality’. Interdisciplinary integration is further aided by the activities of Allen, who is University
 Research Champion (IES§4) for the Culture and Communication theme (2018-22) and former
 Deputy Director of the HRC (2017-20). The Department is also helping to intensify and diversify
 interdisciplinary mental health research across the University via Ratcliffe’s participation, since
 early 2020, in the University’s Mental Health Research Steering Group.

 1.9 Open Research Environment
 The Department is committed to ongoing development of an open research environment. We
 have strong institutional support for this (IES§§15-17), including Gold Open Access
 agreements with a number of journals and access to the York Open Access Fund. Over the
 period, we have published 33 articles and one monograph as ‘gold’ open access, with five
 funded by the OA fund (total £4,758) and nine through the library’s OA agreements.

 Colleagues are encouraged to go beyond the requirement to comply with REF and funders’ OA
 rules by:

    ●   Uploading chapters in edited collections to our institutional repository, White Rose
        Research Online;
    ●   Considering wholly open access journals for submissions;
    ●   Building open access fees into grant applications wherever possible (e.g. for a
        forthcoming MIT Press monograph associated with the ‘Grief’ project);
    ●   Sharing research findings via publicly accessible fora, including dedicated project
        websites (e.g., Grief, Learning from Fiction), the Department’s YouTube channel, and
        social media accounts.

 In addition, Stoneham promotes open access publishing through his activities as member of the
 Editorial Board for White Rose University Press (IES§16), an open access digital publisher of
 peer-reviewed academic journals and books.

 1.10 Research Integrity
 Research integrity is embedded in our research expectations (§2.1.2). Colleagues developing
 research proposals complete an Ethics Checklist, in line with the University’s Code of Practice
 and Principles for Good Ethical Governance (IES§14). Where a project requires ethical approval
 (e.g. research involving human participants), an application is submitted to the Arts and

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Humanities Ethics Committee (AHEC). A department member sits on AHEC and advises
 colleagues on all stages of the process.

 Department members have taken on lead roles in supporting research integrity across the
 University. Holland has chaired the University’s Ethics Committee. Now called the Academic
 Ethics and Compliance Committee, it is currently chaired by Allen, who previously chaired
 AHEC. Leng has contributed to the University’s Research Integrity Forum (IES§14), and
 Stoneham led the team that developed the University’s Research Integrity Tutorial, a
 requirement for all York PGRs since 2015.

 2. People

 2.1 Staff

 2.1.1 Staffing Strategy
 Over the previous cycle, the Department grew from 13 to 19 FTE. Our 2014-20 strategy has
 instead involved maintaining a steady state, while boosting external research income to ensure
 longer-term sustainability. A dip to 16.57 FTE (plus one independent postdoctoral fellow) at the
 census date was due to the untimely death of David Efird in January 2020 and delayed starts
 (to September 2020) for two new appointments for EDI reasons (see §2.3.2).

 During the period, we retained our strengths in Aesthetics, History of Philosophy, Ethics, and
 Philosophy of Mind, while expanding in two priority areas: Political Philosophy; Philosophy of
 Medicine and Health. Research areas for new posts are agreed by the DMT, with input from the
 DRC. Since 2019, there has been additional input from the department’s EDO, including
 recommendations arising through the Athena SWAN process (§2.3.2).

 As well as recruiting Category A staff onto open contracts, our approach to staffing involves
 attracting postdoctoral researchers to York. Increased emphasis on postdoctoral fellows has
 been enabled by an institutional commitment to support fellowships (IES§20), which allows us to
 support schemes that require matching funds. Aside from externally funded postdoctoral fellows,
 all current Category A staff are on open contracts. Department policy is to use fixed-term
 contracts only for fixed-term work (e.g., covering externally funded leave).

 Departmental and institutional research structures are explained to new staff at a Departmental
 induction event. New staff are assigned mentors, who introduce them to the Department,
 discuss which cluster(s) to join, point out training opportunities, and encourage participation in
 Department research activities. For postdoctoral research fellows, mentorship includes
 addressing training needs and career development in line with the principles of the Researcher
 Development Concordat (IES§§27-28).

 The Department’s workload model, introduced in 2018, was developed to ensure that Category
 A staff can spend at least 40% of their working time on research and research-related activities
 (e.g., preparing grant applications and reviewing articles). A further percentage is sometimes
 allocated for services to the profession that are valuable and time-consuming.

 2.1.2 Staff Development
 Since 2015, the Department’s Staff Handbook has included a clear, comprehensive statement
 of Research Performance Expectations, guided by institutional policy (IES§22). Staff therefore
 understand what is expected of them, by career stage, in terms of publications, grant
 applications, research supervision, support for research, and professional conduct. The following
 measures support them in meeting these expectations:

    •   Annual Research Planning Meetings. Staff have annual one-to-one meetings with the
        DoR, to discuss and update their written research plans (which include short- and longer-
        term plans for publications, grant applications, public engagement, and impact).


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Mentorship. In addition to overseeing research activities, heads of research clusters
        offer guidance and support to members.
    •   Peer Support. Support in developing research ideas is provided by other cluster
        members via meetings and working groups, and by colleagues in other clusters via
        departmental work-in-progress meetings.
    •   Institutional Research Support Facilities. Staff benefit from research development
        support from the HRC and the Research Excellence Training Team (RETT), along with
        access to the University’s broader mentoring, coaching, and leadership programmes
        (IES§§22,32).
    •   Targeted Support for Early Career and Postdoctoral Staff. A regular ‘grant-writing
        bootcamp’ is offered by the Research Champions. Early career staff also benefit from a
        reduced teaching load during probation, while completing the required Postgraduate
        Certificate of Academic Practice, which includes research-training modules (IES§29).

 2.1.3 Research Leave
 Research leave is managed at Department level (IES§23). Staff are eligible to apply for one
 term of leave in every seven. Appropriate timing and projects are discussed at annual research
 meetings with the DoR, after which applications are reviewed and approved by the DRC (which
 also monitors research leave outcomes). Where there is strategic need, research leave can be
 brought forward or supplementary leave awarded.

 2.1.4 Recognition and Reward
 Success in research and impact is acknowledged and celebrated at six-monthly meetings of the
 Department’s Research Forum, in annual Performance and Development Review meetings
 with the HoD, and via social media. It is rewarded institutionally through the promotions process.
 Colleagues receive regular advice from mentors on how to develop a case for promotion and
 when to apply. Implementing a recommendation by the department’s Athena SWAN committee,
 in 2019 the department introduced a Promotions Committee, consisting of three senior staff
 members. The committee is proactive in identifying colleagues for promotion, and those who
 may be eligible are encouraged to submit CVs to the HoD on an annual basis for consideration.
 At this stage, the department’s EDO is also invited to raise issues for the Committee to consider,
 including issues raised via the ongoing Athena SWAN process. The Committee offers advice on
 when to apply and how to meet any outstanding criteria, and assists staff in developing their
 applications. In the 2019 round, all three applications submitted by Department members were
 successful.

 2.2 Research Students

 2.2.1 PGR Community
 The Department treats PGRs as full members of its research community. They participate in all
 research activities and frequently collaborate with staff by contributing to projects, events, and
 event-organization. During the current period, ten PGRs also co-authored publications with staff
 members. 42 PGRs were supervised to completion by the Department (38.6 FTE), compared to
 only 11 completions in the period to REF2014. On the census date, 32 students were enrolled
 on research degrees, 13 of whom were female (40.6%), consistent with our goal of having a
 more even gender balance amongst PGRs (§1.2). Since 2015, PGRs at York have been
 supported institutionally by York’s Graduate Research School (YGRS), which oversees
 progression and training arrangements (IES§30).

 2.2.2 PGR Recruitment and Studentships
 Some PGRs join our programme having completed an MA at York or after approaching a
 prospective supervisor directly. Others are recruited via studentships advertised on the
 Department website, PHILOS-L, and social media. Sources of studentships include the
 Department’s Graduate Teaching Scholarship scheme (providing fees and a stipend for two to
 three PGRs each year) and the White Rose College of the Arts and Humanities (WRoCAH)
 doctoral training partnership. The latter involves open competition between participating
 institutions, but York has typically been successful in obtaining one or two Philosophy PGR

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 studentships per year (via the Philosophy Department and our shared PPE PhD programme).
 Since 2016, the Department has, due to Currie’s Editorship of the journal Mind & Language,
 been able to support a Mind & Language Research Studentship. Another studentship is
 attached to Currie’s Leverhulme Trust funded project, ‘Learning from Fiction’. Other PGR
 students have secured funding from external sources, including the British Society of Aesthetics,
 the China Scholarship Council, and government funding bodies in Brazil, Mexico, and Thailand.

 2.2.3 Progression
 At Department level, PGR progression is overseen by the Director of Postgraduate Research
 Students, in line with processes developed by YGRS (IES§31). The on-line SkillsForge system
 provides a one-place record of meetings, progression points, and training. Students have a
 minimum of eight formal supervision meetings per year, and typically meet supervisors monthly.
 They also receive guidance from a Thesis Advisory Panel (TAP) member (who participates in
 six-monthly TAP meetings), and an annual Progress Review (with a Panel Chair who is not
 otherwise involved in the student’s supervision). TAP meetings and Progress Reviews involve
 discussion of training needs and are followed by written progress reports that include, where
 appropriate, detailed guidance. PGRs are thus provided with clear expectations, on which
 progression to the next year of study is conditional.

 2.2.4 Skills and Career Development
 New PGRs receive inductions to the Department, University (including YGRS), and the HRC
 research student community. As well as taking research-training modules (‘Becoming an
 Effective Researcher’ and ‘Research Integrity’ (IES§32)), all Philosophy PGRs are required to
 attend the weekly Postgraduate Work-in-Progress meeting, where they present work to staff and
 fellow students at least once per year. These meetings provide training in disciplinary norms for
 presenting and discussing research in a supportive environment. Some are allocated to specific
 areas of training, including sessions on research skills, research integrity, and career guidance.
 PGRs also join research clusters as full members, attending reading groups, workshops, and
 work-in-progress sessions.

 The HRC provides additional PGR training, spanning writing and publishing, careers, research
 ethics, research grants, and public engagement. The University’s RETT offer a range of further,
 university-wide workshops (IES§32), which PGRs register for after development needs are
 identified via TAP discussions. PGRs with WRoCAH studentships also receive cohort-wide
 training via the WRoCAH doctoral training programme. There are targeted training events in
 every year of the programme, including an annual colloquium.

 All PGRs can apply for Department funding to support research activities, from our dedicated
 PGR Fund. Self-funded students can apply for supplementary travel funding from the YGRS
 Conference Fund. Funding is also available, on a competitive basis, through York’s
 involvement in the Worldwide Universities Network (IES§6) Researcher Mobility
 Programme (e.g., funding for a Philosophy PGR to visit the University of Sydney), and via the
 University’s Santander International Connections programme. The latter funded a student’s
 visit to CUNY. Connections made during this visit enabled the student to organize an
 international conference on ‘The Nature of Logic’ at York, involving Saul Kripke (2016).
 WRoCAH also provides funding for research activities. Second-year WRoCAH students have
 the opportunity to participate in a one-month Researcher Employability Project with an
 external partner organization, during which they complete a specific project with a tangible
 outcome, and since 2019 an Internationalisation Project. In addition, WRoCAH has
 competitive funding streams for event organization and knowledge exchange activities. For
 example, the 2019 conference ‘Philosophy of Film: Without Theory’ was organized by a York
 Philosophy PhD student and supported by WRoCAH (£1,302).

 During the current cycle, 15 of the Department’s 42 PGR graduates secured positions in
 academia. Seven are in permanent lectureships, three in temporary lectureships, and five in
 postdoctoral positions. Other destinations include teaching, policy advice, and accounting.


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3 Equality and Diversity

 2.3.1 Integration of Equality and Diversity into Department Policy
 The Department’s approach to Equality and Diversity is informed by the University’s Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Strategy (IES§35), which involves embedding EDI into all
 aspects of university life. EDI has been integrated into the Department’s research strategy since
 2015, occupying a prominent place. The Department’s EDO liaises with University committees
 that engage with EDI (IES§36), chairs the Department’s EDI Committee, reports back to DMT,
 and manages specific EDI initiatives within the Department. These include subscribing to the
 British Philosophical Association / Society for Women in Philosophy (BPA/SWIP) good
 practice scheme for the representation of women in philosophy since 2015 and participating in
 the Athena SWAN programme since 2018.

 2.3.2 Actions to Support Equality and Diversity
 In 2015, the Department adopted an implementation plan for BPA/SWIP good practice scheme
 recommendations, including research-related actions. For instance, we agreed that our visiting
 speaker programme would involve a more even balance of female and male speakers, with the
 range of topics better reflecting the diversity of the discipline. This is monitored annually by the
 DRC. We also took steps to ensure a more inclusive audience-environment by scheduling most
 events during the working day, making it easier for those childcare responsibilities to participate.
 In addition, we invested in video-conferencing facilities, so that those unable to attend in person
 can do so remotely.

 Another part of our BPA/SWIP implementation plan involved departmentally organized training
 on implicit bias for all staff (2015). We have since benefitted from regular, University-level EDI
 training, which incorporates this. The Department also hosted the successful ‘SWIP-UK Women
 in Philosophy: A Mentoring and Networking Workshop’ in summer 2015, an initiative organized
 by three female PGR students, two of whom remain in the profession.

 Complementing this engagement with BPA/SWIP, another key strand of our EDI strategy is
 Athena SWAN. As with many UK Philosophy Departments, under-representation of women and
 minority groups in our staff and PGR communities remains a serious issue. Of particular concern
 has been a drop in the number and percentage of female academic staff during the current
 period, caused by a combination of departures and new appointments. This was a focal point for
 extensive research undertaken by our Athena SWAN team. Although the process unearthed no
 major concerns about the structure of our research environment, it did lead to several
 recommendations concerning recruitment processes. These included broadening advertised
 areas of expertise to increase diversity of applicants, offering flexible start-dates to
 accommodate a range of life-circumstances, and emphasizing the flexibility of departmental
 working conditions (§2.3.3). All recommendations were implemented during the most recent
 appointment process (2019-20) and are now fully integrated into departmental hiring practices.
 Of three appointments made in that round, two were female; both took advantage of the delayed
 start-date option. Even so, the imbalance remains an important concern for us, as does diversity
 more generally. These concerns will feature prominently when making future appointments, with
 recommendations feeding in from the ongoing Athena SWAN process and wider activities of our
 EDO.

 With support from the Department, our PGR community has also been very active in addressing
 equality and diversity issues. One of our PGRs was Founding Director (2014-15). of Minorities
 in Philosophy in the UK (MAP). York formally opened a MAP Chapter in 2018 and our PGRs
 have made significant contributions, organizing reading groups and speaking events to highlight
 the work of minorities in philosophy.

 2.3.3 Flexible Working
 The Department offers flexible working arrangements, which have been taken up by staff with
 caring responsibilities or health conditions that make daily attendance on campus difficult.
 Arrangements have involved adjusting the times when colleagues are expected to be available,

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 when they teach, and the kinds of duties they perform. The University Library has provided
 further support, by digitizing research resources for a Department member who was unable to
 visit the Library in person for health reasons. Institutionally, a carers’ fund has been introduced
 to cover costs (such as childcare) incurred when attending events outside of normal working
 hours (IES§24).

 Several staff have asked to reduce their hours to part-time for personal or professional reasons.
 In all cases, the department has approved these requests and organized workloads to reflect
 colleagues’ situations and needs. Phased returns to work, involving a reduced workload, are
 offered after periods of illness and parental leave.

 2.3.4 Approach to Equality and Diversity in the REF submission
 Decisions on output submission were made so as to ensure that work by staff with protected
 characteristics is fully represented, while also including appropriate adjustments in expectations
 (e.g. for periods of parental leave and ill health). In annual research plans, staff are encouraged
 to mention any circumstances affecting research performance and to then discuss them (in
 confidence) with the DoR, so that appropriate support can be provided. All REF-eligible staff
 were able to submit at least one published output for inclusion in the submission and no
 exemptions from this requirement were requested.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income
 During the period, we have (a) boosted our external research funding fivefold, compared to the
 preceding period, (b) increased the number of staff involved in successful funding applications
 fourfold, (c) diversified our sources of funding, with awards obtained from eleven different
 bodies, and (d) increased our capacity to apply for major grants in future, by facilitating
 development of networks and collaborations (see also §4). Significant awards during the current
 cycle include:

 Large collaborative grants
    • ‘Grief: A Study of Human Emotional Experience’ (Ratcliffe & Richardson, AHRC,
       £814,153, with £94,677 during the assessment period);
    • ‘Learning from Fiction’ (Currie, Leverhulme Trust, £342,223, with £82,293 to York
       (£45,995 during the assessment period)).

 Research networks
    • ‘History of Analytic Philosophy’ (Beaney, AHRC, £32,172);
    • ‘Cognitive and Aesthetic Values in Cultural Artefacts’ (Lamarque, AHRC, £26,038);
    • ‘Reason, Right and Revolution: Practical Philosophy between Kant and Hegel’ (Clarke,
       AHRC, £35,514);
    • ‘Analytic Perspectives on the Beatific Vision’ (Efird, John Templeton Foundation (JTF),
       £9,286).

 Research fellowships
 Staff members have been awarded 10 personal research fellowships from 6 different funders:
     • Debus (JTF, £46,597);
     • Leng (Leverhulme Trust, £44,543);
     • O’Neill (Institute for New Economic Thinking (INET), £50,648; Independent Social
        Research Foundation (ISRF), £46,168; Leverhulme Trust, £46,157; ISRF, £49,719);
     • Piller (Fonds National de la Recherche Luxembourg, £46,899);
     • Thomas (JTF, £26,308, ISRF £42,829);
     • Wigglesworth (EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions, £169,123 (£6,533 during the
        assessment period)).




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Department Structures for Supporting Research, Funding, and Impact
 Current structures were devised specifically to advance our ten strategic priorities (§1.2), with an
 emphasis on significantly revising our approach to external research funding. As detailed in
 (§1.6), the DoR has overall responsibility for implementing research strategy and assessing staff
 members’ research needs. This includes (a) chairing regular meetings of the DRC, which
 implements strategy, monitors research leave, and reviews proposals from prospective
 postdoctoral fellows; (b) holding annual one-to-one meetings with staff, to advise on research
 and funding plans; and (c) supporting grant applications in progress. The DoR is supported by a
 dedicated Impact Lead (§1.7), also a member of DRC. Significant recommendations made by
 the DoR, Impact Lead, and DRC are discussed at meetings of the DMT, where Department-level
 decisions are made concerning any changes to strategies and procedures. Although the DMT
 does not involve all staff, it includes an ‘open seat’, so that others who wish to do so can
 participate and contribute to policy.

 This organizational structure is complemented by structures to facilitate the research process
 itself. The six Research Clusters (§1.5) support production of high-quality research,
 interdisciplinary activities, and funding applications in specific areas of departmental expertise.
 In conjunction with these, department-wide activities (such as the Research Colloquium, Royal
 Institute of Philosophy Public Lectures, and Work-in-Progress meetings) sustain an integrated,
 inclusive research culture, where colleagues learn about one another’s research and share
 ideas.

 The Department occupies its own building, with individual staff offices with up-to-date IT
 equipment, a dedicated seminar room for group research and social activities, and IT facilities
 for use by PGRs. There is a substantial, open-plan social area immediately inside the main
 entrance, with comfortable furniture, coffee-making facilities, and a kitchen. It provides a lively,
 convivial atmosphere, generating constant research conversations between staff members and
 PGRs throughout the day, furthering our goal of maintaining a cohesive, supportive research
 community.

 Staff have access to an annual research allowance of £1000 p.a. from the Department, to
 support research-related travel and other activities. Applications for expenses are required to
 explain how the activities support the Department’s research strategy. Where those activities
 contribute to funding applications or impact plans, the amount awarded can be significantly
 higher.

 Since 2015, the Department has focused strategically on developing new structures and
 processes to support research funding applications (see also §§1.6-7). We entered the current
 assessment period without a history of prioritizing research grant capture. Management and
 research structures introduced since then have elicited a marked change in research culture.
 We have achieved our goal for the current period of a fivefold increase in the Department’s
 average annual research income. With large grants already in place and others in the pipeline,
 we can already be confident of doubling this during the coming period and our aim is at least to
 treble it. For instance, the AHRC-funded project ‘Grief’ (Ratcliffe and Richardson), which
 began on 1st January 2020, involves an average expenditure of approximately £200,0000 p.a.
 over four years. Two other large projects begin in 2020-21: ‘Deluded by Experience’ (Noordhof,
 Co-I, AHRC, £194,542(£67,923 to York) and ‘Trustworthy Autonomous Systems Node in
 Resilience’ (Thomas, Co-I, EPSRC, £3 million, with £206,015 to York Philosophy).

 This pronounced shift in our research funding culture has been aided by significantly increased
 integration between Department- and University-level infrastructure (in particular, the HRC and
 Research Themes (§§1.8; 3.3)). This has proved especially helpful in promoting a more
 outward-facing, collaborative ethos, resulting in a pronounced intensification of interdisciplinary
 research by Department members, with associated research funding plans.




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.3 Institutional Level Support for Research and Impact
 The HRC (IES§46) provides invaluable additional research support. Its team of specialists
 assists with grant applications by identifying funding sources and potential collaborators,
 providing detailed feedback on applications in-progress, and calculating costs. The HRC also
 facilitates interdisciplinary research by organizing and hosting collaborative activities involving
 multiple departments (e.g., a Medical Humanities day in Spring 2019, which led to ongoing
 interactions between the ‘Grief’ project and researchers in York’s Social Policy Research Unit).
 Other activities are supported by interdisciplinary centres, such as the Centres for Renaissance
 and Early Modern Studies (CREMS) and Modern Studies (CModS) (see §4.1.1), and by the
 university’s Research Themes (see §1.8).

 The HRC also provides workspaces for PGRs, postdoctoral researchers, and visiting
 researchers, cultivating a richly interdisciplinary research community that complements the
 Department’s strategy. Additional bookable rooms are used by staff and research students for
 events such as seminars, lectures, and conferences.

 The HRC’s Impact Managers and Impact Administrator work closely with the Department’s
 Impact Lead and those Department members directly involved in impact-generation, to help
 develop partnerships and provide administrative support for recording research impacts
 (IES§49). At University level, an annual Research Impact Conference promotes
 interdepartmental sharing of expertise and best practice.

 Staff members can apply to University-wide funds to support collaborations, grant applications,
 and impact activities. Funds include the Research Champions’ Priming (RCP) funds,
 University Research Priming (URP), Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF), and YIAF
 (§1.7, IES§50). A total of £47,621 from these funds was awarded to eight projects by six
 Department members during the period, to facilitate some of the international and
 interdisciplinary collaborations described in §4 (e.g. Stoneham’s work on trauma and dreaming
 in UK and Africa; Allen’s work on perception).

 Across HEIs, collaboration with Leeds and Sheffield is supported by the White Rose Universities
 Consortium (IES§6). Over the assessment period, White Rose funding has supported the
 following cross-institutional initiatives, in which the Department participates: the Centre for the
 History of Philosophy, currently based at York (ChiPhi); the White Rose Aesthetics Forum; the
 White Rose Early Careers Ethics Researchers group; the White Rose Postgraduate Philosophy
 Forum; and collaborative projects on ‘AI Law and Ethics’ and ‘Luther as Philosopher’.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research Collaborations

 4.1.1 Interdisciplinary Collaborations
 Since 2015, our research strategy has involved developing extensive interdisciplinary research
 collaborations, in order to bring fresh perspectives from other disciplines to our research,
 uncover new applications for philosophical ideas, open up funding opportunities, and generate
 impact. Highlights include:

 Cross-disciplinary Approaches to Issues in Perception: Allen has collaborated on the
 theme of ‘experimental philosophy of perception’ with Quinlan (Psychology, York) and
 psychologists and philosophers at Manchester and UEA, leading to several co-authored papers.
 A 2017 British Society of Aesthetics-sponsored workshop brought together our philosophers of
 perception, with aestheticians and artists to explore how thinking about art can illuminate the
 limits of perception.

 Ethical Issues Surrounding Autonomous Systems: Holland, Porter, and Thomas (PGR)
 have developed close links with Computer Science at York, via shared interests in the ethics of
 autonomous systems. Holland advised on the ‘Culture Aware Robots and Environmental

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sensor Systems for Elderly Support’ (CARESSES) project, co-funded by the EU and Japan’s
 Ministry of Internal Affairs (2017-2020), while Porter co-authored with Computer Scientists two
 publications on the ethics of autonomous systems. Collaboration between Philosophy and
 Computer Science on this topic will continue beyond the REF period, through our involvement in
 the multi-disciplinary EPSRC ‘Trustworthy Autonomous Systems Node in Resilience’ project
 (Thomas, 2020-24), also involving collaboration with Mathematics and Law.

 Healthcare Ethics: Holland is a joint appointment with the Department of Health Sciences,
 which involves him in a number of collaborations on healthcare ethics. He is a Co-I on
 ‘Partnership for REsponsive Policy Analysis and Research’ (PREPARE) project, which supports
 policy-making by providing fast, responsive analysis for the Department of Health and Social
 Care. Holland co-created the ‘Chronic Disorders of Consciousness’ research centre with Law
 and Sociology, leading to his co-authored research on the ethical treatment of patients in a
 persistent vegetative state.

 History of Philosophy: Department members participate in York’s period-based research
 centres, CREMS and CModS, bringing them into dialogue with colleagues from across the Arts
 and Humanities. Collaborations with these centres include Allen’s convening of a CModS
 phenomenology research strand, ‘Back to the Things Themselves’ (2015-16), and Stoneham’s
 2016 workshop on ‘Edward Herbert on Reason, Religion, and Toleration’.

 Justice and Equality in Political Institutions: We collaborate extensively with colleagues in
 Politics, Law, and Economics, e.g. Thomas’s work on financial regulation, and O’Neill’s work on
 taxation, which led to the co-edited volume Taxation: Philosophical Perspectives (2019), with
 contributions by economists, legal theorists, and political scientists. O’Neill has also collaborated
 with the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and the Democracy Collaborative on philosophical issues
 surrounding flood insurance and community wealth building (ICS2).

 Non-perceptual Sensuous States: Several researchers have longstanding interests in ‘non-
 perceptual sensuous states’, including dreaming, imagination, memory, and hallucination. This
 has generated a number of research and impact collaborations. E.g. Stoneham’s work on
 dreaming led to a collaboration with Dzmitry Karpuk of the Complex Trauma Therapists’
 Network UK (CTTN) on (a) the risk of re-traumatization associated with narrative therapeutic
 approaches and (b) evidence for the effectiveness of embodied approaches (§4.2.1); Ratcliffe’s
 work on bereavement hallucinations led to participation in an International Consortium for
 Hallucination Research interdisciplinary working group on the topic, culminating in a multi-
 authored article in Schizophrenia Bulletin (2020). Work on non-perceptual sensuous states is
 also integrated into Ratcliffe and Richardson’s ‘Grief’ project, which involves working with
 researchers in several disciplines, along with clinicians, and into Noordhof’s ‘Deluded by
 Experience’ project, developed over the assessment period with Sullivan-Bissett (Birmingham).

 Philosophical Issues Concerning the Significance of Cultural Artefacts: The AHRC-funded
 network, ‘Cognitive and Aesthetic Values in Cultural Artefacts’ involved three interdisciplinary
 workshops with philosophers, archaeologists, palaeontologists, literary theorists and film
 theorists (Lamarque, 2014). In his Leverhulme-funded ‘Learning from Fiction’ project, Currie is
 also engaging with cultural artefacts, by working with philosophers and psychologists to develop
 cutting-edge experimental methods to improve our understanding of learning from fiction.

 4.1.2 International Collaborations
 We have collaborations with philosophers and researchers in other disciplines from all over the
 world, giving our work considerable international reach and supporting our strategic priorities
 (§1.2) to build our portfolio of world-leading research (4), develop collaborative projects (5), and
 strengthen our research profile and ability to attract PGR students (8). Examples include:
 Europe
     ● Italy: An ongoing collaboration (Ingram, Stoneham) with the Centre for Philosophy of
         Time in Milan included the 2018 ‘York-Milan Conference on Mind & Metaphysics’,
         organized by Ingram, a Senior Member of the Centre.

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   Luxembourg: The Luxembourg National Science Foundation (Fonds National de la
        Recherche) funded the project ‘Epistemic Normativity: Configuring the Debate’
        (ENCODE) (2017-18), enabling Piller to work with Frank Hofmann (Luxembourg
        University). A joint paper appeared in Analysis (2019).
    ●   Netherlands: Holland’s 2019-20 ‘Trust and Public Health Information’ project is funded
        by the York-Maastricht Partnership (IES§6), as is the ‘Ethics of Debt Network’ with
        Thomas as Co-I (2019-present).
    ●   Portugal: O’Neill is a collaborator on the project ‘UBIEXP - The Political Philosophy and
        Epistemology of Basic Income Experiments’, funded by the Portuguese Foundation for
        Science and Technology at the University of Minho, Braga.
    ●   Spain: Leng was involved in two consecutive Spanish government-funded research
        projects on abstract objects, with colleagues at the University of Santiago de
        Compostela. This included editing a journal special issue comprised of project articles
        and co-supervising a project PGR.
    ●   Sweden: Gustafsson is a core member of the ‘Climate Ethics and Future Generations’
        project, funded by the Swedish Foundation for Humanities and Social Sciences (2018-
        2023).
    ●   Switzerland: Currie and Lamarque collaborated on the Aesthetic Mind project
        (Fribourg/Goettingen Research Group), at the University of Fribourg.
 Africa
     ● Ghana/Kenya/Uganda: Stoneham has co-hosted three workshops with the Universities
        of Nairobi, Ghana, and Makerere on 'Dreams and Dreaming: African Perspectives’
        (2018-20), funded by the Worldwide Universities Network and the GCRF QR allocation.
        He is now co-editing a collection of essays by African researchers on the topic.
     ● Tanzania: O’Neill has published an exchange with Zitto Kabwe (leader of the ACT
        Wazalendo party in Tanzania) on African Socialism, in the journal Renewal (2018).
 Asia
     • Israel: Currie’s collaboration with Tzachi Zamir (Department of English, Hebrew
        University) involved a research visit in 2017, leading to a joint paper.
     ● Japan: Stoneham co-hosted a 2016 conference with the University of Kyoto on
        ‘Reason: Difference and Toleration in Early Modern Europe’, funded by the Daiwa and
        Sasakawa Foundations. It was co-organized with Takefumi Toda (Kyoto), who had
        been a visiting academic at York. This led to a special issue, with English language
        papers by Stoneham, Hutton and Thorsson (PGR) translated into Japanese.
     ● Turkey: Lamarque has an ongoing research collaboration with Stein Haugom Olsen at
        Bilkent University. In 2019, they published a revised edition of their co-edited anthology,
        Aesthetics and the Philosophy of Art.
 The Americas
     ● Canada: O’Neill is External Advisor to the Social Justice Centre at Concordia University,
        Montreal.
     ● USA: Clarke’s collaboration with Gabriel Gottlieb of Xavier University, Cincinnati,
        included the AHRC-funded project, Reason, Right, and Revolution: Practical Philosophy
        between Kant and Hegel (2017-2019).

 4.2 Engagement with Key Research Users and Society

 4.2.1 Knowledge Exchange Partnerships
 We have strong institutional support for knowledge exchange, including the YIAF scheme
 (IES§50, which has supported the development of valuable collaborations in line with our
 strategic priorities. In addition to engagements detailed in our impact case studies, knowledge
 exchange partnerships include:

    ●   The Blazing World of Margaret Cavendish (Allen, Stoneham): This project,
        sponsored by CREMS and the Culture and Communication Research Theme, included
        production of a pamphlet for English Heritage for use at Bolsover Castle.
    ●   Dreams, Nightmares, and Complex Trauma (Stoneham): Stoneham’s collaboration
        since 2017 with Dzmitry Karpuk of the (CTTN) has led to the development of a new

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        therapeutic technique, the SEER method, which, by 31st July 2020, had been
        disseminated via CPD training sessions to 315 therapists.
    ●   Philosophy and the Spiritual Life (Efird): Working with York Minster, Efird co-hosted
        a workshop on the spiritual life and contributed a session on ‘Philosophical Issues in
        Theology’ to the York Diocesan training programme.
    ●   Public Health Research and Communication (Holland): As well as helping to
        establish a Research Ethics Committee for Public Health England (PHE), Holland has
        advised PHE on the conduct of public health campaigns, via the PHE-funded research
        study, ‘Be Clear on Cancer’.
    ●   The Value of Ruins (Lamarque): Work with Nigel Walter, of the firm Archangel
        Architects, articulated aesthetic issues relating to conservation of historic buildings,
        leading to two co-authored publications.

 4.2.2 Public Engagement
 We have been proactive in developing our public engagement activities to raise the profile of our
 research. We host a Royal Institute of Philosophy funded public lecture series, along with
 various other themed lecture series (e.g. ‘Doing the Right Thing’, 2015). Our social media
 accounts and YouTube channel also disseminate our research in accessible ways, including a
 series of recent videos on ‘Philosophy in a Time of Coronavirus’. Institutionally, public
 engagement by staff and PGRs is supported via media including the annual YorkTalks series,
 the York Researchers’ Night (YorNight), and York’s annual Festival of Ideas (IES§13). Staff are
 involved in many other external public engagement activities nationally and internationally,
 including public lectures, podcasts (e.g. PhilosophyBites), radio broadcasts (e.g. In Our Time,
 Free Thinking), blog posts, and magazine and newspaper articles (including newspaper
 interviews with O’Neill (Chile) and Stoneham (Iran)).

 4.3 Sustainability of the Discipline and Indicators of Influence

 4.3.1. Learned Society Roles
 In 2019, Currie was elected a Fellow of the British Academy. Other staff have occupied roles
 on the following learned societies: British Philosophical Association (Executive Committee
 member: Stoneham), British Society for the History of Philosophy (Management Committee
 Secretary: Clarke); European Society of Philosophy and Psychology (Programme Chairs:
 Debus, Richardson); International Association for the Philosophy of Time (Advisory Board
 Member: Ingram); International Berkeley Society (Vice-President, 2016-20; President, 2020- :
 Stoneham); Mind Association (Executive Committee member: Leng); Society for Christian
 Philosophers (UK Region Chair: Efird).

 4.3.2 Advisory Roles
 Advisory roles contributing to sustainability of the discipline include:

    •   Secondary Education: Stoneham advised the DfE on the Subject Content for the
        revised Philosophy A-level (including adding female authors to all key text lists).
    •   Higher Education: Stoneham is Honorary Treasurer for the UK Council for Graduate
        Education. Other staff have acted as External Programme Reviewers for universities
        including Liverpool (PPE, O’Neill), Oxford (PPE, Stoneham), and Nazarbayev
        University, Kazakhstan (Foundation Programme in Humanities and Social Sciences,
        O’Neill). Staff members currently act as External Examiners for seven HEIs.
    •   Government: Currie advised the Czech Ministry of Higher Education on their review of
        Philosophy Departments. Noordhof was on the German Government’s DFG Excellence
        Initiative Review Panel for Clusters of Excellence and Graduate Schools.

 4.3.3 Editorial Roles
 The journal Mind and Language has been based at York since 2016 (Editor-in-Chief: Currie;
 Associate Editor: Richardson). Clarke is Commissioning Editor (Translations) for the British
 Journal for the History of Philosophy. Leng is Associate Editor of the British Journal for the
 Philosophy of Science and Consulting Editor for Theoria. O’Neill is Commissioning Editor for

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Renewal and Associate Editor of the Journal of Moral Philosophy. Richardson is Associate
 Editor of Philosophical Explorations. The Department hosted Mind until 2015 (with Allen, Efird,
 and Stoneham serving as Associate Editors, and Noordhof as Reviews Editor). Efird was
 Assistant Editor for the journal Religious Studies (2016-18).

 Department members sit on the Editorial Boards of 14 other journals, White Rose University
 Press (Stoneham), and Oxford Bibliographies Online (Lamarque). We are also very active in
 refereeing books and articles for a range of UK and international journals and publishers.

 4.3.4 International Talks
 Department members have given numerous invited lectures during the current cycle, in 35
 countries. Three staff members spoke at events dedicated specifically to their work: an Italian
 Society of Aesthetics Conference on Lamarque’s book Work and Object (Verona, 2018), which
 featured an Italian translation of the book and led to an edited volume on Lamarque’s work;
 two workshops on the work of Currie (Valencia, 2016; Miami, 2018, where he gave their annual
 Olazabal lecture); and a workshop on Allen’s colour perception research (Potsdam, 2020).
 Examples of other high-profile international Keynote Lectures include: ‘Perceiving at a Distance’
 (Richardson, Antwerp, 2016); ‘Annual Conference of the International Merleau-Ponty Circle’
 (Ratcliffe, Fordham, 2019); ‘Political Philosophy and the Future of Capitalism’ (O’Neill, Waseda
 University, Tokyo, 2019); ‘Taiwanese Metaphysics Colloquium’ (Leng, Taipei, 2020).

 4.3.5 Developing Collaborative Arrangements for PGR Training
 As Dean of the York Graduate School (2015-2020), Stoneham was closely involved in the
 WRoCAH doctoral training partnership throughout the assessment period. He was PI on a
 successful £14.2m bid for renewal of the Doctoral Training Programme in 2017-18, securing 240
 AHRC-funded PhD studentships over five years from October 2019 (IES§34).

 4.3.6 Services to Research Councils
 Stoneham is a Strategic Reviewer for the AHRC Peer Review College (2014-), and served as
 Panel Chair (2015, 2019) for Leadership Fellowships. He has also led induction training for new
 members and chaired focus groups for the AHRC. He received Outstanding Contribution
 Awards in 2017, 2019, and 2020. O’Neill is a member of the AHRC review panel for Impact and
 Engagement funding (2016- ), the ESRC Peer Review College, and the peer review group for
 the UKRI and British Academy Global Challenges Research Fund (2016-2020).

 Department members have also assessed grant and fellowship proposals for the following
 bodies: AHRC (Currie, Ratcliffe, Stoneham); Australian Research Council (Currie); British
 Academy (Currie); Belgian FWO (Leng, O’Neill); Einstein Foundation, Berlin (Thomas); Irish
 Research Council (Leng, O’Neill, Stoneham); Independent Social Research Foundation
 (O’Neill, Thomas); Israel Science Foundation (Leng, O’Neill); Leverhulme (Currie, Ratcliffe);
 Lingnan University (Currie); National Science Centre of Poland (Stoneham); Netherlands NWO
 (O’Neill); Royal Irish Academy (Lamarque); Royal Society of Canada (Lamarque); Wellcome
 Trust (Thomas).




                                                                                           Page 15
