Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Strathclyde

 Unit of Assessment: 12

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Context

Engineering at Strathclyde addresses the global challenges facing society by undertaking
multidisciplinary and collaborative research for the generation of new knowledge and understanding.
It also strives to deliver impact at scale and at pace, in keeping with the University’s founding ethos
as a “place of useful learning”. This is achieved through Strathclyde’s distinctive model of partnership
working to deliver impact for business, industry, society and government (see Institutional
Statement).

The strategic research plan articulated in REF2014 was to grow research excellence, capability and
infrastructure whilst promoting high standards of research governance and practice. Accordingly, the
key elements of the Engineering research strategy are to:

(a) expand and strengthen our talented and highly-qualified research community;
(b) strengthen multidisciplinary research by supporting strategic cross-disciplinary research themes;
(c) collaborate with UK and internationally leading research institutes;
(d) create the environment and mechanisms that lead to effective translation;
(e) increase research income; and,
(f) communicate our research findings in high quality and appropriate journals.

The approach taken has been successful with an 80% increase in research income (Table 1a) over
this REF cycle. This has enabled year-on-year strengthening of our existing capabilities and brought
new investment to areas of strategic importance (e.g. decarbonisation, manufacturing, informatics,
digitalisation, automation). Strategically, we have invested in cross-Department, multidisciplinary
facilities based on the Strategic Themes and Research Clusters, (see section 1.3) and supported
cohort-based PGR training through expanding Centres of Doctoral Training (CDTs). Research
communication from the UOA is strong, with the number of peer-reviewed journal articles and
datasets published (2013 to 2020) exceeding 6100 and 346 items respectively. We have provided
training and support for our researchers to ensure adherence to Open Research principles and host
more than 10,000 curated items on our open access repository (https://strathprints.strath.ac.uk/).
This portfolio of work represents 39% of content on Strathprints and helped place the University 4th
in the 2020 Leiden Global Ranking on Open Access.

   Table 1a: Staff, PGR, income and research output comparisons over REF audit cycle.

                                         REF2014                   REF2021             % change
   CAT A FTEs                              158                        220                + 39%
   Researchers                             215                        235                 +9%
   Knowledge Exchange                       10                        174               +1640%
   PGR population                          530                        610                +15%
   Research income                        £28.7m                    £51.6m               +80%
   Research outputs in peer-            593 (2013)                950 (2020)             +60%
   reviewed journals

Our research is conducted in groups distributed across seven Departments of the Faculty (Table 1b
and Figure 1). It also includes three large-scale Industry–University collaboration centres established

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
to accelerate translational activities and impact: the Advanced Forming Research Centre (AFRC);
the Power Networks Demonstration Centre (PNDC); and, the Advanced Nuclear Research
Centre (ANRC). These centres operate semi-autonomously with Departmental oversight to ensure
effective academic/translational collaboration.

      Table 1b: Departments and number of CAT A FTEs submitting to UOA12

      Academic Departments                                                     REF2021
      (affiliated Industry-University Research Centres)                        Cat A FTE
      Biomedical Engineering (BME)                                               21.6
      Chemical & Process Engineering (CPE)                                         21
      Civil & Environmental Engineering (CEE)                                      31
      Design, Manufacturing & Engineering Management (DMEM)                       20.3
      (Advanced Forming Research Centre, AFRC)
      Electronic
      )          & Electrical Engineering (EEE)                                   72.9
      (Power Networks Demonstration Centre, PNDC)
      (Advanced Nuclear Research Centre, ANRC)
      Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering (MAE)                                   26
      Naval Architecture, Ocean & Marine Engineering (NAOME)                      27.6
      Total                                                                       220.4




Further support for industrial engagement and impact generation is provided through a number of
well-funded industry strategic programmes and partnerships. Lessons learned through our longest
established partnerships such as the Rolls-Royce University Technology Centre in Electrical Power
Systems (since 1997) and the Weir Advanced Research Centre (since 2012) have driven models

                                                                                          Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and experience of high impact engagement. This has inspired new strategic partnerships during
REF2021, including: BAE System’s Strategic University Partnership Programme; the Low Carbon
Power and Energy Programme with ScottishPower, SSE and the Wood Group; and, hosting MarRi-
UK at Strathclyde, a tier-level membership organisation for UK companies and researchers in
Maritime Technologies and Systems. This approach is augmented through industrially funded
academic posts, with examples including: Xilinx Inc Industry Professor of Signal Processing;
ScottishPower Chair in Smart Grids; Texas Instruments Chair in Digital Signal Processing;
RAEng/BAM Nuttall Chair; RAEng/Spirit Aerosystems Chair; Nokia Lectureship; and, the Leonardo
Lectureship.

We are at the forefront of UK engineering initiatives, including the Innovation Districts
(http://investglasgow.com/innovating-the-future/) and “place” agenda (see Institutional Statement).
Within the Scottish Research Pools, we chair the Scottish Research Partnership in Engineering
(https://www.srpe.ac.uk/about-srpe) and the Energy Technology Partnership (https://www.etp-
scotland.ac.uk). We host the Centre for Sensor and Imaging Systems (CENSIS) and the Industrial
Biotechnology Innovation Centre (IBiolC) and serve on the boards of the Glasgow City Innovation
District (GCID), the Advanced Manufacturing Innovation District Scotland (AMIDS), (see Figure 2b,
c and Section 1.3 for further details) and two UK-wide Innovation Catapults (Offshore Renewal
Energy and High Value Manufacturing). We lead a number of significant UK wide research
programmes including a £7M Industrialisation Centre as part of the UK Government’s Driving the
Electric Revolution (DER) challenge, and the £10M Energy Revolution Research Consortium within
the ‘ISCF Prospering from the Energy Revolution programme’.

The updating and refinement of the University’s Research and Impact strategies, the selection of its
Strategic Research Themes and the formation of the Research Clusters to support Innovation
Districts have been undertaken at Institutional level. The strategies have then been further refined
and fine-tuned by the Engineering Faculty, informed by the policies and delivery plans of the UK and
Scottish Governments, the Scottish Funding Council (SFC), UKRI, engineering academies and the
needs of industry and society.

Looking forward, the University’s 5-year strategic plan, Vision2025, is focused on excellence and
translation and sets our research on a pathway to support economic growth and wellbeing. Guided
by Vision2025, we aim to ensure that engineering at Strathclyde is an internationally leading
engineering and technology innovator and recognised as one of the best staffed, supported, and
equipped units. Our research performance indicators for the next 5 years are summarised in Table
2.

 Table 2: Vision2025: Engineering Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)

 Targets and KPIs                                       2019/2020               2025/2026
 Staff            Academic Staff (FTE)                     220                     340
                  Contract Research Staff                  260                     350
                  Knowledge Exchange Staff                 174                     210
                  Administrative Staff                     211                     260
                  Technical Staff                          100                     132
 Research Income                                          £51M                    £80M
 PGR Headcount                                             660                    900+

By 2025 we will grow to 340 engineering academic staff to provide the critical mass in support of
research delivery, an enlarged modern estate with world-class facilities and a doctoral training
programme exceeding 900 PGR students. Growth in research and KE staff will be instrumental in

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
delivering research that has lasting academic impact that translates to industry and society. With
strong research interests in energy, environment, decarbonisation, health and sustainable
development we also expect our research within this UOA to contribute to Net-Zero campaigns and
actions in support of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. We recognise the value of public
engagement and in making research accessible. Accordingly, we will grow our outreach activities
and we will continue to commit to principles of Open Research.

1.2 Research Support Structures

Faculty and Academic Departments

The Faculty of Engineering is responsible for the overall strategic planning and management of the
combined Departments and centres forming this Unit. Departments have responsibility to determine
their research structure and organisation and are required to provide annual plans specifying
strategic research and knowledge exchange goals and delivery plans together with outline business
cases for strategic investment. Full details of the Departments’ and research centres’ organisation,
staff and groups are given in Section 3.

The Faculty is led by the Executive Dean, who is supported by a Faculty Management Team (FMT)
whose membership includes Vice Deans (Research, KE) and Associate Deans (Research) with
particular responsibility and accountability for our research environment. The Dean, Faculty
leadership and Heads of Department come together at the regular Faculty Planning and Resources
Committee (FPRC). At this, the overall research and wider Faculty strategy and plans are agreed,
and investments approved against our plans and emergent opportunities to advance our mission.

The Vice Dean Research chairs the Faculty Research Committee (FRC) whose membership
includes Departmental Research Directors, Research Development Managers, postdoctoral and
PGR representatives. This committee is responsible for directing the delivery of Faculty research
strategy, monitoring research performance, collaboration and integration across Departments and
Centres and working alongside our professional services to shape the support and development
opportunities provided to our research community. A Faculty KE Committee is chaired by the Vice
Dean Knowledge Exchange with appropriate inclusive Departmental representation.

Institutional Research Support

All UOA12 staff linked to research and KE receive intelligence, advice and guidance on funding, and
commercialisation through the University’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Services (RKES)
and the Innovation & Industry Engagement Directorate (IIED). Key information resources are
provided through direct interaction with RKES and IIED personnel but also through a comprehensive
knowledge management web portal. Within Engineering, RKES research development managers
provide researchers with pre-grant submission guidance, intelligence, support for strategic bid
development and post-award contract management. As examples, through the support provided by
the International Team, Engineering has grown its H2020 portfolio to 87 awards (total value of
£36M+) rising from seven awards in 2014/15 to 20 in 2019/20. Similarly, through support provided
in EPSRC bid management this Unit concluded the REF period with an EPSRC success rate >25%.
The consequence of this success has been increased access for our engineering community to
funds allocated through our EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account, the Doctoral Training Partnership
fund (£4.8M 2018/19), the EPSRC Industrial Case Account (£5.1M since 2015) and an annual SFC
Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) allocation (£1M in 2020). In addition, joint planning
between RKES portfolio managers and our FRC underpin specific workshops on early career
fellowships and strategic grant calls. Follow on support to those developing bids is provided.


                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The IIED supports our research community, students and alumni in Industry Engagement,
Intellectual Property (IP) and Commercialisation. Over the course of REF2021 there were 6 high
growth potential spin-outs formed and 126 disclosures from engineering staff resulting in 41 patents.
29 new licence agreements were established. The impact of an IIED stage gated system saw 11
licence agreements enacted within the final 2 years of the REF cycle, and a healthy pipeline of spin-
outs are progressing to start-up with at least 2 spin outs expected to be completed early in 2021.

Royalty income is growing through successes in licencing (exceeding £1M since 2015). Strathclyde’s
policy is to share royalties with the inventor(s), their Departments and the University via a scheme
that significantly increases the return to those named in the license once initial university investment
costs have been recovered. This allows the inventors and Departments to reinvest in their research.
Notable recent agreements have been reached with Hubbell (USA) and Linea (Europe) for marketing
of devices for microbiological decontamination (EEE) and with Talarmade for a novel wrist orthotic
(BME).

We have also developed our estate through continuous on-campus improvements and investments
totalling £168M over the audit period. Major projects include the opening of the Technology and
Innovation Centre (TIC) (£89M/2015), a £44M redevelopment of the James Weir Building (MAE,
CEE, DMEM, CPE) and a £16M redesign of the Wolfson Centre (BME). Through these investments
51% (21,100m2) of our total footprint is now dedicated to research. Further strategic research and
innovation investment centred on Innovation Districts linked to Strathclyde’s multidisciplinary
research themes and clusters is described below.

1.3 Research and Impact Strategy

Strategic Research Themes, Innovation Districts and Estate

The University has established seven Strategic Research Themes providing a focus for
multidisciplinary research and investment. Engineering contributes to all but is most active in five
(shown in bold in Figure 2a: Advanced Manufacturing & Materials, Energy, Ocean Air & Space,
Health & Wellbeing and Measurement Science & Enabling Technologies). These have driven growth
in opportunities for collaborative impact. Highlights include £19M of collaborative grant awards to
Engineering PIs working in the Ocean, Air and Space theme, our hosting of the 2019 Low Carbon
Energy for Development Network conference (Energy theme) and the resultant Foreign,
Commonwealth and Development Office Faraday Project with StorTera bringing clean cooking
technologies to Sub-Saharan Africa.

As outlined in the Institutional Statement, Strathclyde has built Research Clusters, four being led by
Engineering (Figure 2b) and embedded within two Innovation Districts. These are the Glasgow City
Innovation District (GCID), a regional development plan for innovation and research collaboration
encircling our campus, and the Advanced Manufacturing Innovation District Scotland (AMIDS, Figure
2c) which is an off-campus development incorporating the AFRC. By 2025, the total invested will be
£1Bn with Strathclyde’s Engineering led clusters the focal point for further significant research and
impact growth.




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Separate off-campus developments have included the opening of the PNDC and investments
centred on future manufacturing through our partnering and management of the National
Manufacturing Institute Scotland (NMIS, https://www.nmis.scot/). NMIS comprises the AFRC and the
recent £7.25M Lightweight Manufacturing Centre (LWMC) and is a key component together with the
Medicines Manufacturing Innovation Centre (MMIC, https://www.uk-cpi.com/about/national-
centres/medicines-manufacturing-innovation-centre) in the AMIDS
(https://www.gov.scot/policies/manufacturing/national-manufacturing-institute-for-scotland/).

Global Reach

Our global outreach has matured through international funding, links to global industry, and the
introduction of the University’s International Strategic Partnership (ISP) programme.



                                                                                         Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In 2013/14 our international footprint was focused mainly on Europe, but through the ISP initiative
we have expanded our collaboration with leading European institutions and established new
collaborative research programmes in North America and Asia (see Table 3). Stimulated by
investment through the University and the Engineering Faculty, we are collaborating with 20 ISPs
and have supported research workshops, reciprocal early career exchanges and 11 doctoral pairing
partnerships. The doctoral pairing agreements support matched numbers of doctoral studentships
with congruent ISPs. This £1.7m investment from the Faculty serves as a model for facilitating new
international collaborations for our researchers, and will continue to expand through additional
investment.

Internationalisation has also escalated through funded programmes (119 individual external awards
since 2014) and our work with overseas partners has contributed to regional benefits including
resilience in local energy provision (Gambia), improved sanitation and clean water resource
(Malawi), EU compliant health and safety standards within ship dismantling yards (Turkey and
Bangladesh) and support for improved health outcomes for people with disabilities through new low
cost technologies (India and Columbia). Further testament to our increasing international reach is
an increase from 42% (2014) to 63% (2020) in the number of journal outputs with international co-
authors (source Scopus).


 Table 3: List of ISP institutions with joint research programmes with this UOA

 Asia                               Europe                             North America

                                    • Aalto University
 • Hong Kong University of          • Chalmers University of           • City University of New York
   Science and Technology             Technology                       • California Institute of
 • Nanyang Technological            • Danish Technological               Technology
   University                         University                       • Massachusetts Institute of
 • Tsinghua University              • Delft University of                Technology
                                      Technology                       • New York University
                                    • ETH Zurich                       • Stanford University
                                    • Katholieke Universiteit          • Waterloo University
                                      Leuven                           • University of Southern
                                    • Politecnico di Milano              California
                                    • RWTH Aachen
                                    • University College Dublin
                                    • Graz University of
                                      Technology
                                    • Comillas Pontifical University




 2. People

Our values are to be: People-Oriented; Collaborative; Innovative; Ambitious; and, Bold. These
establish our responsibilities in supporting staff, their career development, their aspirations, and their
wellbeing and how we engage with stakeholders for the betterment of society. They promote an
environment where researchers are able to develop, exercise leadership, receive recognition and
gain reward. Our commitment to support and invest in our staff links to our strategy to translate our
research and we appraise research, KE performance and potential in promotion and recruitment.

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our latest values survey reported that 90% of our colleagues consider our values reflect positively
on their workplace experience.

2.1 Staff Demographics

Our staff growth since REF 2014 has been accompanied by change toward a more equitable and
inclusive community and six Departments have achieved Bronze Athena Swan Awards with CEE
gaining Silver in 2016. Through our staffing policy, we aim to achieve a balance between experience
and skill whilst mitigating against risks from demographic shift, retirals and resignations.

Fifty-three percent of our academic workforce are below 50 and whilst our 60+ demographic has
risen (10% to 16%) the net increase in staff below 40 (see middle row Figure 3) together with the
observation that 58% of professors are aged under 60 (16% younger than 50) protects against future
retiral choices.




On gender, the number and percentage of females in academic positions has risen from 32 (18% in
2014) to 45 (21% in 2020) (Figure 3) of which 15 (33%) hold Reader or Professorial appointments
compared with six (3%) in 2014. On ethnicity, our BAME workforce rose from 32 (19% in 2014) to
46 (22% in 2020) with non-EU-BAME nationals making up half of this population.

Whilst our people strategy is centred on the creation of an inclusive and diverse community, we
recognise our demographics reveal continuing equality gaps in gender, ethnicity and protected
characteristics. Through merit and equal opportunity practices four female staff completed periods
as Heads of Department during this REF period compared to one during REF2014. Similarly, the
position of Vice Dean Research was held by Prof Shipton (2013-2016) before she succeeded as the
second consecutive female Head of Department for CEE (2016-2020), both periods of significant
research leadership and growth for the Faculty and Department. The increased influence and impact
of our leading female staff is also reflected by the increase in the number of females holding senior
appointments. We have implemented and strengthened policies to help minimise bias in short-listing,
interviews and promotion processes. This includes unconscious bias training for staff engaged in
recruitment and promotion and we practise inclusivity when constituting recruitment and promotion
panels.

Recognition and promotion of achievement are important aspects of our environment and we
conduct two promotion rounds annually. For academic promotions, performance in research, KE,
teaching and citizenship are assessed against job descriptors, benchmarks and annual review.


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
During REF2021 we promoted 71 academic staff to Senior Lecturer, 25 to Reader and 14 to Chairs.
In 2019, we introduced to our KE job-family the post of Professor of Practice to recognise staff who
excel in delivering knowledge transfer, innovation and impact.

Over the REF period we employed 500 contract researchers with 254 currently employed (20% on
open-contracts). In 2019/2020 our annual research staff turnover was 27% reflecting a trend for
increasing employment security. For those whose contracts ended over the audit period 38 gained
academic positions with us, 41 moved to open-ended KE posts and 9 transferred to open-ended
teaching contracts. For those who did not secure extensions or new positions we provide a
redeployment service. All research staff are reviewed annually, offered mentorship, considered for
promotion and can access skills and career development through the Strathclyde Programme in
Research and Leadership described in more detail in section 2.3. Contract researchers can also
apply for pilot project funding provided by the Faculty but administered independently through the
Researchers Group, the community’s representative body to which all researchers are members.

In support of independent research careers, we hosted 31 post-doctoral researchers through Marie
Skłodowska-Curie schemes and 28 Research Fellows via varied funders including UKRI,
Leverhulme and Royal Academy of Engineering. Importantly, we honoured all cases where a
lectureship was a condition of award.

The use of our innovative KE job family (as detailed in the Institutional Statement) has powered
growth in our strategic engagements and collaboration centres. Over the REF period we have
expanded our KE staff from 10 to 174 demonstrating the success, value and importance this
community now contributes to the Unit’s environment.

2.2 Recruitment

At the core of our staffing policy is a commitment to meet our long-term strategic objectives and
ambitions for quality enhancement. Responsive recruitment is our standard recruitment tool and new
academic posts are co-funded from Faculty for 3 years as a means to facilitate growth in keeping
with Departmental needs and demographics. The number of positions filled through responsive
recruitment varies yearly but the approval process is swift giving departments the ability to fine tune
the skill set of its workforce in order to realise ambitions for excellence.

As described in the Institutional Statement, the Faculty also participates in the Chancellor’s
Fellowship Scheme (CFS) and the Global Talent Programme (GTP) to drive forward our research
and innovation agenda.

The CFS calls are international searches in areas selected following consultation between Faculty,
Departments, Research Cluster and Strategic Research Theme leads. The scheme provides a 5-
year academic fellowship with protected time for research after which the Chancellor’s Fellows (CFs)
transfer to open-contracts. Through this scheme we have recruited 45 CFs who on appointment
enter our Academic Career Development Framework which sets out to assist career progression
and leadership. CFs gain access to targeted internal funding calls for PGR studentships, equipment
support and impact acceleration funding.

Through the GTP, Departments are encouraged to scout for leading researchers who see benefit in
relocating to Strathclyde. Across Engineering, fourteen notable leaders have been recruited through
GTP posts since 2016 such as Prof Haas in the field of Li-Fi communications (EEE), Prof Wynne in
manufacturing and materials (MAE) and Prof Reid in bioengineering and optoelectronic devices
(BME) as examples.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In all cases new staff are supported through competitive remuneration and start-up packages
commensurate with grade. New starts are allocated protected time for research and given priority in
all internal funding calls including studentships, equipment and ISP exchange programmes. For
professorial appointments start-up packages are negotiated at the outset and can include significant
capital and/or staff investment.

2.3 Support for Career Development

It is our experience that inclusive and career long support through provision of resource and
awareness of development opportunities accelerates productivity, collaboration and long-term
performance.

The Faculty works closely with the University’s Organisational and Staff Development Unit (OSDU)
to shape the research development opportunities provided to new and established staff through the
Strathclyde      Programme         in     Research       and     Leadership      (SPIRAL,    see
https://www.strath.ac.uk/hr/spiral/) and via mentoring. Importantly, the SPIRAL programme serves
as an integral part of our commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers as it integrates with our annual appraisal processes (Accountability and Development
Review (ADR)) which places strong emphasis on research enhancement, KE, esteem and
citizenship.

Induction of new staff is a dual process involving generic knowledge on the University workplace
provided through Human Resources and comprehensive departmental induction designed to help
staff integrate into our communities and systems of work. For established staff we offer access to
Research Leadership training and external coaching if requested.

Linked to SPIRAL is our Academic Career Development Framework which supports early career
academic staff set out a development plan and complete probation. For early career academics early
engagement in our Supervisor Development Programme is necessary before approval to operate as
a PGR first supervisor. This programme ensures staff are familiar with our Policy and Code of
Practice for Postgraduate Research Study, and introduces them to tools and methods to support
students through their research, thesis writing and examination. In 2020, engineering staff accounted
for 500 event attendances with the greatest percentage increase in engagement occurring in early
career academics (62%, +5%) and researchers (65%, +13%).

Furthermore, the Faculty in collaboration with RKES and OSDU run workshops on Fellowship and
Research Funding, managing research projects and teams all tailored to Engineering to improve and
facilitate staff progress as independent researchers. These workshops supplement specialist
department and centre delivered development. In tandem with the University’s ISP initiative the
Faculty also support research networking opportunities for staff to participate in international
research missions and will co-fund research exchanges that enhance research skills and
international collaboration.

2.4 Research Students

All PGR students enrol in the Strathclyde Doctoral School (see Institutional Statement), and gain
membership of the Doctoral Researchers Group (DRG). The DRG is a PGR association that
promotes cross-Faculty events, peer-to-peer support frameworks and lobbies for the PGR
community. It is also the representative body for the PGR community with membership to all
governance and research committees. By listening to the student voice, we have improved Codes
of Practice and PGR regulations, enhanced support and policies on funded leave entitlement, flexible
working and paid-graduate teaching and training opportunities.

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The Engineering PGR Cohort

The current pool of 635 PGR students (118 EngD and 517 PhD students) compares with 480 during
2014. PGR admission is devolved to Departments and follows competitive selection, and interview.
Our PGR staff student ratio was 2.9 at the audit census date. 36% of our PGR students hold tier 4
visas and all PGR students must engage in annual PGR review and monitoring (detailed below).

Centres for Doctoral Training

Over the REF2021 assessment we have supported 370 full-time doctoral students through 12 UKRI
engineering CDTs associated with this UOA (see Table 4). All CDTs have extensive connectivity
with industrial partners, many co-funding studentships in-line with EPSRC’s expectation for 20-40%
of studentship costs to be from non-UKRI funding sources.

  Table 4. UKRI Centres for Doctoral Training hosted in Engineering.

  Centre name (end date)                   Department     Academic Partners

  Future Innovation in Non-Destructive     EEE            Universities of Bristol (lead),
  Evaluation (end 2027)                                   Nottingham & Warwick
  Wind and Marine Energy Systems and       EEE (lead)     Universities of Edinburgh & Oxford
  Structures (end 2027)
  Industrial Doctoral Centre in Offshore   NAOME          Universities of Edinburgh (lead) &
  Renewable Energy (end 2027)                             Exeter
  Future Ultrasonic Engineering            EEE            University of Glasgow (lead)
  (end 2027)
  Medical Devices and Health               BME (lead)     None
  Technologies (end 2022)
  Prosthetics & Orthotics (end 2027)       BME            Universities of Salford (lead),
                                                          Imperial College, Southampton.
  Advanced Manufacturing Industrial        DMEM           None
  Doctorate Centre (end 2018)              (lead)
  Industry Inspired Photonic Imagine,      EEE            Universities of Heriot-Watt (lead),
  Sensing and Analysis (end 2027)                         Glasgow, St Andrew’s, Dundee
  Optical Medical Imaging (end 2022)       EEE            University of Edinburgh (lead)

  Future Power Networks and Smart          EEE (lead)     Imperial College
  Grids (end 2022)
  NERC CDT in Oil & Gas                    CEE            Herriot Watt University, plus 17
  (end 2021)                                              partners
  Centre for Doctoral Training in          NAOME          Cranfield (lead), Oxford
  Renewable Energy Marine Structures
  (end 2022)

As detailed in the Institutional Statement, we introduced Strathclyde CDTs (SCDT) to seed fund our
own cohort-based PhD training. The University has funded 32 SCDTs, and engineering is a partner
in 24.



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

PGR Programmes in Engineering

University PGR studentships are managed through the Strathclyde Research Studentship Scheme
(SRSS). This scheme pools Engineering’s EPSRC DTP allocation with additional funding from the
University, Faculty, Departments and external partners to fund upwards of 32 new PGRs per annum.
Through co-funding this UOA has invested £24.3M in support of 125 SRSS studentships since 2014.

In addition to UKRI and University supported schemes (SCDTs and SRSS) the Faculty holds EPSRC
iCASE awards with a host of industrial partners and an increasing number with the National Physical
Laboratory. Internal funding schemes with industrial or international partners are also supported
through our ‘Engineering the Futures’ studentship scheme and our ISP scheme mentioned in Section
1. Over the REF period the Faculty invested £7.1M in support of these schemes bringing our total
internal financing of studentship support to £31M.

PGR Training and Skills Provision, Support and Monitoring

The PGR experience begins with an induction event hosted by the Strathclyde Doctoral School with
Faculty support. Here we welcome students, provide details on development programmes and
provide information on key infrastructure and service provision. In-depth induction is thereafter
provided within host Departments and CDTs where PGR handbooks and Codes of Practice are
introduced and detail the responsibilities associated with PGR study. Here we also set out health
and safety training requirements, our dignity and respect expectations and the respective roles and
responsibilities of supervisors.

Engineering accounts for 45% of the University’s PGR population and as the largest provider of PGR
training in the University we have been central in the development of both specialised and generic
training based on Vitae domains (https://www.vitae.ac.uk/). Our success in CDTs has been
instrumental in widening and enhancing PhD and EngD training and ensuring we have a vibrant and
supportive environment that encourages original thinking, ambition and ethical enquiry. Through our
CDT successes we have learned how to migrate the benefits that cohort training brings to PGR
communities and we aim for all our PGRs to benefit from access to peer interactions and networking
to build confidence in communications (academic, industry, public) and in seeking multidisciplinary
collaboration, advice or specialist knowledge.

Investments arising from our CDTs has empowered successive cohorts to drive their own extended
training activities towards Chartered Engineer status and because many CDTs and PhD
programmes enjoy engagement with external academic and industry partners we can provide
enhanced access to specialist summer school events and research placements within our
researcher development pathway.

Student-driven and managed Professional Engineering Development or Training Societies are a key
part of our environment and integrate communities of interest beyond supervisory groups. Through
simple governance structures that support succession planning across study years we build
sustainable cohorts who can request budgets for events and experiential visits that broaden training
beyond core and elective provision. For example, several cohorts have self-organised external
course provision on “Project Management in the Real World”, enabling progression toward a
Certified Associate in Project Management (CAPM). CDT and PhD cohorts also arrange regular
research seminars where they can present advances or current projects to each other or invite
external speakers supplementing our annual Faculty and Departmental seminar series.



                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Throughout the REF period, PGR students are encouraged to gain experience of running their own
conference events supported by funding and mentoring from within Engineering. An example, is
“futureWind&Marine” (https://www.futurewindandmarine.com/), a collaboration between students
from Strathclyde, Oxford and Edinburgh that began in 2015 and annually attracts over 100
attendees. The students invite speakers, plan the conference to showcase their best work, secure
industry sponsorship and set out the final programme in-keeping with EDI principles.

Our Professional Engineering Development and Training Societies also participate in outreach
events and we encourage members to train as STEM Ambassadors. International secondment
opportunities have grown over the REF period enabled by our ISP initiatives, increased success in
EU networks and an expanded programme of research focused on the delivery of UN Sustainable
Development Goals in low-income countries.

Doctoral Progress, Review and Assessment

All PGR students are allocated 2 supervisors and as a minimum all PGRs are required to complete
a 60 credit Postgraduate Certificate in Researcher Professional Development (PGCert RPD, see
Institutional Statement).

Supervisory teams and independent Departmental councillors/advisers serve as points of contact
for students experiencing academic problems or requiring support via welfare, hardship or health
services. This ensures that issues that cannot be resolved between the supervisor and student can
be confidentially treated and action taken.

All PGRs participate in interim and formal annual assessments that monitor progress against a
project plan and the PGCert RPD. Figure 4 outlines the typical PGR journey highlighting the key
review and progress points. Annual reviews are independent of supervisors and a satisfactory first
year review is required for progression. PGR students entered on 4-year doctoral programmes that
follow a 1+3 year model (e.g. CDTs) have additional progression regulations associated with
instructional and project work in year 1.

All PGR students are expected to publish and are supported to present to at least one international
conference, participate in public engagement and KE events. Students also are encouraged to
contribute to the annual Doctoral School Multidisciplinary Symposium. This symposium, organised
by the DRG, is a University wide 3-day event for PGR students. It is a forum where students can
present their research to a highly diverse peer group and so widen their local academic network and
knowledge.

Quality of Supervision and Progression

The 2020 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) reported an overall supervisor
satisfaction score of 87% (60% response rate) for engineering. Questions on progression recorded
80% satisfaction and between 85% to 93% satisfaction in respect of supervisor expertise, provision
of feedback, working environment and access to facilities and resources. PRES2020 benchmarking
places Strathclyde in the top quartile of institutes participating in PRES.




                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




2.5 Equality and Diversity

We expect all our six departments holding Athena Swan Bronze Awards to progress to Silver at the
earliest possible dates guided by the lead taken by CEE (Silver Award Holder) and our embedded
Equality and Diversity Committees supported by the Faculty’s Gender Equality Steering Group.

As a Faculty we are committed to achieving equality but recognise that gaps remain in relation to
equality across protected characteristics. Our strategy to close these gaps extends from our
obligations under the Equality Act 2010 through annual reporting and publication of monitoring
reports to internally generated supplementary analyses that provide longitudinal monitoring that
informs on actions to accelerate change. We recognise that training is critical to combat embedded
behaviours and we provide introductory and refresher courses on diversity for all and inclusion
training is mandatory for all staff engaged in people management, resource allocation, recruitment
and assessment.

EDI is incorporated into PGR and ECR induction and our occupational health and wellbeing services
are promoted to all. Within Engineering we have striven for inclusivity in membership or secondment
to committees and candidature is encouraged from underrepresented groups where representation
is considered weak. Strongly influencing our approach and helping to close equality gaps are the
findings of two EPSRC Inclusion Matters awards. These are the STEM Equals project (£538K
EP/S012133/1) led by Strathclyde (PI MacGregor) and the VisNET project (EP/S012079/1) led by
the University of Glasgow with Strathclyde co-investigators (Mulvana, Renshaw). The STEM Equals
projects build on initiatives to improve equality and diversity for female and LGBT+ academics across
STEM areas and are generating recommendations on equality and diversity and best practice

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
sharing in STEM academia. (https://www.natureindex.com/news-blog/inclusion-time-covid-
pandemic-how-to-seize-the-moment-for-change).

We also recognise the important role our senior staff can play in supporting others reach their
potential irrespective of race, gender or disability. The increased influence and impact of our senior
female staff is reflected by the increase (from 2013/14) in the number of women holding
reader/professorial appointments and the increasing recruitment of female staff to early career
academic positions (Section 1). Furthermore, in recognition of how inequalities affect people in the
work place we implemented new agile working practises and support flexible working and leave
whenever it can enhance work-life balance and wellbeing. We also operate a family friendly leave
policy that provides protected time to undertake research for staff returning from parental leave, and
Heads of Department have authority to approve sabbatical leave requests.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Our strategy has been to deliver research and its translation for economic and societal benefit as
detailed in the Institutional Statement. Underpinning this is the ability to attract funding in a
competitive landscape. This section details our growth over the REF period, and how our income,
infrastructure and facilities have supported us and developed.

3.1 Externally Generated Research Income & Funding Diversity

The annual research income from the UOA rose from £29M in 2013/14 to £51M in 2019/20.

Evidence on the diversification of our income shows increases across all funding sectors over the
REF period with the largest increases arising in UK government funding (up 174%), the industrial
sector (up 52%), EU Government (up 22%) and UKRI (up 27%). Our diversified funding position is
further evidenced by reference to Figure 5. In Figure 5 the funding landscape is summarised for each
Department, the AFRC and PNDC. Funding to ANRC is incorporated into data for EEE due to its
operating model. The central pie-chart illustrates income distribution (%) for each Department and
centre over the REF2021 period (Figure 5). Linked to the central chart are normalised summaries
for each Department’s research income by source. The figure serves to illustrate that for each
Department the research portfolios are of significant scale and that each portfolio features income
from UKRI, public sources, UK and non-UK industry. Research funding for AFRC and PNDC, in
keeping with their innovation focus, is attained mainly from industry and government bodies.




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


3.2 Strategic Funder Relations, Consortia and Industry Partnering

We are a Tier 1 Strategic Partner (top 20 EPSRC funded institutes) with the EPSRC, our largest
UKRI funder, and on the REF2021 census date the EPSRC ‘Grants on the Web’ site reported there
were 31 active Engineering research awards (value = £56M, excluding centrally held institutional
awards) under our administration and £13M of collaborative awards as partners to others.

We are key partners in a range of academic and industrial research consortia, an important aspect
of our collaborative ethos, including:
    • Leadership of the £10M UKRI Energy Revolution Research Consortium (EP/S031863/1,
        EP/S031901/1, EP/S031898/1, EP3188X/1) within the ISCF Prospering from the Energy
        Revolution programme.
    • Our capability to build upon long standing industry partnerships, with two EPSRC Prosperity
        Partnership awards in collaboration with Babcock International, Bruce Power, Doosan
        Babcock, EDF, BAM, Kinectrics, Weir, EGS Energy, GEO Dynamics and Silixa Ltd.
    • Leadership of the EPSRC Programme Grant “Laser Imaging of Turbine Engine Combustion
        Species” (LITECS, EP/T012595/1), a £5.8M collaboration with Edinburgh, Loughborough,
        Manchester, Sheffield and Southampton Universities with industry involvement from M2
        Lasers, Siemens, Rolls Royce, and others.
    • Our technical leadership of the £2.1M BEIS Energy Innovation Programme (Automated
        Welding Equipment System Inspection and Monitoring), a consortium with Peak NDT,
        Cavendish Nuclear and the Nuclear Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre (University
        of Sheffield).

Aligning with our industry engagement and industry-centre models, our EPSRC Impact Acceleration
Award (IAA) allocation (2012 to 2022) remains an important support for pathways to impact
generation. During REF2021, £3.5M of IAA funding has been invested in support of EPSRC project
related impact generation within this UOA. Figure 6 illustrates how both EPSRC funding and support
for impact generation has flowed through our primary strategic themes.

We have demonstrated success in supporting knowledge transfer for SMEs through the Innovate
UK KTP scheme with 52 awards funded over the REF2021 cycle (15 active at the REF census date)
contributing income of £6.1M.

We have been lead/partners in multiple FP7 and H2020 awards. At the beginning of REF2021 we
were partners in 15 FP7 awards, generating a total income over the REF period of £10M. However,
through H2020 with its greater focus on innovation we have seen our total cumulative H2020 income
grow to £12.7M with 58 awards still to complete (total award value £36M). Examples of H2020
awards with consortia of different size and sectors are listed in Table 5.

Additionally, we have a large set of long-term and high-value, impactful, industry partnerships which
are described throughout Section 3.5.




                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Table 5: Example H2020 consortia projects and award values.

 Project Name           Coordinator                        Consortia              Overall Budget
                                                           Partners      /Strathclyde Award (€)
 SENSIBLE               Strathclyde                           6              €859,500/€301,500
 UTOPIAE                Strathclyde                           10            €3,876,853/€546,575
 SHIPLYS                The Welding Institute, UK             11           €6,144,150/€814, 491
 FAST-SMART             Strathclyde                           12         € 6,945,201/€1,105,916
 STARDUST-R             Strathclyde                           13           € 3,867,284/€606,345
 ERIGrid                Austrian Inst. of Technology          19            €9,999,987/€749,366
 ERIGrid 2.0            Austrian Inst. of Technology          20            €9,999,988/€601,717
 AUTOSHIP               Ciao Tech, Italy                      11           €29,546,161/€894,093
 IoF2020                Stichting Wageningen (NL)             79           €34,277,154/€547232
 PROMOTION              DNV-GL, Norway                        37         €42,691,662/(€740,100)

3.3 Internal Funding Support for Research.

Our goal is to support our research by constantly reinvesting funds for growth and impact. During
the REF2021 period we distributed over £10M of overhead income for use in supporting research
activity. In the majority of Departments up to 50% of this income is distributed to the centres and
research accounts of investigators generating the overhead. This allows for local independent

                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
investment in support of equipment procurement, studentships, contract bridging for key researchers
and other scholarly research activities not recoverable from other accounts.

In addition, this UOA utilised £4.74M of general funds for contract bridging for research staff,
activities in support of bid development and in support of start-up funding packages for new staff.

We have also invested £4.4M in support of peer reviewed equipment awards from EPSRC with
Faculty and Departments contributing a further £2.5M. The Faculty and Departments also support
co-investment in core equipment calls from UKRI and for equipment in support of early career
researchers. Via these routes we have been awarded additional sums of £520K over the past 3
years with co-investment equating to a further 30%.

3.4 Research Collaborations

In Section 1, we highlighted our global engagement through our ISPs and in Section 2 we highlighted
the success that collaboration in externally funded CDTs (Table 4) has provided. As additional
examples of our engagement in collaborative research the following are noteworthy.

Scottish Research Pooling Partnerships and Research Innovation Centres.

We leverage Research Innovation Scotland (https://www.research-innovation-scotland.co.uk/)
through partnerships and providing leadership. Within this, the Scottish Research Partnership in
Engineering (SRPe, https://www.srpe.ac.uk/about-srpe) and the Energy Technology Partnership
(ETP, https://www.etp-scotland.ac.uk) are national initiatives chaired by this Unit. SRPe supports
collaborations and networking between Scotland’s engineering schools and sustains forums in
Advanced Manufacturing, Infrastructure & Environment, Engineering for Healthcare, and Robotics &
Autonomous Systems. ETP is focused on delivering research excellence in energy and both support
awards for engagement in European research consortia, early career international exchanges (four
to this UOA from SRPe since launch) and industrial doctoral studentships (15 to this UOA, total value
£1.3M with £530K in-kind industry support).

Through CENSIS our researchers have led projects in cancer diagnostics, agri-tech, rural 5G, water
and waste management, high performance component manufacturing and non-destructive testing
in challenging environments. Additional SFC Research Innovation Centres where funding has
benefited this UOA include the Digital Health & Care Innovation Centre, The DataLab and the IBiolC.
This UOA also serves on the board of AMIDS and GCID (see section 1) and the UK-wide Offshore
Renewal Energy and High Value Manufacturing Catapults.

3.5 Research infrastructure and facilities.

As stated in Section 1, our research is conducted in groups distributed across seven academic
Departments and three large-scale Industry–University Strategic Research Centres. These are now
described, and their infrastructure, facilities, operation and achievements summarised.

3.5.1 Strategic Research Centres

As outlined in the Institutional Statement, Strategic Research Centres drive industrial collaboration,
research income growth, and place-based, national and international impact. These operate on a
tiered membership model and offer the ability for partners to collaborate on joint areas of interest
while leveraging their investment. Three of these are led by Engineering.



                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Advanced Forming Research Centre (AFRC) is one of the seven HVM Catapult Centres with
key technical capability in forming and forging, digital manufacturing, machining, additive
manufacture, net shape and resource efficient manufacture, and characterisation of materials under
manufacturing conditions. As a part of the HVM Catapult, it operates on a semi-autonomous basis
from the main university campus. It employs 192 staff. 11 operate as AFRC PIs together with 110
staff on research/KE contracts. The funding to the centre is significant (£98M, see Figure 5) and
together with the Lightweight Manufacturing Centre is a key component in NMIS and AMIDS.

AFRC is a state-of-the-art facility with specialist laboratory spaces and industrial scale workshops.
At the conclusion of REF2021 the centre had begun an expansion to house the £20m FutureForge
facility, a unique physical environment for the development and digitalisation of hot forging. The
centre has a broad range of production scale manufacturing equipment including forging presses,
superplastic forming presses (understood to be the largest and most capable university setup in the
world), and exclusive friction welding equipment. The centre also boasts general purpose
manufacturing equipment related to machining and additive manufacture. It houses well equipped
laboratories to support materials characterisation during manufacture, metrology, metallurgical
investigation, and residual stress measurement. These complement University campus capabilities
in material testing and analysis in the Advanced Materials Research Laboratory (AMRL).

Intellectual property is managed by the centre and over the REF period 218 items of foreground IP
were registered, of which 173 are owned by the University of Strathclyde. Five licence agreements
are progressing and two potential spin out companies are being evaluated.

Key partnerships include all HVM Catapult Centres and founding members Boeing, Rolls-Royce,
and Timet along with over 50 other industrial partners. There are additional collaborations on single
projects with UK and non-UK SMEs and industrial companies contributing £35M of additional
revenue to the University.

The Power Networks Demonstration Centre (PNDC) is a research, development and test facility
established in collaboration with industry and government to accelerate innovation towards
commercialisation and deployment. The centre has unique technical capabilities in electrical power
and grid systems from a UK and EU perspective, enabling academia and industry to work
collaboratively in innovation projects and demonstrate at scale new products and services.

It employs over 30 full-time staff and has delivered a portfolio of £11.5M over the REF period.

The PNDC is a state-of-the-art facility with a fully operational 11kV and LV electrical network, which
provides a flexible arrangement of the equipment required to represent typical rural, urban and
suburban networks. The network can be supplied directly from the grid or through a 5 MVA motor-
generator set to allow both voltage and frequency disturbances to be applied. It provides a unique
physical environment for development, testing and demonstration of innovative products and
systems for smart grids. These can be demonstrated and tested in multiple operational scenarios
which can include network transients and network faults. The PNDC also houses laboratories to
support real-time simulation, which can be coupled with the network for hybrid real and simulation
experiments, and with equipment for the testing of power electronics products.

As part of a recent £7M investment from the ISCF Driving the Electric Revolution (DER) Challenge,
PNDC is enhancing its capabilities to include MW scale equipment for testing rotating machines and
to scale power electronic converters to consolidate and grow propulsion and powertrain
manufacturing.




                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Key partners include Distribution Network Operators (SPEN, SSEN, UKPN) along with
Fundamentals, Arqiva, Belcan, Bellrock Technology, Trilliant, Wallet Services, and SSE Enterprise.
There are additional collaborations on single projects with UK and non-UK SMEs and other
companies.

The Advanced Nuclear Research Centre (ANRC) was established in 2015 to direct research that
supports infrastructure, management and longevity of nuclear installations. The centre is located on-
campus and while led from EEE draws multidisciplinary support from across the University. During
the last 5 years ANRC has secured a portfolio of £19.7M and supports work with multiple partners
including Bruce Power, Babcock International, Doosan Babcock, EDF and Kinectrics.

3.5.2 Academic Departments

The seven academic departments that contribute to this Unit are now described in greater detail to
present the quality of the environment and their delivery against our strategy.

Department of Electronic and Electrical Engineering (EEE)

EEE coordinates its research through two institutes: The Institute for Sensors, Signals and
Communications (ISSC) and The Institute for Energy and Environment (InstEE) (see Table 6a). The
Institute for Energy and Environment provides leadership for the ANRC and PNDC (section 3.5.1).
The research achievements of InstEE, PNDC, ANRC, and their wider collaboration was recognised
through a Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2019.

The Department has 9 industry linked chairs and lectureships, and has spun out several successful
companies.

    Table 6a- EEE Research Institutes, their Research Units, Centres and CAT A FTEs.

    Electronic and Electrical Engineering (CAT A FTE = 72.9)                   CAT A (FTEs)
                                Academic Research Unit/Group
    Institute for Sensors,      Centre for Signals and Image Processing        6.8
    Signals and                 Centre for Ultrasonic Engineering              10
    Communications              Centre for Microsystems and Photonics          4.3
                                Centre for Intelligent Dynamic                 10.8
                                Communications
    Institute for Energy and    Advanced Electrical Systems and Power          20
    Environment                 Systems
                                High Voltage Technologies & Electrical         6.6
                                Plant Diagnostics
                                Power Electronics, Drives & Energy             6.2
                                Conversion
                                Wind Energy & Control                          6.7
    Centres                     Power Networks Demonstration Centre
                                Advanced Nuclear Research Centre

Each Institute comprises Academic Research Units (Table 6a) and industry partnership centres
(Table 6b). Significant autonomy is delegated to the leadership of both institutes to allow directed
and flexible investment toward research priorities, opportunities and targets. An advisory board,
chaired by the Head of Department and comprising the leadership of Institutes and Academic

                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research Units, define research priorities for the Department which are implemented through an
Executive Team and a Research Operations Working Group chaired by the Director of Research.

    Table 6b- Listing of EEE Institute hosted Industry Partnership Centres.

    Institutes within EEE          Industry Partnership Centres
    Institute for Sensors,         DSTL Battlespace Centre
    Signals and                    Hyperspectral Imaging Centre
    Communications                 FIRST Lab (Structural Test)
                                   Research Centre for Non-Destructive Evaluation
                                   Centre for White Space Wireless Comms
                                   LiFi Research and Development Centre
                                   Scotland 5G Centre
                                   Applied Space Technology Laboratory
    Institute for Energy and       Rolls-Royce UTC in Electrical Power Systems
    Environment                    Low Carbon Power and Energy Innovation Programme
                                   DER (Driving the Electric Revolution) Centre Scotland
                                   Robertson Trust Laboratory of Electronic Sterilisation
                                   OREC Electrical Infrastructure Academic Hub
                                   NPL Partnership in Power Networks Metrology
                                   Power Networks Demonstration Centre
                                   Advanced Nuclear Research Centre
                                   Energy Technology Partnership
                                   Hydrogen Accelerator (H2A)


The Centre for Signal and Image Processing undertakes research focused on fundamental signal
and image processing theory, algorithms, systems and techniques. It has 40 researchers and its
research is translated to industrial impact with organisations including Clyde Space, Sellafield,
Leonardo and Dstl. The application areas include agritech, biomedical, communications, defence,
food and drink, nuclear, and space.

Major income streams arise from nuclear decommissioning with Sellafield, and the EPSRC/DSTL
collaborations in signal processing phases II (EP/K014307/1 and EP/K014307/2, £5.8m) and III
(EP/S000631/1, £4.1m). The group are highly collaborative with joint grants with Physics (£719k)
and Chemistry (BB/P026494/1, £145k) on electro-optical imaging, and CPE in pharmaceutical
manufacturing research (EP/K014250/1, £2.4m). In 2019 Leonardo endowed a lectureship and
sponsored a laboratory in Neuromorphic signal processing.

The centre partners in the collaborative EPSRC CDT in industry-inspired photonic imaging, sensing
and analysis (EP/S022821/1).

The Centre of Ultrasonic Engineering (CUE) undertakes research in Non-Destructive Evaluation
(NDE), robotics, automation and autonomous systems, bioacoustics, and sensor technology
covering diverse ultrasonic application areas (Energy, Oil & Gas, Nuclear, Aerospace, Health,
Consumer Products, Defence, Petrochemical, Pharmaceutical, Remanufacturing).

CUE operates well-funded laboratories and manages a group of 65+ staff and researchers. Both
research and technology transfer is supported through The Facility for Innovation and Research in
Structural Testing Laboratory which includes 5 industrial 6-axis robotic systems, 2 training robotic

                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
systems, automated welding (MIG & TIG) process capability, large scale optical metrology tracking
equipment and multiple advanced phased array controller systems. The Robotically Enabled
Sensing Laboratory, having gained investment of £2.6M from the University, will support ongoing
projects with Spirit Aerospace, Babcock International and KUKA and be a flagship facility for robotic
inspection.

Participating in 3 EPSRC CDTs (EP/S023879/1, £6M; EP/S023275/1, £4.2m; EP/L015587/1, £3M)
and large collaborative grants encompassing sensing, automation and NDE (EP/R004889/1,
£2.16M; EP/N018427/1, £2M; EP/R027218, £5.9M; EP/L0221125/1, £5.4M; EU ref 730323, €9.8M),
CUE has significant reach to industry (>80) and academic (>30) partners. In addition to a RAEng
Chair (Pierce, RCSRF1920\10\32, £600k), members of CUE have been awarded an ERC
consolidator award (Windmill, EU ref 615030, €2M) and a Leverhulme Fellowship (Reid, ECF-2019-
185, £386k) in recent years.

The Centre for Microsystems and Photonics (CMP) has 20 PIs and researchers with
internationally-recognised expertise in tunable diode laser spectroscopy. This has led to the
development of calibration-free gas measurement techniques for use in harsh environments, in turn
leading to longstanding collaborative research with companies such as Rolls-Royce, Siemens, Shell,
LG and Government research bodies. CMP’s research infrastructure includes: an optical gas-
sensing laboratory housing unique instrumentation for high temperature spectral analysis of gas
species; a microfabrication facility for lab-on-a-chip/microfluidics devices with applications in
healthcare and fundamental biology; four class 4 laser laboratories for MEMS based biomedical
imaging research, optical MEMS devices for quantum optics applications and general photoacoustic
imaging/sensing. CMP operates a cleanroom with equipment for metrology of micro- and nano-
systems and state-of-the-art resin-based 3D-printers for prototyping micro-scale components.

Direct industry funding comes from multi-nationals (e.g. Rolls Royce, Shell, Siemens), SMEs (AMS
Bio, Orthosensor Inc, Gooch and Housego) and research institutes (Fraunhofer Centre for Applied
Photonics). Recent significant awards include an EPSRC Programme Grant for monitoring aero-
engine emissions (EP/T012595/1, £5.8M), an award supplemented by a £1m contribution from
industry; a 5-year £567k RAEng Engineering for Development Research Fellowship (Bauer,
RF1516\15\8) for developing miniaturised biomedical imaging systems; and a £1.17M EPSRC grant
(EP/T014288/1) in collaboration with the Institute of Photonics and industry partners to research a
manufacturable platform for precision photonics.

The Centre for Intelligent Dynamic Communications (CIDCOM) has more than 30 active
research staff executing internationally leading innovation and KE in mobile/wireless
communications services/applications, design of broadband networks, Software Defined Radio,
cyber-security, IoT and optical communications. It includes the LiFi Development and Research
Centre (> £1M of equipment investment), which itself has received more than £8.6M in funding since
its inception in 2013 (EPSRC Personal Fellowships, (EP/K008757/1 and EP/R007101/1, £3M);
EPSRC Programme Grants TOWS (EP/S016570/1, £2.3M) and TOUCAN (EP/L020009/1, £1.4M);
Airbus, Germany (£450k); SLD Laser (£200k); H2020, 5G-CLARITY (871428), £450k; H2020, ITN,
ENLIGHTEM (814215), £500k).

The SDR team was the principal academic partner on a national 5G test-beds project co-funded by
industry and the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (£25M), co-developing next
generation wireless services with 30 partners including SMEs, the BBC, BT and multinationals
including Microsoft. With an established record of advancing the evolution of next generation
wireless came the hosting of the ‘Scotland 5G Centre’ (£5.3M, Scottish Government) to deploy a
R&D testbeds to stimulate the development of low-cost rural connectivity, broadcasting and remote
management for the energy/health/manufacturing sectors.

                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

CIDCOM has expertise in data engineering and analytics. It leads the EPSRC-funded “Future ICT-
enabled Manufacturing” project (EP/K014250/1, £2.4M) optimising continuous manufacture of
pharmaceuticals and is partner in EU funded projects developing precision agriculture to optimise
production efficiency (IoF2020 €30M, CYBELE €14.3M).

The Power Electronics, Drives and Energy Conversion (PEDEC) comprises six PIs supported
by 9 PDRAs and 25 PGR students. PEDEC focuses on research and development on all aspects of
power conversion from individual power modules through to specialised hardware/software control
platforms. The group specialises in providing viable solutions to evolving power electronics and
drives future applications from research to design, simulation, prototyping, pre-production, and field
testing. The research is supported by wide-range environmental testing (77K to 773K) capabilities,
extensive and well-resourced power systems and real-time hardware-in-the-loop laboratory facilities.
There is active engagement with leading industry-scale R&D facilities such as the UK National HVDC
Centre and PNDC. The group enjoy extensive academic and industrial partnerships within the UK
and abroad and over the REF period achieved grant income of £4.5M of which 45% was from
industry.

The High Voltage Technologies & Electrical Plant Diagnostics (HVT) group has 7 academics, 2
PDRAs and 26 researchers contributing fundamental research associated with electrical plant, high
voltage materials and components, pulsed power technologies, condition monitoring, discharges in
gases and fluids, and non-thermal plasma for environmental and bio-medical applications. Its
facilities including the David Tedford High Voltage Laboratory, screened High Voltage/Pulsed
Power/Plasma technology laboratories, a High Voltage & Power Modulator Laboratory, and a
Plasma Laboratory. Infrastructure includes HV Pulsed Power generators with output voltage up to
0.5 MV, a computerised 300 kV Marx generator, 100 kV HV DC and 100 kV 50Hz HV AC systems,
partial discharge testing facilities, specialised insulation diagnostic equipment and a UHF sensor
calibration chamber. The Robertson Trust Laboratory for Electronic Sterilisation Technologies
(ROLEST) is a unique combined containment level 2 biohazard and high voltage engineering
laboratory enabling interdisciplinary research focused on the novel electrical and optical sterilisation
and decontamination technologies for clinical and public health applications.

HVT research income over the REF period exceeds £900K, with notable international funding to
ROLEST from the Food and Drugs Administration (USA) and industrial support from corporations
including Halliburton for Plasma Drilling, Vascutek for work on novel sterilization applications, and
PEA in Thailand for condition monitoring. The total KE income from industrial sources exceeds
£300K and includes international activities undertaken for CLP (Hong Kong).

Commercialisation activity has led to four successful companies in recent years and licencing
agreements enacted over the REF period have generated royalty income >£650K.

The Wind Energy & Control group has 8 academics, 7 PDRAs and 52 PGRs. It is the UK’s largest
group of wind energy researchers. Expertise covers turbine design and concepts, aerodynamics,
modelling and control of wind turbines and wind farms, operations and maintenance, condition
monitoring, powertrain and grid integration and forecasting. Powertrain research infrastructure
includes a 15kW wind turbine and 100kW gearbox test rigs. EPSRC research funding includes
EP/L014106/1 (Supergen Wind Hub, £2.9M), EP/R007756/1 (Modelling, Optimisation and Design of
Conversion for Offshore Renewable Energy, £809K) and EP/S018034/1 (Future Electrical Machines
Manufacturing Hub, led by Sheffield, £10.5M) together with an EPSRC Fellowship to Browell
(EP/R023484/1, System-wide Probabilistic Energy Forecasting).




                                                                                               Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
EPSRC funded doctoral training was established in 2009 and the centre’s collaborative Wind and
Marine Energy Systems and Structures CDT (EP/S023801/1) is funded through to 2027. This CDT
enjoys industrial support from 34 industrial partners. In addition, the group engaged in eight
H2020/FP7 awards during REF2021.

The Advanced Electrical Systems group (AES) has 18 academics, 26 PDRAs and 50 PGRs. The
groups research relates to power systems, smart grid technologies, electricity markets and
regulation, AI applications, power and propulsion systems, and superconductivity. It also tackles
challenge-led research across energy, aerospace, nuclear, marine, oil and gas, and transport
sectors.

A number of internationally recognised laboratory infrastructures are operated. The Dynamic Power
Systems Laboratory provides a 100 kVA microgrid set integrated with real-time digital simulation to
conduct hardware-in-the-loop experimental evaluations for PGRs, industry and international
research teams. The Applied Superconductivity Laboratory supports the investigation of state-of-
the-art superconductor materials for use in transportation electrification, power networks and medical
applications. The cryogenic testing facilities support cable and magnet applications, and an
innovative 20 kW rotational cryogenic machine testing-rig for aviation propulsion applications.
Similarly, the group manages an Aero Electrical Systems Laboratory and an Advanced Sensors
Laboratory, supporting patented DC protection solutions and power systems metrology respectively.
An extensive array of modelling platforms complements the laboratories.

AES leads national, international and industry collaborations. Leadership of the EPSRC CDT in
Smart Grids and Future Power Networks (EP/L015471/1) and UKERC (co-director, Bell) have
contributed to the UK’s energy transition. Multiple FP7 and H2020 programmes (e.g. ERIGRID),
have sustained successful relationships with leading European centres. The AES group’s balancing
of academic leadership and industry impact in support of the energy transition is further exemplified
by leadership of the £10M Energy Revolution Research Consortium (EP/S031863/1, EP/S031901/1,
EP/S031898/1, EP3188X/1) and leadership of the ISCF Driving the Electric Revolution (DER)
Scotland Centre (£7M). Similar success is exemplified by an EPSRC Prosperity Partnership
(EP/R004889/1) and a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (Papadopoulos).

Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering (CEE)

CEE is organised into 3 groups with flexible membership (Table 6c) aligned to the themes of Energy,
Advanced Manufacturing and Materials, Health and Enabling Technologies. Supported by
contributions from an industrial advisory board and visiting professoriate, the Department’s research
priorities are reviewed, updated and fed into the Department’s annual plan.

     Table 6c- CEE Research groups.
     Total CAT A FTE = 30.5                                                      CAT A (FTEs)
     Ground Engineering & Energy Geosciences                                          13
     Water, Environment, Sustainability & Public Health                              10.5
     Intelligent Infrastructure                                                        7

The Centre for Ground Engineering and Energy Geosciences comprises 13 PIs supported by 13
PDRAs and 28 PGRs and is the research base of a Royal Academy of Engineering Chair to Prof
Lunn MBE. It specializes in research at the boundaries between biology, earth sciences and
engineering. The Centre leads on major multi-partner EPSRC and European Commission Research
Projects. Key research areas, in partnership with industry, include: development of biomineral
technologies for ground improvement; the fundamental behaviour of geomaterials; monitoring and

                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
restoration of flood embankments; nuclear decommissioning; the role of faults in hydrocarbon
production and CO2 storage; well design and integrity; and the use of microseismic monitoring
methods for detection of subsurface flow paths. The group maintain a geomechanical laboratory and
in partnership with the Water, Environment, Sustainability & Public Health group operate the
Department’s microbiology laboratory and environmental chemistry laboratories (see section below
for more details). In addition, funding from the Oil and Gas Innovation Centre facilitated purchase of
a Nikon XT H 225 LC X-ray computed tomography system. This £850k device is located in the AMRL
(see MAE) and is fitted with a Deben CT 10kN load cell and environmental chamber providing unique
capability to heat, cool and compress samples under CT imaging. The group are instrumental in two
EPSRC Prosperity Partnership Awards: EP/R004889/1 Delivering Enhanced Through-Life Nuclear
Asset Management (£2.2M, partners – BAM, Babcock, EDF, Bruce Power, Kinectrics, Weir) and
EP/S005560/1 Smart Pumping for Subsurface Engineering (CEE led, £2.5M, partners- EGS Energy,
GEODynamics, Silixa, Weir) and are engaged in large nuclear decommissioning EPSRC consortia
led from the University of Leeds (EP/S01019X/1 and EP/L014041/1).

The Centre for Water, Environment, Sustainability and Public Health (WESP) supports the work
of 11 principal investigators, 6 postdoctoral fellows and 43 PGR students. The centre is known for
its work in environmental engineering to improve public health and plays a major role in advising
government strategy in Malawi. The group undertake research in air quality, land decontamination,
antimicrobial resistance, atmospheric micro-plastics, pathogen detection in sewage outflow,
wastewater treatment, flood prevention/recovery, bacteria/biofilm-pollutant interactions, pollutant
control and in research into biotechnologies for cement manufacture. Local research in WESP is
supported by CEE’s 460m2 £6M state-of-the-art environmental and analytical laboratories. The
facility includes a category-2 microbiology and genomics laboratory, multi-purpose environmental
chemistry and analytics laboratories equipped with; full Gas Chromatography, Optical Emission
Spectroscopy, High Pressure Liquid Chromatography, Ion Chromatography and nano-analysis. A
GCxGC-TOFMS time-of-flight mass spectrometer enables research in environmental forensics
giving world-leading capability for the identification of compositional influences on biofuel
performance and biologically toxic compounds in contaminated lands. Significant funding from the
Scottish Government supports work on water resources in Malawi (£7M) and members are
embedded in Malawi in collaboration with the Government of Malawi Ministries and Universities. The
group participate in the NERC Oil and Gas CDT led by Heriot-Watt University and have multiple
international and industrial partnerships.

The Centre for Intelligent Infrastructure is supported by 7 PIs, 5 postdoctoral researchers and 33
PGR students. Its facilities have been formed to support work in the areas of Intelligent Infrastructure,
Advanced Materials and Risk & Resilience directed toward the development of resilient infrastructure
threatened through climate change and mitigation of seismic hazard risk to the energy assets
(nuclear, oil and gas). Specialist facilities include a robotics and 3D printing lab for automated
deployment of curable self-sensing materials and for sensor integration into construction
components, a corrosion lab including environmental chamber, a cross-disciplinary advanced
vibration lab, and atomic force microscopy. The Centre won in excess of £2.5M during the REF
period and is a partner in the EPSRC £4.9M DISTINCTIVE consortium (EP/L014041/1) and the
prosperity partnerships mentioned under Centre for Centre for Ground Engineering and Energy
Geosciences. Additional key collaborators include NASA Langley, Lloyd’s Register and multiple
nuclear, construction and transport agencies.

Department of Chemical & Process Engineering (CPE)

CPE’s research is structured in alignment with the University Strategic Research Themes, as shown
in Table 6d. Annual research planning is directed toward the growth of the Department and its
infrastructure. The Research Committee sets out delivery plans around short- and long-term targets,

                                                                                                Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
facilitates and supports networking and collaborations (internally and externally). The Director of
Research manages the Departmental PGR budget and allocations in support of early career
researcher development and equality and diversity initiatives.

The laboratory footprint of the Department exceeds 700m2 and supports the PIs, 9 of whom were
recruited in the current audit period. Significant research activities are also supported through the
HPC facility Archie-WEST, the AMRL and the 900m2 National Facility for Continuous Manufacturing
and Advanced Crystallisation (CMAC). Funded through a UK Research Partnership Investment
Fund and equipped with world class facilities for research into pharmaceutical manufacturing
(primary and secondary processing, materials characterisation, imaging, x-ray diffraction,
spectroscopy for process analytics) the facility and Department staff are core to the CMAC research
hub consortia (EP/P006965/1, £10.4M) goal to transform pharmaceutical manufacturing processes.
The consortia is a global network of academic and industrial partners (GSK, AstraZeneca, Novartis,
Bayer, Roche, Eli Lilly, Takeda, Pfizer) comprising more than 130 staff and researchers
headquartered within the Strathclyde Institute of Pharmaceutical and Biological Sciences.

 Table 6d- CPE Research structure FTE distribution by theme

 Total CAT A FTE = 21.6                                                    CAT A (FTEs)
 Advanced manufacturing & materials                                                6.9
 Energy                                                                            6.8
 Health & Wellbeing                                                                2.5
 Measurement science & enabling technologies                                       3.2
 Society & Policy                                                                  2.3

CPEs in-house research facilities are summarised in Table 6e and support research on developing
novel chemical process solutions for energy generation and storage, water purification, carbon
capture, pollution and waste reduction, advanced nanomaterials and diagnostics. The Department
works closely with other Departments and centres at Strathclyde, most notably with the Centre for
Microsystems and Photonics (EEE) where staff are partners in the LITECS EPSRC programme grant
(EP/T012595/1) and the SIPBS led CMAC hub. In response to the March 2020 Smart Sustainable
Plastics Packaging UKRI call the Department in keeping the University's sustainability goals and
alignment to the Advanced Materials and Manufacturing strategic theme was awarded £800k from
NERC (NE/V010603/1) to optimise bio-composite film performance for food packaging applications.
The Department also has close links with 25 UK and 40 international academic centres enabled via
Newton funds, EU or UK grant funding. Over the REF audit period Fellowship awards have included
an EPSRC Manufacturing Fellowship with CMAC, a Leverhulme Research Fellowship, a NERC
Independent Research Fellowship and an EPSRC ECR Fellowship.

 Table 6e: Chemical Processing Engineering laboratory facilities.

 Laboratory Suite            Specialist capabilities

 Analytical laboratory       Brunauer–Emmett–Teller surface analysis,
                             Fourier-Transform Infrared Spectroscopy, Intelligent Gravimetric
                             Analysis, Gas Chromatography, high-pressure liquid
                             chromatography, Circular Dichroism and UV-visible absorption
                             spectroscopy, in situ static and dynamic light scattering
                             microscopy, Brownian microscopy, High-speed video microscopy
                             and optical trapping facilities.


                                                                                            Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Laser laboratories          Laser labs for the study of high-temperature reacting flows,
                             including pollutant formation in flames, with specialist intensified
                             cameras, pulsed and wavelength-tuneable lasers and optics
                             required for laser-induced fluorescence, laser-induced
                             incandescence and cavity ring-down spectroscopy.

 General Labs                Core facilities and furnaces for materials synthesis experiments,
                             biomass pyrolysis reactions and for the preparation of polymer
                             membranes for gas separation.

 Electrochemical             Core equipment for corrosion testing and monitoring. Facilities
 Engineering                 include high-temperature, high-pressure autoclaves,
                             electrochemical hardware and characterisation equipment. Large
                             scale electrochemical reactors for removal of pollutants from
                             waste streams and performing electrochemical reactions in
                             ultrasonic fields.

 Archie-WEST                 High performance computer facility supporting multi-disciplinary
 (Leadership)                research in engineering and physical sciences.


Department of Design, Manufacturing & Engineering Management (DMEM)

DMEM is the academic home to the AFRC/NMIS and staff align closely with the Strategic Research
Themes of Advanced Manufacturing & Materials, Ocean Air & Space and Energy. The Department
operates a flexible research structure that encourages PI led engagement and collaboration across
3-primary areas of interests: Design, Advanced Manufacturing and Engineering Management (see
Table 6f). In addition to AFRC/NMIS, the Department hosts an additional 5 research centres (see
Table 6f), each connecting with the AFRC. With management as a core area, the Department’s cross
Faculty research is linked to groups within the Strathclyde Business School. A Strategic Advisory
Group comprising external representatives advise the Departmental Management Board on strategy
and performance.

    Table 6f- DMEM research structure and centres.

    Total CAT A FTE = 20.3                                                        CAT A (FTEs)
    Design                                                                             7.8
    Advanced Manufacturing                                                            10.5
    Engineering Management                                                              2
    Dept Research Centres                          Design Research Group
                                                   Robotics and Autonomous Systems Group
                                                   Centre for Precision Manufacturing
                                                   Sustainability and Remanufacturing Group
                                                   Engineering Management Group
    Affiliated Research Centre                     Advanced Forming Research Centre

Design research (see Table 6f) is embedded across all research teams within DMEM and general
facilities support this expertise to deliver research in computer-supportive collaborative working,
intelligent CAD, systems engineering and virtual prototypes as examples. The recent appointment
of Arts and Humanities Research Council Design Fellow, Prof Paul Rogers to the Department brings

                                                                                              Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
additional design leadership with expertise on design impact and his appointment builds on a strong
portfolio exemplified by multidisciplinary EPSRC awards (EP/M012123/1, £908K) investigating
human machine interactions for cognitive based and future predictive CAD design technology
(EP/R004226/1, £590K).

The Centre for Precision Manufacturing (CPM) research is focused on the following topics: Ultra-
precision machining, Micromachining, Nanofabrication, Multi-scales/Multi-physics modelling,
Additive Manufacturing, Powder Sintering and Nano-Materials. CPM is led by 3 PIs and supported
by 6 PDRAs and 9 PGR students. It operates the Department’s Precision Metrology and
nanofabrication laboratory (72m2), the Ultra-Precision Machining laboratory (24m2) and the Micro-
Manufacturing Laboratory (65m2). The centre collaborates closely with NMIS and has been
successful in a range of EPSRC awards (EP/T024844/1 £2.8M, EP/K015345/1 £2.1M,
EP/G03477X/1 £1.6M) and 9 successful FP7 and H2020 awards (>€4M).

The Robotics and Autonomous Systems Group (RAS) comprises 8 PIs, 9 PDRAs, 36 PGR
students and 26 international visiting researchers. The work of the group is directed toward
mechatronics, its application in robotics and autonomous systems in space, agriculture, oil & gas,
advanced manufacturing and construction. The Group is supported by the Digital Team of the AFRC,
and two research laboratories, the Space Mechatronics Systems Technology (SMeSTech) Lab
featuring facilities for assembly/test areas for mechatronic and robotic systems, UAV/drones, and
the Advanced Food Manufacturing Robotic Lab funded by Innovate UK comprising 3 robots, a
conveyor system and a 1000+ axis controller providing applications research in the food, drink and
agriculture industries. PGR training in SMeSTech is supported by the Strathclyde Centre for Doctoral
Training in Space, in collaboration with MAE and Science Departments. The RAS Group was
associated with AFRC’s EPSRC Doctoral Training Centre in Advanced Manufacturing through to
2018 and this CDT is now sustained through industrial partners, including Weir, PSA, Space
Applications Services and SRPe funding.

The Remanufacture Research Group has 5 PIs and collaborates with staff in EEE and CEE. It was
established with £1.45M funding from the SFC and Zero Waste Scotland (2015) and supports 5
PDRAs and 25 PGRs. The group, specialises in interdisciplinary, practitioner-based research in
sustainable design and manufacturing with a focus on end-of-life remanufacturing processes. The
Group has access to specialist facilities through affiliations with CUE in EEE and the robotics
infrastructure and additive manufacturing facilities of the AFRC. In addition to SFC funding, the group
secured EPSRC support (EP/N018427/1- £1.9M, EP/P005268/1 - £517K) for autonomous
inspection and for non-destructive evaluation in remanufacturing respectively, £223K from the Royal
Society to establish affordable remanufacture in Nigeria, and other funding from diverse sources
including H2020 and Innovate UK.

Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering (MAE)

MAE delivers its research across four core groups and specialisms led by senior academic staff
(Table 6g). Research priorities are annually set through annual planning by the Departmental
Management Team (DMT). Reporting to the DMT are the Research Working Group, Laboratory
Development Committee and the PGR Committee. The Laboratory Development Committee has the
remit to implement continuous improvements to the laboratory fabric and equipment and manage a
devolved budget for this. MAE incorporates the Advanced Materials Research Laboratory (AMRL)
which provides state-of-the-art facilities in support of materials research across the Faculty.




                                                                                              Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 6g- MAE Research Structure

 Total CAT A FTE = 26                                                            CAT A (FTEs)
 Mechanics and Materials Research Centre incorporating                               9.4
      Tribology Laboratory
      Advanced Composite Laboratory
      Structural Integrity and Life Assessment Research Laboratory
 Advanced Material Research Laboratory
 James Weir Fluid Laboratory                                                          4.5
 Energy Systems Research Unit                                                          2
 (3 FTEs returned to UOA 13)
 Aerospace Centre of Excellence incorporating                                         10.1
      Advanced Space Concept Laboratories
      Future Air-Space Transportations Technology laboratory
      Intelligent Computational Engineering laboratory

The Mechanics and Materials Research Centre (MMRC) include 10 PIs, 5 PDRAs, and 24 PGRs.
Research areas include: design, characterisation, manufacture and recycling of advanced
composites; erosion, wear and damage; high temperature mechanics, advanced elasticity and
plasticity material modelling, novel joining methods for metal matrix composites and structural/plant-
life assessment. It provides experimental, theoretical and computational research specialisation in
the research areas of Advanced Engineering Materials, Tribology and Tribo-Corrosion, Structural
Integrity & Design, Advanced Joining & Surface Engineering and Biomaterials. It hosts a range of
state-of-the art micro-to-macro material testing facilities through the AMRL, the Advanced Composite
Group laboratory and the Tribology laboratory. Specialist equipment provision include the Weir
Advanced Research Centre (WARC) Gigahertz high-cycle fatigue testing machine and a recent
£250K upgrade to the corrosion laboratory. Within the AMRL testing to ASTM and ISO standards
are available in mechanical testing, thermal analysis, compositional analysis and micro-
constructional analysis. MMRC’s research has attracted industrial funding from SMEs through to
major companies (including Weir Group, Rolls Royce, Terumo Aortic, SSE, Boeing), UK and EU
funding bodies. The ongoing relationship with Weir Group through the WARC has generated more
than £3M income. European funding includes the Marie Skłodowska-Curie EID APESA award
(€1.3M), ERDF Award SPIRE 2 (£1.1M) and Horizon 2020 RIA Da CoMat (£500k).

The James Weir Fluid Laboratory (JWFL) supports the work of 5 PIs and the application of
computational techniques for the engineering design of complex flow phenomena with applications
in space technology, health technologies, energy and manufacturing and multi-scale flow
phenomenon focused on solid particle flow, thermal convection instabilities and rheology of complex
micro flows. Group laboratories specialise in micro-state flow measurement of complex rheological
fluids and gas dynamics with low pressure, high flow capability. JWFL funding is diverse including
EPSRC, STFC/UK Space Agency, EU H2020, Innovate UK, medical charities and industry. The
group collaborates internationally and are part of the Japanese European Research Experiments on
Marangoni Instabilities project; an agreement between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the
Japanese Space Agency (JAXA) funding experiments on the International Space Station.

Novel capabilities and expertise in advanced pump engineering are facilitated by funding from the
Weir Group including the Prosperity Partnership (EP/S005560/1 see section on CEE) and H2020
APESP programme (Weir Minerals Netherlands, €1.3M). Other non-academic research partners
include US Air Force, Proctor & Gamble, QinetiQ, Scotia Gas Networks and Terumo Aortic.



                                                                                             Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Energy Systems Research Unit (ESRU) has 5 PIs (N.B. 3 staff members of the Energy
Systems Research Unit are returned to UOA13), 7 PDRAs and 12 PGRs engaged in research on
clean energy technologies including marine renewables and the built environment. In support of
research on marine renewables, ESRU researchers have access to the Kelvin Hydrodynamic
Laboratories (see NAOME) and are partners in the MARINERG-I European Strategy Forum on
Research Infrastructures (ESFRI) project forming a pan-European centre of Distributed Research
Infrastructures for Offshore Renewable Energy. The group also partner with stakeholders in the
Philippines and Mexico on utilising marine renewables for community energy provision and socio-
economic development in low-income countries (3 Newton Fund awards approx. £400K).

The Aerospace Centre of Excellence (ACE), founded in 2016 comprises input from 12 PIs and
has grown rapidly over the REF audit period. The research has a target horizon of more than 50
years ahead but deploys practical solutions in response to current challenges in space debris, safety,
asteroids and comets, space planes and tourism, satellite applications, green and sustainable
aviation.

ACE currently operates the Advanced Space Concepts Laboratory (ASCL), the Future Air-Space
Transportation Technology Laboratory (FASTTlab), the Intelligent Computational Engineering
laboratory (ICElab) and the Concurrent and Collaborative Design Studio (CCDS). The CCDS is a
state-of-the-art studio to perform feasibility studies on space missions, end-to-end space mission
analysis and design, satellite operations and space environment monitoring. It is also a laboratory
with capability to test and deploy innovative software tools for systems design and analysis,
resilience engineering, artificial intelligence, and multidisciplinary design optimization. ACE has
secured funding from: H2020 (>£8M of grants since 2014) the European and UK Space Agencies,
the EPSRC, the French Space Agency. The group are highly collaborative and work with multiple
US, European and Asian universities. Industry partners include Airbus, Thales-UK, BAE systems,
Lockheed Martin and Space Canada.

Department of Naval Architecture, Ocean & Marine Engineering (NAOME)

NAOME hosts three research groups with affiliated centres led by senior research active academics
as shown in Table 6h. The Department’s Research Committee, coordinates and monitors research
performance and investment across the groups including funding in support of studentships,
equipment and conference attendance.

     Table 6h- NAOME research groups and centres

     Total CAT A FTE = 27.6                                                     CAT A (FTEs)
     Fluid-Structure Interaction Group
     Incorporating The Peridynamics Research Centre                                    9
     Marine Design, Operation and Safety Group
     incorporating Maritime Safety Research Centre & Maritime Human                    11
     Factors Centre
     Ocean Engineering Group
     incorporating the Offshore Institute                                              8

NAOME’s research is coordinated through 28 PIs, 40 PDRAs and 142 PGR students working across
the themes described below. Over the REF period the Department generated a research income of
£12.7M. Main research funders include EPSRC, FP7, H2020, ERC, Scottish Government, British
Council (Newton Fund), Department of Transport, Innovate UK, Scottish Enterprise, Oil and Gas
Innovation Centre, Wave Energy Scotland, Offshore Renewable Catapult and industries such as

                                                                                             Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Shell, Lloyd’s Register, Oscar propulsion, SSE , Scottish Power, TWI ltd, BAE Systems, and Calmac
Ferries.

The Fluid-Structure Interaction (FSI) group is based around 9 PIs and researches fundamental
experimental techniques and numerical approaches to complex problems including wave and
current flow interactions on offshore structures, innovation in hull coatings to reduce biofouling and
drag, hull/propeller energy efficiency, green shipping and enhancement of marine structure reliability
through advanced structural analysis, experimentation and modelling. The group facilities include
the Kelvin Hydrodynamics laboratory (KHL), a unique research centre housing the UKs largest
wave/towing tank. The group are also supported by the Peridynamics Research Centre (PDRC) who
provide computational modelling capability directed at enhancing the structural reliability of systems
using peridynamics and iFEM. The main KHL tank (76m x 4.6m x 2.5m) is equipped with a towing
carriage capable of towing to 4.6ms-1 under complex wave patterns at variable depths. Equipped
with state of art metrology, KHL is used for research into performance of ships, hull and propeller
surfaces and offshore structures. Over the REF period upgrades exceeding £0.5M have been made.
Upgrades include installation of above and below water 3D optical motion-capture systems, high-
speed PIV systems for non-intrusive flow measurement, a state-of-art ultrasonic wave measurement
system, an ADV system for measurement of turbulence in flow and a high stiffness six-axis load-cell
and amplifier. New instrumentation also includes a Fully Turbulent Flow Channel as part of the KHL
to support computational work on hull and propeller roughness, biofouling and coatings. In support
of the facility a new large 3-axis CNC milling machine is available for model-making and manufacture
of complex mechanical parts. In 2020, FSI were awarded H2020 funding of €5M (RUDDER) to lead
on research to reduce shipping costs and improve the environmental sustainability of the shipping
industry.

The Marine Design, Operation and Safety Group comprises 11 PIs and leads on maritime safety,
stability and human factors research through two recently formed centres; the Maritime Safety
Research Centre (MSRC) and the Maritime Human Factors Centre (MHFC). The group’s work
has supported international regulatory developments through the UN’s International Maritime
Organisation and through its many H2020 awards it has expanded its research to support
developments in green shipping and operational factors spanning marine engines and emission
reductions technologies, fuel cells, voyage optimisation and weather routing. Facilities available to
the group include the Small Marine Engineering Lab, a Full Mission Ship Bridge Simulator and a
Virtual Reality Laboratory.

The £200K Full Mission Bridge Simulator (Wartsila-NTPRO-5000) is the only full-mission human
factors research simulator in UK. It is equipped to measure navigational performance of seafarers
and systems in 40 different sea regions using 50 different ship models or models of specific ships.
The simulator includes audio-visual recording systems and integrates wearable technologies to
monitor and measure human–system interactions, team work, situational awareness, emergency
procedures and quantifications of human error risks. A Virtual Reality laboratory was recently
commissioned to conduct research aimed at measuring/enhancing crew performance in safety
critical situations.

The Ocean Engineering Group (OEG) incorporates the Offshore Engineering Institute and
comprises 8 PIs focusing on offshore engineering research for the oil and gas sector and marine
renewables, including design of fixed and floating assets, computational fluid dynamics,
operations/maintenance modelling, logistics & management, safety and reliability, decommissioning,
carbon capture and storage. Significantly, the group are active in researcher training including a
H2020-MSCA-ITN (ENHANCE) programme and the EPSRC CDTs in Renewable Energy Marine
Structures (REMS, EP/L016303/1), Wind and Marine Energy Systems and Structures
(EP/S023801/1, Oxford and Edinburgh) and the NERC/EPSRC Industrial CDT in Offshore

                                                                                             Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Renewable Energy (IDCORE) with Edinburgh, Exeter and the Scottish Association for Marine
Science.

Department of Biomedical Engineering (BME)

BME operates a flat structure across the 3 research areas each representing a community of interest
comprising independent principal investigators (Table 6i.) Departmental research strategy and
delivery planning is coordinated through a Research Committee reporting to the Department’s
Management Committee. A key function of the Research Committee is local targeted communication
to ensure awareness of emerging research opportunities and to promote networking and
collaborations within the life sciences, industry, clinical and community-based centres. The
Department operates a Departmental Ethics Committee which has authority to approve non-invasive
research on healthy human volunteers. Research involving invasive procedures are considered by
the University Ethics Committee or submitted to the Research Ethics Service in Scotland.

 Table 6i- BME- Primary Research Communities of Interest

 Total CAT A FTE = 21.6                                                            CAT A (FTEs)
 Cell, Tissue & Organ Engineering                                                      4.6
 Rehabilitation Engineering                                                             6
 Medical Devices &Diagnostics                                                          10

BME has a long track record of translating research and collaborating with clinical sites, industry and
communities in low-income countries. BME hosts 21 PIs, 17 PDRAs and 115 PGR students. Its
research and facilities cover 3 communities of interest centred on Rehabilitation Engineering,
Medical Devices & Diagnostics and Cell, Tissue & Organ Engineering. In late 2017, a £16M
refurbishment of its Wolfson Centre commenced. New upgraded research laboratories and specialist
workshop/medical device prototyping services will cater for the growing accommodation and
research needs of the Department and will compliment additional facilities developed within TIC for
wearable medical sensor research.

In the new Wolfson there are 22 multiuser research laboratories specialised for research in
healthcare technologies including biomechanics/motion analysis, advanced assistive technologies,
medical robotics, cell & tissue engineering, biomaterial & tissue testing, computer modelling and
point-of-care diagnostics and toxicology. The Wolfson Centre’s tissue and biomaterial testing suite
is part of the AMRL and dedicated to study of hard and soft biomaterials and is licensed for work
with human tissue. The Wolfson Centre also supports dedicated workshops with metallic 3D printing
for rapid prototyping.

Studies involving human volunteers are conducted in co-located laboratory space with disability
access. Facilities include a Motek CAREN 6-DOF motion platform and interactive virtual
environment. This facility is complemented by a large open environment motion capture laboratory
incorporating activity monitoring and multi-channel non-invasive neurophysiological measurement
and neuromodulation capabilities. BME was recently awarded £500K from the Jules Thorn
Charitable Trust to purchase advanced rehabilitation equipment for disability research focused on
co-produced research with clinical partners and patients to be housed in this space. This funding
follows from Scottish Government support over the REF period of £1.6M for research in rehabilitation
engineering facility and staff. Specialist manufacture, fitting and evaluation of prosthetic and orthotic
devices is supported through workshop and clinical facilities in the National Centre for Prosthetics
and Orthotics (a clinical training centre within BME).


                                                                                                Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Off-campus research facilities include access to research space at the Spinal Injuries Unit (Queen
Elizabeth University Hospital), the Glasgow Clinical Research Facility (Royal Infirmary, Glasgow)
and Coathill Hospital NHS Lanarkshire. In 2020, BME were awarded SFC funding to develop rapid
COVID-19 diagnostics based on lab-on-a-chip diagnostic technologies developed for sepsis, cancer
and drug resistant TB (MycoChip) detection in low-income counties (Corrigan, Newton Fund). Other
medical device innovations with reach to disabled communities in low-income countries include the
development of the Portable Eye Examination Kit (PEEK), and the Google supported Legbank
project ($1M) to develop and field test Magicast, a unique non-expert casting process for prosthetic
limb manufacture in territories lacking limb-fitting expertise.

BME are involved in two EPSRC CDTs; the CDT in Medical Devices & Health Technologies
(EP/L015595/1) which has received continuous EPSRC support since 2004 and the CDT in
Prosthetics & Orthotics (EP/S02249X/1). BME also collaborate with the CDT in Future Ultrasonic
Engineering (EP/S023879/1) and three SCDTs focused on health technologies. UKRI awards to
BME include STFC and BBSRC awards to Reid (£3.1M) and collaborators at the Universities of
Glasgow and West of Scotland (£1.8M) on novel bone regenerative studies and research on
advanced sensor development as part of the global LIGO Scientific Collaboration
(https://stfc.ukri.org/news-events-and-publications/features/on-the-ground-at-ligo-and-around-the-
world/).


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Research Base Recognition, Contribution and Influence

Selected Learned Society Recognition, Fellowship Awards, and Notable Prizes.

In October 2019, our Principal (Prof Sir Jim McDonald) became President of the RAEng. Prior to this
he chaired the RAEng Research Committee (2016-2019) and held presidency (2017-2019) of
CESAER (https://www.cesaer.org/), a consortium of 60 leading European science and technology
institutions. In 2019 he joined China Premier Li Keqiang’s Foreign Experts Advisory Group
(http://english.www.gov.cn/premier/news/202001/18/content_WS5e22ce85c6d0db64b784cc34.htm
l). Further recognition of his research leadership is his work as co-chair of the Scottish Government’s
Energy Advisory Board, his chairing of the SFC research pooling initiatives (see section 3) and of
the Glasgow Economic Leadership Board. In 2019, his contributions to energy research were
acknowledged with the award of the Energy Institute’s Melchett Medal. Prof Sir McDonald is also the
Honorary President of IET (Scotland), a Presidential Fellow of New York University and Honorary
Professor at Peking University.

During this audit five staff became Fellows of the RAEng (Connolly, Lunn, Haas, Vassalos, Wren)
and seven became Fellows of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) (Bell, Connolly, Lunn, Haas,
Reid, Shipton, Uttamchandani). Lunn became a RSE Trustee and Council Member and four staff
were elected on five-year terms to the RSE Young Academy Scotland (Mulvana, Kazakidi,
Macdonald, Reid). This Academy is chaired by Prof S Reid (BME) who in 2016 won the RSE
President’s Medal for his contribution to the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory
(LIGO) partnership. Prof M Macdonald (MAE/EEE), also part of the RSE Young Academy, was
awarded the Sir Thomas Makdougall Brisbane Medal (2016) for early career achievements and Prof
Lunn (CEE) was further honoured with MBE (2017) for her contribution to engineering and supporting
equality and diversity. In addition, Profs McArthur and Ridgway were notified in 2020 of the IEEE
Richard Harold Kaufmann Award and the IET Mensforth Manufacturing Gold Medal respectively.



                                                                                              Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Building from REF2014, 21 staff achieved Fellowship status across engineering and multidisciplinary
areas. Notable examples include; IEEE (McArthur, Uttamchandani), IET (Haas), IMechE
(Athanasios, Chen, Qin), American Society of Mechanical Engineers (Chen), IChemE (Roy), Royal
Society of Chemistry (Hamilton, Price), the Institute for Materials, Minerals and Mining (Hamilton),
Royal Microscopical Society (Windmill), Royal Institution of Naval Architects (Boulougouris), Royal
Aeronautical Society (Macdonald), Royal Society of Medicine (Gourlay, Connolly), Institute of
Physics and Engineering in Medicine (Black, Conway, Giardini), and the Institution of Engineers and
Shipbuilders in Scotland (Jalalvand, Oterkus) amongst others. Our largest membership groupings
rest with the IEEE and over the REF period a further five staff acquired senior status (MacGregor,
Camos-Gaona, Stankovic, Clemente, Blair).

4.2 Funded Research Chairs, Fellowships & Named Lectureships

Prestigious RAEng personal research awards made during this REF cycle include 2 Research Chairs
(Lunn with BAM Nutall, Pierce with Spirit Aerospace), 1 RAEng/Leverhulme Senior Research
Fellowship (Chen), 3 RAEng Research Fellowships (Bauer, Weijia, Min), 1 Industry and 1 Enterprise
Fellowship (Liu, Carroll).

Success in UKRI research Fellowships include 3 EPSRC fellowship awards (Browell- Innovation;
Panagiotis- Future Leaders; Price- Manufacturing), 1 NERC Fellowship (Dobson) and a AHRC
Design Fellowship (Rogers 2014-21). Additional research Fellowships include 5 awards from the
Royal Society (2 Newton International Fellowships, 3 Industrial Fellowships), 2 Leverhulme Early
Career Fellowships (Haw, Reid, A), 2 Marie Sklodowska-Curie Individual Fellowships (Tubaldi,
Kazakidi) and a Weir Industrial Fellowship (Yang).

In addition to personal Fellowships, 34 staff hold Visiting Professorial (VP) positions with a further 8
holding Honorary Research Fellow status in collaborating institutions across the Americas, Europe,
UK and Asia. Honorary NHS contracts have been held by 7 faculty from BME.

Newly endowed chairs were established in BME (Shu, Hay Chair of Biomedical Engineering) and
EEE (Stewart, Xilinx Inc Industry Professor of Signal Processing; Bell, ScottishPower Chair in Smart
Grids).

4.3 Prizes (excluding Journal/Conference Awards)

Staff have also been recognised through different UK and international prizes above those
mentioned previously.

Our Energy theme and focus resulted in a number of prizes. Roberts (early career researcher) won
the 2015 Scottish Energy Researcher of the Year for her work on Energy Infrastructure & Society.
In 2014, Booth won the Energy Innovation Award for Best University Technology in recognition of
the spin-out Synaptec. Weijia (2014) was awarded an IEEE Van Duzer Prize and in 2017 and 2019,
Min received separate Jan Evetts Superconductor Science and Technology awards.

Multiple Dynamic Spectrum Alliance awards from 2016 have gone to Stewart and his team for
bringing connectivity to rural communities and businesses work that underpins the growth of our 5G
Cluster. Our activities in the Measurement and Enabling Technology theme resulted in
Uttamchandani receiving the IEEE Sensors Council Technical Achievement Award (2017) and
Pierce was awarded The John Grimwade Medal (2015, British Institute of Non-Destructive Testing).
Fundamental research advances were recognised through the 2016 Gruber Cosmology Prize
(USD500k shared through LIGO) and a IMechE top innovations prize in 2017 (both Reid).


                                                                                               Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Other themes have also seen significant recognition for our academics. In Health there have been
two Longitude Prizes (Corrigan- antimicrobial resistance microplate tests, Giardini- smartphone
based eye diagnostics). A Design Museum, Design of the Year Award from for the Portable Eye
Examination Kit (Giardini, 2015), and a Google Impact Challenge Disabilities award ($1M) for the
social enterprise Legbank project (Buis, 2016). In Ocean, Air and Space Day was awarded the Royal
Institution of Naval Architects Medal of Distinction (2014), Vassalos the Society of Naval Architects
and Marine Engineers Gold Medal (2016), Kurt the Maritime Safety Award from the Royal Institution
of Naval Architects (2017) and Incecik was granted an Honorary Doctorate by Chalmers University
of Technology in recognition of his research on green shipping and environmental sustainability. In
2016, Clemente was named as overall winner of the EU sponsored European Satellite Navigation
Competition and in Advanced Manufacturing Luo won the 2015 IMechE Ludwig Mond Prize.

4.4 Notable Advisory and Committee Memberships (excluding conference organisation)

Within this submission, 95 (45%) contributed to over 250 different advisory groups or committees
reflecting our commitment to sharing our research insights, influencing key organisations and driving
impact in our field. Limited examples from each Department are listed in Table 7.

 Table 7. Examples of staff engagement and contribution to committees serving varied interests


 Dept      Name            Contribution
 BME       Connolly        BME review panel, Hong Kong Polytechnic University
           Conway          Trustee; IPEM, Dunhill Medical Trust & Medical Research Scotland.
                           Member (-2015) Glasgow Universities/NHS Biomedicine Governance
                           Board
           Reid            Co-chair; Einstein Telescope Instrument Science Board.
                           International advisor to the Stanford-led Centre for Coatings Research
 CEE       Dobson          Lead: Diamond II synchrotron upgrade for imaging in Geosciences
           Douglas         Member Advisory Group Observatories & Research Facilities for
                           European Seismology
           Kalin           Advisor to Government of Malawi on water resource management
           Knapp           Advisor to Public Health Scotland on Control of Antimicrobial
                           Resistance in Scotland
           Lunn            Member (-2015) UK Gov Committee on Radioactive Waste
                           Management
                           Member of the Scottish Government Geothermal Energy Expert Group
           Morse           Advisor to Malawi Government on National Community Health
                           Strategy
           Renshaw         Advisor to Welsh Government, Nuclear Task and Finish Group
                           Member & Hon Sec, Royal Society of Chemistry Radiochemistry
                           Group Committee
           Roberts         Member of the UK Energy Research Centre Research Committee



                                                                                            Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          Shipton       Member, Scottish Gov Independent Expert Scientific Panel on
                        Unconventional Gas.
          White         Member- Scottish Public Voice Committee, Inst of Civil Engineers.
                        Vice President, International Commission on Coupled Land–
                        Atmosphere Systems
CPE       Price         Member of an AstraZeneca Scientific Advisory Board
          Burns         Committee Member, IoP Combustion Physics Group
DMEM      Duffy         Member of DfT's Clean Maritime Council
                        Member BAE Systems and University partner Board.
          Ijomah        Member BSI product specification committee for secondary market
                        products.
                        Member-The Social, Economic & Environmental Case for
                        Remanufacturing (UK gov)
          Ion           Board Member High Value Manufacturing Catapult Board
                        Member Oil and Gas Technology Centre (OGTC) Academic Panel
                        Member Greater Glasgow Economic Leadership Forum Manufacturing
                        Group
          Rodgers       Trustee of Research in Specialist and Elderly Care
          Whitfield     Member of Advisory Board – The Design Society
          Yan           Chair- Executive Committee of Robotics & Mechatronics, IET
                        UK GovAdviser on Space Robotics and Autonomous Systems (UK
                        Space Agency).
EEE       Andonovic     Board Member, SFC-funded Innovation Centre ‘CENSIS’
          Bell          Expert Witness House of Commons Science and Technology
                        Committee, Clean Growth.
                        Technical Advisor to Ofgem - electricity supply interruptions
                        Advisor- BEIS- National Infrastructure Commission.
                        Co-Chair, Scottish Gov Technical Advisory Group, Energy & Climate
                        Change Analysis
                        Member of the Climate Change Committee (est. by Climate Change
                        Act 2008)
          Browell       Advisor to Renewable UK Wind Advisory Group
                        Member of International Energy Agency, Wind Task 36 (Forecasting)
          Burt          Board member & Spokesperson, European assoc. of Distributed
                        Energy Laboratories
                        Steering Committee, Eur Energy Research Alliance Joint Programme
                        for Smart Grids
                        Member of Governing Board for UK Aerospace Research Consortium


                                                                                        Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          Dysko         Technical advisor to National Grid Workgroup GC 0079
          Gachagen      Academic Chair, UK Research Centre in Non-Destructive Testing
          Haas          Chair of NATO Workgroup on Optical Wireless Communications
          Holliday      Member Advisory Board, UKRI Driving the Electric Revolution
          Leithead      Member of Energy Technology Institute Strategy Advisory Group
                        Steering Committee, European Energy Research Alliance Joint
                        Programme Wind
                        Deputy Chair of Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult Research
                        Advisory Group
          MacGregor     Member of the Glasgow Chamber of Commerce
          Macleod       Member – BSI, non-destructive testing (NDT) technologies of DED
                        manufactured parts
          McArthur      Member of the Scottish Enterprise Smart Grid Industry Leadership
                        Group
                        Scottish Power Retail, Wholesale & Renewables External Stakeholder
                        Advisory Forum
          Michie        Member IEEE IES Sub-Tech. Committee on Smart Agriculture
          Pierce        Research Advisor to Spirit AeroSystems Ltd.
                        Board member, UK Research Centre in Non-Destructive Evaluation
          Siew          Member of the UK National Committee for CIRED and CIGRE SC S4
                        Advisory Group.
          Stewart       Adviser to Scottish Development International (Scottish Enterprise)
                        IEEE DEIS Membership of Member.
MAE       Cartmell      Deputy Chair of the AIAA Technical Committee on Space Tethers
          Macdonald     Non-Executive Board Member, UK Space Agency
                        Member, COSPAR Task Group on Establishing a Constellation of
                        Small Satellites
                        Committee Member, Achieving Science Goals with CubeSats, National
                        Acad. Sciences.
NAOME Boulougouris Standing Committee Member of UN International Maritime
                        Organisation
          Brennan       Member- Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult Research Advisory
                        Board
                        Member of the Energy Technology Partnership Advisory Board;
          Day           Board of Society of Naval Architects & Marine Engineers
          Incecik       Member of Lloyd's Register Marine Technical Committee
          Kolios        Vice-President Elect, European Academy of Wind Energy
          Lazaklis      Advisor at British Standards Institute


                                                                                       Page 38
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                            Member of Lloyd’s Register Technical Committee
            Vassalos        Member of Council of the Royal Institution of Naval Architects
                            Advisor to UN International Maritime Organization
                            Chair of the Group of Experts for Domestic Ferry Safety Regulations.
            Tao             Member of Arctic Technology Committee, Int Ship & Offshore
                            Structures Congress


4.5 Engagement with UKRI and other funding agencies

Over the REF period the majority of established staff have engaged as grant reviewers covering all
UKRI councils and multiple UK and international funding agencies. In addition to recognising the
calibre of our staff, this is pleasing because it allows our research insights to be used to shape future
research and research agendas. The EPSRC is our most significant UKRI funder and engineering
has 31 full members of the EPSRC electoral college and 28 are associate members. Two staff from
CEE are members of the NERC electoral college (Phenonix, Shipton) and Rodgers (DMEM) is a
member of AHRC peer review college.

Notable advisory engagements with EPSRC over the REF period include 3 current members and 1
past member of EPSRC Strategic Advisory Teams (McArthur- Energy; Haas- ICT; Lunn-
Engineering; Conway- Engineering to 2014) and multiple repeat appointments to EPSRC
prioritisation panels. In addition, recognising their expertise, a number of staff have supported UKRI
and wider strategic grant decision making through the senior roles in panels as summarised in Table
8, with further notable contributions to other grant awarding panels listed in Table 9.

 Table 8. EPSRC grant panel senior roles (2014-2020).

 Dept     Name               Funder/Panel
 BME      Conway             Director & Chair, Sandpit in Assistive, Adaptive and Rehabilitative
                             Technologies.
                             Panel Chair EPSRC Health Technologies Impact Fellowships-
                             interview panel
                             Panel Chair EPSRC/UKRI Innovation Fellowship Sift Panel
 CEE      Renshaw            Panel member: EPSRC/Korea Civil Nuclear Research Programme
                             Phase 2;
                             Panel member: EPSRC /Japan Civil Nuclear Research Programme
                             Phases 2 & 4;
 EEE      McArthur           Chair EPSRC Panel for the Trustworthy Autonomous Hub programme
          Uttamchandani Chair of EPSRC Engineering Fellowships Interview Panel




                                                                                                Page 39
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 9: UOA12 staff contributions to notable grant awarding committees (excluding EPSRC)

 Dept      Name            Funder/Panel
 BME       Connolly        Royal Academy of Engineering Research Awards Panel
                           Royal Academy of Engineering Newton Fellowships
           Conway          -2019. Chair International Spinal Research Trust Scientific
                           Committee and Panel
                           Deputy Chair, Medical Research Scotland, Research Awards
                           Committee
                           Deputy Chair, Dunhill Medical Trust, Research Grants Committee
                           (chair from 2020)
                           Member (Chair from 2020), Wellcome Trust Programme Advisory
                           Group (Innovation Flagship Programme - budget £300M).
           Gourlay         Panel Member Science Foundation Ireland – Covid19 Response
                           Panel Member, Covid 19 Rapid Response, Chief Scientists Office
                           Scotland
           Reid            Panel Member, Royal Society Grants Panel (Physical Sciences).
           Rowe            Panel Member, Translational Medicine Grants, Chief Scientists
                           Office, Scotland
 DMEM      Rogers          Member of the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship Funding Panel
                           Panel member AHRC
 EEE       Ahmed           Chair and member of award panels at Research Council of Norway`
           Andonovic       Vice-Chair & Panel Member, European Research Council
                           Advanced Fellowships
           Leithead        Member of Royal Society Newton Advanced Fellowships
                           Assessment Panel
           Uttamchandani Member Science Foundation Ireland Grant Awarding Panel
 MAE       Macdonald M     Panel member, UK Space Agency ‘Science Experiments on Sub-
                           Orbital Flights’.
                           Chair, ARIEL (ESA M4 Candidate mission) SPRP Review Panel, UK
                           Space Agency
 NAOME Incecik             Panel member of The Research Council of Norway
                           Panel member of The Research Council of Sweden
           Kolios          Panel member NERC
           Lazakis         Panel Member Royal Society UK Newton Fund research projects
                           Member of grant funding panel of Norway Research Council national
                           projects




                                                                                         Page 40
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                              Member of grant funding panel of The Netherlands Research
                              Council national projects
                              Member of grant funding panel of European Commission Research
                              projects


4.6 Contributions to Conferences and Academic Publications

As part of our strategy to communicate our research in high quality and appropriate publications, we
supported and encouraged leadership in this area. This has resulted in seventy-five staff holding
editorial board appointments, covering 145 titles, with nine having served as Editor-in-Chief for titles
including: Journal of Sound and Vibration (Cartmell), Journal of Engineering Design (Duffy), Ocean
Engineering (Incecik). A further 35 staff report commissions as Guest or Special Edition Editors for
54 peer reviewed journal titles. All staff participate in peer review.

91 staff in UOA12 contributed to the organisation of 300+ conference events as chair or members
of organising committees (representing all Departments and staff grades). 245 of these events were
international, part of a recurring world or international conference series or hosted abroad. 57 staff
were named as conference/session chairs at 141 events over the period. 180 keynote presentations
were delivered from 61 faculty and 29 Plenary Lectures from 14 staff over the census period. A
further 267 invited talks were presented at various conferences from 64 staff.

4.7 Contribution to Economy and Society

Staff who have formed start-up companies or maintain company appointments or advisory roles
include Booth, Niewczas- Synaptec; McArthur- Bellrock Technology; Johnstone- Nautricity; Ault-
Smarter Grid Solutions, Zagnoni- Screenin3D; Shu- Organlike, and we have seen the spin-out
ETS/Silent Herdsman being acquired by Afimilk Ltd. We encourage spin-out and commercialisation
activities through a range of Faculty interventions in terms of authorising staff time in the commercial
ventures and supportive arrangements for laboratory and office accommodation.

Our ability to translate research expertise into impact is demonstrated through Non-Executive
Director (NED) appointments held at the Weir Group, Scottish Power, Scottish Power Energy
Networks, the Offshore Renewable Catapult, the National Physical Laboratory (all McDonald), UK
Space Agency (Macdonald M), the HVMC (Ion) and Maritime Innovations (Vassalos). Vassalos was
also Chairman of the Brookes Bell Group and Delta Marine before stepping down in 2015. At Scottish
Enterprise, McDonald served as a NED to 2016.

Public engagement is part of our commitment to useful learning and our identity as a socially
progressive organisation.

We use ‘Engage with Strathclyde’, an annual week-long event, to allow multiple opportunities for the
public and industry to find out about our research. It also serves as showcase on how we create
benefit for industry, the public and third sectors. We have enjoyed long standing collaborations in
the support of public engagement events and permanent exhibits within the Glasgow Science
Centre, through the annual H2020 funded Glasgow Explorathon. We have also created interest in
engineering from communities with poor access rates to higher education. The “ReallySmallScience”
workshops were inspired by research in nanomaterials (CPE) and consist of hands-on engagement
workshops. The initiative was ‘Highly Commended’ in the Education and Training section of the
IChemE Global Awards (2015), and has been supported by grants from the Royal Society of
Chemistry (Outreach Funding, 2016-19, £15K), RAEng Ingenious Funding scheme (2013-20, £60K)

                                                                                               Page 41
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and has been replicated by City University New York, the SENA National Training Service
(Colombia) and the Universidad Católica de Temuco (Chile).

Significant public talks have included the 2014 BBC-TV Royal Institution Christmas Lecture by Haas
(EEE) and a TED Global Talk by Haas in 2015, “Forget Wi-Fi: Meet the New Li-Fi Internet” (2.8M
views).

4.10 Impactful Research not Recorded in Impact Case Studies

Supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals

Through embedded collaborations in Malawi, research led by CEE and funded by the Scottish
Government Climate Justice Fund and others (https://www.gov.scot/publications/scottish-
government-contribution-international-development-report-2018-19/pages/13/) has led to improving
infrastructure, planning and management of water sources throughout the country. Through
development of a Malawi National Management Information System for water, resilience and access
to clean water has improved. Public health has been safeguarded by contributions in creating an
Integrated Water Resources Management Policy through rapid remediation of at risk or
contaminated water supplies. An example of impact from this work was the ability in 2019 to prevent
a major cholera outbreak (https://www.gov.scot/news/disasters-emergency-committee-appeal) in
response to a major flood disaster resulting from Cyclone Idai.

Also in Malawi, CEE together with the University of Malawi Polytechnic, Government ministries,
WaterAid, UNICEF and others (https://www.strath.ac.uk/malawi/projects/chikwawaproject/)
concluded important trials of an environmental hygiene intervention involving 1000 households
yielding a 62% reduction in diarrhoeal disease and a 51% reduction in respiratory infections in
children under five. Based on this outcome the public health intervention and training method is now
implemented through national public health policy and campaigns. Current estimates predict the
success of this work contributes to 250000 fewer diarrhoea cases in under-fives at any given time.
In the last year the impact has expanded through adoption within the Malawi government’s COVID
prevention strategy and through community health programmes of major NGOs including Pump Aid
and Water Aid (https://www.pumpaid.org/covid-19-response/).

Research quantifying and raising awareness on the environmental and health damage stemming
from unregulated ship recycling in LMICs has generated impact such as the introduction of UN
adopted green ship-recycling regulations and European certification requirements (see
https://www.imo.org/en/OurWork/Environment/Pages/Ship-Recycling.aspx). In turn, this has
enabled researchers from NAOME to support the ship-recycling industry in Spain and Turkey
improve worker safety, efficiency and reduce pollution. By developing a culture of health and safety
management and worker training, NAOME in collaboration with the Bangladesh ship recycling
industry, has assisted yards achieve the international standards necessary to access international
contracts thereby maintaining local work economies, reducing child labour and critically improving
worker life-expectancy whilst reducing the toxic environmental impact of unregulated yards. The
Bangladesh ship recycling industry is now better placed to maintain employment of over 100,000
people, is close to self-sufficiency in steel requirements and generates foreign currency in excess of
£500 million per year.

Our expertise on environmental disaster prevention (CEE) was called upon following the MV
Wakashio breaching off Mauritius (July 2020) helping to protect important wildlife sanctuaries and
coastal regions from a potential 4000 tonne oil spill (https://digit.fyi/glasgow-scientists-use-data-
modelling-to-tackle-the-mauritius-oil-spill/). The work in collaboration with the Mauritian IEEE and
NGOs used rapid predictive modelling and advice on oil-boom construction and deployment

                                                                                             Page 42
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
contributed to minimise the environmental impact of the spill, protecting the sensitive coastal
ecosystem and economy of the region.

CEE and partners (10.1016/j.jhazmat.2013.11.053) contributed scale-up and successful
commercialisation of a laboratory based combustion land remediation technology: Self-sustaining
Treatment for Active Remediation (STAR https://www.savronsolutions.com/star/). Commercialized
by licence to Savron Solutions, STAR achieves 99.9+% destruction of contaminants to soil depths
of 11m reclaiming viable land use at cost savings over alternate approaches. In 2017, the Savron
project team were presented with American Academy of Environmental Engineers and Scientists
Superior Award for “the Evolution of STAR from Laboratory Concept to Full-Scale In Situ
Implementation” acknowledging the collaboration from Strathclyde in achieving restoration and
reuse      of   multiple     toxic    industrial   sites    (https://www.savronsolutions.com/wp-
content/uploads/2019/09/savron-case-study-in-situ-former-site-nj-2019.pdf).

Through research focused on the fundamentals of materials by DMEM and AFRC a foundational
body of research, termed the AFRC Validation Cycle, has been applied to design manufacturing
processes to maximise material strength and durability of manufactured parts. By enhancing
resource efficiency and product resilience, research on behalf of industry has created new
intellectual property and enabled more than 25 organisations including multinationals (Rolls-Royce
and Boeing), manufacturing SMEs and social enterprises to improve their products, profitability and
intellectual property rights
(https://www.strath.ac.uk/research/advancedformingresearchcentre/whatwedo/industrycasestudies
/). The successes achieved through the AFRC were central to the Scottish Government’s investment
of £75M toward NMIS and AMIDS (https://www.gov.scot/news/national-manufacturing-institute-for-
scotland/).

Synaptec, formed in 2014, protects power system infrastructure through novel optical sensing and
has created high value employment, achieved multiple awards form UK Energy Innovation, secured
significant investment for growth and is deploying its technology across high- and low-income
economies. With technology that enables real-time analysis of energy networks, Synaptec is
partnering globally with system operators and renewable developers to save costs and maintain grid
supply at a time where the complexity of energy supply creates a high outage risks
(https://synapt.ec/applications).

Embedded Technology Solutions (ETS) has pioneered the introduction of wearable technology in
the agri-tech arena. Through the development of an Internet-of-Things inspired decision support
platform to optimise animal husbandry within dairy farms research in collaboration with Scottish
Agricultural College and The Royal Dick School of Veterinary Studies resulted in ETS achieving a
£3M investment in 2014 to market the technology (Silent Herdsman). This wireless sensing collar
provides monitoring of multiple animal health indicators and the machine learning capabilities assist
farmers to maximize productivity through increased milk yield, improved animal welfare, reproduction
success and reduced operating costs. Acquired by Afimilk Ltd in 2016 (https://agfundernews.com/vc-
backed-uk-dairy-technology-silent-herdsman-acquired-by-israels-afimilk5382.html) and now sold
globally (https://www.afimilk.com/cow-monitoring) Silent Herdsman has been central in stimulating
investment in precision farming through the adoption of Internet-of-Things technologies within the
Agri-food sector, and helping farms achieve the highest standards of welfare for their animals.




                                                                                            Page 43
