Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Oxford

 Unit of Assessment: 27 English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Overview
 The Oxford English Faculty’s research embraces language and literature from the 7 th-
 century to ‘global English’ today. This historic and geographic range within a large and
 increasingly interdisciplinary research community (116 FTE) underpins delivery of our
 mission to advance and enliven critical understanding of the long development of
 literatures and languages in the British Isles and of English globally, lending fresh
 perspectives on emergent possibilities for English Studies. We have identified 6
 replacement permanent posts (including one senior professorship) to focus on English
 transculturally in different periods, and made 7 further strategic appointments (3 at senior-
 professorial level) with an eye to improving our linguistic and geographic diversity and
 building interdisciplinary capacity with digital humanities, legal history, performance studies,
 philosophy, and visual culture. External grants have boosted postdoctoral numbers, funding
 45 early career researchers since 2014 in addition to 40 ECRs funded by colleges. Most
 progress to further academic employment. As a first employer, in most cases, for these
 researchers and a training centre for up to 160 doctoral students at any one time, our aim
 is to ensure that they deploy their critical training in contemporary debates within and
 beyond the academy and contribute to education and culture on a variety of scales, local to
 international. We work within a flourishing network of university support for scholarship and
 public engagement, including The Oxford Centre for the Humanities (TORCH), GLAM
 (Gardens, Libraries and Museums), and the Rothermere American Institute. In keeping with
 the University’s mission, advancement of learning by teaching and research, and its
 dissemination by every means, we invest time and financial resource in print and digital
 publications, including free Online Educational Resources. We collaborate, to our mutual
 benefit, with cultural institutions including galleries, museums, theatres, and heritage
 organizations in the UK, Europe, and further afield. Over this REF period strong links have
 developed with researchers in Belgium, Germany, India, and South Africa.


    Oxford English in numbers

    122 researchers (116 FTE)
    ECR staff at census date: 20
    Total postdoctoral researchers, 2014-20: 85. Externally funded: 45
    Average doctoral cohort: 129
    Average annual external research income: £1.8m p.a.

    Volume of Research Outputs submitted: 295. 103 monographs/critical editions; 18
    edited volumes; 30 chapters in books; 59 articles (31 subject to OA)

    Cf. 2014: 74 monographs/critical editions; 3 edited vols; 258 articles from 87.79FTE

    Impact Case Studies: 9

 STRATEGIC AIMS FOR RESEARCH AND IMPACT
 The Faculty’s priorities in the period have been to ensure renewal of the subject in line with
 the evolving study of English and to improve our research productivity. We have also
 prioritised enhancements in how we communicate the breadth of our research to audiences
 within and beyond the university sector. Specifically, we have aimed: to deepen our
 attention to the diversity and complexity of English and related cultures across the historic
 range of our research; to grow our capacity for interdisciplinarity; to release academic time
 for research/scholarship; to communicate our work with clarity in and beyond the university;


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to extend the diversity of research within our Open Educational Resource (OER) provision;
 and to embed systems and opportunities for innovation.

 Development and delivery of the strategy: Three major review processes helped steer
 the articulation of these goals over the REF period.

 (1) A Divisional review in 2016, with external members from Columbia University, UC
 Berkeley, and Southampton, offered a formal assessment of our research activity over the
 past ten years, the 2014 REF performance included.

 (2) A subsequent faculty-wide consultation, inclusive of college staff, guided enactment of
 the review recommendations, producing a more refined strategic vision and setting the
 specific priorities for 2019-2024.

 (3) This internal consultation was informed at every stage by an Athena Swan submission
 for the Bronze award, which led us to revise our processes around graduate funding and
 career progression.

 As a result of this process, attention to linguistic and cultural diversity across the
 historic and geographic range of English has from 2017 been a priority reflected in
 appointments criteria—giving greater strategic clarity to our REF2014 emphasis on
 historical coverage. (See Section 2.)

 Much of the achieved growth in our capacity for interdisciplinary research has been at
 the early career end of our operations, coming through success with large external grants
 and doctoral training partnerships led by experienced scholars. We have seen a marked
 influx of postdoctoral researchers in literature and medicine (7 postdocs, 1 doctoral
 researcher), literature and history of science (3 postdocs, 1 part-time graduate researcher),
 digital humanities (5 postdocs), and literature and history of travel, race, and immigration (3
 postdocs, 2 doctoral researchers).

 During the REF period the UOA developed effective and equitable processes to support
 academic staff running large projects and managing research grants teams which were
 brought fully into operation by 2019. We have made serious efforts in this REF period to
 develop an effective and equitable process for the release of academic staff time for
 research/scholarship. A workload model was trialled within the Faculty in 2018, brought
 into full use in 2019. .

 In order to communicate our vision and goals with clarity, we created a part-time post
 in 2018 (initially 0.4 FTE, rising to 0.6 FTE) for a Communications Officer. The holders
 have made significant progress through regular maintenance of our websites and social
 media, introduction of an annual e-magazine for alumni and termly newsletter from the
 Chair of Faculty Board to all staff.

 Considerable investment has been made in extending the diversity of the research
 featured within our Open Educational Resource provision. From 2016/17, the Great
 Writers Inspire website, featured in a 2014 Impact Case Study (ICS), has been joined by a
 Writers Make Worlds (WMW) companion site, supported by institutional and Faculty
 strategic funding. WMW adds resources on Black and Asian British authors, with new
 critical commentaries and original videos of writers in conversation. ICS 05 details its
 success in connecting research on contemporary BAME writing to audiences beyond the
 university and assisting school curriculum development.

 A recently appointed Director of Innovation (started 2019) has led on embedding systems
 and opportunities for innovation, connecting the Faculty into financial, advisory, and
 technical support available from the central university for digital innovation and potential
 commercial developments. The first occupant of the role (A. Williams) represents the

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Faculty on the planning committee for Oxford’s new Schwarzman Centre for Humanities
 (Section 3).

 STRUCTURE
 Structure of Research in the Faculty
 We support research and impact within the Faculty through leadership from a Director of
 Research, Research Committee, and Director of Doctoral Studies. All senior professors
 with responsibility for their subject areas serve on Research Committee, alongside ECR,
 doctoral and postholder representatives. The Committee encourages a cohesive sense of
 research community in an institution where, by virtue of scale, very diverse work is
 pursued. Its remit entails mentoring individual research careers, assisting development of
 individual and collective projects, encouraging and guiding bids for funding, enabling Public
 Engagement with Research (PER), generating innovation projects, and maintaining close
 collaborative relations with TORCH and GLAM institutions. All major and most minor
 funding bids are reviewed by the Director of Research, working with our designated
 Humanities Division Research Facilitator (calling on Committee expertise where needed).
 The Division also provides Impact support.

 Representation up through the levels of the university research structure enables the
 Faculty to attune quickly to changes in the institutional, national, and international
 environment for research. The Faculty’s Director of Research sits ex officio on the
 Divisional Research Committee. In addition to assessing competitive bids to the
 University’s John Fell Fund (a crucial pump-priming source) and Wellcome Institutional
 Strategic Support Fund (ISSF), the Divisional Committee is where policy around
 Knowledge Exchange (KE) and PER is shaped. The Faculty has provided two KE
 Champions to the Division—A. Williams, 2013-15, Shepherd-Barr, 2015-18. Williams sat
 on the University Fell Fund Committee 2015-18, as did Beasley 2018-20. We saw material
 benefits from increased interaction with the central research-support teams over this
 period in a significant uplift in internal university funding for research (Section 3), enhanced
 activity with external culture and heritage institutions, and promising early-stage
 developments of Innovation projects. Improved integration runs all the way up through the
 University’s research support structures: the University Research and Innovation
 Committee has had representation from English throughout this period, with Small
 representing the University Council and sitting on the REF Project Board. Handover
 planning for senior Faculty roles (2021-2) aims at ensuring continuity.

 Externally funded research projects developed through the Research Committee and with the
 Research Facilitator have promoted a thriving interdisciplinary culture supporting multiple
 research themes across the Faculty's period and subject range. Since 2014 five major
 research projects have been led from English, employing 18 full-time and 2 part-time
 postdoctoral researchers and funding 3 DPhil studentships (also 1 doctoral studentship at the
 University of Leicester). They are: Diseases of Modern Life (ERC) (EUR2,362,659) and
 Constructing Scientific Communities (ConSciCom) (AHRC) (GBP1,572,192), both led by
 Shuttleworth, 2014-19; Towards a New Edition of the Wycliffite Bible (AHRC) (GBP671,063),
 led by Solopova, 2016-20, growing out of a Leverhulme collaboration with Hudson, 2012-2015;
 and the Consolidated Library of Anglo-Saxon Poetry - CLASP (ERC Horizon 2020)
 (EUR2,443,640), led by Orchard, 2016- (ongoing). TIDE (Travel, Transculturality & Identity in
 England, 1550-1700) (ERC) (EUR1,998, 519) (2016- ), transferred to Oxford from Liverpool,
 2019, with N. Das, PI (transfer-in value: EUR973,380.39). A faculty culture of celebrating smaller
 grant successes have helped to spread the benefits of externally funded research leave,
 postdoctoral appointments and research assistance across the unit’s staffing (detailed Sections
 2 and 3).




                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Interactions with Internal Research Bodies
 TORCH. Close involvement with The Oxford Research Centre for the Humanities (see
 Institutional Environment Statement) has been the single biggest internal factor enabling
 expansion of interdisciplinary research. Integration of TORCH and Faculty strategy has
 been aided by representation within the Centre’s governance team: Boehmer acted as
 Director, 2015-17, and Shepherd-Barr as Acting Director for a term, 2017. We have
 provided a member of the Management Board (Small), the 2 Knowledge Exchange (KE)
 champions mentioned above, 14 KE Fellows (Ballaster, Romaine, Smith, Horobin, Stern,
 McLoughlin, Ratcliffe, Smyth, Riach, Turner, Evangelista, Jones, and Palfrey twice), and 1
 postdoctoral ECR rep, 2018-19 (Din-Kariuki). KE Fellowships have supported
 collaborative exchanges with local and regional bodies (e.g. an art studio, the Oxford
 Quaker Meeting, schools, an art charity empowering disabled and disadvantaged children,
 and Age UK Oxfordshire) plus some further afield (Shandy Hall in North Yorkshire, the
 Hidden Room Theatre, Austin Texas).

 English has played a role in all the long-term programmes running since TORCH’s
 inception in 2013: Dance Scholarship Oxford, Digital Humanities, Environmental
 Humanities, Heritage, Humanities and Performance, Medical Humanities, and Race and
 Resistance. Numerous Faculty members have been involved with networks, including
 Queer Studies and Oxford Comics. Under Boehmer’s direction, TORCH expanded and
 deepened its interface with the Global South (South Asia, Brazil, Ghana, the Caribbean,
 southern Africa) through a visiting professor programme—placed on a permanent footing
 with All Souls support from 2020. The new connections increased diversity in teaching
 and research and helped the Faculty’s engagement with the range of Black British
 and British Asian writing, via initiatives including Writers Make Worlds.

 Three interdisciplinary areas have experienced strongest growth with TORCH facilitation: i)
 Medical Humanities; ii) Environmental Humanities; iii) Theatre and Performance Studies.

 i). The ‘Medical Humanities’ and ‘Humanities and Healthcare’ groups have interwoven
 research in English, Theology, History of Medicine, and Anthropology, incubating
 relationships with medical partners which fed back into a new Humanities curriculum for
 all Oxford medical undergraduates. From 2011-18 Maguire co-convened with Friend,
 Professor of Transplantation, a fortnightly cross-Divisional Literature and Medicine seminar
 series. In 2017 they founded an annual residential summer school for undergraduate and
 postgraduate students studying medicine and/or interested in interdisciplinarity. Maguire is
 co-founder and convenor of an annual Forum for Medicine and Theatre in Practice,
 partnered with the Globe Theatre (ICS 01). Ratcliffe took the lead on literary workshops
 and forums for NHS professionals from 2014 (ongoing). Collaborating with primary care
 networks nationwide, the workshops address continuing professional development needs
 and the problem of burnout. Medical Humanities initiatives by the Diseases of Modern Life
 project, also TORCH assisted, are described in ICS 02.

 ii). English has been at the fore of the Environmental Humanities (EH) programme, chaired by
 Stafford since 2018, with Davidson on its cross-disciplinary Steering Committee. The
 programme works closely with the Oxford/National Trust Partnership. Stafford contributed to the
 Oxford/NT People’s Landscape podcast series and co-convened a NT Partnership Conference
 on ‘Post-Conflict Landscape’ (2019). EH’s collaborations with the Oxford Heritage Network
 include workshops with the RHS on historic gardens and the Met Office on historic weather
 events. See ICS 09.

 iii). Growth in performance and practice-based theatre studies reflects the importance of
 TORCH support for work with theatres. Shepherd-Barr used her time as KE Champion and
 Acting Director to drive key initiatives. As co-lead (with Curtis, Modern Languages) of the
 AHRC Cultural Engagement project 'Connecting Oxfordshire Theatres with Research', she
 assisted thirteen regional collaborations. She established three TORCH networks with a
 theatre focus: 1) the Ibsen Phenomenon network; 2) Nordic network; and 3) Theatre and

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Performance network. A distinctive area of concentration is Dance Scholarship Oxford, led
 by Jones: an international forum for researchers and practitioners of dance/choreographic
 history, theory, and performance drawing in literature, music, art history, philosophy,
 anthropology, and neuroscience.

 GLAM (Gardens, Libraries and Museums) have had senior-level support from English
 throughout this period, with E. Smith a Curator of the University Libraries, O’Brien on the Board
 of Visitors overseeing Ashmolean Museum operations, Horobin and Johnston serving on the
 Museum of Natural History and Pitt Rivers Museum boards, and Shuttleworth and Stafford on
 the Board of the Botanic Gardens. Collectively we work in constant partnership with
 the Bodleian Libraries, assisting preservation and interpretation of collections. The
 Bodleian’s Centre for the Study of the Book, as described in 2014, curates research events
 supporting book and manuscript history and since 2015 has provided a dedicated space for
 Visiting Fellows working in Special Collections. The Centre hosts the inter-Faculty Palaeography
 Committee’s graduate masterclasses in handwriting and manuscript studies (led by Wakelin and
 the Collections curator). Our researchers’ contribution to the library’s public engagement is
 highlighted by six major research-based exhibitions for the main exhibition space of the Weston
 Library: ‘Shakespeare’s Dead’ (2016), curated by Smith and Palfrey (ICS 01), ‘Which Jane
 Austen?’ (2017), curated by Sutherland, ‘Designing English’ (2017-18), led by Wakelin (ICS
 03), ‘The Language of Advertising’ (2019), curated by Mugglestone. Bennett assisted the
 2019-20 exhibition on ‘Thinking 3D: Leonardo to the Present’, presenting books from John
 Aubrey’s library. The latest curatorial project is ‘Sensational Books’ (2020; on hold through
 Covid), a collaborative venture between Smith and Rudy (St Andrews) exploring how the book
 engages senses beyond sight. Further smaller exhibitions have brought Faculty expertise to
 wide attention, most recently ‘Meet the Edgeworths’, curated by Ballaster (2019).

 The faculty has helped drive the development of four funded projects with GLAM. The
 longest-running is Cultures of Knowledge, a collaboration between the Bodleian and
 Oxford e-Research Centre, led from History, electronically reassembling Early Modern
 correspondence networks. Morison’s Herbaria is a collaboration between the Botanic
 Garden, Herbaria, Ashmolean, Bodleian, OUP, and Centre for Digital Scholarship, studying
 and digitally imaging the Morison copperplates alongside early prints and original plant
 specimens. Chromotope is an ERC-funded Consolidator Grant project (2018-), led by
 Ribeyrol of the Sorbonne, working with Evangelista, TORCH, and an Ashmolean
 Conservation team to explore the cultural impact of scientific approaches to colour in the
 late-19C. The Faculty received John Fell funding in 2020 to establish a Digital Fair (post-
 lockdown) aimed at increasing the visibility of existing datasets and stimulating new
 research.

 Several Faculty members, including Perkins, Williams, Sutherland and Gerrard, have
 worked with Ashmolean collections and their curators to develop innovative exhibition
 forms such as the digital platform 'Cabinet', which provides annotated 3D rotatable images
 of museum artefacts, enhancing ability to undertake remote primary research in 18C
 popular literature, consumer taste and material culture.

 English collaborates closely with the Rothermere American Institute, shaping the environment
 for studying American culture. Two members of Faculty have served as Deputy Director and
 Director of Academic Studies in the REF period (Mendelssohn, 2015-17; Stubbs 2017-20).
 Roynon, Bayley and Malkin have held senior fellowships; Setz an Associate Fellowship. A. Kelly
 was a Junior Research Fellow, 2016-19, and led on academic direction part-time through later
 2020. Key initiatives focusing on race and gender equality were: Reflections on the Obamas,
 the James Baldwin Reading Group (studying influential African American writers of the 20C) and
 Intersectional Feminisms (a reading group examining how women’s issues intersect with
 economic and racial justice). Each year, two DPhil students in English have received fourth-year
 scholarships at the RAI and helped to run the American Literature seminars. A public-facing
 series, ‘RAI Live’, provoked interdisciplinary conversations with the wider Oxford community,
 including a literary speakeasy to coincide with the Ashmolean’s ‘American Cool’ exhibition.

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 English researchers steered the popular ‘American fiction book club’, and, during lockdown,
 a New Yorker short fiction online book club.

 Digital Humanities@Oxford (DH), led by the Humanities Division, has supported several
 major projects through an extensive network of expertise (Bodleian Library, IT Services,
 and the Oxford e Research Centre). Faculty-led projects have progressed apace in areas
 such as increasing access to primary research material (Wycliffite Bible), using technology
 to analyse large textual corpora (CLASP), and engaging the public with research through
 social media (e.g. ConSciCom, Great Writers Inspire, Writers Make Worlds,
 #OwenLastDays). The Faculty is involved in development of DH via central services
 (Bodleian Library, Humanities Division, IT Services), inputting into decisions about support
 in the Schwarzman Centre.

 We enjoy active working relations with Ertegun House, the private foundation housing
 Ertegun Graduate Scholars in the Humanities and fostering dialogue across academic
 disciplines, often sharing resources with TORCH. Lewis was Director, 2016-17, instigating
 termly ‘Conversations’ with major writers (podcasts are archived on Oxford iTunes).

 Centres
 The Faculty is home to 5 centres fostering cross-departmental research. Each has its own
 identity; all have succeeded in securing sustainable financing; two disburse grants to assist
 doctoral study.

 The longest established is the Centre for Early Modern Studies or CEMS, founded by
 Norbrook and revived by Hutson on her arrival. Its fortnightly research seminars and annual
 funding competition for Oxford-based events provide central support for staff and students from
 English and other disciplines. Its online presence ensures wider impact. The CEMS website was
 redesigned in 2017, and funding secured in 2018-19 for a paid postgraduate coordinator who
 keeps publication announcements and events notifications up-to-date. With at least 500 visitors
 a month and 2833 Twitter followers, it is now a ‘go-to’ site for UK-based Early Modernists
 (advertising 195 different events across 34 programmes in 2017/18). It has increased the
 accessibility of college events to those beyond Oxford, including publishers, agents and visiting
 academics.

 The Oxford Centre for Life Writing at Wolfson College, briefly described in 2014, has
 become securely established. An influential institutional base for promotion and study of
 creative biography, it draws writer-practitioners into discussion with critics and historians,
 attracting high levels of public participation in its seminars, conferences, and workshops. A
 significant number of outputs submitted to the REF represent the growth of life-writing
 across the unit, with welcome public recognition for quality (Prizes, Section 2). The vitality
 of PER in this area is reflected in two ICSs (06 and 09). In 2018 the Faculty signed an
 agreement with OCLW to make joint grant applications and plan activities that open up
 development opportunities.

 In 2014 we noted an ambition to create inter-disciplinary centres for Medieval Studies
 and Comparative Literature. Both have been realised on a cross-Faculty basis.

 Oxford Medieval Studies (OMS) has grown into the largest forum in the English-speaking world
 for interdisciplinary research on the Middle Ages. Hosted by TORCH, co-led from Modern
 Languages (Lähnemann) and English (Leneghan, then M. Williams), it has been instrumental to
 developing expertise from codicology and archaeology to medievalism and film, organising
 termly lectures and generating successful funding bids. The OxMedStud Twitter account has
 3,593 followers (often retweeting the Faculty’s @MedEngOxon account, 3,839 followers). Both
 have much wider reach, feeding into the keenly active medieval Twitter scene. The OMS Small
 Grants scheme supports graduate-student and ECR-led events, including conferences,
 symposia, workshops, exhibitions and performances across the University. The latest termly
 booklet for Medieval Studies had 800 downloads.

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Oxford Comparative Criticism and Translation Research Centre (OCCT), chaired
 by Reynolds, has established itself as a leading global centre for comparative literature and
 translation studies. Its weekly newsletter has 2,700 subscribers (a significant proportion
 from North America and East Asia); its website had 11,000 unique users in 2019 alone. In
 2018-19 OCCT joined research centres from the Universities of Chile, Western Cape and
 California Irvine to form a CHCI [Consortium of Humanities Centers and Institutes]- Mellon
 funded Global Humanities Institute on ‘The Challenges of Translation’. Other international
 collaborations have been with Stanford and Ben-Gurion University of the Negev and with
 Metabolic Studio Los Angeles and Palermo. A key project since 2016 has been the AHRC-
 funded ‘Prismatic Translation’, with Reynolds leading a global team of 40 researchers (see
 ICS 08). The Centre holds several seminars each term and a conference (roughly annual,
 attendance about 50). OOCT edits a book series, Transcript, with Legenda (24 titles to
 date), publishes OCCT Review (an online postgraduate-edited book-review journal) and
 runs Oxford Translation Day, a public-facing literary festival each June (attendance c. 120).

 One entirely new centre has been started. The development of OCTET, the Oxford Centre
 for Textual Editing and Theory, established 2017, is a cornerstone ‘Innovation’ element
 in the Faculty’s Strategic Plan (2019-2024)—a key aim being to secure starter funding for
 activities that may generate larger grants enabling collaborative research within the unit
 and beyond. OCTET reflects the critical mass of Oxford researchers working in scholarly
 and print editing, including in Modern Languages and History. Appointment of Van Hulle to
 the Professorship of Bibliography in 2019 enhanced the digital dimension. Taking over the
 Directorship from Perry, he is pursuing post-lockdown opportunities for digital editing
 conferences and graduate training workshops in association with a team at the University
 of Antwerp (see Section 2) with a University Memorandum of Understanding formalising
 this relationship. It is a timely moment to grow OCTET in conjunction with Divisional plans
 for a Masters in Digital Humanities and success in securing major strategic funding
 (GBP2.4 million) to drive digital innovation and open scholarship at Oxford.

 Clusters
 The ‘Cluster’ terminology employed in our 2014 return designated areas of cross-period
 research collaboration that are not dedicated foci of undergraduate or graduate teaching
 and do not as yet have secure funding streams. We identified three in 2013/14: Medical
 Humanities, Life Writing, and Cognitive Criticism. With the first now supported within
 TORCH, and the second established as a Centre, Cognitive Criticism and (a new grouping)
 Writing War are currently the two clearest areas of activity without a sustained income
 source but with identified potential to attract it.

 Cognitive Criticism has developed on a cross-disciplinary basis with Modern Languages
 and Sociology, supported by two colleges. St John’s College provided funding to 2015 for
 Terence Cave’s ‘Literature as an Object of Knowledge’ (LOK) project, initially funded by the
 Balzan Foundation (to 2013). The research group consisted of Cave, 2 postdoctoral
 researchers from English (O. Smith, now Wellcome Trust Research Fellow at Wolfson
 College and Kukkonen, now at Oslo) and 5 from other universities. The Calleva Research
 Centre at Magdalen College funded a three-year Cognitive Criticism project ‘Adults at
 Play(s)’, 2014-17. Maguire, Duncan and Teasdale (English/Psychology) collaborated with
 researchers from Classics and Psychology, focusing on the problems of why, and how far,
 we respond emotionally to fictional stories as though they were real, and in what sense we
 take ‘pleasure’ in tragedy (see ICS 01).

 Writing War reflects the cross-period interests of 12 members of Faculty and 5 current doctoral
 students in the language and literature of war. Curated by McLoughlin, its website provided a
 platform for her ‘Post-War: Commemoration, Reconstruction, Reconciliation’ Mellon-Sawyer
 seminars 2017-18 (see ICS 07). The website drives traffic toward: two major digital archiving
 projects led by Lee (the First World War Poetry Digital Archive and World War I Centenary:
 Continuations and Beginnings websites); the #OwenLastDays campaign (also Lee);
 Mugglestone’s lexicographic project English Words in Wartime (a research-in-progress blog,

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 subsequently supported by a Leverhulme Research Fellowship); and a creative venture by
 Stafford, The Dimlight Hours—a play inspired by the diary of her great-grandmother.

 Colleges make important contributions to the research infrastructure for English, especially
 in support for creative writing and visiting researchers. Indicatively: All Souls has
 expanded its research presence in English, with S. Das’s appointment as the second
 permanent Fellow in English alongside two prize Fellows (doctoral and post-doctoral), one
 Junior Research Fellow (Bryant), a ‘Fifty Pound’ Fellow (novelist Katherine Rundell), and
 Distinguished Fellow Marina Warner. Tower Poetry’s activities at Christ Church focus on
 encouraging poetry writing in schools, but its publishing activities and support for creative
 endeavours in poetry (led by McDonald) make a major contribution to the environment for
 poetry writing. Keble College has supported termly readings by poets (audiences c. 100-
 120); also a fortnightly poetry reading group and a termly seminar on ‘The Poet’s Essay’
 with Adam Phillips. Merton College established a Visiting Research Fellowship in the
 Creative Arts in 2017, promoting synergies between academic and creative writing.

 Period and Subject groupings For the purposes of doctoral training and maintaining the
 strength of specialist work across our range, the key research groupings (with some minor
 relabelling) continue to be: Medieval (including Old English and Old Norse), Early Modern,
 18C and Romantic (increasingly joined for research training purposes), Victorian, Modern
 and Contemporary, American, Postcolonial and World literatures in English, Language and
 Linguistics. Details of their main areas of concentration, activities, and events are available
 on the Faculty’s ‘Research’ web pages. Though new appointments have made significant
 differences, especially to Medieval and American studies (see Section 2), the structural
 function of the groupings remains unchanged since 2014. For that reason they are not
 described in detail. Bi-weekly research seminars are a long-standing strength of this
 system, bringing together researchers to hear about developments in each field and
 hosting speakers from around the world. 9 subject-seminars have been active throughout
 the period, moving online during the pandemic.

 IMPACT STRATEGY
 Impact was the strongest element of the Faculty’s submission in 2014, building on long-
 standing public engagement, good working relations with schools, and collaborations with
 libraries, museums and theatres in Oxford, across the UK, and to some extent globally (the
 US to the fore). Strategic oversight rests with the Director of Research and Research
 Facilitator, who review the impact elements of all external grant applications. Much of what
 is achieved is facilitated through TORCH, GLAM, and the Rothermere American Institute,
 greatly enhancing our capacity for identifying Impact partners and generating Public
 Engagement. In the current REF cycle we have focused on establishing relationships with
 new collaborator institutions (including the Natural History Museum, London; Chipping
 Norton Theatre; and Mount Stuart House, Isle of Bute) and building capacity through
 gradual progression from seed funding to larger scale enterprises (e.g. ICS nos. 01, 04,
 05).

 We have capitalised on the outward-facing culture that has characterised the Faculty over
 many decades. Our researchers feature regularly in the national and international press, on
 radio and television, called on to address specialist subjects and provide informed
 responses to topics in the news. Colleagues with strong media profiles include Ashe, Bate,
 Boehmer, N. Das, S. Das, Emre, Horobin, Larrington, Lee, Maguire, Mugglestone, Purkiss,
 Shepherd-Barr, Shuttleworth, Smith, Stafford, Turner, Van Es, A. Williams. Many review
 regularly for newspapers and the general literary press, including Burrow, Douglas-
 Fairhurst, and Perry. They and others help to shape the public conversation around
 historical and contemporary language use, particular works of literature, and achievements
 of specific writers (e.g. Horobin on the Oxford dictionaries’ ‘word of the year’; Bate on Ted
 Hughes; Lee on Stoppard). We have asked experienced broadcasters to act as mentors
 to doctoral, postdoctoral or early career researchers wanting to develop their skills (see
 Section 2). Postdoctoral researchers on large funded projects have had built-in impact

                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mentoring from the PI (e.g. Shuttleworth provided public speaking guidance and N. Das
 media engagement training prior to BBC involvements), with professional media training
 accessed through the Division.

 The track-record of success in the annual AHRC/BBC New Generation Thinkers
 competition has continued. Four early career researchers proactively engaged with the
 scheme: Abberley, 2014 (now Sussex); Murray, 2015 (Cambridge); Lybeck, 2017
 (Liverpool); Mullen, 2018 (Cambridge). The training has enhanced their ability to contribute
 to high quality broadcasting and will assist impact across their research careers.

 Since REF2014 impact and engagement support across the unit of assessment has
 been enhanced by Divisional appointments: a dedicated Heritage Engagement
 Fellow (2016), an Impact & Evaluation Officer (2017), and a National Trust
 Partnership Lead (2018). Individually and collectively their expertise has increased our
 ability to generate and sustain productive collaborations. This is especially true for KE and
 PER partnerships with the heritage sector (public and private), creative industries, schools,
 charitable organisations, and government. The influence can be seen across our case
 study portfolio. The choice to submit two case studies focused on Shuttleworth’s research
 teams reflects the scale of funding behind them, but their capacity to develop impact routes
 beyond institutional collaborations identified in the initial grant applications has been
 substantially enhanced via Divisional support structures, including event-specific impact
 tracking.

 With help from the Divisional Research Facilitation team, several John Fell funded ‘Major
 Project’ grants (fostering ‘creativity and a proactive approach to research
 opportunities’) generated Impact-focused grants further down the line: e.g. the
 funding of Reynolds’s work with schools in 2014 led to the Co-I role in the major AHRC
 grant supporting his ICS, and then to an AHRC Follow-On Funding bid under
 consideration. Similarly, Evangelista’s 2016 project on cosmopolitanism led to an AHRC
 Network Grant 2017, then AHRC Follow-On funding 2020. TORCH KE Fellowships have
 pump-primed bids for larger research grants with Impact planned alongside the core
 scholarly undertaking: e.g. McLoughlin’s work with the Oxford Quaker Meeting, 2015-16
 generated a successful Major Leverhulme Fellowship, starting 2019, for a literary history of
 silence with new European impacts now emerging (Section 3); Ratcliffe’s work with
 Compton Verney, 2015-16 generated a BA Mid-Career Grant application (September 2020)
 which, if successful, will build on her experience at Compton Verney to collaborate with a
 range of institutions exploring the affective dimensions of library use.

 Collaborative doctoral awards have helped to facilitate exchanges outside academia:
 current collaborators are Royal and Derngate Theatre, Northampton (supervisor Ballaster),
 Chipping Norton theatre (Shepherd-Barr), Wrest Park (Gerrard), the Geffrye Museum, London
 (A. Williams).

 Our sense of our primary beneficiaries (featured in the ICSs and extending well beyond
 that selection) shows continuities with 2014 plus some key developments:

 (a) we continue to provide substantial benefits to schoolteachers and students. Nuttall
 reviewed the content and presentation of Great Writers Inspire and made
 recommendations with respect to beneficiary needs—improving our understanding of our
 OER users (see Section 4). Building on the success of the Great War Archive project,
 described in 2014, Lee enhanced our engagement with social media as a route to
 impact in schools: his #OwenLastDays campaign boosted usage, with Twitter
 ‘impressions’ for @ww1lit hitting 122,800 (average 7,600 per day). The First World War
 Poetry Digital Archive saw particularly dramatic growth in traffic, with users (mainly UK)
 increasing from 6,048 in 2017 to 14,016 in 2018.



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (b) we have advanced our ability to identify and build productive collaborations with
 cultural institutions in the Oxfordshire area and beyond who can benefit from our
 research. New connections with theatres (noted above) have enhanced our impact on
 interpretation, performance and reception of theatre and dance. Indicatively: Ballaster’s KE
 Fellowship with the Royal and Derngate Theatre in 2014 (and a consultancy agreement
 thereafter) supported productions through the dramaturgy and rehearsal processes. Stern’s
 KE collaboration with Hidden Room is described in ICS 01. In 2019 Taylor co-founded the
 R/18 Collective with theatre scholars based at the universities of Guelph, Northwestern,
 Carnegie Mellon, Tennessee Knoxville, and Illinois at Chicago, generating dramaturgical
 knowledge to assist productions.

 Innovation Strategy
 In developing a specific strategy around innovation, we have kept in view work done in
 2015 by an ‘Entrepreneurship, Education and Support Sub-Group’ of the University’s
 Innovation Working Group (OIWG) led by Mapstone and A. Williams. The group defined
 Innovation broadly as: ‘encouraging students and researchers to exchange knowledge
 across disciplinary and institutional boundaries, to take risks, and to realise the
 latent potential of their intellectual capital. The impacts of our innovation may take
 many forms, including entrepreneurial activity, social enterprise, or cultural
 engagement, but all share their roots in a commitment to creative and lateral ways of
 thinking, connecting and problem-solving.’ The ongoing challenge is to adapt a model
 designed largely for science and technology spin-out companies to make it work
 meaningfully in the context of literature and language research.

 Faculty members have pursued three lines of activity: 1) creative innovation in digital
 apps and gaming; 2) digital innovations in the study of special collections; 3)
 creative extension of forms of criticism, via film and other visual media.

 1) Digital apps and gaming: Two apps, one spin-off, and two games are at different
 stages of development, supported by Oxford University Innovation.
 Building a Writing Space is an interactive writing app, conceived by Bayley as an
 imaginative tool to assist 6th Form and university students learning to structure ideas
 effectively. Employing the principles and design imagery of architecture, the app teaches
 users to build arguments ‘from the ground up’. It was given first-stage development funding
 of GBP60,000 from the University’s Staff Innovation Fund and is in technical development.

 LitHits, created by Shepherd-Barr (founder) and Paddock (postdoctoral researcher), is an
 app aimed at breaking down barriers to reading that arise from pressure of time, lack of
 familiarity with literary texts, or uncertainty in making new choices. It helps readers engage
 with literature by providing curated excerpts which are selected through innovative search
 tools. Initially funded by the 2017 Humanities Division Innovation challenge, LitHits has to
 date raised GBP105,574. It became a registered company in May 2020, and aims to
 launch commercially in 2021.

 Ten-Minute Book Club is a spin-off from LitHits—an outreach collaboration between the
 Faculty and the Division, beginning 31st July 2020, designed as a literary intervention to
 mitigate the social and mental-health damage of lockdown. Based on the core concept
 and materials of LitHits, it provides free online resources for readers to create their
 own informal book clubs. Selected English Faculty post-holders wrote introductions for
 texts in their areas of expertise. This project is ongoing: at its mid-point (8 September
 2020), it had 11,291 unique page-views.

 One game has been fully developed and is now seeking investors: Mind-Boggling Medical
 History, an online and physical card came is used as a training tool for nurses (with
 wider public appeal). Its impact is described in ICS 04.



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 WillPlay is an educational resource designed for secondary school students by A. Williams,
 Hodge and Brown (both postgraduates in English) in collaboration with To Play For, a local
 games company. Using a machine-learning platform called Charisma.ai, WillPlay offers
 online interactive engagement with Shakespeare's plays, mimicking contemporary
 social media forms, with linked learning resources. In September 2020, it was granted
 GBP1500 development support money by NESTA after winning second place in an
 Alternarratives competition for innovative forms of storytelling for young audiences.
 Licensing agreements and spin out options are in development.

 2) Digital innovations in the study of early manuscripts and printed books. External
 funding has enabled technical innovations in extraction and manipulation of linguistic
 content from digitized manuscripts. CLASP is a multi-layered tool for mapping the
 transition from script to print in ways previously unimaginable. Two Zooniverse projects
 funded by Shuttleworth’s ConSciCom grant have demonstrated the value of
 crowdsourcing for interdisciplinary study of literature and science. Their methods and
 impact are described in ICS 04.

 3) Creative extension of forms of criticism. Three projects have used drama and film
 to take literary criticism off the page and explore its creative potential with audiences
 outside the academy. Contagion Cabaret, adapting 19 thC popular drama and music for the
 stage with interspersed educational talks is a subject of ICS 02. Demons Land, led by
 Palfrey, is a multimedia project reimagining Spenser’s Faerie Queene as a seminal text of
 colonial history. Funded through two major AHRC grants, two TORCH KE Fellowships, Fell
 Fund, Australian Research Council, UQ, and the National Trust, Demons Land is designed
 so that each performance responds to its specific occasion and location (venues include
 Stowe; Dechaineux Arts Centre Hobart; UWA; University of Sydney; CAA, New York City).
 Most recently, K. Sutherland (Emeritus) has collaborated with Palma Studios, developing
 short films and an interactive writing game for the Jane Austen House website, introducing
 teenagers to Austen’s teenage writings, linking to her texts (from Sutherland and
 Johnston’s edition), and encouraging RADA students to go wild reimagining the stories. All
 three projects provide models for scaling up from small starting ventures to larger
 collaborations.

 The Open Research Environment Strategy
 In making progress towards an open research environment and effective sharing and
 management of research data, we have worked with the Bodleian Library to facilitate
 deposition of journal articles into Oxford’s Open Research Archive. Beyond this core
 institutional repository we facilitate free public access to our published research and
 underpinning data via several routes. We have been heavily involved with or led University-
 wide initiatives concerning digital preservation and sustainability (the First World War
 Poetry Digital Archive was selected in 2019 as one of three projects for a scoping case-
 study). Websites for our Centres, Clusters, and Period and Subject Groups are cross-linked
 to publications and data storage sites. Externally funded grants provide dedicated resource
 for digests of research and related activity (see, for example, the TIDE project website).
 Many individual researchers maintain blogs. Researchers working with the Bodleian
 libraries and Oxford University Press produce free Open Access materials communicating
 the insights of exhibitions and publications—e.g. Ballaster’s 'Opening the Edgeworth
 Papers', hosted on the Bodleian archives and manuscripts blog; and OUP blogs by Burrow,
 Larrington, Mendelssohn accompanying publication of books. Contributions to the national
 research environment around OA are detailed in Section 4.
 We expect high standards of research integrity, and require staff to adhere to ethical, legal
 and professional frameworks implemented University-wide. The University is a signatory of
 the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA). Research involving
 human participants and personal data is subject to review by the University’s Research
 Ethics Committee.



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing Context
 It is a distinctive feature of the Oxford Humanities research environment that most permanent
 research staff (65 Associate Professors in English) have two separate employment contracts:
 one with the university and one with a college. Colleges support the research of ‘joint’
 postholders; the 11 senior professorial staff employed solely by the Faculty have an association
 with a college
 which may afford additional research support. 28 college-only employees, 9 departmental
 lecturers, 2 employees of the Continuing Education Department, 1 senior University office
 holder, and 6 externally funded postdocs (2 Leverhulme, 2 Marie Skłodowska-Curie, 1
 Wellcome, and 1 GLAM employee) account for the rest of the 122 staff members submitted.

 Clarification of contracts in the 38 colleges and 6 Permanent Private Halls and colleges plus
 expansion in our ECR community are the principal drivers behind the unit’s growth from 87.79
 FTE in the last REF assessment to 116. The 20 postdoctoral researchers, Junior Research
 Fellows (JRFs) and departmental lecturers submitted are those fixed-term early career staff still
 in post at the census date, out of a total of 85 holding such contracts during the REF period. Of
 that 85,19 full-time postdocs and 1 part time came through external funding for the four largest
 research projects, 25 further fixed-term postdoctoral research positions were funded through
 standard and smaller grants. 40 Early Career researchers have held JRFs or Career
 Development Fellowships (research posts with some teaching) in colleges.

 The balance between long-term and short-term contract staff is weighted heavily toward
 permanent staff. At the census date, 12% of our Faculty staff (7 of 90) are on fixed term
 contracts of 1-3 years, far lower than in most institutions (on most recent HESA data). Staff
 retention is high. Only 4 established researchers have left in this period to take up posts
 elsewhere, 6 members of staff have retired.
 14 Faculty posts have been filled with a view to meeting the new strategic priorities. At
 senior professorial level, Pratt moved to the Drue Heinz Professorship of American Literature in
 2016 with a remit to consolidate and expand scholarship in African American, Asian American,
 Latinx, and Native American literatures. Hutson’s 2016 appointment as Merton Professor of
 English Literature supports the interdisciplinary expansion of early modern studies, while Small,
 appointed in 2018 to the redesignated Merton Professorship of Literature and Language, leads
 research in 19C literature and philosophy. We have extended Bibliography into the modern
 period with a new full Professorship (formerly a Readership): Van Hulle, appointed 2019, has
 technical as well as theoretical expertise in digital editing, and has already reconfigured our
 Masters and doctoral-level research training in this area.

 The strategic aim of increasing linguistic and cultural diversity across our historic and
 geographic range guided replacement appointments for 9 permanent Associate
 Professorships (‘joint’ Faculty/college posts) becoming vacant from 2017 and one new
 Associate Professorship linked with Oriel. The appointees are: M. Williams (medieval Wales
 and Ireland in the original languages, plus the minor Celtic languages); N. Das (early modern
 travel, race, migration and belonging); Moshenska (theory, embodiment, early modernity,
 creative criticism); Sugimura (Milton reception; intellectual history); Taylor (textual, dramatic
 and visual cultures, 1660-1830); Dasgupta (19th c. literature and urban space); Emre (20th c
 American, literary sociology); Gaskill (19th & 20thc American, race, children’s literature, visual
 culture); McAlpine (19c poetry on both sides of the Atlantic, 20th and 21st c American poetry).
 S. Das’s appointment at All Souls is also of benefit here (20C British literature, histories of war,
 empire and the senses).




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Maintenance of strong links with European partners in the wake of Brexit has been a key
 strategic concern. 9 REF-returned members of staff self-identified as ‘European’. In common
 with the rest of the HE sector we are glad to have confirmation of UK Associate membership
 status and eligibility for full participation in Horizon Europe. At the time of writing we await
 confirmation on details and timing for the first grant calls. In the interim, colleagues have been
 active in pursuing opportunities presented by existing and developing collaborations.

 Appointment of Van Hulle at .8 FTE, retaining a .2 FTE post at Antwerp, has enabled digital
 editing collaborations with Belgium. He is PI on four ongoing Antwerp-based collaborative
 projects, funded by FWO Research Foundation Flanders and the BOF Antwerp research fund
 (cumulative value c. EUR2m, supporting 1 postdoc, 4 funded PhD students, 1 technical expert)
 and Co-PI on 4 further projects (total value EUR500K supporting 3 PhD Students, 2 postdocs).
 Their expertise is shared with our research community, including graduate students undertaking
 compulsory bibliographic training. Van Hulle’s Directorship of OCTET will enable the relationship
 to grow through academic exchanges, conferencing, and joint funding applications. A
 GBP50,000 grant secured in November 2020 from the King Baudouin Foundation will fund
 OCTET’s operational costs, including research assistance, development of the Beckett Digital
 Manuscript Project, organization of graduate workshops, international conferences, exhibitions
 and colloquia on manuscript research, and masterclasses in digital textual editing. With
 Dunning (Bodleian Curator of Medieval Manuscripts), Van Hulle is co-ordinating digital
 scholarship support to maximize the combined resources of OCTET, the Schwarzman Centre,
 Jesus College Digital Hub (launching 2021), and Antwerp collaborations.

 We have been active in pursuing opportunities presented by ties with Germany. McLoughlin
 and Small have participated in workshops under the aegis of the University’s Berlin Partnership,
 looking to build collaborations with the Universität der Künste. A first venture is McLoughlin’s
 construction (with Jessulat et al.) of an online collection of urban silences assisting artistic
 composition and research into well-being. Evangelista has co-run a graduate school and
 research-led exhibition/event (2018-19) with Humboldt on 'transnational citizenship', funded by
 the Oxford-Berlin Partnership. His AHRC-funded work on literary cosmopolitanism generated
 follow-on funding for collaboration with Humboldt, the Literaturhaus-Berlin, the Stephen Spender
 Trust, and the Bodleian, preparing a research-based exhibition exploring British writers’
 responses to Berlin. Murphy held a Fellowship at the Freie Universität, Berlin, 2015, working with
 Traninger, and serves on the steering committee for the Oxford-Berlin Enlightenment Hub,
 whose 2019 conference prompted a further collaboration with Günther. Boehmer remains part of
 Marie Skłodowska-Curie funded ITN network group Constructions of Home and Belonging
 (completed 2014). She is Oxford PI for a current Oxford-Berlin Seed Funding Project (2019-20)
 studying Autofiction in Global Perspective. Shuttleworth held a Fellowship at the Max Planck
 Institute for the History of Science, 2015, with conferences in Berlin and Oxford. All these
 ventures open possible routes to future ERC collaborations through Germany.

 Evangelista worked closely with CNRS, Paris over 2017-18, setting up graduate workshops and
 seminars on the topic of 'the transnational literary field' and establishing collaborative
 relationships that may yield funding opportunities. Recent Visiting Fellowships to Paris by
 Marcus and Ghosh widen the number of contacts.

 Similarly, the Oxford-Venice initiative has enabled two researchers to work with the rich
 collections of the Fondazione Giorgio Cini and expanded our Italian connections.

 Support for permanent staff
 A cornerstone to ensuring that our permanent researchers can maintain, develop and enhance
 their research careers is entitlement to research leave. Permanent postholders continue to have
 one term in seven as dispensation from teaching, with maximum accrual of one year. Part-time
 postholders are treated identically (pro rata). Requests for leave are assessed by the Faculty’s
 Planning, Personnel and Resources Committee, on which the Director of Research sits ex
 officio. Unpaid leave may be granted for colleagues to take up research posts and visiting


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 professorships elsewhere (Lewis at Princeton; Mukherjee at Johns Hopkins). The Faculty
 agreed in 2018 to grant additional teaching relief to PIs and Co-Is of major collaborative
 research grants, proportionate to percentage of time spent on the grant, enabling them to
 project-manage effectively. A Strategic Fund has been created to help fixed term staff (e.g. DLs,
 ECFs) not normally entitled to research or sabbatical leave, financing short-term teaching
 buyouts, research assistance with proof-reading, or reference checking to assist completion of
 major publications. Research leave entitlements were unchanged during the pandemic. 3
 recently appointees applied to the university’s Covid Rebuilding Research Momentum Fund to
 alleviate the impact of family sickness, caring responsibilities, and/or home schooling; 1 was
 awarded teaching relief for 2022.

 The probationary process for those in permanent posts extends over the first five years in post.
 Research training for staff and graduate students is provided through the Division and the
 University’s Centre for Teaching and Learning (CTL). Personal and professional development
 training, including Equality and Diversity and implicit bias training, with specific programmes for
 women, is available via the People and Organisational Development Team.

 There are two active forms of appraisal and development review for Faculty post-holders:
 (1) a compulsory discussion is held every year between the Chair of Faculty Board and
 appointees in their Initial Period of Office (IPO). Targets are agreed, with advice on teaching and
 administration. All new post-holders are assigned a mentor and an assessor from among senior
 post-holders. The mentor has a formal meeting annually with the post-holder, and provides
 support as needed. Evaluation is conducted at interim and final review through observation and
 reports by the post-holder, the faculty assessor, and the Faculty Board Chair. These are
 considered by a Faculty Review Committee (including the Director of Research), with further
 reports from two expert external assessors of research achievement at the final stage. (2) The
 Faculty Board Chair conducts one-to-one compulsory 5-year appraisal/development discussions
 with Faculty post-holders (on average, 10 p.a.). These measures have, we believe, substantially
 improved our implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers.

 The Faculty has oversight through Research Committee of all researchers’ progress, across the
 career trajectory, through a long-compulsory annual ‘research return’ exercise. Not part of the
 formal appraisal process, the returns can enable additional mentoring. We have introduced more
 opportunities to hear about each other’s research: Faculty, early career and doctoral
 representation as speakers at research seminars has increased, as have initiatives to discuss
 work-in-progress.

 The main route to progression for those in permanent posts is through two formal means of
 recognizing and rewarding excellence: the award of a titular professorship, with a small salary
 increment, via the Recognition of Distinction process; and further increments in salary via the
 Professorial Merit Pay Scheme. From a total of 43 Faculty and College applicants in the REF
 period, 32 Associate Professors have been awarded the title of Professor. Professorial Merit Pay
 is open to all those with the title of full professor. Applications are invited annually for salary
 increments on a revised scale. Since 2016, 19 applications (near-exactly balanced as to gender)
 have gone forward from a potential group of 26 eligible applicants. 15 were successful, with
 female applications marginally more successful than male. Fixed-term research staff whose role
 has grown such that they are required to work ‘above’ their grade can apply to be regraded.




                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Early Career Support
 A key concern is to ensure that our many early career scholars are equipped to compete in
 a very constrained job market. We have improved our contracts, governance, and
 mentoring in this period. We have extended the provision of a Faculty mentor (required for
 Leverhulme and British Academy post-docs) to all postdocs and departmental lecturers. Mentors
 meet with mentees at least once a term in the case of departmental lecturers, less frequently
 with postdocs (who have PIs advising them)—discussing research progress, advising on
 publishing and conference activities, assisting prioritisations, and in many cases providing
 references and job application advice. Mentees are encouraged to complete the annual research
 return so that their progress can be reviewed by the Research Committee. Junior Research
 Fellows in college are mentored by permanent staff in English there. As part of our REF
 preparation, all Early Career researchers on contracts terminating in the year before the census
 date were offered the chance to have their published work, and work in or soon to be in press,
 reviewed by one of our external readers.

 The Director of Doctoral Studies now sits on Research Committee alongside a representative of
 the ECR community, so that the Committee has oversight of all research activity from PGR level
 upward, and the ability to assist greater integration between career stages. Targeted career-
 development talks are provided by the Director of Doctoral Studies and the Research Staff
 and Students Training Co-ordinator, with further training events (including interview
 preparation) organised by the English Graduate Organization (EGO). A DPhil student is
 paid to support the EGO programme of career development talks and liaise with Faculty. A well-
 attended English Graduate Careers day in March 2020 covered CV-adaption (Leneghan); the
 ECR experience (Sawyer); publishing careers (Careers Service) and Library/Archive Careers
 (English Faculty Librarian). Topics for the November ‘Getting Your Writing Out There’ drop-in
 day were academic blogging (Varnam); conferences (DPhil panel); publishing in journals
 (Burrow); and turning your DPhil in to a book (Marcus). A remote ‘Preparing for Learning and
 Teaching at Oxford’ afternoon was delivered to DPhil students in lockdown. EGO organises an
 annual conference and publishes an annual journal and its own online journal, Oxford Research
 in English, now in its 11th annual issue.

 The Faculty keeps all research staff and students informed of their obligations and general good
 practice around ethical use of data, including fair use of quotations, with training provided by the
 English Faculty Library and Bodleian Libraries. Researchers working with human participants
 and personal data are trained to respect the dignity, rights and welfare of those concerned: they
 are required to undertake integrity and ethics courses overseen by the Central University
 Research Ethics Committee (CUREC). All ECRs and visiting researchers are directed to these
 resources when undertaking (e.g.) interview-based research or working on archives in private
 possession. Online courses on Good research conduct', 'Working with human participants’, and
 are extensively utilised – e.g. by the many researchers working with schoolchildren.

 Postdocs and doctoral students are encouraged to integrate closely with their period and
 subject groups. Several have helped to run the regular seminars, and some have started their
 own seminar and reading groups. Numerous conferences and symposia have been led by
 postdocs and doctoral students, including: Edward Thomas; Sylvia Plath; Modern Book History;
 Cinema and Modernism; Modernism and Visual Culture; Colonial and Post-colonial Cultures of
 the Book; and Jewish Identity and American Writing. Two Queer Modernisms conferences were
 organised by doctoral students in 2018 and 2019. A Faculty-based group Romanticism and
 Eighteenth-Century Studies at Oxford operated 2015-19; led by two doctoral students in English,
 it secured TORCH network status. Many fixed-term contract researchers are involved with
 TORCH interdisciplinary programmes and networks, and it is a funding requirement that there be
 evidence of collaboration and co-operation between senior research staff and those in earlier
 career. Examples of groups led by younger members include the Queer Studies and Comics
 networks.




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A popular initiative by EC researcher A. Kelly, with funding from TORCH and the English
 Faculty, has been an Early Career Writing Support workshop (writing ‘boot camp’), meeting
 frequently from 2015 (ongoing). Clear gains in writing productivity, critical confidence, and
 morale were detailed in Kelly’s Times Higher Education article, 2017. From 2018, Early Career
 and graduate researchers benefitted from the Baillie Gifford Writing Partnerships
 Programme established through the Humanities Division Research Development and Training
 Programme with the similar goal of encouraging good writing habits and tackling potential
 feelings of isolation. 18 English graduates participated in 2019-20 (the only year of data). The
 Faculty warmly encourages its PGRs to make the most of the training and personal development
 opportunities offered by the University’s Learning and Teaching Training programme. The CTL
 offers routes to a Postgraduate Certificate in Teaching and Learning in HE and an accredited
 Teaching Recognition Scheme. The University’s Language Centre supports our students’
 language skills, and offers 11 online courses in addition to many courses on-site.

 We see the benefit of these support structures in our early career scholar destinations: the
 great majority have progressed to further academic employment in the UK or abroad. In several
 cases, doctoral students have found employment as postdoctoral RAs, then progressed to junior
 research fellowships or independent postdoctoral research roles on major grants. 5 former ECRs
 moved into HEI administration; 2 into library/museum curation; 2 into secondary teaching; 2 are
 freelance writers.

 Recognition of Staff Achievements
 We take pleasure in recognizing the publications, impact, and other achievements of our
 research staff. 5 Faculty members have been elected to the British Academy (Shuttleworth,
 2015; Orchard, 2015; Hutson, 2016; Small, 2018; Stafford, 2018; Burrow, 2020). Poole was
 elected to the Society of Antiquaries of London in 2015. Two Faculty members have been
 elected to the Royal Society of Literature (Douglas-Fairhurst, 2015; Boehmer, 2019). N. Das was
 elected to the English Association in 2020. Bate received a Knighthood for Services to literary
 scholarship in 2015. Larrington received an Order of the Falcon 2019 for services to Icelandic
 literature in 2019. Marcus received an honorary degree from Kent in 2016.

 The following 26 Faculty members were awarded prizes for research quality: Maguire and Smith
 shared the Calvin and Rose G. Hoffman prize for a distinguished scholarly essay on Christopher
 Marlowe (2014); Moshenska, the Isabel MacCaffrey Award (2014); Mukherjee, British Academy
 Rose Mary Crawshay Prize (2015); Wakelin, DeLong Book History Prize (joint winner, 2015);
 Bate, Biographers’ International Organization Best Biography (Arts and Literature) (2015);
 Kalisch, Ambassador’s Essay Prize (2015); Boehmer, Biennial European Society for the Study
 of English (ESSE) Prize (2016); Moshenska, Louis Round Wilson Prize (2016); Sullivan, Gordon
 Duff Prize in the Arts of Manuscripts (2016); A. Sutherland, Beatrice White Prize (2017);
 Bennett, Rose Mary Crawshay Prize (2017); Johnston, RES Editor’s Choice (2017); Van Es,
 Costa Biography Prize (2018), Slightly Foxed Best First Biography Prize (2018), and Costa Book
 of the Year 2018 (awarded 2019); Gerrard, OxTALENT award (2018); Hutson, Roland Bainton
 Prize for best reference book (2018); Bevis, Poetry Magazine Editor’s Prize for best feature
 article (2018); Van Hulle, MLA Prize for a Bibliography, Archive or Digital Project (2019);
 Boehmer, Olive Schreiner Triennial Prize for Prose (2019); Sullivan, T.S. Eliot Poetry Prize
 (2019) and John Pollard Foundation International Poetry Prize (2019); Moshenska, Philip
 Leverhulme Prize (2019); MacKay, British Academy Rose Mary Crawshay Prize (2019); Emre,
 Philip Leverhulme Prize (2019); Das, Hindu Literary Prize (2019); Anand Coomaraswamy Prize
 (2020) and ESSE Book Prize (2020); Turner, Rose Mary Crawshay Prize (2020).




                                                                                         Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Faculty members held Visiting Fellowships all around the world: Mukherjee (Humanities
 Research Centre, Australian National University, 2014); Sawyer (Huntington Library, CA, 2014);
 Wakelin (Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies, UCLA, 2014); Pratt (Emory U, 2015);
 Sullivan (Harvard University, 2015); Ashe (Harvard University, 2016); Atherton (Dusseldorf,
 2016); Marcus (Zurich, 2016); Marcus (Washington, St Louis, 2017), Huntington Library, 2018);
 Womersley (C.F. von Siemens Stiftung, Munich, 2018); Mukherjee (Johns Hopkins University,
 2019); Wakelin (Huntington Library, 2019); Cattaneo (Marsh’s Library, Dublin, 2019-20); Ghosh
 (Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes, Université de Paris), 2020); Marcus (Institut d’Etudes
 Avancées de Paris, 2020); Shuttleworth (University of Dunedin, NZ, 2020).

 We have seen pleasing successes with Oxford’s internal award schemes including two Vice
 Chancellor’s Public Engagement Awards (Ratcliffe; Shuttleworth) and a VC’s Diversity Award
 nomination for Mendelssohn’s research-led exhibition ‘Making History’, celebrating the first
 generation of queer and black undergraduates at Oxford.

 Research Students
 Around 35 postgraduate research students are admitted to the Faculty each year. With 157 PGR
 students in place (end of 2020), Oxford has the largest doctoral community in English in the UK.
 Its current size represents a substantial increase from 121 in 2014, though with some fluctuation
 year on year. 299.5 research degrees were awarded in the REF period (the .5 reflecting a few
 shared supervision arrangements across Faculties).

 68% of our current cohort are funded, with 36 individuals in receipt of AHRC grants and the
 remainder supported by a variety of charitable and overseas sources. Data for the period 2016-
 2019 show 50% PGR places in English were fully funded (contrasting favourably with 45% for
 Humanities PGR across Oxford Humanities, and national averages of around 15%).

 Success in the 2018 round of competitive funding for AHRC doctoral training centres has
 boosted doctoral work in book and manuscript history. Collaborating with the Open University
 and Cambridge, and strategically partnered with the BBC World service, the National Trust, and
 British Telecom. 5 funded doctoral students are based in English, working on subjects across
 our historical and subject range. We took the lead on the Humanities Division’s application to the
 Leverhulme Doctoral Scholarships scheme. As of the start of the 2020 academic year we have 4
 students funded by that route.

  Funding Source                             Students funded, 2014-20
  Arts & Humanities Research Council –
  AHRC                                                                 36
  Charitable foundation (other)                                         6
  Other                                                                11
  Overseas – other funding                                              5
  Overseas – other repayable loan                                       1
  Overseas government                                                   4
  Overseas institution                                                  3
  Rhodes Scholarship                                                    2
  Student’s employer                                                    1
  University of Oxford funds                                           20
  Self/Family Paying                                                   41
  Total                                                               130

 The English Faculty supports each postgraduate student with research expenses over the
 course of their studies. A TORCH-administered AHRC-funded Graduate Fund provides
 competitively allocated monies for student-led interdisciplinary projects in three streams:
 conferences; Public Engagement with Research projects; and creation of research podcasts.

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 18 projects led by research students in English have been assisted since 2015. The Faculty and
 the Vice Chancellor’s Fund offer competitive funding for tenth terms (the latter recently revised to
 make economic need the sole criterion). One doctoral scholarship holder benefitted from the
 University pandemic hardship fund, paralleling extensions from the AHRC and other funders. We
 are committed to equal opportunity in the recruitment and support of graduate students, and to
 supporting graduates with children through nursery provision and flexible working.

 Equality and diversity
 The new Faculty governance structure introduced in 2019 created an Equality and Diversity
 Committee, with representatives of early career, college-only and P&S staff, as well as UG and
 PG students.

 Our successful Athena Swan Bronze award helped improved our understanding of where
 better support was needed for gender equality, identifying practical and specific measures
 to assist women's research careers and maintain the pipeline through Higher Education
 from graduate recruitment to major grants and funding. We have put in place measures to
 ensure that equality and diversity are considered at the point when period-group rankings
 of applications to the DPhil programme are collectively assessed. We have also more
 actively encouraged grant resubmission. In summer 2018 we developed a project entitled
 ‘Telling Our Story Better’. Led by Ratcliffe and Dasgupta, this project transformed the visual
 and virtual spaces of the English Faculty, using shared story-telling and critical reading by
 staff, students and alumni to capture and promote equality and diversity in our subject. The
 Communications Officer monitors the proportion of women featured when promoting
 research achievements. The effectiveness of these measures remains under close review.

 We have long recognised the lack of racial and ethnic diversity in the Faculty’s staffing. 58% or
 our staff identify as White, only 3% as BME (the remainder not declaring). Black Lives Matter
 has concentrated minds and fund-raising efforts on making a difference through new hires. We
 are working with the Humanities Division and colleges (two, in the first instance) to drive fund-
 raising for new posts. Two upcoming permanent posts (2021 and 2022) are being directed
 towards appointments with expertise in (one or some) of the following: postcolonial literature,
 World literature, Black writing, contemporary critical race studies.

 Sustainability of future research and impact objectives
 Delivery of the UoA’s strategy to 2024 (pp. 2-3) has, as everywhere, become far more
 challenging with the introduction of two external factors: Brexit, and the Covid pandemic.
 Key aims around diversification within the discipline, support for interdisciplinarity,
 maintaining our OERs, improved communication, and technical innovation are largely
 within our control, in discussion with the Division—involving decisions around designation
 of new posts and deployment of core budget and human resources. The scale at which we
 can realise our ambitions is, however, dependent on continued success with external
 grants. We are now familiar with the fluctuations in annual research income that can result
 as multiple large projects come to an end. (See data provided in Sections 2 and 3 on the
 effects of expansion and contraction as two major grants ran their course.) Planning future
 research grant applications to protect our operations against unevenness is a priority.

 Our greatest concern is the employment conditions facing the current generation of early career
 researchers looking to progress from doctoral to post-doctoral stage, and then into secure
 academic employment. We are gearing internal as well as external funding applications to
 support their work and afford them ongoing research independence.




                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The unit’s external funding income averaged GBP1,864,483 p.a. As Table 1 shows, the value of
 new grants secured is uneven year on year, but annual income from awards (Table 2) has not
 dropped below GBP1.3m. The high point of nearly GBP2.5m in 2017/18 was achieved thanks to
 the two major grants run concurrently by Shuttleworth overlapping with the start of major grants
 to Orchard and Solopova. Table 2 shows two peaks in grant successes by total award value,
 first in 2013/14 then again in 2015-16. Success rates for grant applications peaked in 2017/18 at
 50%. After a dip to 30% in 2018/19 they have risen again to 43% through concentrated effort on
 quality control.

 Table 1: New External Awards p.a. by Total Value

                             2014/15        2015/16          2016/17          2017/18        2018/19       2019/20

           GBP               1,086,122     3,021,528        1,372,956         524,716        570,727      1,282,115


 Table 2: Income p.a. from External Awards (GBP)


   2013/14       2014/15        2015/16       2016/17        2017/18          2018/19       2019/20         Total



  1,191,366      2,066,424     1,768,205     2,261,354      2,480,740       1,966,557       1,316,734     13,051,379


 Income types: In addition to the major grant successes, UK charities income was strong over
 this period (over GBP300K on average), primarily deriving from success with Leverhulme
 Research Fellowships and BA Fellowships, both of which have been important routes through
 which some in mid-career have advanced major monographs and editorial projects.

 Table 3: Income Source (GBP):
  Funding        2013/14       2014/15     2015/16    2016/17     2017/18        2018/19      2019/20        Total
  Type

  Research
  Councils       487,363       792,943     930,176    1,172,899   1,089,309      534,512      253,199      5,260,402

  EU
  Government     249,413       290,879     448,665    526,107     680,762        897,064      716,713      3,809,603

  UK Charity
  (QR)           296,264       389,822     294,254    360,575     298,426        259,426      250,083      2,148,850

  Non-EU
  Charity (QR)   151,943       126,427     95,242      69,597     227,251        79,232        96,436       846,128

  RDEC
                               460,583     -1,562      53,164      7,931                                    520,117

  Non-EU
  Other            6,529        4,557       547        41,009     112,560        179,731                    344,934

  UK Charity
  (no QR)                                   882        38,002      64,502        16,592         302         120,280

  UK Public
  Sector           -147         1,211                                                                        1,064

  Total
                 1,191,366    2,066,424   1,768,205   2,261,354   2,480,740     1,966,557     1,316,734    13,051,379




                                                                                                                  Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our competitively awarded internal grant income from Oxford totalled GBP1.8m over 2014-
 2020 (from GBP2.9m bid for). That sum includes GBP1.472m in John Fell Funding (from
 GBP2.31m bid for) by comparison with GBP596K in Fell Funding reported in the last REF
 cycle. Major Project Awards have been by far the most important in terms of monetary value,
 followed by Early Career Support. The KE and Impact Funding has enabled 42 impact-targeted
 projects (visible in our ICSs).

 Table 4: Total Internal Awards by Category, 2014-20

                                    Early       Knowledge
             Collaboration &                                       Major      REF
  Award                            Career       Exchange &                                  Total
              Partnership                                         Project    Support
                                   Support        Impact
  Total
                  54,202           516,060         185,504       966,039      43,653     1,765,458
  (GBP)

 Sustainability of income levels:
 We have been active in nurturing applications that may help to address potential loss of access
 to early-career funding. Hutson’s ERC Advanced Grant application, submitted Sept 2020
 (recently progressed to Stage 2) is our single largest attempt at sustaining the scale of our
 postdoctoral-level activities; bolstered by three UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship applications
 submitted in June and one in Dec 2020. One, to date, has secured assessor reports that raise
 hopes of securing its PI (Riach) and a post-doc for five years. Going forward, we will encourage
 collaborative and ambitious applications where senior professors mentor and support teams of
 research associates and early-career co-applicants – Small, Pratt and Wakelin all have plans in
 the pipeline; but we have also built a strong cadre of grant application and management
 experience among middle and senior career colleagues and continually look to expand that
 capacity. Leverhulme and British Academy Fellowships provide valued opportunities to advance
 individual research projects.

 Facilities:
 The English Faculty has remained based in the St Cross Building, shared with the Law Faculty
 and the English and Law Libraries and managed by the Estates Department. The building
 underwent major refurbishment works from 2016 to 2018, improving accessibility. An
 attractive new foyer area was created, leading to a relocated Faculty Office – increasing our
 visibility and providing an inviting space for students, academics and visitors. In addition to
 ‘Telling Our Story Better’, temporary displays have included an art exhibition responding to 20 th-
 century dystopian literature.

 The Stephen A. Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities is immensely exciting for
 researchers in English. The connectivity it will provide between Faculty, postdoctoral
 researchers, and graduates (currently dispersed around the St Cross Building and across
 colleges) will transform daily working experience, with bespoke Faculty offices and classrooms
 alongside those of other Humanities faculties enabling regular ad hoc exchanges harder to
 achieve in the existing environment. Accommodation for OCLW, proximity to Music, Philosophy
 and the new AI centre, and an integrated library with Philosophy, will give stimulus to the many
 researchers working across Humanities disciplines. Dedicated performance and viewing spaces
 will hugely improve operating conditions for practise-based research in theatre, drama, and film.
 Vitally, the Schwarzman Centre will enable public engagement and impact planning, enabling us
 to build sustainability into key collaborations with other organisations.




                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Contributions to Research Policy Development, Funding Bodies, and Subject Representation
 The Faculty has played a part in supporting the research base for English Literature
 and Language nationally:

 Shuttleworth was appointed Chair of the Research Award Advisory Committee for the
 Leverhulme Trust in 2018. She served on the BA Council (2016-19), and its Standing Committee
 (2017-19), which oversees BA strategy and all policy reports, including The Right Skills, which
 contested the narrow definition of disciplinary ‘value’ set out in the government’s objectives for
 science, R&D, and the industrial strategy – making the case for arts, humanities, and social
 sciences skills. In 2020 she took on the role of Treasurer and Vice President, working with the
 President and CEO to oversee the Academy’s submission to the Comprehensive Spending
 Review and mapping out BA research and policy strategy for the next five years.

 Sutherland chaired the Advisory Board of the AHRC/British Library funded 'Academic Book
 of the Future' Project, 2014-16, which produced 2 complementary reports: one
 summarizing the activities and conclusions of stakeholders (academics, libraries,
 publishers, booksellers), the other addressing policy. Open Access was a key issue: the
 project explored various business models for monograph OA, tackling ongoing tensions
 around dissemination, consumption, and preservation of arguments and data. Shuttleworth
 has overseen the BA’s position papers on OA, and its inclusion in the recent bid to BEIS for
 the Comprehensive Spending Review. Gillespie and Wakelin have represented the
 concerns of the Early English Text Society and other publishing societies in various forums,
 including the British Academy and an Oxford Divisional meeting with Geoffrey Crossick
 (also submitting to the Crossick report consultation process). N. Das was a member of the
 Crossick working group.

 Three members of the Faculty have assisted Research English through the 2014 assessment
 process and the planning for REF2021. N. Das is a Council member of Research England, and
 a Member of the Institutional Environment Panel for REF 2021. Boehmer was a full panel
 member (including at the criteria-setting phase) for REF2014, and Bradshaw served as an
 assessor; Small is a 2021 Panel Member.

 Several experienced researchers serve as reviewers for UK and overseas funding councils: N.
 Das is an AHRC Strategic Reviewer and UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships reviewer; Pratt and
 McLoughlin were both appointed to the AHRC Peer Review College in 2014 and 2019
 respectively. Gillespie, Hutson, Shuttleworth, Marcus and Small have served on British Academy
 Standing Committees of Sections assessing grant applications: Hutson serves on the Research
 Awards Committee, Stafford assessed Global Professorship bids to the BA, and has been an
 assessor for UKRI and the Irish Research Council. Small and Ballaster have each assisted the
 Norwegian Research Council/Forskningsrådet with grant allocations over several years.

 Our involvement with University English has continued to be close, with changing personnel.
 Small left the Executive Board in 2014; Perry joined 2015; Ballaster joined 2018.

 Numerous colleagues serve on the editorial boards of journals. In total we have provided
 editorial leadership for 16 journals, including New Medieval Literatures (Ashe); The Library
 (Poole, Co-Editor); Shakespeare Survey (Smith); Journal of Beckett Studies; Women: A Cultural
 Review (Marcus); the Los Angeles Review of Books (Emre, Senior Humanities editorship, 2014-
 19); and Inscription (Smyth, co-founder editor). We are active on the boards of 41 more,
 including Viking and Medieval Scandinavia (Larrington); Journal of Victorian Culture (Evangelista
 and Small); Novel: A Forum on Fiction (Pratt); International Yeats Studies (Stubbs, Reviews
 Editor); Wasafiri (Boehmer); Cambridge Journal of Postcolonial Literary Inquiry (Mukherjee);
 advisory board members for many more. Three long-standing English journals continue to be
 edited from our Faculty: Essays in Criticism (Perry and Johnston), the Review of English Studies


                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Wakelin and Burrow), Notes and Queries (Black [Emeritus] and Orchard). Series editorships for
 presses include the Early English Text Society (Gillespie), Brepols’ Fabulae: Narrative in Late
 Antiquity and the Middle Ages; Anthem Press’s Nineteenth-Century Studies (Douglas-Fairhurst).

 Many of our researchers have been co-investigators for collaborative ventures with
 other institutions: we have contributed to the Stuart Successions Project (led from Exeter;
 Co-I Kewes); and are participating in the Richardson Editions Project (AHRC, led from
 QMU London; Co-I Marcus; Postdoctoral RA Guy); the PEN project (AHRC, led from UEA;
 Co-I McDonald, St Hugh’s); 'Modern Fairies and Loathly Ladies' (AHRC, led from Sheffield;
 Co-I Larrington); ‘Social Networks and Pre-Modern Literature, 1300-1600’ (AHRC network,
 led from Exeter; Co-I Perkins); and ‘Literary Languages in Victorian Britain’ (AHRC
 network, led from St Andrews; Co-I Mugglestone).

 External engagement levels evidence the extent to which our research environment is assisting
 the research community for English Language and Literature well beyond our own staff,
 students, and local hinterland. Annual lecture series, including the Oxford Wells Shakespeare
 Lectures, Clarendon Lectures, Professor of Poetry Lectures, D. F. McKenzie Lecture on
 Bibliography, Lyell Lectures on Bibliography, and Bateson Lecture (all run by Faculty members),
 continue to serve the subject as a whole, drawing very large audiences to hear leading
 international figures in the discipline. The social media statistics for our Research Centres and
 their seminars are strong (Section 1). Uptake for these curated sources of information about
 current developments in specialist areas of the discipline extends across the UK, Europe, North
 America, and Africa.

 Support Given to Secondary Education
 The English Review remains a crucial vehicle for nurturing English in schools. Continuing
 in its mission (since 2008) to deliver scholarly but accessible articles on literature and language,
 the magazine delivers current research and research-led debates direct to secondary school
 teachers and students. UK print circulation (paid for by subscription) stands at c. 2000 copies.
 Around 120 schools subscribe to the online archive with additional supporting material for
 teachers and students (the ‘e-review’, often covering topical subjects between issues—e.g. the
 bicentenary of George Eliot’s birth, 2019). Since 2014 three Faculty members have served on
 the editorial team: Ratcliffe (2013-2015), Nuttall (2015-2019), Mendelssohn (2019-present).

 We have continued to integrate schools outreach with research engagement wherever
 possible. Our schools outreach programme (for which we have a dedicated administrative team
 member) serves the subject well beyond its relation to our own admissions, and is backed by
 increasingly deep activity from colleges across the UK regions (working within the university’s
 outreach regionalisation programme). Until Covid-19, we welcomed large groups to Open Days
 (two in early summer, one in September), attracting c. 190 attendees in each hour. We have run
 state-schools-focused open days in March, for c. 80 students and 20 teachers. In addition to an
 annual Teacher conference in April, a termly English teacher newsletter (with 83 opt-in list
 subscribers) provides a ‘teaching resource of the term’, where the Outreach Officer highlights
 the freely accessible research-based resources to support English Teachers. Regular
 communications about research projects and publications reach school audiences via our
 Twitter account and other social media, college-organised outreach events, and school visits to
 colleges. Three DPhil students travel with the Outreach Officer in the autumn term to deliver
 regional visits to state schools across Lincolnshire, the North East, and counties which border
 Oxfordshire.

 N. Das brought to Oxford her ongoing partnership with the Runnymede Trust, UK’s leading race-
 equality think-tank, on the teaching of migration, identity, belonging, and empire in
 schools. Teaching Migration, Belonging, and Empire in Secondary Schools, the first substantial
 report on this subject, was co-written by Dr Jason Todd (Education Department, Oxford), Das,
 and Kimberley McIntosh (Runnymede), making recommendations for framework and policy
 change. It was launched at the Houses of Parliament, Palace of Westminster, 4 July 2019.


                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ICSs 01 and 05 detail the impact of our OERs in the secondary sector.

 Contributions to the Oxford English Dictionary
 Language experts have continued to engage critically with the Oxford English Dictionary as a
 form of cultural representation. Brewer and Mugglestone have been closely involved, their
 research feeding back into OED as the lexicographers follow research entries on
 Brewer’s Examining the OED website and Mugglestone’s English Words in Wartime blog. The
 blogs are serving a wider research constituency (for example, Julian Walker’s acknowledged
 debt to Words in Wartime as the evidence base for Words and the First World War, 2017). A
 2019 meeting between English researchers and OED researchers generated a webinar led by
 DPhil student Megan Bushell, deepening the OED’s understanding of Latinate influences on
 older Scots (taking Gavin Douglas as a test case). The model suggests a route to further impact
 with OED in the future. A John Fell grant (Nov 2020) will support a pilot project, led by Brewer
 through 2021, to digitise the correspondence of the OED’s chief editor, James Murray, with
 annotated transcriptions detailing how letters relate to the content and development of the
 dictionary. The project will underpin funding bids to digitize the Murray papers in their entirety.

 Assistance to the Research Base Overseas
 Our researchers have made extensive contributions to the research base in South Africa and
 India. Boehmer convened a workshop at the University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, as part
 of the Leverhulme funded Planned Violence: Post/colonial Infrastructure and Literature network
 project, 2014-16. WiSER, the multidisciplinary centre at Wits, is a partner (along with JNU, Delhi
 India, KLC, Warwick and Oxford). A Rhodes Trustee, and biographer of Nelson Mandela, her
 contributions to the Mandela Rhodes conference marking his 100th birthday included mentoring
 interactions with students from across the Continent. She has been closely involved in the
 Trust’s successful efforts over recent years to diversify its fellowships and scholarships and
 respond to the political urgency of the Black Lives Matter and Rhodes Must Fall campaigns. She
 is the PI on Strand 3 of a 5-year GCRF funded 'Acceleration' project, based at Cape Town and
 Oxford, starting with a Visiting Research Fellowship at the Stellenbosch Institute for Advanced
 Study, Jan-April 2020.

 P. McDonald has worked closely with South African researchers and archives as a co-
 investigator on the AHRC PEN project. Working since 2017 with PI Potter (UEA) and Zecchini
 (CNRS, Paris), and with project partners International PEN (based in London), South African
 PEN (Cape Town) and All-India PEN (Mumbai), the team has organized the PEN archive,
 written up its history, created an exhibition, and arranged a one-day international event in Cape
 Town.

 Supported by a Newton Advanced Fellowship and the Australian Research Council, M. Kelly and
 South African collaborator Wittenberg (Western Cape) led the Coetzee: Other Arts, Other
 Languages conference (Oxford, 2017), establishing new trans-national connections between
 writers, translators and critics across Europe, Africa, N America and Australia. Coetzee’s public
 reading (audience, 250+) assisted a documentary feature film; a linked exhibition of his
 photography engaged local schools and generated new resources on Great Writers Inspire.

 Our researchers active in South Africa all feature on the university’s AFOx and AFIND websites,
 which provide a public index of active research ventures on the African continent.

 Connections with India have partly constellated around assisting global networks of
 Humanities advocacy. Boehmer and Small hosted Brinda Bose and Prasanta Chakravarty in
 2016, building on an existing collaboration with the Global Humanities initiative (Virginia) to
 develop understanding of the differing political and cultural situations facing the Humanities
 globally. McDonald (St Hugh’s) and Mukherjee hosted eminent cultural critics Rosinka
 Chaudhuri (Calcutta) and Supriya Chaudhuri (Emerita, Jadavpur) in 2019, aiding stronger UK



                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 understanding of challenges in Indian higher education policy (including the curbing of
 intellectual liberty).

 A substantial boost was given to on-the-ground collaborations in India by AHRC funding for
 Mukherjee’s research project ‘The Psychic Life of the Poor’. Working with mental health and
 social care institutions in Bombay and elsewhere in India alongside comparator organizations in
 London and New York Mukherjee has uncovered the largely-lost history of the ‘free clinic’
 movement, initiated by Sigmund Freud in 1918 to dispense free or low-fee psychoanalysis, and
 leading to the creation of mental health co-operatives throughout the world. (See also ICSs 02
 and 05 for educational impact in India.)

 The ICSs submitted provide glimpses of a broad range of contributions to the national and
 international research base in the course of achieving wider social impacts. Activities not
 covered in Section 1 or ICSs, include an important feedback loop from theatre collaborations into
 enrichment of the theatre research base (e.g. via Taylor’s R/18 collective).

 Assisting the Discipline during Lockdown
 The inhibiting effects of the Covid-19 lockdown on the level of our research activities have been
 touched on at several points in this Statement. In common with many other institutions we have
 been able to nurture an extraordinary amount of activity online – almost all of it freely available to
 audiences across the Higher Education system and beyond. In addition to the LitHits initiative,
 our researchers have contributed extensively to TORCH’s main lockdown initiative, ‘The Big
 Tent’, recording podcasts, interviews, discussions with creative practitioners, and (as detailed in
 ICS 02) an adapted version of ‘Contagion Cabaret’. ICS 05 gives an indication of the
 extraordinary audience numbers and reach.

 Contributions to the economy:
 The GBP185K internal funding for Knowledge Exchange projects is a best estimate for our
 economic contributions to the national economy (including paid academic labour) beyond
 ‘normal business’.




                                                                                               Page 24
