Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Hertfordshire

 Unit of Assessment: 28 History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure
 The History Unit at the University of Hertfordshire (UH) comprises 14 FTE staff: 5 Professors, 2
 Readers, 1 Principal Lecturer, 1 Senior Lecturer, and 5 Lecturers (including 3 Early Career
 Researchers or ECRs).

 Notable achievements for the Unit over the period in comparison with REF2014:

 •   the number of staff submitted has increased by 17%
 •   the number of ECRs has increased by 50%
 •   the number of doctoral awards increased by 50%
 •   90% overall satisfaction in the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) with
     93% satisfaction with supervision, assessment and progression, and research skills
 •   total external research income increased by 55%
 •   staff have produced 14 books, 10 edited volumes, 53 peer-reviewed journal articles, 39
     chapters and 5 public exhibitions. Each of these totals exceeds the previous REF cycle

 History is one of six subject groups within the School of Humanities which is responsible for staff
 development and institutional infrastructure. The Unit has significant autonomy with its own
 funding from QR to use for staffing, research sabbatical leave, network-building, seed-corn for
 emerging projects and external grant bids, postgraduate development, impact, and sustaining
 the research culture. Objectives and expenditure are articulated through the Unit’s REF cycle
 Research Delivery Plan, which is approved by the School of Humanities Associate Dean
 Research (ADR) and the University’s Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research and Enterprise.

 The History Research Leader maintains an overview of the Unit’s research activities and is
 responsible for the strategic allocation of QR funds, in consultation with the School’s ADR and
 Finance Manager. The School Research Tutor takes responsibility for the pastoral care and
 overall academic development of postgraduate students.

 Strategy
 The Unit has a distinctive research strategy that reflects the public-facing vision of the University,
 one that emphasises links to business and a readiness to build external partnerships. The Unit’s
 research strategy is designed to nurture a culture that produces high-quality outputs, facilitated
 through the generation of peer-reviewed external income and collaborative engagement with a
 wide range of local, national and international partners, alongside enhancement of the
 postgraduate research student environment. Staff are encouraged to collaborate internally and
 externally in three particular areas: interdisciplinary and community co-production, intangible
 cultural heritage, and the history of everyday lives.

 Since 2015 the University’s overall research strategy has been structured around six
 interdisciplinary, Research Themes: Food; Global Economy; Health & Wellbeing; Heritage,
 Cultures & Communities; Information & Security; Space. History’s research vitality has been
 enhanced during this REF cycle by contributing to each of these Themes but especially by
 playing a leading role in Heritage, Cultures & Communities. This area is at the core of the Unit’s
 work and embodied in its interdisciplinary Heritage Hub. The Hub, a leader in the university
 sector in working with partners outside academia, is one of several channels through which
 historical research at Hertfordshire seeks to combine the highest academic standards with
 substantial impact beyond the academy, including internationally.



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Unit has met each of the four research objectives identified in the REF2014 submission:
 1. Refresh the staff base and enhance its non-British and transnational research. With
    the retirement and transfer of three senior staff members after 2014 the Unit first appointed
    two new lectureships, then a further three new fixed-term fellows working on intangible
    cultural heritage: all ECRs specialising in Australian migration (Henrich), in the history of
    gender and family in Ireland (Calvert), and in the material culture of folklore (Houlbrook). In
    2019 these three posts became permanent lectureships. In the same year a new Principal
    Lecturer in the transnational history of race, sexuality and law was appointed (Grey). So too
    was another Lecturer, Bainbridge, an early-career, interdisciplinary scholar specialising in
    international tourism.

 2. Extend the work and reach of the Heritage Hub. The objectives, activities and capacity of
    the Heritage Hub (chaired by Lloyd and co-directed by Davies and Navickas since its
    founding in 2010) have markedly expanded since 2014 thereby deepening the Unit’s
    distinctive skills in heritage studies and public engagement.

    In 2016, the Hub absorbed the Unit’s long-established Centre for Research in Regional and
    Local History (led by Navickas), strengthening that body’s public engagement and co-
    production activities, e.g. with the Kennington Chartist Project and digital artists in
    Staffordshire. The activities of the Oral History Team (led by Murphy and Henrich), located
    within the Hub, have developed considerably, with the team leading projects with partners as
    diverse as the Society of Radiographers and Bedford Refugee & Asylum Seekers’ Support.
    The Hub has pioneered Heritage for Business (H4B, led by Morris) as an important strand of
    its activities, delivering impact by applying historical research skills through bespoke
    collaborative projects with business partners such as the John Lewis Partnership and the
    International Cocoa Organisation.

    The Hub’s national and international profile increased significantly between 2014 and 2019
    when it hosted an AHRC Co-ordinating Centre for Community Research and Engagement to
    Commemorate the Centenary of the First World War; the Everyday Lives in War Centre
    (ELIWC). The ELIWC (directed by Lloyd) built on one of the Unit’s research strengths and
    the Hub’s resources which attracted funding of £1.13M. The Hub established institutional
    links throughout the UK and in Ireland and Germany throughout this period (see Section 4).

 3. Increase the Unit’s interdisciplinary and international links. Interdisciplinary links have
    been underpinned by and integrated with the University’s wider Research Themes strategy.
    The History Unit has helped spearhead Heritage, Cultures & Communities, but it also
    contributed significantly to other Themes, e.g. Health & Wellbeing through collaborative work
    between its Oral History Team and colleagues in the School of Health & Social Work, and
    Food through two workshops on ‘Food in Wartime’ organised by the ELIWC at the University
    in April 2018 and Dusseldorf in June 2019. Outside the University, all staff engaged in
    interdisciplinary research in one form or another, from early career staff like Bainbridge
    (working with geographers) and Moore (lawyers) to senior members like Shaw (film and
    politics scholars). Navickas worked with geographers and landscape architects on an AHRC
    Networking Scheme titled ‘Changing Landscapes’; Davies collaborated with archaeologists
    as Co-I on the Leverhulme Trust-funded Inner Lives project; and Houlbrook’s The Materiality
    of Magic book and Houlbrook/Davies’ Leverhulme-supported Concealed Revealed project
    entailed working with vernacular building specialists and archaeologists, including in
    Australia.

    Additional international interdisciplinary initiatives include Murphy’s History of Finance
    Network, funded by a Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research grant, which brings
    together economists, literary critics, political scientists, historians and market practitioners
    from Japan, North America and Europe; and Shaw’s analysis of Hollywood’s role in the Arab-
    Israeli conflict, partnered with an Israeli-based public diplomacy scholar and funded by
    British Academy and Santander Bank grants. Morris participates in the African Coffee

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Histories network which includes researchers from Uganda, Kenya, Ethiopia and Rwanda,
    was well as Glasgow, and has received funding from the Global Challenges Research Fund.
    He also collaborates with Italian business professors from Bari, Bocconi (Milan) and LUISS
    (Rome) universities on country-of-origin/heritage branding issues, supported by Santander.
    These interdisciplinary initiatives have brought intellectual benefits to the Unit, raising fresh
    questions and identifying new sources and methods.

 4. Lead the discipline in the sphere of research co-production. Co-production of research
    with community partners was a prime focus of both the ELIWC and the £748k European
    Research Council-funded project Spinning in the Era of the Spinning Wheel, which Styles
    (who retired in 2019) ran from 2010-2015. Julie Moore, who was funded as a Senior
    Research Fellow by the ELIWC, joined the St Albans’s Home Front project where she
    mentored participants and collaborated on project design, research and writing. Davies’s
    Basketry - Then & Now, a project funded by a £22k AHRC grant, brought together craft
    practice and historical research in a distinctive partnership to create a new perspective on
    World War One legacies. Lloyd directed an AHRC All Our Stories Connected Communities
    project which developed strategies for co-production work with local history groups that
    informed the academic practices of the ELIWC.

 Impact strategy
 The Unit has built on its impact success in REF2014 with the following strategy:

    •   Co-production, impact and engagement with user communities exemplified in the
        work of the Heritage Hub and the ELIWC, which worked with over 200 community groups
        and heritage organisations across the UK, created partnerships with researchers in 15+
        HEIs, collaborated with national institutions, and participated in meetings with
        government departments.
    •   Provoking public debate through exhibitions such as the publicly acclaimed
        Spellbound exhibition at the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford (2018-19), which attracted
        over 45,000 visitors, co-curated by Davies and Houlbrook, and the 2019 exhibition at the
        People’s History Museum, Manchester, on Spaces of Protest in Manchester curated by
        Navickas.
    •   Informing policy at various levels on a range of issues such as Meehan’s work on
        Irish political and social history – cited by Taoiseach Leo Varadkar in 2018 - which
        informed the Irish government’s commemoration programme marking the centenary of
        the declaration of the Irish Republic in 1916.
    •   Supporting staff to embed impact in individual or team research projects through
        appraisals and sabbaticals. The Unit’s research sabbatical leave rota highlights the
        importance of developing stakeholder engagement to facilitate impact while its
        recruitment and promotion policies emphasise the value of doing research which has
        demonstrable potential impact. Between 2016 and 2020 the Unit employed a Project
        Administrator from its QR funding to support its stakeholder engagement.

 The submitted case studies are illustrative of the Unit’s approach. Concealed and Revealed:
 Working with Museums and the Public to Explore Magic and Magical Thinking in the Post-
 Medieval Home was a collaborative project involving three HEIs, three museum partners, two
 artists, volunteers, and the public. Co-production with museums was integral to the engagement
 activities and research outputs, enabling the institutions to access new audiences, new
 resources, forge new partnerships and take different approaches to collections. Morris, The
 Coffee Historian: achieving impact through industry collaboration, education and public
 engagement, works with international partners from the coffee industry on bespoke projects that
 draw on his research expertise and which enable beneficiaries to develop and launch new
 products, while providing historically evidenced justifications for these to regulators. He
 facilitates capacity building throughout the industry through educational initiatives and
 institutional collaborations and communicates with consumer audiences through the medium of
 history and heritage.


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Unit’s strategy for the next REF cycle is to build on this approach. The Heritage Hub is
 funded by the University and has an explicit remit to build sustainable relationships between
 academics and external organisations around heritage themes. Davies and Houlbrook’s AHRC-
 funded collaboration with the Museum of London Archaeology, on advancing current
 understanding behind the placement and concealment of stoneware bottles and glass as ‘witch
 bottles’ in mid to late 17th-century England, will impact a wide range of non-academic
 beneficiaries including the general public. The proposed interdisciplinary Gothic and Magical
 Narratives centre (see ‘Future strategy’) is predicated on public engagement, dialogue with user
 communities and provoking public debates.

 Open research environment and integrity
 The Unit recognises the increasing necessity to make research openly available, and the
 principles which underpin this, as set out in the Concordat on Open Research Data in 2016. The
 Unit’s Open Access strategy is in line with that of the University which has a long-standing
 requirement that all new research outputs are deposited in its Research Archive (UHRA). In
 addition, the University has an Article Processing Charge (APC) fund, to which all staff are
 encouraged to apply, to support the costs of publishing research outputs in a ‘gold’ open access
 forum. Four members of the Unit had APC funding for articles in this research cycle. Several
 Unit members have published Open Access data e.g. Murphy’s European State Finance
 Database; Houlbrook’s Concealed and Revealed virtual museum on History Pin; Navickas’s
 Political Meetings Mapper is open access courtesy of the British Library Labs team; Henrich’s
 migration virtual exhibition at http://www.migrationhealthwellbeing.org. Outputs from Davies’s
 Criminal Corpse project are open access, paid for by the Wellcome Trust. All the Heritage Hub’s
 Oral History Team’s recordings are open access. Davies gave a public roundtable talk on the
 value of open access publishing organised by Springer Palgrave in April 2018.

 The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and there is
 centrally- provided mandatory training on research integrity for all researchers including
 workshops, an annual seminar and additional training in the Doctoral College’s Researcher
 Development Programme. The Unit has been at the forefront of supporting a culture of research
 integrity at the University. Since 2014 Morris and Navickas have served on the UH Ethics
 Committee for Studies involving Human Participants and its sub-committee the Ethics
 Committee with Delegated Authority for the Social Sciences, Arts and Humanities. The Oral
 History Team has developed expertise in ethical issues relating to informed participant consent,
 storage of research data and accessibility, all in close consultation with the Social Sciences, Arts
 and Humanities Ethics Committee. This expertise has informed the training of student and
 community interviewers over the past ten years.

 Future strategy
    • The Unit will diversify its approaches to heritage studies, expanding its postgraduate
        student research, co-production activities and work beyond the academy. This will be
        facilitated through the interdisciplinary infrastructure provided by the professional
        Doctorate in Heritage, Heritage Hub and Heritage, Cultures and Communities Research
        Theme within which the Unit will continue to play a leading role.
    • The Unit will develop its work on the histories of sexuality and reproduction, building on
        its Perceptions of Pregnancy Researchers’ Network (see Section 4). This will take a
        transnational approach, engaging strongly with issues of criminality, migration and with
        the relationship between the medical worlds and everyday lives.
    • The Unit aims to develop a new Research Centre focused on Gothic and Magical
        Narratives in Fiction and Folklore, in association with the University’s English Literature
        department. This will conduct interdisciplinary research into the cultural and material
        significance of narratives concerning magical creatures that transcend human limits. The
        centre will further embed interdisciplinary research collaboration within the Humanities
        School, and nurture postgraduate recruitment by building on the Unit’s new MA in
        Folklore Studies, one of only two in the UK.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   The Unit will aim to diversify its profile through positive action. To encourage Black, Asian
        and Minority Ethnic students to consider academic research careers in history, in late
        2020 the Unit invited applications from UK-based students who self-identify as BAME for
        a 3-year, fully funded PhD studentship.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy
 Of the Unit’s fourteen submitted staff, 36% are Professors (Davies, Lloyd, Morris, Murphy,
 Shaw), 14% are Readers (Meehan, Navickas), 7% are Principal Lecturers (Grey), 7% are Senior
 Lecturers (Evans), and 36% are Lecturers (Bainbridge, Calvert, Henrich, Houlbrook, Moore).
 This balance reflects an investment in less experienced researchers whom the Unit confidently
 expect to become leaders in their field, contributing to the sustainability and vitality of the Unit.
 Three or 21% of the Unit’s submitted staff are currently defined as ECR. The Unit has adhered
 to Vitae’s recommendations for the recruitment of research staff, as outlined in their ‘Five Steps
 Forward’ report in response to the 2017 Careers in Research Online Survey: 93% of Unit staff
 are on a permanent contract. 92% of all academic staff FTE coded ‘History’ in the University’s
 HESA data are included in the submission.

 Staff development
 All members of staff have an annual appraisal meeting with a six-monthly review at which
 research priorities are agreed and support needs identified, with outcomes reviewed at the
 year’s end. Appraisals by senior colleagues help to integrate new staff into the research culture
 of the Unit, as does the appointment of a mentor with more recent experience of joining the Unit.
 In line with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, the University
 Staff Development programme includes training courses covering topics such as writing
 research applications and social media engagement. Transparent and rigorous procedures for
 promotion apply at all levels. Since 2014, following external peer reviews and panel interviews,
 Navickas and Meehan have been awarded readerships and Lloyd and Murphy professorships.
 Evans was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2015. Leaving aside the 3 research fellows who
 became permanent lecturers in 2019, this means that 36% of staff were promoted in this REF
 cycle.

 The Unit operates a flexible research sabbaticals rota to ensure that all staff have at least one
 period during the REF cycle and which allows colleagues to take a sabbatical when it is
 particularly needed to develop or complete projects, e.g. Navickas’s sabbatical ran contiguously
 with her British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship. Staff can use their sabbatical partly for carrying
 out impact-related activities. All research/impact sabbatical activities are planned with the help of
 the Research Leader. Staff attend regular workshops on impact generation and evidence-
 gathering, run either by the Unit itself or by the University Research Office’s Impact Facilitators.
 Impact generation can form a significant element of promotion, e.g. Lloyd’s professorship. Staff
 experienced in impact and income generation formally assess grant applications and share best
 practice in Unit meetings.

 All early-career appointees are supported in maintaining their research activities via reduced
 teaching and administrative loads. After appointment in 2013, Meehan and Evans were given
 reduced workloads in their first year (less than 50% of full load) and received enhanced research
 allocations of around 33% in their second year. Meehan and Evans were both successful in
 winning internal University awards for early career researchers in their third year (worth a total of
 £5,243), enabling them to buy out some teaching in pursuit of research. Houlbrook, Calvert and
 Henrich were appointed on Fellowship contracts which guaranteed 0.8 FTE research time during
 the first three years of their role. Houlbrook won a competitive University early-career £1,000
 grant in her first year. This augmented her access to QR funding and sabbaticals and led to her
 2020 monograph Unlocking the Love-Lock. The Unit’s staff teaching loads are calculated and
 shared as equally as possible, with adjustments made for staff undertaking a major
 administrative role.

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Postdoctoral researchers in the Unit access both the University Staff Development programme
 and the Researcher Development Programme delivered by the Doctoral College, including
 courses in research career management and personal effectiveness. The Unit strongly supports
 postdoctoral researchers’ career progression. They are offered opportunities to teach, and share
 the research culture by taking part in research seminars, organising conferences (e.g. Calvert’s
 on ‘Women and the Family in Ireland: New Directions and Perspectives’ at the University in June
 2019), and by using the Unit’s research facilities; they are also invited to attend presentations by
 applicants to new academic positions. After being a 1-year ECR on Davies’s Leverhulme Trust
 Inner Lives project in 2015-2016, Houlbrook was subsequently appointed as a 5-year ECR in the
 Unit. She continued to be supported as a key member of the Inner Lives team, co-organised the
 Folklore Society conference in London in 2017 and co-curated the Concealed Revealed room in
 the 2018-2019 Ashmolean Spellbound exhibition.

 The Unit also supports postdoctoral and postgraduate researchers more broadly. In 2017, the
 Heritage Hub and ELIWC helped set up the interdisciplinary First World War Network of over
 100 early-career and postgraduate researchers, supporting a programme of training and
 mentoring workshops and also a funding scheme for members to co-produce research with
 community groups. The Network ran an international conference in Edinburgh in June 2019 on
 ‘The First World War: Past, Present and Future’. In 2018-19, the ELIWC also employed a
 0.3FTE ECR, Corinne Painter, on a specific research strand, ‘Commemoration, Conflict and
 Conscience’. The strand resulted in a Festival of Research at the Bristol Museums M Shed in
 April 2019. The Unit also funded postdoctoral fellows Bridget Long and Janice Turner to attend
 conferences, including in Williamsburg, USA.

 Research students
 The annual average number of postgraduate research (PGR) students registered in the Unit has
 remained strong, increasing slightly from 13.3 FTE between 2008 and 2013 to 13.4 FTE
 between 2014 and 2019. There are currently 14 FTE PGR students registered in the Unit. One is
 funded through Morris’ £71,000 AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Partnership with the Tottenham
 Hotspur Foundation.

 Fifteen PhDs have been awarded since 1 Jan 2014, compared to ten between 2008 and 2013.
 Of these, one was supported by the AHRC (£55,000) in a Collaborative Doctoral Partnership
 with the National Archives, one by a Canadian Commonwealth Scholarship, and 4 received
 studentships supported by internal funding (£51,800). Two involved cross-disciplinary teams
 from Oxford Brookes University and UCLAN.

 Recruitment reflects the Unit’s strong commitment to equal opportunities for students from all
 backgrounds. Of the 14 students currently registered for research degrees, 3 are male and 11
 female, while 9 are studying part-time and 5 full-time. Four doctoral students in History have
 been supervised by interdisciplinary teams involving staff from Creative Arts, Film, Law and
 Social Work, while History Unit members have participated in supervisory teams based in Art
 and Design, Law, Education, English Literature, and Health and Social Work. All postgraduate
 activities are scheduled to fit with the needs of part-time students, while the campus facilities,
 including the Learning Resource Centre, are normally open 24 hours, 7 days a week.

 Research student contacts and exchanges with organisations outside academia have been
 stimulated in various ways including through the interdisciplinary practice-led Professional
 Doctorate in Heritage (DHeritage), which was launched in 2016. DHeritage is the only
 programme of its kind in the UK and is aimed at professionals who work in the heritage field
 broadly defined, whether in the private or public sector. It attracts those working in tourism,
 planning, museums, archives, community history, archaeology, and social and cultural
 sustainability. Students follow the programme together in a part-time cohort, supported by
 research training and supervision shaped to their needs from across the disciplines of History,
 Education, Digital Humanities, Creative Writing, Creative Arts and Law. The Unit used £10,000


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of QR funding to support DHeritage bursaries and the programme had 9 part-time students
 enrolled on 31 July 2020.

 In the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey, the University ranked 4th for research
 culture,15th for supervision and 21st for overall student satisfaction (with a 62% University
 response rate) among 103 participating UK HEIs. PGR students in History expressed overall
 satisfaction of 90% and 93% satisfaction with supervision, progress and assessment, and
 research skills.

 The University QAA HE Review report received in 2016 cited the PGR student experience as an
 aspect of good practice, stating that ‘The University promotes a strong cohort identity among its
 research degree students, within a stimulating and supportive learning environment’.

 Further developing this environment in History was a priority during this research cycle. Each
 year from 2014 the Unit organised an annual residential research conference at Cumberland
 Lodge, Windsor, featuring practical skills-training sessions and presentations by staff, students
 and invited outside speakers. The Unit provided an annual Postgraduate Student Environment
 Fund of £1,000 through which research students organised their own programme of activities
 within the Hertfordshire History Lab e.g. reading groups and study skills sessions on sourcing
 images. The School of Humanities’ annual postgraduate research conference also builds on this
 sense of community, while the University’s annual interdisciplinary conference for PGR students
 has featured a presentation from an average of one History student per event.

 Though discipline-specific training in quantitative and qualitative methods, as well as digital
 technologies, is organised within the Unit, students are also fully supported financially to attend
 specialist courses organised by providers such as the Institute of Historical Research (IHR).
 Students’ travel expenses to attend specialist research seminars at the IHR are paid by the
 School, which also provides a subsidy for post-seminar networking. Students are fully funded by
 QR to present papers at external academic conferences, e.g. Krakow, 2017. The Unit
 encourages students to publish their work and in this cycle two students have published articles
 in Historical Research and Journal of Social History. Another student won the postgraduate prize
 at the 2019 Social History Society conference. The Unit’s public-facing ethos, like DHeritage,
 emphasises employability. Over this cycle, graduates have obtained research-related jobs with,
 for example, county heritage organisations and the British Netball Association.

 Equality and diversity
 The Unit has a strong balance both in terms of early-career researchers and gender. Since 2014
 the number of ECRs has increased by 50%. Women comprise 57% of this submission. Since
 2014, 4 women have also been promoted to senior research positions. The Unit supported
 Meehan’s participation in the Aurora leadership development programme, and it played a central
 role in the School of Humanities securing the Athena Swan Bronze Award in November 2017.
 Calvert coordinates events for International Women's Day at both a School and University level;
 such events at Cumberland Lodge have focused on the career and educational development of
 the Unit’s women research scholars.

 Career and research progression of all staff and postgraduates is assisted by flexibility in the
 scheduling of meetings and teaching hours to accommodate caring responsibilities. For
 instance, Shaw’s timetable allows for remote working to facilitate looking after a disabled
 relative. Staff returning from parental leave receive a range of support, e.g. Evans’s timetable
 was adjusted and the School supported her in working with updated online platforms.

 Almost a quarter of the Unit’s staff are from overseas, an asset promoting diversity via a global
 network of scholars. Several staff members have fostered diversity and equality via their
 research. For example, Henrich’s research into the intersections between health and post-1945
 migration to Australia questions pejorative representations of migrant patients in medical
 journals and examines health experiences and inequalities from the perspective of migrants
 themselves. An alternate archive of material culture and oral histories enables this approach and

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has also been used by Henrich to underpin a public-engagement programme involving
 marginalised groups (including older Irish migrants in assisted living) in the UK. The Unit’s offer
 in 2020 of a fully funded doctoral BAME studentship was further designed to broaden its
 engagement with marginalised groups in the UK and, in the longer term, to widen its staff base.
 As a person who stammers, Calvert works to raise awareness in the University and the wider
 academic community about communication impairments. With the support of senior members of
 the School (including Meehan in her role as Associate Dean Student Experience and Murphy as
 Dean of Humanities), Calvert spearheaded changes to university-wide policy. In October 2019,
 the University became an official partner (joining 17 other UK institutions) of STUC, an
 organisation that sets out to improve and support staff and students in UK HEIs who stammer.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The Unit’s external research income over this REF cycle totals £2,017,685. This is a rise of 55%
 compared with the 2014 REF submission, an average annual increase of 11%, and amounts to
 £149,000 per FTE.

 The distribution of income sources is approximately: Research Councils 70%, EU 14%, charities
 6%, industry 1%, other 9%. This represents a greater diversity of income sources compared with
 the REF2014 submission. Alongside peer-reviewed awards from the AHRC, British Academy,
 Leverhulme and Wellcome Trusts, the Unit received research income from the Daiwa Anglo-
 Japanese Foundation, Bank of England, Santander Bank, Morrison Construction and the
 Presbyterian Historical Society in the USA.

 Major peer-reviewed awards made to PIs based in the Unit in the current REF cycle include:

    •   Everyday Lives in War Centre (ELIWC), 2014-2019, AHRC Co-ordinating Centre for
        Community Research and Engagement to Commemorate the Centenary of the First
        World War; £1.13M (Lloyd).
    •   A History of Public Space in England, c. 1700-2000, 2018–2019, British Academy Mid-
        Career Fellowship, £78k (Navickas).
    •   Commemoration in Irish Everyday Lives, 2017, AHRC, £47.5k (Meehan).
    •   Animated Thinking, 2020, AHRC/BBC Arts Culture in Quarantine scheme, £21k (Davies).
    •   Reconstituting Irish Families Network, 2020, ESRC/Irish Research Council, £20k,
        interdisciplinary collaboration with UC Cork (Calvert).

 Collaborative research undertaken within the Unit was financially supported by awards including:

    •   Bottles Concealed and Revealed: Examining the Phenomena of Stone and Glass ‘Witch
        Bottles’ and their Concealment in mid- to late-17th century England, 2019-2022, AHRC,
        £273.5k worth £138.9k to the Unit, interdisciplinary collaboration with Museum of London
        Archaeology (Davies Houlbrook Co-Is).
    •   Inner Lives: Emotions, Identity and the Supernatural, 1300-1900, 2015-2018, Leverhulme
        Trust, £239.5k worth £61.9k to the Unit, collaboration with UEA and UCL (Davies Co-I).
    •   Healthy Citizens? Migrant Identity and Constructions of Health in Post-War Australia,
        2014-2018, Wellcome Trust Research Fellowship in Medical Humanities, £162.1k worth
        £52.7k to the Unit (Henrich).

 Unit members are encouraged to seek financial support for their research projects from external
 funding bodies, particularly those operating a peer-review process such as UKRI and the
 European Union. Substantial QR funding is allocated to seed-corn external funding bids and
 impact activities. Internal competitions, organised at University level, offer access to small grants
 (up to £5,000) that are targeted to the delivery of specific outputs or the development of external
 applications and/or collaborations. The requirement to justify both the intellectual questions and


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 resources requested to carry out a project within a competitive context helps maintain the high-
 quality threshold of research outputs.

 Funding applications are supported through the Unit’s ‘second-reader’ scheme whereby a
 researcher with a record of grant success is assigned to act as a mentor to an applicant, and to
 help ensure quality thresholds are maintained. The University Research Grants team provides
 expertise in identifying appropriate sources of funding, the costing and pricing of research,
 ensuring compliance with funders’ prerequisites, and electronic submission systems for both UK
 and European-based programmes. Major award-winners receive training in project management
 and support with budgetary accounting. All of this helps foster a trajectory from early-career
 recruitment to Co-I to PI, which is particularly important for the ECRs in the Unit and helps
 explain why all staff have raised research income in this REF cycle.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 The University has provided substantive financial and institutional assistance for the Unit’s
 impact strategy with its support for the Heritage Hub. In addition, research and impact funding of
 £29,557 has been awarded to History staff through internal small research grants competitions.
 A number of these – like the £1,000 awarded Davies and Navickas in 2016 for ‘Invented
 Journeys: Historical and Artistic Explorations of the British Antarctic Survey Archives’ – were
 multidisciplinary, in this case involving a partnership with the University’s School of Creative
 Arts. Lloyd, Morris, Meehan and Davies also received a total of £20,000 in the University Impact
 grants allocation in 2018. In 2019, Davies received a University Capital Expenditure grant of
 £27,000 to re-site a 1940s de Havilland Goblin jet engine to the entrance to the University’s de
 Havilland campus LRC, with an associated interactive digital display about the history of de
 Havilland and the heritage of the University. The Goblin project followed on from Heritage
 Lottery Fund and University funded projects about the history of the local aerospace industry
 and the University. In 2018 Murphy and the Oral History Team received £83,000 to write a
 history of the Scottish building firm Morrison Construction. The University Business Development
 Team provide support for Heritage for Business projects which have yielded an income of
 £25,000 to the Unit over this REF cycle.

 Since 2008, the Unit has used internal funds to employ Andrew Green, an experienced producer
 of history documentaries for BBC Radio, as a Senior Research Fellow to lead the delivery of its
 Oral History programmes and facilitate connections to broadcast media. In the 2018 Royal
 Historical Society Public History Awards, Green and the Oral History Team were commended in
 the Radio and Podcasts category for the Radio 4 documentary Instant History about retirement.

 Researchers’ access to physical and electronic resources is delivered by the Library and
 Computing Services, which employs a dedicated manager for Humanities. Remote access is
 provided to significant digital resources including over 250 historical journals, online databases
 and specialist digital collections including EEBO, ECCO, Times Digital Archive, Mass
 Observation Online, JStor and Project Muse. Staff are supplied with an up-to-date laptop or
 desktop computer by the School and are supported by its Technical Officer. The University is an
 institutional member of the IHR, enabling group members to capitalise on the research
 opportunities created by proximity to London.

 The Heritage Hub provides leadership for heritage and engagement projects carried out by staff
 across the University, research students and the regional community of local historians. It
 provides a point of contact for individuals and organisations seeking relevant academic
 expertise, as well as a mechanism to create supportive and collaborative networks of externally
 based researchers. The Hub website receives over 15,000 page views annually, offering a forum
 to post news and advertise events and projects. The Hub opens university resources to the local
 community, including access to meeting space. Its community match-funding scheme (2014-
 2019) has provided £2,000 annually in small grants to local projects. Some of these have gone
 on to develop relationships with academic projects (e.g. Navickas and Hertfordshire new towns).
 The ELIWC funding application was developed in consultation with community stakeholders


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 from the Heritage Hub, who became the Centre’s first participants, showcasing their own
 interests at its launch in June 2014.

 The Centre for Research in Regional and Local History is housed within the Heritage Hub,
 providing leadership for regional and local history projects carried out by staff, research students
 and the regional community of local historians. The Centre supports the two UH Press
 publication series Studies in Regional and Local History and Explorations in Local and Regional
 History and has forged links with the University of Lincoln via Navickas’ co-editing of the
 International Journal for Regional and Local History. As a result of its closer connection to the
 Heritage Hub, the Centre has hosted a number of highly successful, high-profile events since
 2014, e.g. the Chartism Day at Rickmansworth in June 2017, which brought together over 100
 academics, students, local museum professionals and local history societies in a conference and
 field trip. The Centre links to Navickas’s Rural Modernism network including the British Academy
 conference funding and AHRC network funding that it has received (see Section 4).

 Since 2015, the School of Humanities has hosted weekly ‘writing retreat’ days at the University’s
 Bayfordbury Campus. All researchers and PGR students are invited to attend. The aim of the
 retreats is to provide a quiet working environment, free from interruptions. Each day has an
 introductory and closing session where researchers can discuss their writing progress and any
 challenges they face. Because participants come from different research areas within the
 School, interdisciplinary connections can readily occur.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations and user partnerships
 High-quality, wide-ranging (thematically and geographically) and interdisciplinary collaboration is
 an integral part of the Unit’s research activity, and one that has been supported by the University
 Research Themes strategy. The University has also provided specific funding for the recruitment
 of ECRs working across fields; Henrich and Calvert were hired using these funds.

 The Unit has led or leads several interdisciplinary initiatives, all international in scope. This
 demonstrates significant growth since 2014.

 The Everyday Lives in War Centre (ELIWC) (PI/Director: Lloyd; Co-Is Davies, Meehan)
 embraced researchers from the disciplines of history, media, literature, sociology, theology,
 German studies, and law, creating opportunities for them to work collaboratively. Centre projects
 were multidisciplinary, pooling expertise to stimulate new perspectives on World War One. The
 ELIWC stimulated collaboration across six universities (Essex, Northampton, Lincoln, UCLAN,
 Exeter, UWE), facilitating those universities’ public engagement around the centenary. Out of
 this has emerged the First World War Early Career and Postdoctoral Network, with over 100
 members from across the UK. The ELIWC also collaborated with the National Archives to hold
 two major international conferences that brought together academics, independent scholars,
 community groups, and museums.

 The Perceptions of Pregnancy Researchers’ Network exemplifies the collaborative work of the
 Unit’s early-career scholars. Initially created by Meehan and Evans and now run by Calvert and
 Evans, it grew out of a 2014 conference at the University and involves over 150 members –
 historians, human geographers, literary scholars, art historians, museum curators and journalists
 – from Russia, North America, Australia and across Europe. The network has two associate
 directors based overseas, Chelsea Phillips and Marystella Ramirez Guerra, who at the time of
 their appointment were ECRs. It currently also has one UK based ECR associate director, Sarah
 Fox. Related publications include a 2016 special issue for Women’s History and a 2017 edited
 volume Perceptions of Pregnancy from the Seventeenth to the Twentieth Century. The
 conference was supported financially by Royal Historical Society and Social History Society
 conference grants.


                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Three sets of networks illustrate the Unit’s business-facing outlook. Morris is a core member of a
 variety of networks centered on business heritage narratives. Made-in Narratives based at the
 University of Brescia brings together researchers from Italy, Switzerland, Netherlands, France,
 Germany and the UK. He is a board member of the Osservatorio Monografie d’Impresa, a not-
 for-profit foundation that studies business monographs based at the University of Verona, of
 which Heritage for Business is an institutional sponsor. Murphy co-directs two finance-related
 networks. The History of Finance Network centres on the tercentenary of the South Sea and
 Mississippi Bubbles and brings together economists, literary critics, political scientists and
 historians from Japan, North America and Europe. Money, Power and Print is a bi-annual
 interdisciplinary meeting of scholars interested in the financial revolution in the North Atlantic
 world. Styles, now an emeritus Professor, was a core member of the international
 interdisciplinary network, Linking Cloth-Clothing Globally, based in Japan at Hosei University
 and the University of Tokyo, and was a member of the Advisory Board for the ERC-funded
 interdisciplinary project, ‘Refashioning the Renaissance’, based at Aalto University, Finland.

 A further network has helped solidify the Unit’s prominent role in digital history. Navickas works
 with digital humanists at the Bartlett School of Architecture, UCL, on a cross-disciplinary project
 applying digital urban planning methods to historical research. This project received seed-corn
 funding from QR and an internal grant from UCL, and outputs include an article in the Journal of
 Space Syntax. Navickas won the British Library Labs Competition 2015 with her project Political
 Meetings Mapper: Bringing the British Library maps to life with the history of popular protest.

 Navickas is also a founding member of the Rural Modernism network which is a team of
 historians, history of art scholars and cultural geographers. The network won a British Academy
 conference grant to organise an international conference on ‘New Lives New Landscapes’ at the
 University of Northumbria in August 2019. It also won AHRC network funding (£40,000) under
 the Changing Landscapes scheme for a community co-created heritage project
 ‘Decommissioning the 20th century’, and follow-on funding of £100,000 for a second project
 ‘Planning Creativity’, involving coproduction community partners in Staffordshire, Hampshire and
 Nottinghamshire, a project partner Historic England, and collaborations with artistic and digital
 creative producers. Navickas is Co-I on both projects and she has been awarded the Museum of
 English Rural Life & Open Spaces Society Fellowship for 2021. Further evidence of the Unit’s
 responsiveness to national priorities is Davies’s grant in 2020 for a short film about witch bottles
 under the AHRC-BBC ‘Culture in Quarantine’ initiative.

 Contributions to economy and society
 The Unit’s contributions to the wider non-academic community range from knowledge transfer
 and knowledge exchange to co-design and co-production of research. The Unit works with a
 wide range of organisations beyond HEIs. These include grassroots groups, museums and other
 heritage organisations, third-sector groups, businesses, UK funders (especially Heritage Lottery
 Fund, Arts Council England), local and national government departments. Beneficiaries include
 community & volunteer groups, heritage institutions, museums, business & trade organizations,
 and local history societies. Particularly through the Heritage Hub and its Heritage for Business
 initiative, the Unit has a well-articulated and tested approach to community and business
 engagement and collaboration. It is committed to building relationships of trust with community
 and business partners and sustaining these beyond any immediate project and funding. This
 culture supports activities that stimulate new ideas, generate innovative research and challenge
 historical assumptions. The Unit’s impact-related activities have benefited the wider community
 in a variety of ways and have helped enrich the Unit’s environment:

 Co-production, impact and engagement with user communities. As noted in Section 1,
 between 2014 and 2019, the ELIWC worked with scores of community groups and heritage
 organisations, partnered with researchers in over a dozen HEIs, worked with national
 institutions, and took part in meetings with government departments. Unit members of ELIWC
 worked alongside community groups to deliver original research firmly grounded in new
 knowledge; built and sustained research confidence in grassroots organisations; championed
 new research themes; and developed new communities of interest with the Centre providing a

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 central hub. The ELIWC upheld an ethos of mutual respect, creating a model of equitable
 working with communities that was recognised by external organisations. The ELIWC and
 Heritage Hub supported multiple forms of engagement, including light-touch responses to
 enquiries, training in research and oral history skills, partnership building, talks and workshops,
 invitations to participation, policy evaluation and shared research projects. Collaborations and
 activities addressed needs expressed by outside organisations. ELIWC was also proactive in
 generating new research relationships with community partners, with co-production as a focus
 for exploring new knowledge and methodological innovation.

 Provoking public debate through exhibitions. In 2018-2019, Davies and Houlbrook co-
 curated the Spellbound exhibition at Oxford’s Ashmolean Museum. In 2019, Navickas curated
 the Spaces of Protest in Manchester exhibition at the People’s History Museum, Manchester. In
 2015, in Dublin, Meehan curated an exhibition, Modern Wife, Modern Life, opened by Senator
 Jillian van Turnhout. Modern Wife appeared in Dublin, Dún Laoghaire, Wexford and Mayo, and
 was preceded by a series of 15 roadshows around Ireland that fed into the display (that is,
 objects collected at the roadshows were exhibited). Out of this grew the Electric Generations
 exhibition in Dublin and Manchester curated by Meehan, Davies and Houlbrook in 2018. In
 2018, the ELIWC brought the Buchler exhibition, a collection of World War One photographs
 taken by a German woman, to the UK for the first time. The exhibition appeared in Birmingham,
 Manchester and Hatfield. The exhibition book, produced by the ELIWC, incorporated the voices
 of community participants, a feature of Hub initiatives now shared with other HEIs and third-
 sector organisations.

 Informing policy at various levels on a range of issues. As well as informing the Irish
 government on marking the centenary of the declaration of the Irish Republic in 1916, Meehan
 was a panellist for Raidió Telifís Éireann’s coverage of the results of the Abortion Referendum in
 Ireland in May 2018. In 2020, Meehan’s history of Fine Gael, written with journalist Stephen
 Collins, contributed to present-day debates about party politics in Ireland. Bainbridge has acted
 as a World Heritage Advisor to the International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS) (a
 deciding body of UNESCO) for sites seeking World Heritage List Status, with a particular focus
 on sites in Germany. Morris is a member of the Academic Advisory Board of the Consortium for
 the Protection of Traditional Italian Espresso, an industry-wide body campaigning for UNESCO
 listing of the beverage as an element of the intangible culture of humanity. Shaw has discussed
 the news coverage of war and terrorism with politicians and commentators in the UK, US and
 French media. In 2020 Davies advised the Bethany Children's Trust regarding popular concerns
 about child witches in Togo.

 Contributions to sustainability of discipline
 The Unit actively encourages and supports staff in making contributions to the discipline and
 profession. Professional activities in support of the discipline are explicitly recognised within the
 appraisal system, and targets established for scholarly activity. The Unit sets aside a proportion
 of QR to fund individual staff members’ participation in conferences, seminars, and other
 activities, of up to £2,000 per annum.

 Membership of national panels, colleges and committees
 Morris has twice been a member of the Research Excellence Framework History Sub-panel
 (2014 and 2021), is a Strategic Reviewer of the AHRC Peer Review College, and Vice-President
 and Chair of the Royal Historical Society’s Research Policy Committee. Shaw is a member of
 the AHRC Peer Review College. Murphy was Chair of the Women’s committee of the Economic
 History Society and a member of the Society’s Publications committee. Navickas was
 Communications Officer of the Social History Society, while Evans is the Society’s Treasurer.
 Lloyd was Secretary of the Voluntary Action History Society. Styles is an Honorary Senior
 Research Fellow at the Victoria and Albert Museum; he has served as a member of the
 Research Institute Advisory Committee at the Victoria and Albert Museum since 2015 and as a
 member of the Exhibition Advisory Group at the London Foundling Museum since 2011. Grey
 has been Secretary for the Steering Committee of History UK, has served on the executive of

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Social History Society, and is co-director of the international SOLON network promoting
 interdisciplinary studies in law, crime and history. Calvert is on the Steering Committee of History
 UK and on the board of the International Federation for Research in Women’s History. Davies is
 President of the Folklore Society, 2020-2023.
 Editorships and editorial board memberships
 The Unit’s breadth of engagement and depth of peer esteem is demonstrated by its members
 acting as editors of 7 academic journals, and serving on the editorial boards of a further 4. These
 span innovative and interdisciplinary publications as well as traditional high-esteem and high-
 impact journals, including American Communist History, Contemporary British History, Economic
 History Review, Gender & History, Journal of Economic History, Research for All and Social
 History. Murphy is Editor of the Pickering and Chatto Financial History series. Davies is co-Editor
 of Palgrave Macmillan’s Historical Studies in Witchcraft and Magic and Historical Studies in the
 Criminal Corpse and its Afterlife. Shaw is Co-Editor of the University Press of Kansas’s War on
 Screen series. Morris is a member of the Comitato Scientifico for the Mondadori Quaderni di
 Storia series.

 Prizes and Awards
 Houlbrook was awarded the International Society for Ethnology and Folklore (SEIF) Young
 Scholars Prize for her History Workshop Journal article ‘The Concealed Revealed. The
 “Afterlives” of Hidden Objects in the Home’ in 2019. Morris was a finalist in the Times Higher
 Education Awards for Most Innovative Business-University Collaboration for his partnership with
 Nespresso in 2018 (see Impact Case Study). The Oral History team were commended in the
 Radio and Podcasts category of the 2018 Royal Historical Society Public History Awards.


 Conferences, seminars and keynotes
 Unit members have co-organised 16 research conferences, including in Germany, Japan and
 Russia. Staff have co-convened the seminars in British History in the Long 18th Century (Lloyd)
 and Economic and Social History of the Pre-Modern World (Murphy). Notable keynote
 addresses include Houlbrook, International Society for Ethnology and Folklore (SEIF) Congress,
 Santiago de Compostela, 2019; Henrich, German Association for Studies of Australia,
 Dusseldorf, 2018; Shaw, German Historical Institute, Moscow, 2015. Invited public lectures
 include Styles at the Yale Centre for British Art, 2017; Navickas at the Centre for British Studies,
 Humboldt University Berlin, 2019; Meehan at the Medieval Mile Museum, Kilkenny, 2017; Morris
 at MUMAC Coffee Museum, Milan Book Fair 2019; Murphy at HM Treasury, 2019.




                                                                                              Page 13
