Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institution: University of Cambridge


Unit of Assessment: 31 THEOLOGY AND RELIGIOUS STUDIES


1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy




Divinity at Cambridge is one of the largest concentrations of researchers in the subject in the UK:
the Unit of Assessment (UoA) supports research from antiquity to the present, from the perspective
of different faith traditions and none, and different methodologies, in addition to pioneering
interdisciplinary initiatives. Its research activity is focused on the Faculty of Divinity, the heart of a
globally-unique network of lay, ecumenical and interfaith research centres, seminaries and
specialist libraries, as well as the collegiate network. The Faculty was praised in a 2018
International Strategic Research Review for its breadth and interdisciplinary innovativeness.


During the REF census period, three central research goals have shaped UoA strategy:


    •   developing all researchers, from undergraduates to professors, as our core responsibility;


    •   deepening interdisciplinary engagements, fundamental to the integrity of our field, and in
        line with University strategy; and


   •    exploring connections between study of religions from within and from without,
        leading to interaction between different methodological approaches in research and
        teaching.


These goals are pursued through close engagement with sources, and intensive training in
methods and approaches, thereby providing a platform for the UoA’s contributions within and
beyond the humanities. The UoA builds on the natural interdisciplinarity of the collegiate context to
generate research innovation through engagements with social sciences (including anthropology,
international relations), arts and humanities (e.g. music, digital humanities) and natural sciences.


1.1 Research structure


The UoA comprises seven disciplinary clusters, with overlapping membership:
Christian Theology, World Christianities, Church History, Religious Studies, New
Testament, Hebrew Bible and Philosophy of Religion. Each is centred around fortnightly
research seminars, reading groups and named lectures, which lead to publications (including
graduate journals and essay collections) and conferences. At termly planning meetings, each

                                                                                                    Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
cluster discusses research opportunities, academic development, teaching and examination.
These are attended by researchers within the area as well as undergraduate, graduate and
postdoctoral representatives.


Two major research centres, the Cambridge Inter-Faith Programme (CIP) and the
Cambridge Centre for the Study of Platonism (CCSP), provide intensive research focus for
major publications and events, as well as graduate and postdoctoral development and networking.
In addition to these pivotal research structures, smaller collaborative research projects and groups
have led to the Late Antiquity Network (through the Centre for Research in the Arts, Social
Sciences and Humanities (CRASSH), one of the leading international interdisciplinary research
centres in the UK), Cambridge Forum for Jewish Studies, the Bible and World War 1 (MacDonald),
Templeton World Charity project in Theology, Philosophy of Religion and Science (Coakley),
‘Theologies of Reading’ Network (based in CRASSH, exploring different disciplinary approaches to
reading texts, forthcoming as a special issue of CounterText), DAAD German theology hub, and
the CRASSH/Mellon interdisciplinary seminars (drawing together researchers from different
subjects to run research seminars on a joint theme: ‘Gesture, Perception, Event’, ‘Divine voices in
Modern Jewish Philosophy’) (see 4.4, 4.5).


All UoA researchers have access to research facilities, funding and support. The Research
Committee, chaired by the Research Director (MacDonald), develops and implements research
strategy, supports individuals and groups undertaking research, and implements Equality and
Diversity initiatives. Its membership includes postdoctoral researchers and representatives of the
Cambridge Theological Federation (CTF). The Research Director is a member of the Faculty
Board, the executive body of the Faculty, ensuring that research is at the heart of Faculty strategy
and decision-making. The Board’s wide range of perspectives (including undergraduate,
postgraduate, postdoctoral and external representation) informs research planning in turn.


1.2 Research goals


In REF2014, the UoA focused on six main goals:

• to ensure that research is at the heart of planning;

• to maintain a vibrant and sustainable research culture;

• to strengthen our research base through research-driven staffing strategy;

• to increase and embed our interdisciplinary engagement;

• to intensify our international profile; and

• to embed impact in all primary research, and deepen our relationship with research users.



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The role of Research Director has expanded to include liaising with the School of Arts and
Humanities (SAH) Research Facilitators and the University Research Office, with the Research
Committee offering targeted support and peer review for research grant applications. A new
integrated approach to postdoctoral fellowships, wider advertising and enhanced application
support have significantly increased application numbers: resulting in seven independent
postdoctoral researchers in 2020, compared with one in 2014.


Other new measures include:


   •   streamlining our administrative framework, with fewer committees;


   •   integrating research across subject areas, through combined research lunches, joint
       themed seminars (e.g. Akedah series, combining Philosophy, the Arts and Biblical Studies),
       and research events, including a CIP Interfaith Brainstorming Day and new fortnightly
       seminar. These have led to outward-facing collaborations, such as with CRASSH, the
       Institute for Sustainability Leadership (Kotva, Pickstock), Faraday Institute (science and
       religion), and the von Hügel (critical Catholic inquiry) and Woolf (interfaith) Institutes, which
       host researchers included in this submission. They run seminars and projects linked with
       UoA researchers, coordinated with UoA themes and attended by postgraduate researchers.
       These initiatives have fostered new understandings of the engaged study of theology in
       relation to religious studies, and inter-denominational and inter-faith engagements.


   •   bringing teaching and research closer together, by encouraging undergraduates to
       identify as researchers through attending research seminars and events, and convening
       reading groups. 50%-75% of third-year modules are research-based and/or linked with new
       research developments.


   •   The sustainability of our flourishing research culture has been strengthened through
       twelve new postgraduate studentships (including an AHRC/CDRA scheme to support
       British Islam), research grant workshops and mentoring, and increased peer review for
       grant applications, as well as research mentoring. Individual monographs completed since
       REF2014 bear witness to such sustainability, including Aitken’s No Stone Unturned,
       Cabrita’s Voices of Zion, Gathercole’s Gospel of Thomas, Lieu’s Marcion, Pickstock’s
       Aspects of Truth, Weiss’s Divine Violence in Classical Rabbinic literature. Larger-scale
       projects bear witness to initiatives pioneering new fields and methodologies; major
       examples include Hedley’s ‘Cambridge Platonists at the Origins of the Enlightenment’,
       Zellentin’s ‘Qur’anic Commentary: an Integrative Paradigm’; Zahl’s ‘Theological Affect and



                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Knowledge-Production’, Davison’s ‘Hylomorphic Image of Nature’ and Coakley’s ‘Theology
       and Science’, now variously leading to digitisations, new projects and outputs.


   •   The threat to the sustainability of our flourishing research culture by Covid-19 led to
       the launch of Divinity Dispatches, at the start of lockdown, to foster and support a rich
       research environment under adverse conditions. Through the creativity of our postdoctoral
       researchers, it has become a major hub of activity which we anticipate being an established
       forum post-Covid-19. In addition to seminars and reading groups, the platform hosts
       enriching resources, including research trailer videos, poetry readings, film clubs,
       photograph albums, interfaith cookbook and a student helpdesk. It was showcased by the
       Vice-Chancellor as an example of pioneering research provision under lockdown. Our
       research seminars, reading groups and research events are now widely accessible
       online, attracting researchers from around the world via Zoom, including leading scholars
       who now have points of contact with our researchers through Dispatches.


Our commitment to the sustainability of the discipline is attested by priority appointments
across a range of fields (see 2.1). We supported successful applications for Leverhulme
(Becker-Lindenthal), British Academy (Aspray, Dhont), AHRC (Bryson, as part of CCSP), Newton
International (Mihai) and Marie Curie (Corrias, Kurtz) Fellowships, alongside Templeton-funded
postdoctoral researchers (Deng, Haan, Massmann, McCosker, Simpson, Tan, Woodford) and a
Mobility Grant from SNSF (Jost).


New funding priorities include a University Lectureship in Black Theology; funding for posts in
Jewish Studies as part of a new planned Centre for Jewish Studies; a second post in Indian
Religions (with a focus on Buddhism); posts in Ethics, and Literature and Theology; and funding for
further postgraduate studentships in all areas.


Interdisciplinary engagement is a defining feature of our UoA, adduced through new cross-
Faculty graduate teaching, and research projects at the interface between science, religion and
theology (see 1.3), the latter leading to projects and journal special issues, e.g. biological
mutualism and extended evolutionary synthesis.


Our international links are a major component of our research profile, leading to conferences
and the academic development of early career researchers (ECRs). Our international agenda is
fostering new links across a range of themes.


   •   Meggitt’s ‘Mutability of Apocalyptic’ Cambridge-Stockholm Collaborative Research
       Scheme brings together different methodologies, including intertextuality, affective history


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       and inter-religious transformations to address the nature of apocalyptic. The collaboration is
       leading to a journal special issue, feeding into the new Religion and Conflict MPhil pathway
       and undergraduate course, and a formal collaboration with the Centre for the Critical Study
       of Apocalyptic and Millenarian Movements;
   •   Becker-Lindenthal’s collaborations with the Copenhagen Kierkegaard Research
       Centre, building specialist Kierkegaard networks, is leading to a project on ‘Ethical
       Existence: Kierkegaard’s Philosophy of Existence in the 21st century’, involving
       conferences and graduate opportunities;
   •   Haustein’s AHRC networking project with researchers from the Global South led to
       multiple conferences on sustainable development (2016-9);
   •   Özyürek’s DAAD-Cambridge workshop series, ‘Entangled and Disentangled Otherings’,
       exploring anti-Semitism and racism, has opened avenues for CIP, initiating its ‘Global
       Challenges’ funding campaign, forging links with the wider University and beyond, and
       providing a testing ground for new MPhil modules.


Our international initiatives provide graduate and postdoctoral research and networking
opportunities. Hosting the inaugural 2019 League of European Research Universities conference
brought together 40 ECRs to present papers and discuss career opportunities; while running UoA
study-days and hosting overseas Scholars (through our two Centres, as well as through affiliated
Centres such as Faraday and Woolf) have led to a range of postdoctoral opportunities, such as:
        •   links with L’Institut Catholique de Toulouse;
        •   the International Network of Philosophy of Religion (Emma-Adamah, Aspray);
        •   Pickstock’s collaboration with ITIRF Strasbourg, bringing research projects, graduate
            exchanges and seminar series.
Our Visiting Scholar scheme enriches our research environment, through seminar participation,
access to research resources and interaction with researchers. We are launching an annual
appeal to scholars from Official Development Recipient territories that will offer the successful
applicant a scholarship with waived fees, together with visa, travel and accommodation costs, as
well as offer of mentoring.


We are deeply committed to the role of impact in shaping aspects of our research, and of
research users informing our primary work, from early stages through to forms of dissemination.
Our researchers have been involved in film-making, exhibition curation, podcasts, translations,
popular expression and outreach events (see 1.2).


Over the coming five years, our research plans are:
   •   to expand our vibrant postgraduate and postdoctoral community through increased
       recruitment to innovative MPhil modules, studentships and grant opportunities;

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   •   to provide resources and targeted support to increase research funding and
       opportunities, e.g. including a new workload model to incentivise staff, with maximal peer-
       review grant support;


   •   to facilitate interdisciplinary and collaborative projects to produce world-leading
       international initiatives, building on new successes;


   •   to fundraise for a multi-year Global Challenges research and impact programme (see 4.3);


   •   to embed impact, and foster relationships with research users; and


   •   to realise strategic publication goals, including Kooten’s Paul’s Political Philosophy,
       MacDonald’s Ritual Innovation in Israel, Meggitt’s Origins of Atlantic Abolitionism, Rex’s
       work on late Medieval Catholicism and Zahl’s study of emotions and metaphysics.




1.3 Enabling impact


The case studies in this submission bear witness to the diverse forms of support offered by the
UoA, School and University, and to the integration of impact in primary research. They
demonstrate a wide range of types of impact, as well as varied beneficiaries, with particular
concentrations upon inter-faith engagement, education, public policy, social order, well-being and
the creative economy. They come from researchers at different career stages, and were selected
on the basis of REF criteria from a larger group of potential case studies that also included the
Genizah project (studying and digitising 200,000 fragments whose discovery has revolutionised
understanding of pre-modern Judaism (Aitken), linked with Area Studies and the University
Library); the ‘Learning Together’ prison-based education programmes (bringing students and
researchers into prison settings to read texts together (Phillips)); interfaith events and projects
through CIP (Waller, Weiss); and performance-based, multi-media and cross-disciplinary research
(including engagement with musicians, composers, poets, sculptors, letterists and artists (Becker-
Lindenthal, Kotva, Pickstock, Waller)) (see 4.3).


Since REF2014, we have prioritised building collaborative impact projects, impact linked with
funded research projects, and connecting disciplines, such as through the University’s Festival of
Ideas. The Festivals encourage public exploration of arts, humanities and social sciences via
thought-provoking and creative events, with students and staff leading a variety of panels, for
diverse audiences, including children, presenting research questions in an accessible and


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
interactive way. These priorities and support structures ensure the sustainability of impact in future
research.


We have sought to embed impact in research, from the initial stages of new projects to
reconceiving primary research as reciprocally shaped by interaction with the widest possible range
of beneficiaries. We have created the role of Impact Officer, alongside developing a social media
profile and engagement strategy through our Outreach Officer, who publicises research to key
stakeholders with support from the University’s Communications Office, and through collaborations
with the Education Faculty to produce films on key research (such as Kotva on looking at nature,
and Pickstock on Anselm’s Proslogion). We have integrated impact through initiating discussions
at the outset of new research projects. Cabrita’s case study, ‘Illuminating African Zionism in the UK
and South Africa’, was supported from the initial stages of her international museum curations
through assistance in designing impact-monitoring feedback mechanisms, resources, feedback,
and UoA IT and administrative support. Alongside these personal engagements, we systematised
archiving and displaying impacts, testimonies and ‘before and after’ questionnaires that enable
sharing best practice. We held a one-day brainstorming workshop on developments in CIP,
considering how to maximise the two-way benefits between teaching and impactful research in
light of societal change (Waller and Weiss, ‘Scripture and Violence’).


These developments have raised awareness of how impact can benefit and shape primary
research, through advice and resources, as well as convening workshops, by garnering data and
advising on publicity. Impact showcasing lunch sessions have helped individuals to identify impact
in their own and others’ research. The Impact Officer is supported by the School Impact Facilitator,
who works alongside a Research Grants Facilitators and a cross-UoA REF administrator. This
support proved vital in providing specialist advice, and assisting with successful applications to the
University’s and AHRC’s Arts and Humanities Impact Fund (totalling £23K to date). The
educational programme resulting from Winter’s ‘Revitalising Muslim-Christian Relations’ has been
supported by these funds, as has Weiss and Waller’s training materials arising from their ‘Scripture
and Violence’ projects. Assistance has also been given in collecting print media, online take-up
quantification and enhanced interaction with users, as well as shaping follow-on events after the
current REF cycle. The School Impact Officer convened events and surgeries designed to foster
new as well as established pathways to impact.


We have designated a UoA Impact Support Fund of £2K per annum, administered by the
Research Committee, to support experimental or preliminary events which might encourage
potential impacts, as well as other research-related expenses (such as copyright permissions,
proof-reading and index assistance).



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Incipient projects will come to fruition in the next REF cycle, including Meggitt’s ‘Slavery
Origins of Abolitionism’ and ‘Religion and Terrorism’, Weiss and Waller’s ‘Scripture and Violence’;
and, with the appointment of Özyürek (2020), realising the potential of CIP to serve as an interface
between research, teaching and public engagement. We have established a number of impact-
facing activities as independent ventures in the current period: Scriptural Reasoning has been
taken on by Rose Castle Foundation; Faith in Leadership has become an independent
programme; and Coexist House has been constituted as a charity. In the same period, we have
worked closely with institutions within the Cambridge Theological Federation to intensify research
activity, through involvement in research days and profiling, as well as via the World Christianities
Joint Seminar.


1.4 Interdisciplinary research


The UoA sees interdisciplinarity as central to the integrity of our field. Our research and teaching
reflect a belief that canonical identities presume mediation by other discourses and bodies of
learning, e.g. between metaphysics and the liberal arts, reflections on civic existence and the
historical role of religions.


We have placed emphasis upon interdisciplinarity in the planning of new appointments with
connections to other disciplines sustainably built in: with links to African Studies (Haustein),
Asian and Middle Eastern Studies (Bouhafa), Classics (Kooten), History and Philosophy of
Science (Barua, Davison), Philosophy (Bouhafa, Orr) and Social Anthropology (Özyürek,
Webster). These links are strengthened through research seminars; specialist undergraduate
lectures in Classics (Aitken), Music (Pickstock) and Social Anthropology (Webster); other individual
teaching collaborations; and, crucially, our new joint BA with Social Anthropology in Modern
Religions (Özyürek (October, 2020), Robbins, Webster). Davison’s NASA collaboration between
theology and astrobiology, and his work on Evolutionary Synthesis, led to third-year undergraduate
research-based papers and an MPhil module, linked thematically with Coakley’s Templeton
‘Bridging the Divide: Theology meets Science’.


This commitment has led to notable field-defining contributions to the discipline. Street’s
approach to Arabic logic across a range of sources has mapped a unique conversation with
medieval logic in Latin and Jewish traditions, and through a series of grants and collaborations has
forged new understanding of connections with ethics, jurisprudence, grammar and rhetoric, with a
school of text-reading, translation and commentary now reaching overseas as his mentees take up
posts (USA, Cambridge, Germany). Philosophy of Religion is distinctive for its integration of
philosophical and other modes of cognitive expression, especially literary (Pickstock, Williams),
and its interest in alternative approaches, such as Neoplatonism, French spiritual realism, German


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and English Romanticism (Hedley). The dissolution of the boundary between New Testament and
Early Church in the work on Second Century Christianity is internationally associated with the
approaches of Lieu, Gathercole and Carleton Paget. A distinctive Anthropology-Theology dialogue
has arisen through Webster and Özyürek, shaping an essay collection, Theologically-Engaged
Anthropology, while Banner’s Ethics of Everyday Life led to a conference panel at the Society for
the Anthropology of Religion and an essay volume.


We have convened public events profiling theological approaches to questions concerning
the nature of human knowledge as perforce incomplete (Pickstock with CRASSH and Modern and
Medieval Languages and Linguistics (MMLL), 2016-17), with a view to increasing the profile of the
field locally and nationally, such as through the Mellon/CRASSH Religion in the Secular University
colloquium (Jackson, Kotva, McFarland, Pickstock, Waller, Williams (2017-21)).


These developments have prompted a renegotiation of the field and its sources, in
conversation with broader School strategy, fostering interdisciplinary engagements across the
University and with other stakeholders, through conferences, themed seminar series, joint
graduate teaching and larger-scale projects. Examples include Bouhafa’s ‘Rethinking Islamic
Ethics’ conference (2019), drawing together ethics, philosophy and jurisprudence, and
MacDonald’s Bible and World War 1 networking grant, combining modern historians and biblical
scholars.


Reading groups, convened variously by staff, research students and undergraduates, allow
experimental exploration of themes. A few examples of the many themes covered include:
Sacrifice; Gender; Laughter; Poetics; the Anthropocene; Ecology and Magic; Silence; Logos and
Reading; Little Things; and Grace, variously co-convened with the MMLL, English and Music
Faculties. A workshop entitled ‘Presences’ featured an acoustics specialist (Noesis, 2019) and was
one of several events exploring the theological complexion of ostensibly non-theological
discourses, such as Anthropology, Music, Classics, History, Experimental Psychology, Coptic
Studies, Papyrology, Codicology, and Islamic Studies, drawing on researchers across the UoA.


Individual research projects are motivated by interdisciplinary questions, benefitting from close
association with CRASSH, whose former and current Directors have interests in theology and
religion, with UoA researchers at all levels involved in projects ranging from network seminars,
such as ‘Methodologies of Reading’ (Kotva/Jackson, jointly with English), to larger projects such as
Street’s ‘Heirs to Avicenna’, with CRASSH co-hosting, offering support during application
processes, and providing subsequent administration.




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Looking ahead, we are exploring new ways of reflecting the interdisciplinary core of our field
through methodological experimentation, themed topics in our third-year undergraduate and MPhil
courses, and international online collaborative seminar series.


1.5 Open research and data sharing


The Covid-19 lockdown brought a new understanding of the intellectual value of openness, with
research trailers, online seminars, lectures and transcripts being routinely featured on Divinity
Dispatches. This facilitated wider networks: with overseas students and specialists participating in
our seminars, stimulating innovative thinking and making new connections. We are committed to
augmenting our online research capacity beyond Covid-19.


This REF cycle has seen a significant intensification and expansion of our open research
provision. The enhancement of discoverability and inclusiveness, undergirded by the Concordat on
Open Research Data and University policies, is built into our research environment, through
entirely open research seminars, public lectures, social media communication, translations and
databases. Source digitisations are a major research commitment in our UoA: with the CCSP
making Cambridge Platonist sources newly available, leading to greater understanding of the
complexities of this philosophical group; and the Cairo Genizah project digitising the Genizah
fragments, leading to new understanding of everyday Jewish life in the middle ages. Museum and
manuscript curations and conservations (Aitken, Cabrita, Gathercole, Waller), as well as outreach
resources, are attracting a wide extra-academic access to our research. Our online curation of
‘Fifty Religious Treasures’ was launched with a talk by Duffy (2019); a series of outreach films is
disseminating our research in schools; and staff and graduate researchers have convened Festival
of Ideas events across a range of themes, such as ‘The End of the World as We Know It’ and ‘God
and the Machine’. We provide specialist data and assistance to external projects, such as the
Friedberg Jewish Manuscripts Project and the Princeton Genizah project.


UoA researchers are involved in institution-level consultations on Open Research, with Rex
spearheading accessible e-theses through involvement in the AHRC Doctoral Training
Partnership. The UoA Librarian is a University spokesperson on this issue, advising on ethical and
social issues raised by this commitment, as well as copyright frameworks. At a local level, he runs
training courses for researchers at all stages seeking targeted advice on OA. The UoA IT Manager
advises on data sharing. The Research Director includes OA issues in his Newsletter and hosts
lunch sessions. The University’s Office of Scholarly Communications runs specialist training,
providing guidelines on specific topics relating to Open Research and Integrity. Meanwhile,
individuals disseminate their research beyond institutional confines, contributing to blogs and
podcasts (e.g. ‘Metaphysics and Poetics’ Discord platform).


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.6 Ethical research and research integrity


The UoA is committed to providing rigorous ethical review, via the Research Committee, and to
increasing awareness of the importance and complexity of issues of integrity in research involving
human participants and personal data. All such research is subject to ethical approval before
commencement. Where undergraduate and postgraduate research projects, including BTh
Pastoral Portfolios, raise ethical issues, supervisors advise students in applying for ethical
approval. All new research students and staff receive training in research ethics, and ethical
approval is discussed at PhD registration exercises. Where appropriate, advice is sought from
UoAs with specialist experience, e.g. Anthropology, Education and Medicine. The Research
Director, supported by the University’s research governance team, oversees policy, which was
centralised for greater standardization, with information and ethical review forms available via the
UoA website. Applications for ethical approval are reviewed by the Research Committee, on
average six per year, and represent the range of subject areas. Examples include projects on
Pentecostalism in Nigeria, Christianity and power, and on gendered responses to Biblical
passages. Complex cases, such as a recent application involving potential risk to the researcher,
are referred to the Humanities and Social Sciences Research Ethics Committee, which in turn
refers to the University Research Ethics Committee. The Research Director is pro-active in
establishing best practice in ethics review in the Cambridge Theological Federation.




                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2. People



Our strategy is to recruit the best international researchers whose skills complement and extend
UoA specialisms, and to ensure working conditions and support which enable researchers to
flourish.


New appointments have consolidated existing areas and opened new ones, and a successful
campaign led to a high proportion of ECRs (>3 p.a., with applications increasing from c. 15 p.a.
(2014) to 96 (2020)). 25 FTE of the UoA staff are University Teaching Officers, employed directly
by the University. 12 FTE are ECRs: five Junior Research Fellows (JRFs) based in Colleges; one
Leverhulme, two Marie Curie and two British Academy ECRs; and 2 Postdoctoral Research
Associates (PDRAs) on externally-funded grants. 7 FTE are College-based with responsibilities to
their College and the wider University, as Dean of Chapel, Senior Tutor, Master and Fellow
Librarian. Williams and Winter, as global religious leaders, provide inspiration for faith leadership in
a research context.


2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development


Our recruitment strategy follows University guidance regarding job descriptions, advertisement
wording, and inviting equality and diversity consultants to advise on recruitment processes. To
attract a diverse range of applicants, flexible working options, annual leave and family-friendly
policies are available and regularly updated. Interview panel members are trained in Equality and
Diversity (E&D) and Unconscious Bias Recruitment Essentials, to encourage gender-balanced
shortlists and best practice. Selection Committee Chairs actively support eligible candidates in the
recruitment process, resourcing childcare costs of interviewees and offering alternative modes of
interviewing, including the use of virtual platforms.


Career management procedures include mentoring and appraisal, with ECRs, mid-career and
senior researchers having biennial appraisals by the Chair of Faculty (or designate), in line with the
University’s Staff Review and Development Scheme, to enhance work effectiveness and career
development. Trained mentors are assigned to ECRs and probationary staff. A preliminary
appraisal form covers research skills, achievements and identifying training and development
needs. Outputs, research plans, impact and general contribution provide central themes, leading to
discussion of promotion, research, wellbeing and development.




                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
A substantial period of change since REF2014 has provided opportunities to think strategically
about our long-term profile of expertise and new priorities, with appointments effecting new
substantial interdisciplinary links as well as strengthening existing areas. We have made 15
appointments, attracting scholars recognised internationally as leaders in their field. Ford’s
replacement by McFarland (now at Emory (2019)) as Regius Professor expanded our strengths in
Christian theology, and together with the appointment of Zahl (replacing Soskice) and Fergusson
(replacing McFarland, 2020) increases expertise in Reformed theology (Aspray, Rex) and the arts;
Coakley’s replacement by Pickstock strengthens both leadership in the ‘Cambridge School’ of
philosophical theology and links with English and MMLL. Kooten, succeeding Lieu, consolidates
Faculty-wide interests in Plato, connecting with Classics (Carleton Paget, Aitken, Hedley,
Pickstock). Webster, succeeding Jenkins, reinforces links with Social Anthropology, leading to a
new joint undergraduate degree in ‘Modern Religions’ from 2020. Webster brings new links with
the study of politics and ethno-religious nationalism, and together with Özyürek (replacing
Fowden), enables us to strengthen our social scientific profile. Cabrita, recruited to a tenure-track
position at Stanford University, was replaced by Haustein, strengthening links with History through
research on African Christian movements (Maxwell). Pickstock’s appointment led to an opening in
Philosophy of Religion, filled by Orr, bringing expertise in analytic and moral philosophy. Hoskin’s
appointment as Principal Research Associate and Director of the Parker Library brings strengths in
medieval studies. College appointments of Teaching Officers and JRFs enhance UoA subject-
specialisms, with research as the primary selection criterion. All College researchers are fully
integrated Faculty members: participating in, and often organising, research and MPhil seminars
as well as PhD supervision. College researchers’ outputs feature in this submission, reflecting their
integral role in the UoA’s research community.


2.1.1 Staff development strategy


In order to optimise development and support of researchers, the UoA’s staffing strategy builds on
the University’s induction provision for all new staff: providing mentoring, reduced teaching and
administrative responsibilities, and annual appraisal during the (usually five-year) probation period.
Post-probation staff are appraised biennially, but may request annual appraisal (see 2.1).


A workload model balances key administrative posts across groups by gender and seniority to
create an effective management environment, sensitive to work/life vicissitudes. Wherever
possible, adjusting responsibilities via buy-out or timetable adjustment to accommodate ambitious
research bids, new collaborations or completion of outputs is a priority. Sensitivity to career well-
being and short- to medium-term patterns of contribution is also applied in the case of retired staff,
who are integrated in the research environment via seminars, graduate conversations, book
launches and seminars dedicated to their research.


                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The University Personal and Professional Development team runs an extensive programme for
staff development at all career stages. Our Athena SWAN staff survey (2018) indicates that staff
feel encouraged to exploit these development opportunities and to make use of the full range of
courses.


The University Promotions Scheme is a competitive annual exercise, with final decisions made
by the Vice-Chancellor’s Committee. Criteria for promotion prioritise international research
excellence, supported by external assessment. The HR Division supports staff applying for
promotion by appointing senior academic mentors, in addition to the mentoring and appraisal
schemes within the UoA, with the Faculty Chair also providing advice and feedback to
unsuccessful applications.


2.1.2 Effectiveness of staffing and recruitment strategy


The success of our recruitment and staffing policy can be seen in the promotions of eleven staff in
the review period: four members of the UoA promoted to Professor, four to Reader, and three to
Senior Lecturer. 94% of women applicants for promotion were successful, and 71% of men. This
success rate is attributed to close scrutiny of criteria, assiduous mentoring, advice of senior
colleagues with experience of promotions procedures, and supportive preparatory application
stages.


2.1.3 Support for early career researchers


Since REF 2014, Divinity has supported 12 PDRAs from a range of schemes. They are all:


   •      supported by a mentor, distinct from their PI, following the UK Concordat to Support the
          Career Development of Researchers (2019), and provided with induction by the Chair, with
          annual appraisal to identify development needs;


   •      deeply integrated in the research environment through seminar involvement and
          planning, opportunities for teaching experience, and resources for reading groups and
          events, in addition to accessing administrative, office, library and IT facilities, and generous
          travel and research funding, supplemented by Colleges;


   •      able to access interdisciplinary resources and opportunities through CRASSH, with
          writing workshops, work-in-progress seminars, network grants (Kotva, Jackson) and
          conference support (Bouhafa, Becker-Lindenthal, Waller);




                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   included (with College JRFs) in career support and access to resources and
       opportunities, with affiliation to our specialist Research Centres (Aspray, Becker-Lindenthal
       and Kotva);


   •   involved in decision-making committees, through membership of the Postdoctoral
       Affairs Committee, Faculty Board, subject area and other committees, and the Postdoctoral
       REF subcommittee;


   •   encouraged to access University postdoctoral advocacy and facilities via the
       University’s Postdoc Academy, supporting researchers before, during and after their posts,
       and coordinating professional, leadership, pastoral, networking and mentoring services.
       The University holds the HR Excellence in Research Award from the European
       Commission;


   •   able to take advantage of a new district, Eddington, in North West Cambridge,
       resourced by the University, with subsidised buses and cycle paths, addressing the cost of
       living for Cambridge postdoctoral researchers. Designed with sustainability in mind,
       Eddington provides shops, nursery and primary schooling, and a community and field study
       centre. Three UoA postdocs have benefitted from these resources;


   •   encouraged to apply for University posts, with CV and preparation mentoring and
       practice interviews.


The career progression of Divinity postdoctoral researchers testifies to the effectiveness of
our support. Since 2014, seven have secured permanent appointments in UK and non-UK HEIs,
including Cambridge, Oxford, Durham, Tübingen and Yonsai, and taken up further postdoctoral
positions at Ghent, Durham, Oslo and Oxford. Postdoctoral researchers are active in publishing
(as seen in this submission) and conference organisation. In 2018, CIP launched a postdoctoral
conference competition, the first winning entry being Kurtz: ‘Mosaic Law among the Moderns’
(2019). We have pioneered a new Postdoctoral REF subcommittee, meeting in parallel with the
UoA committee’s weekly output-reviewing sessions, assessing potential outputs separately and in
camera, and introducing postdoctoral researchers to REF without the responsibility of decision-
making, whilst assisting in diversifying the basis for output assessments.


2.1.4 Leave policy


Leave entitlement for all staff is one term for every six terms of service. This is often held overseas,
with University/College travel cost assistance. In addition, UoA staff have benefitted from


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Returning Carers support (2), as well as opportunities for secondment (1), flexible working
arrangements (2), and career breaks (1). Special support and bursaries are offered for researchers
under pressure of personal circumstances (1).


2.1.5 Procedures for Knowledge Exchange (KE)


KE is facilitated through the Centre for Science and Policy events, Impact briefing lunch sessions,
support through CIP, and discussions with the Outreach Officer and Research Director, with UoA
resources supporting events to foster relationships. Exerting wider research influence as a form of
service to the discipline includes outreach, open access initiatives, collaborations with
beneficiaries, translations of others’ research, museum and other curations, such as the University
Library 2015 Genizah of Medieval Cairo ‘Discarded History’ exhibition, and the British Museum/CIP
2015-6 ‘Faith After the Pharaohs’ exhibition. We encourage such activities through academic
promotion and increment recognition, impact awards, showcasing and exhibitions, Faculty
bulletins, announcements. The UoA has contributed annually to the public-facing showcasing and
educational research events, the Festival of Ideas and Science Festival events, on a range of
themes, such as science and religion, angels, the Anthropocene, and Scripture and violence.


2.1.6 Recognition and reward for impact


Our impact developments are rewarded by workload allocation, the Vice-Chancellor’s annual
Impact Award (Webster, runner up 2020), recognition in the University Promotions Scheme, the
Impact Fund, and targeting of UoA resources and support for individuals preparing potential impact
case studies.


2.2 Research students


We have a large community of research students, averaging around 150 across the three
years, now increased in size thanks to a new recruitment strategy, with MPhil intake almost
doubling and PhD increasing significantly (2017 intake: PhD: 16 | 2019 intake: PhD 24), with
average overseas intake at PhD: 55%. Gender balance remains a key target, which we are
addressing through increased showcasing, career pathway information and testimonies, and
fundraising for more studentships, to encourage greater gender, racial and age diversity. We hope
that both the innovative construal of undergraduates as researchers (1.1) and diversified
interdisciplinary MPhil modules will increase take-up.




                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.2.1 Recruitment approach


Our recruitment strategy is highly competitive, dependent on evidence of research potential,
available supervision and funding. A recent fundraising drive to increase the UoA’s provision of
studentships has led to the award of 12 each year, in addition to cross-disciplinary sources (AHRC,
Gates) and the Cambridge-Oxford-Open AHRC DTP (coordinated by Rex; 15 studentships since
2014), alongside the Cambridge Home and EU Scholarship Schemes, Commonwealth and
European Trusts, College studentships (several dedicated to theology and religious studies), and
denominational studentships (Methodist Church, German National Academic Foundation and
Church of England).


The Faculty has expanded its recruitment activities, with the creation of the new role of
Director of Graduate Admissions, involvement in the University’s Graduate Open Day, and filming
talks. UoA researchers meet with prospective students at international conference sessions and
via interviews. Applications are assessed by at least two subject specialists via a new online
system enabling calibration. Candidates are interviewed by two staff, either in person or online. We
are deeply committed to the support of applicants with protected characteristics and ensure that
staff involved in recruitment have undertaken E&D and Unconscious Bias training.


2.2.2 Support


New research students attend UoA, College and library inductions. All PhD students have an
advisor in addition to their supervisor, with cross-disciplinary supervision where needed.
Registration is assessed at the end of the first year by two subject specialists. Termly online
reports are submitted and reviewed by the Degree Committee, alongside registration exercise
reports, available to the student, Faculty and College. A second-year progress submission report is
submitted, and where risk of delayed completion is indicated, a third-year viva has been
introduced. This framework is supplemented by Colleges, which offer welfare support and
advocacy for students in financial and pastoral difficulties.


Research student skills and career development have been intensified. Our Director for
Graduate Studies coordinates an intensive Graduate Training Framework, ensuring preparation in
transferable and subject-specific skills, with sessions on registration, CV development, job
applications, vivas, funding, delivering and publishing papers. Specialist skills are developed
through the Modern Language Centre, through the UoA (Biblical Modern Hebrew, Greek, Syriac,
Ethiopic, Coptic, Hindi and Arabic), Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies (Sanskrit,
Qur’anic Arabic, Aramaic, Ugaritic and Latin), and through classes in palaeography and social
scientific methods. Further research training is offered by the Development Programme of the
Graduate School of Arts and Humanities, the University-wide Skills Portal and other providers,

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
including IT Services and the University Library. Graduate representatives serve on many UoA
committees, including subject area committees, Graduate Studies and Faculty Board, ensuring
input and academic development. The University Careers Service offers targeted support; twenty
students received specialist consultations and training since REF 2014, and one graduate gave a
presentation about the support, leading to increased uptake.


The fortnightly research seminars in all subject areas provide intense focus for graduates,
opportunities to network, and experience in seminar chairing, speaking and responding. The UoA
guides graduate researchers in applying for networking, workshop and conference schemes
through CRASSH, with 8 research students running events and seminars on a range of
interdisciplinary themes; and through the AHRC DTP. Graduates have training and experience in
undergraduate teaching and admissions interviewing, writing-support networks and a plethora of
weekly reading groups, offering a vital contribution to the research energy of the UoA as a whole.


We are broadening opportunities for research students to gain mentored lecturing experience, in
addition to supervising undergraduates and leading text-reading sessions. The UoA provides
generous resources for graduates to attend annual national and overseas conferences, as well as
bespoke support for conference and workshop organisation. In 2019, we supported and guided
four graduate researchers in raising £20K to host a major international conference, New Trinitarian
Ontologies, with high-profile speakers and capacity audiences, leading to publications and online
archives; we supported nine other graduate conferences since REF2014, including Reassessing
Bergson, and Reformed Theology and Conformity.


Our research students are active in publishing articles in international peer-reviewed journals,
including Modern Theology, Theory, Culture and Society and New Testament Studies; and
forthcoming monographs, Emma-Adamah’s Anton Wilhelm AmoAfer, the African-German
Philosopher of Mind (OUP), Heath’s Médiations Trinitaires (La Diane Française), and Milbank’s
Christianity and Paradox (Angelico). Student papers contributing to a School-funded graduate
study-day on Ritual featured in a special issue of International Journal of Philosophy and Theology
(79:3, 2018), guest-edited by Pickstock, Kotva and Sherman. Research students served as peer
reviewers for international journals, delivered conference papers, and edited the UoA-funded
journal, Noesis, including contributions by students, staff and others. They convened KE events,
including annual public transgender workshops and Festival of Ideas events, and participated in
‘Learning Together’ prison-based education programmes. They developed a daily writing-
workshop working-pattern within the Faculty, with timetabled library sessions, joint morning coffee
and lunch, modelling a paradigmatic research community, inviting visiting scholars, support staff,
undergraduates and others to join in. This moved to ‘Jitsi Meet’ after lockdown.



                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The effectiveness of our postgraduate structures is attested by destination successes, with 80%
securing UK and overseas research posts, including three BA postdoctoral positions.


2.3 Equality & Diversity (E&D)


The UoA’s deep commitment to E&D is manifest in pro-active support for under-represented
groups and the valuing and promotion of diversity at all levels as a prerequisite for research
excellence. Examples include the introduction of an annual undergraduate Gender and Religion
essay prize, ‘Gender and Theology’ and forthcoming ‘Anti-Semitism and Racism’ MPhil modules,
an online Race and Theology bibliography, a reading group and Race Action Group (2020). The
Faculty now funds the expenses and fees of an annual visiting scholar from an ODA country. The
E&D Committee, established following our Athena SWAN Bronze Award (2020), works with
individual subject areas and the Action Group to ensure reflection of diversity and inclusiveness in
bibliographies, undergraduate and graduate courses, through seminar and named lecture
speakers, with E&D as a standing item on committee agendas.


A key point in the attrition of women academics occurs between postdoctoral and established
academic roles. To address this, we actively mentor postdoctoral researchers in job applications,
practice interviews and presentations, and run workshops to promote academic career pathways.
We are offsetting our current imbalance in senior female role models, following three retirements,
by encouraging women to take up leadership training and roles; since 2016, women have served
as Chair of Faculty, Deputy Head of School, UoA Chair (2014, 2021) and University Gender
Champion, and externally on the AHRC Peer Review College. Information on flexible working,
annual leave and family-friendly policies and provision (e.g. SP@ace, Returning Carers Scheme,
CamBENS, MyFamilyCare) is included in job specifications and online. In supporting these
initiatives, the UoA follows University policies on diversity and inclusion, staff and student diversity
networks and events, and collaboration on short-notice family-friendly support, as well as offering
generous Covid-19 support through emergency contract extensions. No distinction is made
between full-time and part-time staff with regard to provision, support and career pathways.


Equality and diversity were paramount in our preparations for this submission. All eligible staff
self-assessed their potential outputs, and all submitted at least one output, with exemptions on the
grounds of personal circumstances or ECR status handled confidentially outside the UoA. The
building of our output profile followed researchers’ self-assessments and the UoA Committee’s
assessments, supported by Postdoctoral REF subcommittee assessments, confirmed by external
review where necessary, and overseen by the UoA’s output and E&D leads. Output ranking was
based on repeated triage, and the use of increasing numbers of assessors and E&D scrutiny
helped to minimise risk of unconscious bias.


                                                                                                Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2.3.1 Study leave arrangements


E&D are central drivers for our support of study leave at all levels. Resources for childcare and
other support, e.g. liaising with Research Councils for bespoke working patterns to maximise
research accessibility, are available to all. The Returning Carers Scheme and the Faculty’s
equivalent scheme (2.3.4) for researchers with caring responsibilities optimise researchers’
opportunities. Wherever possible, ECRs are given preference in applying for research leave (e.g.
Bouhafa).


Provision for remote working was put to the test under Covid-19, with risk assessments for home
working, wellbeing and pedagogy advice, as well as IT provision, online library resources and
support by UoA, University IT, library and college services all supplied quickly, with sensitivity to
individuals juggling work, caring and home-schooling, as well as illness.


2.3.2 Career pathways


The Faculty encourages a range of pathways (see 2.3), recognising that there is no standard
pathway or model of career progression. We nurture all staff, from early career and long-term
research staff to retired staff, encouraging secondment of staff to other roles (Winter), and
movement to different roles to gain experience and career progression (Waller). We seek to
integrate the research and postgraduate formation, and religious leadership, offered by College
Heads and Deans of Chapel (e.g. Williams, Morris, Banner, Smith, and from 2021 Fergusson,
Dean of the Order of the Thistle); and we offer a range of career opportunities advertised to ECRs,
all actively mentored and supported.


2.3.3 Travel etc.


UoA, central University and College funds are available to all researchers to support travel for
research, childcare costs for research activities, and caring costs for job applicants. The UoA has a
generous budget for awards to individual staff, between £250 and £2K. The expansion of online
provision during Covid-19 yielded an unexpected E&D travel benefit, not only in saving pressurised
resources and carbon footprint, but also allowing international networking and collaboration in
ways that are more sensitive to, and compatible with, caring responsibilities. The ‘Metaphysics and
Poetics’ online seminars enjoyed audiences of 200, with researchers from Canada, USA, France,
Germany, Sweden and Israel contributing regularly.




                                                                                                Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2.3.4 Support


The University’s parental and adoption provision is more generous than required by law, promoting
graduated and flexible work models and core hours scheduling. The UoA committee schedule was
adjusted and a research seminar permanently moved for Shabbat commitments. As noted (2.3.1),
the UoA has used the University’s (2013) Returning Carers Scheme, which provides funding of
£10K p.a., leading to outputs in this submission; we have also initiated a parallel scheme assisting
with childcare costs to attend conferences. Maternity leave was taken by three colleagues, and
Shared Parental Leave by 1 colleague and 2 students. Return-to-work interviews and contact days
allow tapered return after leave, illness or care, as well as flexible working and employment
adjustment. Compassionate leave was granted in circumstances of bereavement.


2.3.5 Wellbeing


The UoA follows the University’s strategy and policy for wellbeing, with Pickstock serving on the
University’s Strategy Forum. We actively promote wellbeing activities, encouraging regular work
breaks, socialising, and Mental Health Awareness, and fostering dialogue on this issue through
posters and email bulletins. Daily coffee for staff and students in the foyer, and seminar lunches
and teas, create community wellbeing, with online socials, student competitions and quizzes since
Covid-19 began. Lieu served as University Gender Champion, and our Dignity at Work Advisor
(Pickstock) works alongside our E&D Committee.




                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


3. Income, infrastructure and facilities




3.1 Funding strategies


The generation of research income to facilitate major projects is one of the UoA’s key aims and a
continued area of success, with over £3.3M of research income generated since REF2014, and
annual research income increasing by 38%. Many of these awards have interdisciplinary
frameworks, e.g. natural sciences, history and politics, with interdisciplinarity remaining a priority
for future income generation; covering all career stages and sponsors, including ERC, Rothschild
Foundation, AHRC, Leverhulme, British Academy, MSCA and Royal Society.


A number of significant projects have generated postdoctoral positions, including
Leverhulme/Templeton ‘Bridging the Divide' (Coakley 2013–18), AHRC ‘Empires of Healing: The
Transatlantic Zion Movement in South Africa and the USA’ (Cabrita; 2015–17), and AHRC ‘The
Cambridge Platonists at the Origins of the Enlightenment: Texts, Debates and Reception (1650–
1730)’ (Hedley; 2016–19).


The E&D implications of research funding are at the heart of funding strategy, coordinated by our
Research Director, who has taken a pro-active approach to external funding. Weekly funding
bulletins, targeted discussions about specialised funding calls and Grant Application lunch
sessions have encouraged uptake. The open postdoctoral competitions are advertised each
summer, with expressions of interest assessed by a subject-specialist E&D and Unconscious Bias-
trained subgroup, with nominations fulfilling criteria for research excellence. ERC Starter and
Consolidator applicants are provided with interview and presentation preparation. Our target to
increase the proportion of women postdocs has been successful, with 20% of our staff profile
being ECRs, and (currently) four women postdocs and three women Research Fellows.


The four named Chairs and five lectureships are funded by internal and external Trust funds,
generating capacity to resource Research and Teaching Associateships and fixed-term
lectureships (Waller, Bouhafa, Artman-Potock).




                                                                                                Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3.2 Infrastructure supporting research and impact


In addition to UoA travel and conference support (2.3), Colleges provide further resources
(including libraries, research funding, and conference and administrative facilities) for their
employees and students, and for funding research and visiting fellowships.


The UoA benefits from a purpose-built circular building adjacent to cognate faculties and CRASSH,
with well-equipped and welcoming spaces for researchers to conduct interdisciplinary collaborative
research and fostering impactful Interfaith outreach and educational activities: social and office
space, study rooms, catering facilities, a teaching and research library, CIP and postdoctoral wing,
administrative and fundraising offices, baby-changing, breast milk storage facilities and family-
friendly spaces. There is flexible capacity to host teaching, conference and networking events, with
well-lit wall and floor space for visual art and installations, as well as academic and student events.
Examples include the display of BTh Pastoral Portfolios, rotating exhibitions of Oliver Soskice’s
paintings, launches with artist talks, latest issues of Noesis, publications and special collections.
Designed to facilitate social and collaborative interaction, its flexible space fosters interdisciplinary
research (e.g. CTF art installations, musical and theatrical performances in the foyer and upper
rotunda, leading to Noesis publications). A plaque commemorating the UoA’s contribution to the
Prague Underground Seminars in the 1980s was unveiled in the lower foyer (2018), reminding us
of those studying under adverse conditions.


Our IT team supports research staff and oversees provision of networked computers, replaced on
a rolling cycle. Imaging hardware and specialised software (e.g. rare language fonts) are provided,
together with wireless internet and recently-upgraded AV facilities. The University Information
Service offers expertise and facilities that currently benefit four digitisation projects.


3.3 Libraries


Staff, student and visiting researchers access extraordinary resources in 114 libraries in
Cambridge; chief among them is the University Library (UL), a National Deposit Library housing
over nine million items just two minutes from the Faculty. The UL provides access to thousands of
databases and online resources through eresources@cambridge. This provision was expanded
during Covid-19 lockdown, with Cambridge University Press opening online content, and the UL
releasing 500,000 arts and humanities ebooks and free inter-library loan services. The UL houses
Cambridge Digital Humanities, using big data to enhance and support research. Thanks to a
Polonsky Foundation endowment, rare manuscripts are being digitised, including Codex Bezae
and Cairo Genizah collections (leading to education and digitisation projects and a potential joint
impact case study, with Area Studies), with UoA staff serving on the Steering Group. The UL
houses special collections including the Acton Library (60,000 volumes) and the British and

                                                                                                  Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Foreign Bible Society (40,000 vols). UoA staff serve as UL Syndics, and Pickstock is a member of
the UL’s Research and Collections Programme Steering Group.


These central resources are complemented by the UoA Library, whose Librarian ensures co-
ordination of specialist needs with the UL and other Faculty libraries. The UoA Library supports
teaching and research, with >56,000 volumes on open shelves, about 15,000 of which are unique
holdings. Its collections in post-1600 Church History, Philosophy and Philosophy of Religion
(>8,000 items), Patristics, Bible Commentaries, Christian Doctrine, Islamic Studies and Hinduism
are especially strong. Our students and researchers have access to cognate libraries, including
Philosophy, Classics, English and History, and specialist resources in College, Federation and
Tyndale House libraries. These include manuscripts of the Parker Library at Corpus Christi and
early printed materials in Magdalene, St John’s and Trinity Colleges.


3.4 Administrative and research support


Research in Divinity is supported by an administrative team of nine professional and support staff,
including a Graduate Administrator, Outreach and IT officers, and the Facilities Management team.
Our Research Director works closely with the Administrator and the Accountant, who support the
grant life-cycle from initial enquiry and application to post-award financial reporting. The School
complements this with Research Grants Facilitators coordinating additional peer-review, complex
budgeting and post-award management. The local team pro-actively engages with changing
regulatory frameworks of grants, with resources to support an efficient process. Together with the
University Research Office, researchers submit proposals to the University’s own peer-review
network to receive detailed feedback from experienced reviewers.


Our Research Director supports applications for impact-related funding opportunities, e.g. the
Impact Acceleration Fund and the development of Pathways to Impact UKRI applications. The
UoA REF Committee meets regularly with researchers to provide feedback on their activities and
share best practice.


3.5 Equality and diversity


The Faculty building is fully accessible with fire-rated lift access, automatic doors and evacuation
chairs and trained assistants for wheelchair users. The UoA liaises with the Disability Resource
Centre to make further adjustments for individual researchers’ needs. An increase in the UoA
library ebook and digital resources have greatly increased accessibility, with availability wider than
for those with disabilities.




                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3.6 Infrastructure and impact activities


Our CIP and postdoctoral wing supports a network of contacts including media, education, public
policy, local and national government and NGOs, linked through social media, outreach events and
seminars. CIP has organised frequent interfaith, scriptural reasoning and Festival of Ideas events,
co-hosted with non-academic partner organisations, notably Rose Castle and Coexist House,
leading to a prospective case study, ‘Scripture and Violence’. Related events include CIP
International Summer Schools for emerging religious leaders from conflict zones; inter-faith
museum exhibitions; public education events with the British Museum exhibition ‘Egypt: Faith after
the Pharaohs’ (2015); conferences on ethics, refugee crises, models of extremism, Islam and
epistemology (with SOAS); FE and HE ‘Prevent’ consultations leading to potential policy formation;
and ‘Stations of the Cross’ exhibitions in collaboration with KCL (2017). The Genizah Research
Unit’s manuscript curation and digitisation is leading to educational dissemination, as well as film
and other public engagements, including BBC2 ‘Story of the Jews’ and Israel Public TV’s ‘The
Great Eagle’.


3.7 Collaborative use of research infrastructure


The UoA’s research infrastructure is an international resource, with open online seminars via
Divinity Dispatches (1.1, 4.4), and online Cambridge University Press and UL resources (3.3, 3.4).
The Genizah Research Unit and other – including College – specialist collections are shared with
other HEIs (e.g. Princeton Genizah Project and National Library of Israel’s Ktiv digital library) and
with visiting scholars.


3.8 Significance of benefits-in-kind


The UoA does not have equipment donated or sponsorship other than through research grants.
However, examples of benefits-in-kind include the UL’s agreement with the Bible Society to house,
conserve and make available its 39,000 volumes and manuscripts; and the 7,000-fragment
Mosseri Collection on 20-year loan to the UL.




                                                                                              Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society




The UoA takes seriously the enhancement of our field, seeing it as our responsibility to make
major contributions to the sustainability of the discipline through collaborations, conservations,
fostering of impact and wider research influence and service through a variety of means, including
outreach, knowledge exchange, open access initiatives, collaborations with beneficiaries,
translations of others’ research, museum and other curations (e.g. ‘Discarded History’), and other
dissemination, such as broadcasts and print media.


4.1 Research collaborations


The UoA encourages national and international collaborations (see 1.1), developed through one-
to-one research synergies, joint strategic partnerships, subject area initiatives, and Research
Centre connections.


Individually-arising collaborations leading to defining research clusters include Street’s
manuscript collaborations and Pickstock’s involvement in the Wellcome experimental psychology
and literary-philosophical (Cambridge-Durham) proposal on subjective experiences of
remembering (‘When Memories Come Alive’). Project-based connections include Özyürek’s
‘Entangled and Disentangled Others’ with Birkbeck, Technical University Berlin and Indiana
University; MacDonald’s ‘Bible and WW1’ with LMU Munich; and Zahl’s ‘Affect and Knowledge
Production’ with Pennsylvania, leading to MPhil and other courses.


Subject-area and Centre collaborations include Aitken and Gathercole’s involvement with the
Genizah project; Hedley’s Platonism project with Bristol and McGill; and ‘Metaphysics and Poetics’
joint seminars with St Andrews, leading to Pickstock’s strategic partnership with Moulin
(Strasbourg). Another route to collaboration occurs through UoA researchers assuming primary
roles in distinguished subject-specialist institutions and societies (Banner, Hedley, Morris,
Rex), through prestigious visiting fellowships and named lecture series (e.g. Banner, Hedley,
Meggitt). Some collaborations involve research training, e.g. Oxbridge graduate Biblical Studies
days and the Philosophy of Religion network conferences for Nottingham, Cambridge, Oxford and
London Universities, leading to journal publications.




                                                                                              Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.2 Engaging with recipients of research


The UoA maintains strong links with beneficiaries across a wide range of users; these develop into
reciprocal relationships, e.g. through the shaping of primary research. Examples include Webster
with the Scottish Government Justice Committee, ‘Fans Against Criminalisation’, BEMIS Scotland,
and the Scottish Qualifications Authority; and Pickstock with poets of the ‘Cambridge School’
regarding her book, Repetition and Identity (2013). Researchers have built connections with
education packages (e.g. Davison, Gathercole) and through Sutton Trust summer schools. Links
are forged through public dissemination, ecumenical networks (McFarland, Zahl), continuing
education (Meggitt, Davison), outreach and filming (Kotva, Jackson, Hedley, Pickstock), eLearning
(e.g. Meggitt, Kotva), and countless non-specialist talks and sermons. We represent the subject
through press and other broadcast media (e.g. Webster’s research featuring in 16 newspapers and
live TV debate; Gathercole’s high-profile publications exposing Gospel of Jesus’ Wife as forgery;
Banner contributing regularly to BBC Radio 4, ‘Thought for the Day’). We contributed to non-
academic consultations and commissions within and outside faith communities, e.g. museum
curations and opera programme notes (Davison, Williams); and engaging with composers and
letterists (Pickstock, Williams), Human Tissue Authority, Stewardship Committees at F&C Asset
Management and Friends Life (ethical investment), MoD Scientific Advisory Committee on less
Lethal Weapons, and Nuffield Council on Bioethics (Banner). Winter founded the Cambridge
Muslim College, and staff are trustees for specialist HE colleges and theological training colleges.


4.3 Wider impact


The UoA is active on a number of socio-economic and political fronts. CIP’s ‘Religion and Global
Challenges’ initiative (2021) is making bids for a series of projects combining theologians, social
and natural scientists, and religious communities to address global problems. Focusing on climate
change, food security, economic inequality, forced migration, and deterioration of human rights,
this long-term programme seeks to understand factors and effects, prioritising religion as a
strategic means for real-world impact. Ongoing work by Singler and Davison explores the
bioethical frontiers of AI through publications, podcasts, Hay Festival events, and collaboration on
the Cancer Digital Twins project, funded by New Frontiers in Research, combining AI, religion,
philosophy and sociology. CIP’s ‘Scripture and Violence’ project won £10K for online and print
resources for schools and interfaith organisations.


4.4 Sustainability


We are aware that our discipline has much to offer national and global priorities. We seek to
secure its future through representation to governments (Banner, Webster), national subject



                                                                                               Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
committees, interdisciplinary engagements, and confronting global challenges. Recent examples
include:


   •   the establishment of a Race Action Group (including undergraduate and graduates), online
       bibliography and ‘Anti-Semitism and Racism’ seminars, and ‘Scripture and Violence’ public
       events;


   •   our immediate response to adverse impacts on research flourishing of Covid-19 through
       Divinity Dispatches and open seminars;


   •   increasing awareness of the transgender community, through annual Transgender and
       Theology Day; and of environmental challenges, through Anthropocene seminars and
       reading groups.


These initiatives are matched by individual contributions to the sustainability of the discipline by
setting research agendas (e.g. Secularity and the University workshops); collaborating with
overseas research centres (e.g. Davison, Fergusson (from 2021), McFarland); examining UK and
non-UK PhD dissertations; and graduate training, tenure reviews, external reviews and
appointments committees. Contribution to sustainability is evidenced in the mobilised responses to
initiatives from Leverhulme Trust, John Templeton Foundation and Templeton World Charity
Foundation, leading to engagements between theology and natural sciences, postdoctoral
positions and studentships, and institutional investment in the discipline through CRASSH. UoA
staff are members of peer review colleges and are assessors for UKRI and overseas research
grant applications (e.g. Estonian Research Council, Canadian Social Sciences and Humanities
Research Council, Austrian Humanities Research Council, DFG Excellence Strategy, National
Science Centre of the Polish Ministry of Science and Higher Education, and Netherlands Institute
for Advanced Study).


4.5 Wider influence


Influence on other disciplines: UoA staff have led international collaborations and networks
within and beyond the subject (Cabrita, Coakley, Gathercole, Graumann, Jenkins, MacDonald,
Morris, Pickstock, Street, Weiss, Winter), gaining international funding to support posts and
outputs. Street’s international collaborations link philosophers, Islamic and Jewish scholars and
logicians. Our service to the field is rendered through influence on the research agendas of other
academic disciplines in UK and non-UK HEIs. Pickstock’s analysis of medieval liturgy was the
topic of a workshop on music and liturgy (Cambridge), and her work on univocity of being was
taken up by economic theorists. Other disciplinary extensions of the subject in the review period


                                                                                               Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
include examples in music, legal philosophy, ethics, literature, history, psychology and philosophy:
e.g. Cabrita’s research has influenced African Languages and History at Cambridge and SOAS.
We have worked hard to ensure the availability of research in theology and religious studies to
wider audiences by translating it into other languages (e.g. Bouhafa, Kotva, Street), archiving and
digitising it (Aitken, Gathercole, Hedley), linking it to FE college curricula (Webster), and designing
websites and podcasts (Gathercole, MacDonald, Meggitt, Singler, Rex), and through museum
curations (Cabrita, Duffy, Morris, Soskice, Waller), theatrical (Duffy) and musical (Davison, Duffy,
Soskice) productions, and maintaining specialist databases (Aitken, Cabrita, Waller).


Learned societies and distinguished appointments: Recognition achieved by our researchers
includes: Philip Leverhulme Prize (Webster), membership of the British Academy (Coakley,
Fowden, Lieu), honorary doctorates (Coakley, Williams), Canon Philosopher-ships (Davison); OBE
(Ford); distinguished fellowships (Aspray, Becker, Davison, Dell, Dhont, Hampton, Hedley, Kooten,
Kurtz, Lockhart, Meggitt, Mihai, Morris, Plant, Street, Weiss, Zahl, Zellentin), academic prizes and
medals (Morris’ Lanfranc Award for Education and Scholarship (2017); and Kurtz, Lunn-Rockliffe,
Mihai, Singler, Weiss, Williams, Zahl, Zellentin) and Trusteeships (Linebaugh, MacDonald,
McFarland, Pickstock).


We encourage staff to shape the research base by assuming leadership roles, as presidents of
national and international learned societies and steering committees (Bouhafa, Graumann, Kooten,
Lunn-Rockliffe, Mihai, MacDonald, Singler, Waller); in research assessment panels and HEI
consultancies (McFarland, Morris, Singler); through representations to Select Committees (Banner,
Singler) and Scottish Government Justice Committee (Webster); and in executive positions in
subject steering groups (Hedley, Kooten, Lunn-Rockliffe, MacDonald, McFarland, Singler, Waller).


Distinguished positions and high profile lectures: UoA researchers serve as Editors-in-Chief of
15 journals (including New Testament Studies, Journal of Bible and Reception, Journal of
Theological Studies (Biblical Editor)), Associate Editors (Modern Theology), members of editorial
boards of around 50 international journals and 20 monograph series (including Brill, Routledge,
Cambridge University Press), and Guest Editors for special issues of 20 journals (e.g. Hebrew
Bible and Ancient Israel). They also edit and contribute to prestigious reference works (Oxford
Encyclopedia of the Bible, New Oxford Bible Commentary, History of Anglicanism). We are actively
involved in peer review for UK and non-UK journals and publishers; assessment of research
fellowship applications; and graduate training, workshops and study days. We have advised on
tenure and UK/overseas departmental reviews, and served as external PhD examiners and
appointment panels for Chairs, shaping international research profiles. We delivered named
lecture series and keynote lectures (c. 100 keynotes in the REF period), speaking at about 200
conferences, seminars, workshops and reading groups; organised events, including in CRASSH;


                                                                                               Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
hosted overseas researchers; and convened outreach (Davison, Jackson, Waller), ecumenical and
inter-faith events (Davison, Morris, Waller).


UoA researchers have developed distinctive new approaches. Street’s approach to Arabic
logic, Philosophy of Religion’s integration of theological with literary and philosophical approaches,
and study of second-century New Testament are internationally associated with our UoA. Such
influence is attested in re-publications, second editions and translations (Davison, Dell, Gathercole,
Fowden, MacDonald, Morris, Pickstock, Street), and in the use of our research as the subject of
academic articles, essay collections (Hedley), monographs in several languages (Pickstock,
Williams), PhD dissertations, HEI set texts (Meggitt’s ‘Madness of King Jesus’ features in an Open
University module with 1000 students), conference panels, and reading groups in other HEIs
(Pickstock), at international colloquia, and via television and radio features (Davison, Gathercole,
Webster).




The UoA is internationally recognised as a leader in research in a number of subject areas in
theology and religious studies, helping to define the field. Our work draws upon, and has had
significant influence on, a range of academic disciplines in humanities and sciences through our
wide engagement with different faith communities, policy-makers and research users. We play a
crucial role in defending, maintaining and refreshing the discipline in the academy and wider
society.




                                                                                              Page 30
