Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of York

 Unit of Assessment: 5 - Biological Sciences


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Context and Structure of the Unit
 Our strategy for Biological Sciences at York is to support impact-oriented, world-class
 interdisciplinary research that addresses three major Global Challenges: Health and Disease,
 Sustainable Food and Fuel, and Environmental Change, which align with three of the University
 of York’s five research themes: Health and Wellbeing, Environmental Sustainability and
 Resilience, and Technologies for the Future (see IES, paragraph 4). Figure 1 shows our strategy,
 where our impact-orientated research is supported by four Multidisciplinary Research Centres;
 York Biomedical Research Institute (YBRI, established 2018), Centre for Novel Agricultural
 Products (CNAP, established 1999), Leverhulme Centre for Anthropocene Biodiversity (LCAB,
 established 2019), and York Environmental Sustainability Institute (YESI, established 2011).
 These centres successfully underpin our drive to tackle global challenges by bringing together
 staff to collaborate at the interface of nine Fundamental Science Research Foci (Figure 1). Our
 research foci fall on a continuum, recognising our lack of boundaries between areas of research
 and also our inclusive environment that characterises Biological Sciences at York. Our
 researchers are buoyed by excellent Underpinning Facilities and Support, including workshop
 and technical staff as well as world-class equipment housed in the Bioscience Technology
 Facility (BTF), making new technologies accessible to all. We strive to create an environment
 where all our staff contribute to departmental objectives, growth, and impact, and we are proud of
 our inclusive culture which supports the wellbeing of all our staff.




 Fig 1. Schematic of Biological Sciences research structure at the University of York, addressing
 three global challenges.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our research strategy has been successful and our research is flourishing; highlights during the
 REF2021 period include:

    ●   Our new focus on Biomedical Sciences and setting up YBRI in 2018 has led to the doubling
        of our UG student community, and the associated growth and turnover of staff has resulted
        in the appointment of 25 new academic staff, strengthening our research across all career
        stages;
    ●   Our vibrant interdisciplinary culture is strengthened by the formation of LCAB in 2019
        (extending our collaborations to include the Faculty of Arts & Humanities), and the
        continuing success of YESI (>£25M of projects funded since its launch);
    ●   We are proud that our supportive culture has resulted in a 58% increase in UKRI funding
        income, and our successful equality and diversity initiatives have been recognised by our
        Athena SWAN Gold award renewal in 2019.

 The co-location of Departments and the campus layout of our University promotes interactions,
 and our multidisciplinary research centres help shape strategic decisions on new appointments.
 New staff appointments have been made jointly between Biological Sciences and the
 Departments of Maths, Computer Science, Physics and Psychology, and interdisciplinary
 research is fostered by research labs from the Hull-York Medical School (HYMS) and the
 Department of Chemistry’s York Structural Biology Laboratory (YSBL) being co-located within the
 Biology Department (see IES, paragraph 8). We are proactive in supporting wider equality and
 inclusion; informal events such as LBGTQ+ seminars and Disability mixers provide safe spaces
 for everyone to socialise and exchange ideas. We are proud of our flexible and family-friendly
 working hours policy which supports a healthy work-life balance for all our staff. We believe that
 when all staff feel included, we work better as a whole.

 An illustration of the strength of the energetic and interactive environment of York Biological
 Sciences is our swift and agile response to the COVID-19 emergency. We have pivoted to use
 our facilities and expertise in research collaborations and for public good, working with partners
 to support the COVID-19 response in our region. Led by the Bioscience Technology Facility,
 we were the first University to set-up and validate qPCR diagnostic tests (to support the NHS
 hospital in York). We relocated one of our qPCR systems, and our staff then supported testing for
 many months at York Hospitals. Our versatile and talented workshop staff provided the York area
 with personal protection equipment by 3D printing visors for frontline workers. Subsequently, our
 operations team managed the implementation of LFD-based testing technology on campus, for
 use by students, University staff, and the public. We instigated a partnership with the NHS to
 deliver rapid LAMP-based COVID-19 testing for NHS and other frontline staff in York, North and
 East Yorkshire, using laboratory facilities in Biological Sciences. York Biological Sciences (Kaye,
 Lagos, Signoret) is also a member of the UK Coronavirus Immunology Consortium, the largest
 single grant to be awarded by UKRI to study the role of the immune system to COVID-19, which
 will be critical to our ability to control the coronavirus pandemic.
 Research and Impact Strategy
 ‘Biology without boundaries’ is the underlying ethos of our research and impact strategy,
 underpinned by the University’s foundations of Research Excellence, Impact, Innovation,
 International Perspective, Collaboration and Partnership, and Integrity. York’s success is built on
 a philosophy of individual, collaborative and interdisciplinary working enabled by an outstanding
 research environment. Our success in Biological Sciences is evidenced by our six impact case
 studies that are delivering outstanding research outputs with international benefits that come from
 collaborations within our multidisciplinary research centres (CNAP, YESI, LCAB and YBRI) to
 tackle the three global challenges we have identified (Figure 1). These six selected case studies
 have arisen from our impact strategy to deliver global impacts to benefit biodiversity under
 environment change (Improving effectiveness of conservation areas in Africa, Resilient strategies
 for conservation under climate change) and human health & disease (Tackling malaria with fast-
 track plant breeding, Poppy research creates new cough suppressant supply chain, Bladder tissue


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research impacts Actos multidistrict litigation bellwether case and $2.4 billion product liability
 settlement), and providing more sustainable food & fuel (Improving sustainable oil palm).

 Our Research and Impact strategy is continually developed by the Departmental Research
 Committee (DRC), with broad representation from our research centre directors, senior and ECR
 academic staff, including PDRAs, and our academic Research Foci leaders, and the director of
 postgraduate research. Additional input comes from our distinguished External Advisory Group.
 Our Departmental Impact Champion identifies areas of research with high impact potential and
 ensures sustainability of our impact and vision for the future.

 Our strategic objectives are to foster a research environment, that:
    ●   enables internationally-leading research to flourish;
    ●   promotes research which is open, transparent, and reproducible;
    ●   encourages staff members to enjoy a healthy work-life balance that supports individual
        excellence and well-being, collaboration, interdisciplinarity and innovation;
    ●   translates fundamental research findings into impact with global significance;
    ●   contributes to developing regional, UK and international strategic research priorities, and
        is responsive to new opportunities;
    ●   trains the next-generation of world-class scientists.

 2014-2020: Achievements

 We achieved our strategic objectives from REF 2014, which were to:

 1. Enhance our world-leading core strengths: this achievement is demonstrated by
 excellent, collaborative outputs and investment in new staff.

 Excellent, collaborative outputs

 Our Research Foci (Figure 1) have developed ambitious strategies for both research and impact,
 delivering world-leading research outputs:

 Immunology, Haematology & Infection addresses science that underpins the diagnosis and
 treatment of diseases, including developing a novel therapeutic for neglected tropical diseases of
 the developing world (Mottram in Nature Microbiology) and population dynamics in haematopoietic
 stem cells (Kent in Nature, 2018; Hitchcock in Science, 2020).
 Molecular & Cellular Medicine confronts today’s global health challenges, including diseases of
 ageing, including bladder cancer (Southgate in Science Translational Medicine, 2014), and
 approaches for understanding developmental disorders such as Rett syndrome (Goffin in Nature
 Medicine, 2017).
 Cell & Developmental Biology provides insight into cellular mechanisms regulating cell
 differentiation (Coverley in Nature Communications, 2019), and information to direct novel
 therapeutic strategies from stem cells (Genever in Stem Cell Reports, 2015).
 Microbiology encompasses studies of macromolecules to biotechnological applications,
 including the elucidation of structures and mechanisms of a genome segregation system in
 Archaea (Barilla in Science, 2015) and the characterisation of gene expression in a Gene Transfer
 Agent (Fogg in Nature Communications, 2019).
 Plant Biology uses model and crop plants to investigate environmental challenges, including
 studies of the genetic basis of plant tolerance to diseases (Harper, Bancroft in Nature, 2017) and
 the efficiency of carbon-fixation mechanisms (Mackinder in Cell, 2017).
 Biochemistry & Biophysics research examines bacterial cell envelopes, the targets of many
 antibiotics (Baumann in Nature Communications, 2018), and the enzymes responsible for
 morphine synthesis in poppies (Graham in Science, 2015).
 Ecology & Evolution explores the impacts of environmental change on biodiversity, including
 range expansion by species under climate change (Hill, Thomas C in Nature Climate Change,
 2019) and human-wildlife conflicts in African savannas (Beale in Science, 2019).


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bioinformatics & Mathematical Biology applies quantitative methods to solve biological
 problems, such as modelling bacterial evolution and spatial dynamics (Van der Woude in Current
 Biology, 2019) and generating multi-scale models of the infectious landscape using detailed
 imaging and q-PCR (Kaye in Nature Communications, 2017).
 Industrial Biotechnology delivers strategic research impacts, including the discovery of new
 enzymes for biomass processing (McQueen-Mason in Nature Communications, 2018) and
 phytoremediation of explosives pollution (Bruce in Science, 2015).

 New staff

 The development of a new degree programme in Biomedical Sciences and new Integrated
 Masters programmes, and several retirements since the last REF period has allowed us to make
 25 new appointments (i.e. 35% turnover/expansion of staff over the REF period) at Chair (5),
 Lecturer (17) and Research Fellow (3). This has enabled us to strengthen our research structure
 by reshaping our Research Foci and inter-Departmental initiatives to ensure exciting collaborative
 opportunities (Table 1).

 Table 1. New appointments at Chair (C), Reader (R), Lecturer (L) and Research Fellow (RF;
 proleptic and/or Independent Fellowship).

             Research Foci                          Appointment


         Immunology, Haematology &       Mottram (C), Boucher (L), Kourtzelis (L),
         Infection                       Myburgh (L).


         Cell & Developmental            Bryant (C), MacDonald (RF)
         Biology


         Plant Biology                   Denby (C) as Director of the N8 AgriFood
                                         Resilience Programme, Mackinder (L), Harper (L)



         Molecular & Cellular            Rot (C), Kent (RF), Brackenbury (L), Goffin (L) ,
         Medicine                        Chen (L), Hewitson (L), Holding (L)



         Microbiology                    Hawkins (L), Fogg (RF)



         Ecology & Evolution             Thomas, M (C), Jeffares (L), Friman (L)



         Bioinformatics &                Dykeman (L), Ezer (L)
         Mathematical Biology


         Industrial Biotechnology        Tonon (L), Lichman (L)




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. Establish a strategic initiative in Biomedicine

 To provide an internationally-competitive multidisciplinary research environment for fundamental
 and translational research in biomedical and clinical sciences we established the York
 Biomedical Research Institute (YBRI) in 2019. YBRI is a major initiative with 85 academic staff
 working across disciplines, with three research themes that address key questions in Immunology,
 Haematology & Infection, Molecular & Cellular Medicine, and Neuroscience. The launching of
 YBRI has been associated with the appointment of 13 staff in Biological Sciences, including the
 YBRI director (Mottram). An example of an interdisciplinary project is Hitchcock and Kent’s work
 on the molecular and cellular bases of haematological malignancies which, through YBRI,
 interfaces seamlessly with applied health epidemiological work in the Haematological Malignancy
 Research Network.

 3. Strengthen and develop interdisciplinary research centres and institutes

 To accelerate rates of discovery and translation of research into impacts, in addition to YBRI, the
 following research centres have been developed and/or strengthened:

 Centre for Novel Agricultural Products (CNAP)

 CNAP was established in 1998 as an interdisciplinary centre to harness the power of nature for
 the development of new products and processes to address some of the major global challenges
 of the 21st Century, generating impacts relevant to all three of our global challenges in Biological
 Sciences. CNAP supports large multi-investigator programmes that involve and benefit
 pharmaceutical (e.g. GSK), biofuel (e.g. Novozymes) and agricultural (e.g. Syngenta, BASF, East-
 West Seeds) companies. Over the REF period, CNAP has identified new research opportunities
 and built on existing projects in industrial biotechnology, which includes four BBSRC Networks in
 Industrial Biology (NIBB) awards (Lignocellulosic Biorefinery Network and Biomass Biorefinery
 Network, McQueen-Mason; High value Chemicals from Plants Network and High Value
 Biorenewables Network, Graham), maintained its track record of continuous funding during the
 REF period from the US Department of Defense (total to date = $5.4M) to tackle environmental
 pollution (Bruce) and from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (total to date = $27M) to
 commercialise new varieties of the medicinal plant Artemisia annua (Graham). The
 Biorenewables Development Centre (BDC) is an open-access R&D centre working at the
 interface between academia and industry in partnership with CNAP. The BDC was set up in 2012
 to develop, scale-up and help commercialise bio-based products and processes, and its
 continuing success resulted in it moving to new premises in 2015.

 We have committed to the long-term future of CNAP by appointing ECR group leaders to build on
 and sustain its success in the translation of fundamental research into impact. Four new ECR
 appointments have been made (Mackinder, Tonon, Harper, Lichman), ensuring sustainability of
 our successful research centre. Mackinder was promoted to a personal Chair in 2020 and both
 Mackinder and Lichman have been awarded prestigious UKRI Future Leader Fellowships.

 York Environmental Sustainability Institute (YESI)

 YESI brings together social, physical and life scientists to deliver world-leading interdisciplinary
 research and stakeholder collaborations in environmental sustainability, to benefit industry, NGOs,
 advisory agencies and policy makers (e.g. Nestle, DLF Trifolium, Joseph Rowntree Trust, Design
 Council, ADAS, Natural England). YESI has over 100 York-based researchers associated with
 YESI projects. The new YESI Director (Thomas, M.) was appointed in 2020 following Prof Sue
 Hartley’s appointment as PVC for Research at the University of Sheffield. Many YESI projects are
 co-designed with external partners who support the co-creation of knowledge and collaborations
 to deliver improved policies, new practical tools for businesses, farmers and consumers, and
 improved livelihoods. For example, the Socially and Environmentally Responsible Oil Palm
 Research (SEnSOR) project addresses the challenge of the sustainable cultivation of palm oil by
 testing the effectiveness of conservation management practices and helping to improve

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 certification criteria for sustainable palm oil certification. YESI has received £10M investment by
 the University that includes a new building for the Departments of Environment and Geography,
 Archaeology and Biology, as well as increased funding for new YESI staff to support coordinating
 research, grant bids and business development.

 The Leverhulme Centre for Anthropocene Biodiversity (LCAB)

 LCAB was established in 2019 as a highly interdisciplinary centre, funded by £10M of competitive
 funding from The Leverhulme Trust, with matching investment in researchers and infrastructure
 by the University of York (LCAB director is Prof Chris Thomas FRS). The 10-year programme is
 exploring how the relationship between humanity and the natural world is changing, and how to
 develop a more sustainable Earth. LCAB will employ 10 PDRAs per year and 24 PhD students in
 total, and involves collaborations across the sciences (Biology, Health Sciences, Environment &
 Geography), social science (Management School, Politics) and humanities (Archaeology, English,
 History, Philosophy), ensuring that policy impacts from our ecological research continue to expand
 as a major strength of our activities.

 In addition to our Research Centres we have implemented boundary-crossing research
 initiatives:

 N8 AgriFood Programme is a unique programme hosted by the University of York in the
 Department of Biology that is working across the food system. It combines expertise from the 8
 most research intensive universities in the North of England, with the Principal Investigator
 (Professor Deborah Smith OBE, PVC for Research, 2015-20), Academic Director (Denby) and the
 Operations Director all based at York. The N8 AgriFood Programme has created a successful
 platform for collaboration and led to a transformation in the research culture in the N8 universities.
 The programme has delivered external funding to the N8 universities for large interdisciplinary
 projects, created new industrial and stakeholder partnerships, and elevated the international
 profile of agri-food research across all 8 institutions. The programme recently launched a Food
 Systems Policy Hub to help deliver social and environmental change required to tackle the urgent
 challenges the food system faces.

 Key achievements of N8 Agrifood Programme include:

    ●   £28M+ of external funding secured for projects arising from N8 AgriFood activity
    ●   29 Industry partners engaged in externally-funded projects
    ●   Pump-priming of 147 multi-institution collaborative projects.

 BioYork was launched in 2019 to translate cutting-edge research into technologies, processes
 and products across the bioeconomy. Driven by industrial demand and founded in excellent
 science, BioYork acts as a centre of gravity in the North of England to:

    ●   Attract inward investment in new, bio-based businesses with high growth export markets
    ●   Anchor knowledge-based jobs in sustainable manufacturing in the UK
    ●   Help deliver the UK’s commitments under the Climate Change Act

 The director of BioYork (Graham) is based in the Biology Department, and refurbishment and
 redevelopment of space in the department has been provided to accommodate BioYork staff.
 Strategic aims and Vision
 Our future strategic goals for research and impact are to:

    1. Increase our capacity to address our global challenge-led research themes by new
       recruitment (25 new academic research and teaching posts are planned over the next four
       years as we address our new research challenges post-COVID-19). This increased
       capacity will provide greater scope and ambition for us to deliver solutions for our
       challenge-led research themes. Sustainable Food & Fuel will be expanded to include

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Sustainable Medicines & Materials, our Environmental Change theme will incorporate a
         distinct focus on the current threats to Biodiversity, and our Health & Disease theme will
         expand to include more focus on Planetary Health, enhanced support for Translation of
         Biomedical research and the establishment of a new York Skin Research Centre.
    2.   Enhance our capability in computational methods and artificial intelligence applied
         to questions in the biological sciences. Exploitation of potentially disruptive
         technologies requires substantial investment in data analysis tools and approaches.
         Emerging techniques such as single cell genomic and transcriptomic sequencing, global
         proteomics, and advanced time-lapse and super-resolution imaging as well as their
         analysis pipelines are now embedded in York as a result of key recent appointments (Table
         1; Kent, Holding, Jeffares, Ezer) and strategic infrastructural purchases (e.g, SmartSeqII,
         TmT proteomics, 10X Chromium, high-end computing server). This underscores our
         commitment to transforming our capability in these areas as we expand our capacity to
         support new world-leading translational research in areas such as regenerative medicine
         and gene therapy.
    3.   Enhance impact through our industrial collaborations and international
         collaborations. We were awarded two of the six (and ~£5M of the available £11M funding)
         Phase II BBSRC Networks in Industrial Biotechnology and Bioenergy (NIBBs) in 2019,
         building on two previous Phase I NIBBs, demonstrating our strong commitment to
         industrial collaborations. Biological Sciences at York has been highly active in developing
         and winning bids for Official Development Assistance (ODA) funding e.g. MRC/FAPESP
         Joint Centre Partnership in Leishmaniasis (JCPiL; led by Mottram; £2.3M). We have
         received international funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to develop higher-
         yielding varieties of the medicinal plant Artemisia annua, and from the US Department of
         Defense for research on phytoremediation of environmental pollutants. We will build on
         our excellent record, encouraging entrepreneurship and internationalism through provision
         of new opportunities for training and support for staff and (research and taught) students.
         Our Impact Champion will help increase the number of industrial and international
         collaborations, and the number of research staff involved in these activities.
    4.   Be influential in, and responsive to, UKRI, InnovateUK, BEIS, EU and UN priorities
         and initiatives for sectors relevant to the biological sciences including health, food, fuel
         and environmental sustainability, to ensure we continue to contribute to the UK’s economic
         performance and social (including international) responsibilities through our areas of
         strength. We will encourage staff to take on significant strategic and leadership roles in
         funding bodies, charities, and government policy initiatives.
    5.   Align PGR student recruitment and training with our priority research areas through
         our interdisciplinary Doctoral Training Programmes e.g. BBSRC White Rose DTP, NERC
         ACCE DTP, our newly approved Biomedical Sciences PhD programme (to be launched in
         2021), and LCAB studentships. We will continue to diversify our funding streams for
         doctoral programmes, building on new and existing industrial, charitable and international
         networks. We will build further provision at Masters level, developing interdisciplinary
         programmes with business, engineering, and social sciences which are aligned to our
         involvement in interdisciplinary research work in these areas, to enable even more
         effective realisation of impact from our biological sciences research.
    6.   Strengthen the development of infrastructure to facilitate research. An exciting phase
         of infrastructure provision has established new space for the new Leverhulme Centre for
         Anthropocene Biodiversity (LCAB) in a flagship location on the University campus.
         LCAB will explore the different scientific, social and cultural perspectives on the
         Anthropocene, during a time of biological gains as well as losses, and human benefits as
         well as harms. We will continue to support initiatives for establishing research and impact
         entities, acting in an agile way to relevant funding opportunities that align with our research
         themes, and helping these to flourish through capital expenditure on buildings, facilities
         and infrastructure.
    7.   Upgrade our research facilities to support our research priorities and industrial partners.
         The Bioscience Technology Facility will continue to be key in delivering this support as
         it provides a mechanism of professional equipment management that is well understood


                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       and respected by funders and industrial partners, ensuring York staff have access to the
       most up-to-date technologies.
    8. Embed Open Research as a central principle in policy and practice in our research
       processes. We will appoint an Open Research Champion to help drive new initiatives
       and liaise with the University.

 Progressing towards an open research environment
 Developing a research environment that promotes and facilitates open data and knowledge
 exchange to share ideas through collaboration is central to our aims. To ensure our research is
 widely available, well-managed, and searchable, we are setting out a framework to make this
 happen. We expect all staff to include a Data Management plan as part of their research
 programmes, using them as ‘living documents’ that include details on how data are safely stored
 and for how long, as well as how methods and protocols are shared with the scientific community
 so that data can be effectively used. We are making a specific investment in our PDRA/PGR
 community, taking a ‘bottom up’ approach by providing training in using and sharing data, thereby
 promoting the ethos that open research is reproducible research. Our training programme has
 been developed by a Software Sustainability Institute Fellow (Rand) and is influenced by the
 Mozilla Open Leaders programme and The Turing Way. This training enables and encourages
 researchers to conduct Open Research by equipping them with the data management and
 software development skills required to ensure the computational reproducibility of their work.

 Open access and data management

 We have taken a ‘top down’ approach by introducing robust open access and data management
 plans. The York Open Access fund provides funding for authors to cover payment of open access
 publication charges, as required by funders. All data published are submitted to the relevant data
 bank: Genomic and transcriptomic data made available through repositories such as NCBI, the
 Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) or ArrayExpress, DNA sequences are submitted to ENA and
 Genbank, and 3D structures of proteins are submitted to PDB. Processed peptide data (contigs,
 data quality indicators, peptide mass fingerprint peak lists and MASCOT results) are shared via
 publication in journal supplementary information. Ecological and environmental data are uploaded
 to data repositories such as Dryad, and NERC Environmental Information Data Centre (EIDC),
 with R and model code available on GitHub. Metadata records are available via the University’s
 Current Research Information System (PURE), as a permanent and public record.

 Good management of research data is central to discovery and innovation, allowing data to be
 scrutinised and reused; the practices for open research that we are establishing in Biological
 Sciences will promote robust and reproducible science.

 Supporting a culture of research integrity
 We are committed to ensuring that research integrity is embedded in our science. To do this, we
 keep researchers well-informed about the University’s ethical framework and ensure their
 compliance with current legal, regulatory, and institutional principles and expectations when
 planning, conducting, and disseminating their work. The University's Code of Practice on
 Research Integrity formally endorses the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity (IES,
 paragraph 14).

 Rigour, transparency and accountability are key aspects of the University’s Code of Practice for
 Research Integrity. This directs us to undertake an ethical review of projects as they are planned,
 to plan for impact and public engagement, and to publish in Open-access journals. We have
 established protocols in our research planning guidelines to identify and consider ethical issues in
 research projects before they begin. The University has a devolved model for the scrutiny of
 research proposals, which for Biological Science comprises an overarching University Ethics
 Committee as well as the Biology Ethics Committee (BEC), which provides guidance and support


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to staff and research students during the development of their research methodology and also
 when applying for external ethical approvals.

 In addition to relying on individuals to self-report, BEC also conducts an annual audit of our
 research, in which academic staff answer a series of questions about their research. This audit
 helps to identify any new projects which may require ethical review, and includes collaborative
 activities that may be taking place overseas or at another institution in the UK. This audit is also
 used to identify research which uses genetic resources in scope of the Nagoya Protocol, which is
 then subject to a University-wide process of due diligence in terms of record keeping and reporting.
 In addition, PGR students undertake an ethics training course within the first few months of their
 start date, and submit an ethical responsibilities form to BEC. Projects that have received ethical
 review via the NHS Research Ethics service, other UK higher education establishments or
 appropriately regulated overseas institutions or which are licensed by specialist bodies such as
 Natural England are eligible for expedited review by a sub-committee of the Biology Ethics
 Committee. Researchers using animals protected under UK Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act
 1986 are reviewed by the University’s Animal Welfare Ethical Review Body (AWERB; Biology
 chair) to support their application for Home Office approval of their research.


 2. People
 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 We aim to attract, retain and develop a diverse research and professional support community and
 provide an environment that nurtures potential and promotes excellence at all career stages so
 that everyone is supported to contribute to our research goals.

 Staffing in relation to our research and impact strategy

 Since 2013, we have enjoyed a period of sustained expansion of our academic faculty, which we
 plan to continue. Our recruitment strategy ensures a sustainable mix of experienced leaders and
 early career researchers, with a focus on appointing lecturers (Table 1), and prioritising the
 appointment of those with potential to tackle fundamental scientific questions aligned to our
 research strategy and future impacts. To drive forward new initiatives in strategically important
 areas, we look to recruit academic leaders with the vision to meet new challenges, and we have
 appointed 5 Chairs since 2013 (Table 1). We also wish to nurture areas of existing strength and
 strategic importance and have appointed 17 Lecturers since 2013. We support staff to develop
 into research leaders, which is reflected in 48 successful academic promotions since 2013. We
 successfully supported two staff to be awarded UKRI Future Leader Fellowships (Mackinder,
 Lichman). We make strategic decisions about recruitment through discussions amongst our
 departmental management team, centre directors and research focus leaders, in order to ensure
 we are best able to take timely opportunities to appoint in respect to exciting new developments
 on the research horizon.

 We are committed to facilitating the transition of Independent Research Fellows into academic
 positions, and two of our IRFs were appointed to lectureships in the REF period (Brackenbury,
 Dykeman), and two more have been awarded proleptic academic positions (MacDonald, Kent).

 Equality and diversity

 By Equality we mean that everyone has the opportunity to succeed.

 By Diversity we mean that differences are to be recognised, respected and valued.

 By Inclusion we mean that we create a research environment with practices and attitudes that
 recognise, respect and value differences.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We champion a culture that is inclusive, democratic and promotes gender, race and age equality.
 Biological Sciences at York has an international mixture of academic staff (34 nationalities),
 providing a diversity of cultural backgrounds. A testament to our success is our Athena SWAN
 Gold award. We were the first Biology department in Britain to receive an Athena SWAN Gold
 award (in 2014), which was renewed in 2018 reflecting our strong commitment to gender equality.
 Highlights of our Athena SWAN Gold award include:

    1. Sustained success in increasing the number of female academics. Our female academic
       staff have increased from 28% to 35%, and increases are most pronounced for lecturers,
       where female lecturers have increased from 28% to 41%;
    2. Successfully supporting women's careers and stemming the leaky career pipeline. Our
       actions around promotions have resulted in more women being promoted (an increase to
       89% of females successfully applying for promotion, compared to 27% previously);
    3. Raising the profile of women in biology as well as beacon activities to share best-practice,
       which have helped 13 other Institutions gain Athena SWAN departmental awards
       (including two Gold awards).

 Our approach is simple: good policies benefit all, while poor policies disproportionately affect those
 with protected characteristics. Our Equality and Diversity Group (BioEDG) is chaired by the
 Deputy Head of Department with a remit to drive the Athena SWAN Charter and deliver our Gold
 Award Action Plan. Our policies include compulsory diversity and recruitment training and
 unconscious bias training, gender-balanced recruitment panels, flexible working, and equality-
 sensitive promotions criteria. During the REF period, we have had female representation at senior
 positions (including HoD (Potts), Deputy HoD for Research and Chair of the Departmental
 Research Committee (Hill), Deputy Head for Teaching & Staff (Helgason), Director of N8 Agri-
 Food Programme (Denby), Director of the Jack Birch Unit for Molecular Carcinogenesis
 (Southgate)). Women researchers are lead authors on two of our six Impact Case Studies. Our
 culture supports women to excel in biological sciences, and examples of women who have built
 their career foundations with us to subsequently go on to high profile careers include Professor
 Dame Ottoline Leyser FRS, CEO of UKRI, as well as our former HoDs since 2013 Prof Deborah
 Smith OBE (PVC for Research, University of York) and Professor Jennifer Potts (Head of School
 at the University of Sydney), and former Director of YESI Professor Sue Hartley OBE (PVC for
 Research, University of Sheffield). We promote a healthy work-life balance and inclusivity e.g. by
 scheduling Departmental meetings to start after 9:30 and to finish by 4pm. We support staff
 returning from periods of leave, such as parental leave or those with other caring responsibilities,
 with policies such as flexible working (5 staff in our REF return currently have arrangements to
 work part time) and research leave (see below). Staff returning from periods of sickness are
 offered a phased return. As a result of the COVID-19 crisis, our arrangements for remote working
 are robust and are supporting academic, research and Professional & Support staff to work
 effectively from home where possible. We can meet virtually to carry out much of the business
 that was once done only on campus, and we will discuss with staff which of these new
 arrangements are welcomed and will become part of our ‘new normal’ in future.

 Our approach to REF2021 followed the processes set out in the University’s REF code of practice
 in relation to the underlying principles of transparency, consistency, accountability and inclusivity,
 following the guidance from the REF Strategy Group, as well as termly REF briefings and
 Research Forums. We used the REF code of practice to determine research independence of
 staff, and at staff meetings for Biological Sciences, we kept staff informed of how outputs were
 selected for the portfolio. At regular intervals during the REF2021 period, we carried out an
 equality audit of the portfolio as it was being drafted to inform our selection. For example, we
 allocated multi-author papers to the female author when there was a choice. Throughout the
 REF2021 period, staff were supported by having the opportunity to apply for internal funding to
 complete outputs for inclusion on the portfolio. Our UoA includes 71 Category A staff (69.4 FTE;
 31% women) and is broadly reflected in our outputs (174 outputs; 22% allocated to women), which
 have similar predicted GPA scores.



                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Supporting academic staff

 We have policies to support the personal development and career progression of all our
 researchers. Our mechanisms to facilitate this include mentoring of new staff, and all new
 academic staff are given both a research and teaching mentor as part of their induction. Annual
 performance and development reviews are one-to-one meetings that are key mechanisms to
 identify needs of individuals (for instance the needs of part-time or fixed-term staff). These
 meetings provide the opportunity to signpost professional training such as the University’s award-
 winning Leadership training programme [Princess Royal Training Award in 2016], including the
 Research Leaders training programme for early and mid-career research-active staff (see IES,
 paragraph 22) and funding and/or collaborations that would benefit their career development. We
 have trained 5 Mental Health First Aiders and provided Mental Health training for 60 staff.

 We have also put in place a variety of processes to support our staff in carrying out their research
 successfully:

 (i) Peer Review Colleges are aligned to our nine Fundamental Science Research Foci (Figure 1)
 and were introduced to nurture new initiatives, mentor staff in writing grant applications and
 enhance research collaboration (chaired by senior staff with UKRI peer review panel experience).
 Meetings to discuss the development of research projects are held on-demand and attended by
 researchers and staff from the Bioscience Technology Facility (BTF); these sessions help promote
 access to the world-class technology within the BTF, and provide supportive and constructive peer
 review to shape the researcher’s ideas around new collaborations, innovation and impact of their
 research plans. Some of these sessions include representatives from industry, and managed
 through BioYork, to facilitate exchanges between academia and industry. Our Peer Review
 Colleges also provide feedback and advice on publications.

 (ii) Administrative and technical support. We release academic staff from duties that can be
 undertaken more effectively by professional and administrative staff. We have in-house specialists
 in HR, Finance, IT, Health & Safety, Infrastructure Management, Supplies, Horticulture, and in our
 Electronics and Mechanical Workshops. Our Research Support Office assists with the preparation
 of grant applications and highlights new funding opportunities.

 (iii) Research and impact leave policy. We encourage academic staff to apply for research leave
 of ~1 term every 3 years, recognising the importance of time to focus on research. Research leave
 is prioritised for staff returning from extended absences (e.g. parental leave, sick leave) or
 significant leadership roles (eg. HoD, Chair of Board of Studies, REF leadership). HoD, Deputy
 HoDs and Chair BoS also receive research support for their labs during their roles to ensure that
 research leaders are supported to perform these key management roles.

 (iv) Research-teaching balance. We are proud of our excellent teaching and we believe that the
 best teaching thrives in a research-intensive environment, so that the next generation of
 bioscientists are trained by this generation’s research leaders. All academic staff contribute to
 teaching, which is distributed in a transparent way through the shared workload allocation model
 that is fully transparent to all academic staff. Teaching and Academic Citizenship workload is
 balanced against Research activity, so that (i) newly appointed academic staff acquire new
 teaching and academic citizenship workload gradually over the first 3-4 years of their appointment,
 to allow them to focus on developing their research portfolio, and (ii) staff are released from other
 workload commitments if they have significant research grant income or PGR student supervision
 responsibilities. Efforts to balance staff contributions in teaching and research are supported by a
 team of Professional & Support staff and by 15 staff on Teaching & Scholarship (T&S) contracts.
 Our T&S staff allow us to excel in both teaching and research, and we provide a clear career
 development path for staff on T&S contracts; for instance, our Director for Students has a personal
 Chair.

 (v) Promotions policy. Promotion opportunities recognise achievements in research, teaching and
 academic citizenship. The University regards impact (in the widest sense) as an important aspect

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of research and gives it credit in academic promotions. While taking a lead in securing research
 income is an important promotion criterion, collaborative involvement in funding applications is
 also rewarded. Promotion readiness discussions are part of the annual Performance and
 Development Review process in the department. We recognise that some staff (particularly
 women) may be less likely to apply for promotion and so the HoD and Deputy HoDs actively
 encourage promotion applications in these discussions and support is given throughout the
 process.

 Supporting technical staff

 Our technicians are highly valued and make an important contribution to our research
 environment. York is a founding signatory of the Technician Commitment
 (https://www.technicians.org.uk/technician-commitment) and has been at the forefront of this
 initiative (IES, paragraph 40). We support our technicians to develop new skills and knowledge
 through our action plan that includes ensuring the recognition and career development of all our
 technical staff. The Bioscience Technology Facility is an excellent environment for technicians to
 develop high levels of expertise and advance their careers. Our technical staff often work as part
 of a team with academics to develop grant applications and advance research projects; their
 essential roles are reflected in our culture of including technical staff as co-authors on publications.

 Supporting early career researchers and PDRAs

 We support staff who have taken a career break to return to research through 50% matched-
 funded Daphne Jackson Fellowships (3 Fellows supported during the REF period). We also
 engage actively with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. We
 support PhDs, PDRAs, Independent Research Fellows (IRFs), newly arrived ECRs and other staff
 with opportunities for professional development. Our departmental HR team includes a Training
 and Careers Officer specifically for PhDs, PDRAs and IRFs. Departmental decision-making is
 transparent: PhD and/or PDRA representatives sit on Boards of Studies, Departmental Research
 Committee, BioEDG and Staff committees. We have a Postdoc Society, which includes the
 provision of ‘buddies’ for new staff. We provide 1:1 career counselling, sessions on grant writing,
 opportunities to gain teaching experience, interview and CV preparation, an annual careers
 conference and drop-in ‘Coffee and Careers’ events, as well as mentorship by PIs. PDRAs can
 apply to the Departmental Research Committee for funding to employ a summer student,
 providing experience in writing proposals and managing research budgets and staff. We have
 recently introduced a scheme where PDRAs have been recruited to 20% FTE Teaching contracts,
 providing these academic-track PDRAs with opportunities to gain valuable teaching experience.
 We recognise the potential insecurity of PDRA careers, and the Departmental Research
 Committee provides salary bridging funds to promote continuity of employment between contracts.
 We offer support for Independent Research Fellowship applications, including an annual
 Fellowship Day and one-to-one support to develop their application. We have a dedicated training
 budget which ECRs can apply to for funding for external courses or to present at conferences that
 covers training and/or travel costs. Our staff also provide mentorships to ECRs through learned
 societies (e.g. Royal Society’s early career mentoring network and British Ecological Society
 Women in Ecology Mentoring Scheme). Our PDRAs have had excellent success in obtaining
 tenure-track positions since 2014, reflecting our success in supporting ECR research during the
 REF period. Five PDRAs (Dykeman, Hewitson, Hawkins, Myburgh, Tonon) were appointed to
 lectureships at York.

 We have strong policies in place to support our ECRs and embed them in our research community
 in Biological Sciences at York. New academics and IRFs are assigned an established academic
 as a mentor and an induction programme is developed for them. The York Post-Graduate
 Certificate of Academic Practice is mandatory for new lecturers, and includes both teaching and
 research-related training. New staff are given start-up funds and priority in applications for
 Departmental Research Committee funds. Success in our ECR development initiative is evident



                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in that, of four staff that we appointed to their first lectureship in 2013/14, three were promoted in
 the REF period, one to Senior Lecturer and two to Professor.

 Research Students
 Our goal is to train our postgraduate researchers with strong bioscience and analytical skills so
 they can work collaboratively across disciplines and communicate their research with other
 scientists and the public. We provide a research environment where they can gain the knowledge
 and expertise they will need to identify and tackle new questions and challenges in the future.

 Our PGR student body

 We host a vibrant postgraduate student body that contributes to research outputs, as well as to
 the dynamic social and intellectual environment of our department. Approximately 35 PGRs start
 their research studies with us each year and we currently have a total of 129 PGRs in Biological
 and Biomedical Sciences. Our research student population is composed mostly of UK students,
 with just over a quarter from overseas and elsewhere in the EU, and we have gender parity in
 PGRs (53% of our research students are female). About a quarter of our research students are
 self-funded, while most are in receipt of funding from research councils, charities or industry.
 Approximately 30% of our studentships are funded in part by industry. We are currently part of
 two Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs): the BBSRC White Rose DTP in Mechanistic Biology,
 and the NERC DTP Adapting to the Challenges of a Changing Environment (ACCE), and both
 have been successfully renewed and recruiting until 2024. Looking to the future, we joined the
 Discovery Medicine North (DiMeN) partnership with Sheffield, Leeds, Newcastle and Liverpool
 and are part of this renewal bid to the MRC. We were involved in a York-led inter-institutional
 £3.5M NERC CDT ECORISC bid that was applied for in May 2020 and subsequently awarded
 (with Cardiff, Exeter, Lancaster, Sheffield), focused on ecotoxicology and sustainable chemical
 use, which will fund 39 new PhD studentships. York Biology also receives a unique benefaction
 to the University by the Burgess family that has supported 4 fully funded PhD students. PGRs
 funded by medical charities (BHF, CRUK, Diabetes UK, Parkinson’s UK) are provided with tailored
 training as a cohort and registered for a PhD in Biomedical Science.

 Recruitment

 Our commitment to our EDI aims has led us to develop recruitment processes that take positive
 actions to ensure we recruit a wide and diverse pool of research students. Positive, inclusive
 images are prominent in promotional material, online resources, and as part of recruitment at
 graduate fairs. Representative panels are selected for all stages of the PGR recruitment process
 including project sifting, the screening of applications and interviews. Our aim is to recruit a student
 body that reflects the full diversity of graduates in the UK and internationally. To widen
 participation, in addition to academic and research experience, our recruitment processes
 recognise and value many other competencies, including problem solving and motivation. All staff
 involved in interviews undergo unconscious bias training, with data from panels fed back to inform
 re-evaluation of procedures for subsequent cohorts. We monitor EDI data at application,
 shortlisting and recruitment stages and analyse these data for trends to assist with the constant
 re-evaluation and improvement of our EDI policies and procedures.

 Training and Supporting our PGRs

 Our research students have an exceptionally high rate of successful completion (95.5% during the
 REF period), which we attribute to our excellent training environment and supportive supervisory
 teams. Our UKRI-funded programmes require two supervisors, and we recognise this as good
 practice in terms of mentoring. Moreover, two supervisors allow students to build expertise in more
 than one area, and support interdisciplinary projects. Each PGR is also supported by a Thesis
 Advisory Panel (TAP), including additional academics with an interest in the student’s well-being
 and the success of the project, who meet regularly to ensure the student is on-track for
 successfully completing their degree programme. We ensure that all PhD students undertake

                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 training and development activities to maximise their effectiveness as researchers and prepare
 them for their next career step. Professional skills training is based around the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework (RDF) such that all PhD students complete training for their own
 professional development and to understand and communicate research impacts from their
 project. We recognise that our students start their PhD with a wide range of previous experiences
 and, bearing that in mind, we provide wide-ranging opportunities, with flexibility for individuals to
 tailor their own training. To monitor their participation we use an online platform called SkillsForge
 that records their activities. When submitting their thesis, PGRs must also submit a portfolio
 outlining the development activities they have undertaken during their PhD. This portfolio includes
 a reflective piece on their professional development and research impact, and provides a
 repository of skills information, a valuable record that assists the student when applying for future
 career opportunities.
 In addition to the training offered centrally by the University, professional development activities
 offered by us include training on poster and conference presentations, managing a scientific
 research project, preparation of CVs, job applications and teaching skills. We recognise that we
 are preparing our students for a data-intensive bioscience future, therefore we provide courses on
 programming, data analysis and data visualisation to ensure our students are capable of devising
 reproducible workflows to manipulate, analyse and model datasets that are increasingly large and
 complex. Many PGRs funded by our Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs) undertake a 3-month
 internship, gaining experience in a non-research, science-aligned career; during a placement,
 students develop additional skills valued by future employers. All PGRs are encouraged to
 participate in our Departmental Outreach Programme to promote their science to the public. Our
 students have an excellent record of engaging with national training and development
 opportunities such as the Biotechnology YES scheme.

 Integration of PGR students into the research culture

 PhD students are integral to the fabric of Bioscience research at York, where PGR representatives
 sit on many departmental committees, contributing ideas about research processes and
 strategies. We promote collaborative interactions among PGRs and other researchers through
 open plan write-up areas and lab space, providing a favourable environment for discussion and
 encouraging interdisciplinary research. PGRs make a significant contribution to our research; 30%
 of our publications during the REF period included our PhD students as co-authors, evidence that
 we are enabling students to perform high-quality research, benefiting them and our research.

 The Bioscience Technology Facility (BTF) provides access to state-of-the-art equipment and
 research services, and the BTF staff are proactive in getting involved with PGR projects. The
 highly skilled BTF staff provide support and training to PGRs including monthly bioinformatics
 clinics and hands-on training courses such as confocal microscopy and cytometry. We run a
 funding scheme called “PhD Facilities Awards” that allows PGRs the opportunity to prepare and
 submit a mini-grant application for additional funding to use the equipment and services available
 in the BTF. This training helps to convert their ideas about how the latest technologies could further
 enhance their projects into fundable research proposals.

 Our research seminar series feature several invited speakers each week and graduate students
 are expected to attend a weekly seminar. The York Biology Open Lecture series brings high profile
 scientists to York and gives our graduate students the opportunity for a post-lecture discussion
 with the speaker over lunch. The BBSRC and NERC DTP PGRs organise annual, student-run,
 multi-institutional symposia, including selecting presentations from submitted student abstracts,
 inviting plenary speakers, chairing sessions, and organising the programme. These symposia are
 well attended by researchers across our department and from the partner institutions. All of our
 PGRs present their research as posters and talks in the spring of each year as part of our annual
 Graduate Symposium. Prizes are awarded for best talks and best posters; we also run an annual
 “Research in Action” photography prize for our research students, and the winning photos are
 displayed as posters in the department.



                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Research Income
 During the REF period, we have increased the breadth and maintained a high level of funding,
 and ensured we recruit and nurture talented ECRs to grow our future research strategy. Our 5-
 year average (2015-16 to 2019-20) income from UKRI has increased by 58% from REF2014
 (£4.2M) over the current REF period to £7.2M, largely due to our success in securing funding in
 industrial biotechnology (see below). The total income for Biological Sciences was £78.4M which
 is a sixth of the University’s research income (2013–14 to 2019–20) (Figure 2). Our average
 annual research income over the assessment period per FTE was £161,428, which puts York
 twelfth in the Russell Group, underpinning our high levels of research activity throughout the REF
 period.




 Figure 2. Biological Sciences income as a percentage of University of York income.

 Research income has been secured from a broad range of funding sources over the REF period
 providing resilience for our research activities. For charities, Wellcome Trust awards included
 Investigator Awards to Kaye (£2.3M), and Mottram (£1.7M), an Innovations grant to Kaye for
 vaccine development (£1.6M) and Sir Henry Dale Fellowships to Fogg and MacDonald. Kent
 ($1.5M) was funded by The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for stem cell gene therapy and since
 2007 Graham (total to date = $27M) has developed hybrid plants for production of Artemisinin.
 Hitchcock (£1.25M) and Kent (£1.5M) received CRUK Programme Foundation Awards and
 Southgate (£1.3M) a York against Cancer award for the Jack Birch Unit for molecular
 carcinogenesis. C. Thomas secured £10M from the Leverhulme Trust to establish the Leverhulme
 Centre for Anthropocene Biodiversity. Major awards from UKRI span the research councils,
 including from the MRC programme grants to Mottram (£1.8M) and Kaye (£2.4M). Hill led a NERC
 Highlight project to examine species evolutionary responses to climate change (£1.4M). York is a
 UK leader in Industrial Biotechnology and our strength in this area has led to a number of major
 BBSRC awards including four BBSRC Networks in Industrial Biotechnology awards to Graham
 (£3.1M) McQueen-Mason (£2.4M), two BBSRC Strategic LOLAs to McQueen-Mason (£1.9M) and
 Bancroft (£1.3M), and three UK IB Catalyst Awards to Graham (£2.4M), G. Thomas (£3M) and

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 White (£2.7M)). Bruce has secured funding for Environmental Biotechnology from the US
 Department of Defense (£1.3M). We also benefited from EC awards including two Marie Curie
 ITN awards to Kaye and Bruce (Total £1.7M), H2020 awards to McQueen-Mason (£1.5M) and an
 ERC Starting Grant to Brockhurst (£0.9M). Industrial funding includes £2.2M to Graham from Sun
 Pharmaceutical Industries.

 Financial support for the development, promotion and dissemination of research and
 impact

 We support all stages of research and development of impact from priming research ideas to
 networking, dissemination, translation and outreach. During the REF period, funding has been
 provided for these activities by: (i) Departmental Research Committee (DRC) (£174,341), (ii) UoY
 Central Research Priming Fund (£567,382), (iii) N8 Agrifood pump priming (£62,720), (iv) Global
 Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) pump priming (£250,242) and (v) Centre for Future Health
 (Wellcome Trust; CFH research priming and early career fellowships) (£2M). DRC funds provide
 support to ECRs to generate preliminary data to pump-prime full grant applications. We collect
 demographic and gender information on grant submission and success rates to inform our
 strategic support for all of our staff, and focus resources. DRC also provides paper-completion
 and conference travel grants to assist dissemination of research findings, and ring-fenced funding
 for PDRA and technician training.

 Infrastructure and facilities provision
 Bioscience Technology Facility (BTF)

 The BTF houses world-class technologies in one facility, and exemplifies our strategy of
 encouraging collaboration between disciplines to solve fundamental and applied biological
 challenges. The BTF attracted over £3M (2015-2019) of further funds and expanded into new
 areas of technology at the forefront of bioscience research and now hosts over 90 key instruments
 with a value over £10M. This has included the first commercial Nanostring DSP (£600k) in Europe,
 Waters Synapt (£766k), Nanotemper Prometheus (£120k), Zeiss Elyra 7 super-resolution
 microscope (£522k) and first Atmospheric CLEM JEOL SEM (£450k). The investment in the
 Nanostring platforms in York allowed us to be responsive within extremely tight timelines and
 provide a unique resource to the UK Coronavirus Immunology Consortium. All five BTF labs
 (Genomics & Bioinformatics, Imaging & Cytometry, Metabolomics & Proteomics, Protein
 Production and Molecular Interactions) have significant investments with 25 new major pieces of
 equipment installed, whilst on-going collaborations with instrument manufacturers have provided
 access to a further £500k/year of equipment, through beta-testing collaborations. The BTF
 facilitates multidisciplinary research in York as well as with external academics (59 institutes) and
 commercial companies (47 companies ranging from large Pharma e.g. AstraZeneca and GSK
 through to SMEs e.g. StreamBio, Elucida).

 The impact from our research is further disseminated through the BTF running international
 training courses for delegates to receive hands-on training on BTF equipment. These training
 courses ensure that best practices are followed and new techniques can be quickly adopted,
 thereby disseminating York expertise across the globe. Over the COVID-19 period, the BTF set
 up online Royal Microscopical Society forums on establishing safe working practices in Light, Flow
 and Electron Microscopy labs in the COVID-19 era, which attracted >300 participants from over
 25 countries.

 Horticulture Facility

 The Horticulture team manages Biological Science’s extensive controlled-environment plant
 growth estate. The facilities include high precision controlled-environment cabinets and walk-in
 controlled temperature rooms, as well as glasshouses and small-scale outdoor field plots. The
 Facility supports bio-secure research using GM plants, microorganisms and quarantine plant
 pathogens. The facility offers a plant husbandry service, including a growing media and pot filling

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 request service, provision of plant material for research, maintenance of glasshouses and
 controlled environment facilities, advice on plant cultivation and selection of equipment and
 materials, experimental design using controlled-environmental facilities and the monitoring and
 provision of environmental data.

 Centre of Excellence in Mass Spectrometry (CoEMS)

 This is a joint initiative of the Departments of Biology and Chemistry that provides a highly
 specialised technical service to academia and industry. The core-supported and multidisciplinary
 nature of CoEMS contributed to successful EPSRC funding in 2015 (£1.4M), which was used to
 purchase Thermo Orbitrap Fusion Tribrid and Endura mass spectrometers (MS), which have been
 used for metabolomics, proteomics, and quantitative small molecule characterisation. In 2018,
 successful BBSRC ALERT funding (£766k) was used to purchase a Waters Synapt G2Si MS
 system.

 York Structural Biology Laboratory (YSBL)

 This world-leading structural biology laboratory which won the Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2019
 for pioneering work in protein molecular research is located in the Bioscience building and includes
 staff working in the biosciences (Potts, Plevin). Staff at YSBL are pioneers in new methods of
 crystallisation and many of the crystallisation screens marketed worldwide were invented at York.
 YSBL is renowned for particular computational methods used by crystallographers worldwide,
 including new approaches in molecular replacement and refinement as well as increased
 streamlining model building into electron density. The Departments of Chemistry and Biology were
 awarded £1.6M by the Wellcome Trust in 2019 enabling a new cryo-EM facility to be established
 in YSBL.

 High performance computing facility

 The University has recently invested £2.5M towards a new HPC facility (Viking), which provides
 biological sciences staff with the latest computing infrastructure for all their computational
 workloads (see IES, paragraph 41). As part of this investment, the University provides a number
 of free courses in popular programming languages and help and support to access these facilities.
 Additional support is provided through storage for datasets, providing 1-2TB of free storage for all
 principal investigators. We will also be building a cost-effective storage solution for large datasets.
 Recognising the importance of impact in research, the University also provides a dynamic web
 hosting platform, and virtual machines, free of charge, allowing research to be published to the
 web in dynamic and interesting ways, and allowing the public and researchers to interact with it.
 In addition to providing commodity and research services, the University also has a team
 dedicated to research computing. In addition to a Head of Research Computing, based centrally,
 there is an embedded team of two research software engineers and an HPC Linux expert. These
 staff are based in Biology, Physics and Chemistry, but as part of a wider strategy they support
 research across the institution, and are actively involved in central HPC development.

 Cross-HEI sharing and collaborative use of research infrastructure

 We actively support the N8 Research Partnership initiative to promote and facilitate regional inter-
 university sharing of major items of equipment across the eight most research-intensive
 Universities in the North of England. Potts was on the NMR Assets Sharing group, and our Director
 of Infrastructure and Facilities is responsible for regularly updating the N8 equipment database.
 We commonly support grant proposals for equipment that will be shared within the White Rose
 and N8 Universities (e.g. Light Sheet microscopy shared with Leeds, and CyTOF with Newcastle)
 and we have support from other N8 University partners for our own equipment purchases (e.g.
 Nanostring DSP). We also routinely host external academics (from ~25 Institutes/year) to provide
 access to our high-end instrumentation within the BTF as well as to transfer best practice in the
 use of high-end instrumentation through direct one-to-one optimisation.


                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Major benefits-in-kind

 The BTF is active in technology development and has formed research alliances with equipment
 companies for beta-testing and applications development. For example, the BTF was the first
 beta-test site for the world’s leading confocal microscope, Zeiss LSM880 AiryScan (Germany),
 and the BTF was the UK demonstration site for the Zeiss LightSheet for 12 months. The BTF also
 hosts the concept, beta-test and demonstration of PhaseFocus (UK) microscopes, and a new
 collaboration with Tomocube (South Korea) involves beta-testing their new digital holographic
 microscope. JEOL (Japan) have continued to loan their FEG-SEM and the BTF was their
 worldwide demonstration site for ClairScope, a combined light- and electron-microscope. Other
 examples include beta-testing the Beckman Coulter (USA) new generation flow cytometers and
 sorters and Oxford Nanopore’s single molecule nanopore sequencers. All of these developments
 are dependent on expertise in the BTF and access to fully-supported key technologies. Many
 equipment manufacturers support training courses run by the BTF, providing technical experts,
 direct sponsorship and the provision of additional systems for our international courses, giving
 access over an extended time. In turn, we have been involved in training many external staff in
 using their company’s own products. Consultancy agreements have been made with equipment
 manufacturers, including Bruker, Zeiss, Phase Focus, Tomocube, Beckman Coulter, and Oxford
 Nanopore, providing our staff with access to the latest technologies and advanced training.

 Hence our infrastructure and facilities provision is exceptional and vital for under-pinning
 our world-class research activities.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and
 society
 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Collaboration is at the heart of our research strategy, structure, appointments (sections 1 and 3),
 and shared facilities (section 3: e.g. Centre for Excellence in Mass Spectrometry joint between
 Biology and Chemistry and YSBL), resulting in >80% of our staff co-authoring a publication with
 one or more academic staff at York. Further evidence that successful collaboration underpins our
 research activity comes through analysis of our REF2021 outputs, which shows that 93% have at
 least one non-York author, 64% involve UK co-authors and 72% include international co-authors;
 with 33% of our grant applications involving UK and international collaborators across five
 continents (Figure 3).




 Figure 3. Collaborative grant applications submitted during the REF period (Europe includes 151
 UK collaborative applications).

 All staff are encouraged to engage in collaborative initiatives through annual performance reviews,
 criteria for promotion, access to travel funds and pump-priming grants to establish links. Our
 Industrial Placement and Industrial Liaison Officers, working with the University’s Research &
 Enterprise office facilitate visits and placements, for example in 2019, they organised year-long
 placements for 44 students and enabled 20 academic and research staff to visit 22 businesses
 and other institutions. In addition, YESI, YBRI and BioYork have Research Facilitators to support
 interactions with industry/NGO/policy partners. We support visits and secondments with potential


                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 partners to develop ideas beyond initial contact, and successful collaborations have led to a Royal
 Society Industrial Fellowship with Yorkshire Water (Chong). We provide departmental resources
 for workshops and conferences in which external partners participate (e.g. the YESI 5-year
 Anniversary event in 2018) and fund travel to attend meetings where contacts with prospective
 non-academic partners can be made. Staff have successfully responded to external opportunities
 to establish inter-institutional networks. For example, we led an EU Marie-Curie Innovative
 Training Network (ITN) with 7 other European Universities, AstraZeneca and Lonza Chemie
 (Bruce) and another ITN with 7 other European Universities and MedImmune and Miltenyi Biotech
 (Kaye).

 Staff have led major collaborative initiatives, such as the BBSRC Networks in Industrial
 Biotechnology, where HVCfP (Graham) and LBNet (McQueen-Mason) both had ~800 industrial
 partners during the NIBB phase 1 period (2014-2018). The N8 Agrifood consortium (based in
 Biology at York), is very active in forging new research collaborations in agri-food resilience
 through provision of pump-priming funds and networking activities. YESI co-ordinated the
 successful Leverhulme Centre for Anthropocene Biodiversity bid. York Biological Sciences leads
 or is a major contributor to five international networks (JCPiL, PrevPKDL, LeishChallenge,
 leishPathNet, Global Network of NTDs) that aim to find innovative solutions to leishmaniasis.

 Responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives

 We support staff to respond to international and national initiatives by providing administrative
 support and pump priming, leading to awards from GCRF and the Newton Fund. Examples of
 projects to address environmental and health challenges and improve livelihoods in the Global
 South include: reducing industrial waste from sugar cane processing in India (McQueen-Mason),
 biorefining of oil palm residues in Malaysia (Bruce), peatland restoration in Indonesia (Hill),
 developing rice with increased resistance to salinity and drought (Maathius), development of new
 tests to help clinicians decide on the best course of treatment for leishmaniasis (Kaye),
 characterisation of an epigenetic regulator of Leishmania spp. virulence (Walrad) and
 characterising the key biological processes of Leishmania chagasi, the parasite that causes
 Visceral Leishmaniasis (Mottram).

 Wider contributions to the economy and society
 We encourage staff to participate in impact-related activities. The majority of our staff undertook
 impact-relevant activities during the REF period, such as involvement in spin-out companies
 (Cizzle Biotech, Coverley), collaborating with businesses (e.g Novozymes, GSK, Prozomix, Sun
 Pharmaceuticals, Fujifilm Diosynth, Unilever, UbiQ, Ubiquigent and Novartis), disseminating
 knowledge, and engaging with policy makers, indicating that active engagement and participation
 in impact activities is widespread and embedded within our culture.

 Translate and commercially exploit research for economic and societal benefit

 Our staff participated in impact-relevant training during the REF period, such as departmental and
 UoY courses and briefing sessions in enterprise (including start-ups) and IP. The Research and
 Enterprise Office assists with IP, overseeing licensing agreements with East-West Seed to
 commercialise CNAP’s Artemisia varieties (see Impact Case Study); sufficient seed has been sold
 to make over 62 million anti-malarial treatment courses for malaria sufferers in the developing
 world. Our centres facilitate research translation, this ensured rapid progression from discovery to
 impact for our two industrial Impact Case Studies e.g. CNAP collaborated with GSK Australia (now
 Sun Pharmaceuticals) to develop a new high yielding noscapine–morphine poppy; noscapine is
 used in cough medicines and is undergoing clinical trials as an anti-cancer compound. This work
 has generated a novel supply chain that represents 100% of Sun Pharmaceuticals commercial
 production of noscapine in 2018 (over 25 metric tonnes, sufficient for 1.6 billion doses; see Impact
 Case Study). CNAP Chairs Bruce, Bancroft and Graham were BBSRC Innovator of the Year
 finalists in 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively.


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 How the unit engages with diverse communities and public through its research

 We are strongly committed to public engagement and outreach activities to inform the public about
 science and our research. Examples include, Pint of Science, SoapBox Science York (led by
 Biology (Hill) and reaches more than 5000 members of the public), Festival of Ideas, YorNight,
 Cafe Scientifique and podcasts. We have also had speakers at all YorkTalks events since their
 instigation, which provide a day of public engagement talks highlighting world-leading research at
 University of York. We deliver a range of talks and hands-on activities for local schools. YESI
 (2019) organised a workshop in Jordan for experts on waste management in refugee camps, with
 participants from the UK, Jordan, Palestine, and Israel, and as part of the workshop they visited
 the Zaatari refugee camp. The University Press Office provides assistance with press releases
 and distributing them to the media, sets up interviews, and disseminates information and images.

 Our PhD students actively engage with external organisations in many inspiring ways and we
 include a few examples here. Our PGRs established ‘GreenSTEMS’, a society aimed at facilitating
 collaboration between social scientists and scientists from STEM on environmental and
 sustainability issues. GreenSTEMS are involved in local public engagement activities including
 the University's Annual Festival of Ideas and the UK Space Agency Outreach day (2016). Our
 PGRs run workshops at primary and secondary schools across Yorkshire, including one focused
 on Women in STEM.

 Indicators of wider influence and contributions to the research base
 Journal editorships

 26 staff including ECRs contributed to journal editor and editorial board roles for over 38
 journals during the REF period demonstrating academic citizenship is widespread among our
 staff. This includes being editor-in-chief Microbiology (G. Thomas) and Ecological Entomology
 (Hill) as well as editorships e.g. Molecular Plant (Davis), Journal of Experimental Botany
 (Denby), Global Change Biology (Hartley), Ecology Letters (Hill), HemaSphere (Kent), Frontiers
 in Cell and Developmental Biology (MacDonald), Functional Plant Biology (Maathius).

 Membership of Research Council or similar national and international committees

 Our staff play crucial roles in the strategic developments of funders. Graham is a member of
 BBSRC Council. Bruce is a member of BBSRC Bioscience for renewable resources and clean
 growth strategy advisory panel, and was a member of BBSRC Industrial Biotechnology and
 Bioenergy Strategic Advisory Panel, and a BBSRC panel member for the mid-term review of
 the Synthetic Biology Centres. Hartley is a member of the BBSRC Strategy Advisory panel for
 Food and Agriculture, Chair of the BBSRC Gene Drive Working Group, Chair of the
 BBSRC/NERC/ESRC Sustainable Agriculture Research Innovation Club, Chair of the Science
 advisory board for BBSRC/NERC Achieving Sustainable Agricultural Systems, and Member of
 the Royal Society Global Environmental Research Committee. Mottram is a member of the
 Wellcome Trust Science Interview Panel and the ERC Immunity, Infection and Immunotherapy
 Consolidator Grant Panel. Kaye is Chair of the Infections and Immunity Board at the MRC, a
 member of the MRC Strategy Board, Chair of the MRC National Mouse Genetics Network
 Oversight Board and Chair of UKRI/DHSC COVID-19 Rapid Response, Rolling Call and Agile
 Call funding panels. Hill is Chair and core-panel member at NERC and in-coming member of
 Science Committee. Staff regularly sit on UKRI grant panels including BBSRC, MRC and NERC
 as well as learned societies that provide funding for research (e.g., Royal Society). Hartley
 (YESI) prepared two post-Brexit agri-environment briefing papers for the Secretary of State and
 gave evidence to the Environment Audit Committee in Westminster.

 Fellowships, awards and prominent recognition

 Graham was elected Fellow of the Royal Society in 2016, elected to EMBO (2016) and awarded
 the Biochemical Society Heatley Prize (2017). Chong was awarded a Royal Society Industrial

                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fellowship (2016). ECRs Lichman and Mackinder successfully obtained UKRI Future Leaders
 Fellowships, and Fogg and MacDonald obtained Wellcome Trust Fellowships. Hartley is a
 Trustee, Royal Botanic Garden Kew (Prime Ministerial appointment), and Trustee, Castle
 Howard Arboretum Trust. She was President, British Ecological Society (2016-17) and is a
 Board Member, Natural England (Secretary of State appointment) and was awarded an OBE
 in 2019 for her services to Ecological Research and Public Engagement. Plevin and Potts are
 members of the York Structural Biology Laboratory (YSBL) whose long-standing excellence of
 ground-breaking research in protein science was recently recognised with a 2020 Queen’s
 Anniversary Prize.




                                                                                       Page 21
