Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: UoA31 Theology and Religious Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a. Context and Structure

 The Department of Theology and Religion (T&R) is part of the School of Philosophy, Theology
 and Religion (PTR), one of five schools of the College of Arts and Law (CAL). This arrangement
 has been in place since 2008 and provides an established base for the pursuit of theological and
 religious studies in themselves, in conjunction with colleagues in Philosophy, and in an
 interdisciplinary fashion more widely across the College, the University, and through numerous
 national and international partnerships.

 All submissions to this UoA come from staff employed in T&R (19.9 FTE). Its members occupy
 leadership positions in the School and College, including the two most recent Heads of School.
 This ensures that the unit is highly visible and able to contribute to discussions that shape
 initiatives at College and University level through weekly leadership meetings hosted by the Vice
 Chancellor. Strategic decisions are largely taken at School and College level, while staff
 workload and teaching responsibilities are managed within the Department.

 Research excellence in the unit spans the formation and development of the foundational texts
 and manuscripts of Judaism, Christianity and Islam to their interpretation in feminist, queer,
 ethical, theological, philosophical and environmental perspectives to the study of lived religion
 and its impact on society. It is at the interface of religion and society that impactful research in
 the unit has changed the way governments and public bodies nationally and internationally
 engage with faith communities, including during the Covid-19 pandemic.

 There are six formal research groups led by staff in T&R which combine Birmingham’s
 established fields of expertise with innovative areas under development:
     - the Institute for Textual Scholarship and Electronic Editing (ITSEE), a University-
         Recognised Research Centre specialising in religious texts;
     - the Edward Cadbury Centre for the Public Understanding of Religion (ECC);
     - the Birmingham Centre for the Philosophy of Religion (BCPR, previously known as the
         John Hick Centre);
     - the Centre for Islamic and Middle Eastern Studies (CIMES);
     - the Centre for Pentecostal and Charismatic Studies (CPCS);
     - the Science, Knowledge and Belief in Society Research Group (SKBS).
 While these groups provide a focus for externally-funded projects, postgraduate study, research
 collaboration, networks and consultancy, they are not exclusive but co-exist with numerous other
 internal and external initiatives and commitments which characterise our diverse and vibrant
 research culture.

 b. Research Objectives

 Achievement of Strategic Aims
 In REF2014, we articulated five key activities to develop the unit’s profile and realise our
 research potential: i) Dialogue within the University; ii) Dialogue with the wider community; iii)
 Increasing grant capture; iv) Increasing our international culture; v) A staffing strategy focussing

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on retention, recruitment and respect for diversity. A combination of planned initiatives, building
 on existing strengths and an openness to new opportunities presented by research findings and
 recruitment possibilities, has meant that progress in each of these areas has exceeded any
 goals which might have seemed realistic seven years ago. Highlights include the following,
 which all address several of these key activities:

    a) An increase from 14 to 25 core-funded staff members.
       This significant expansion has included the recruitment of the SKBS research group led
       by Elsdon-Baker, placing Birmingham at the heart of an international network on
       Science and Religion funded by multi-million-pound John Templeton Foundation grants.
       The group has brought researchers from a variety of disciplines into T&R and initiated
       wide-ranging teaching and research collaborations with colleagues in STEMM. At the
       same time, a successful staff retention policy has seen the promotion of four members to
       personal chairs (Cheetham, Hempel, Houghton and Vondey) in a department which
       now has a majority of women.

    b) The appointment of a new Edward Cadbury Professor.
       Moss succeeded Parker in our senior chair in Theology in 2017. Moss’s pioneering
       research on Disability, Medicine and the New Testament has further embedded matters
       of equality and diversity into our programme of research and teaching. She is also a
       leading public intellectual in the USA (CNN correspondent, religion news commentator
       for CBS, columnist for the Daily Beast) and stimulates media coverage of academic
       research and issues such as the trafficking of biblical artefacts.

    c) The identification in Birmingham of the world’s oldest carbon-dated Qur’anic
       manuscript.
       This discovery in 2015 as part of Fedeli’s doctoral research at ITSEE on the University’s
       Mingana Collection was global news, and inspired considerable interest in the University
       from the local and international communities. It provided further impetus for plans to
       develop Islamic Studies across the University, with T&R taking a leading role. Our
       expertise has been enhanced by no fewer than six new appointments with expertise in
       Islam in Europe and the Middle East (Brown, Cesari, Jones, Scharbrodt, Shanneik,
       Todd) and we continue to be responsible for leading journals and book series in this
       field.

    d) External research awards of almost £7 million in 2014–20.
       Our continued outstanding record of attracting funding has placed us at the top of the UK
       Theology table since 2017. Three major European Research Council projects, led by
       Houghton and Scharbrodt, have been based at Birmingham in the last seven years;
       other success for our existing research institutes includes a £1.7M Templeton project on
       Philosophy of Religion in BCPR (co-directed by Cheetham) and the £1.6M
       Commonwealth Initiative for Freedom of Religion or Belief hosted at the ECC (directed
       by Davies).

    e) The establishment of a Guru Nanak Chair in Sikh Studies.
       Substantial investment from the Indian Government was secured in 2019 for the
       establishment of a chair in Sikh studies to be based in T&R and the University’s India
       Institute, further promoting T&R’s profile across the University and internationally, as well
       as engaging with Birmingham’s Sikh population. The Department’s consistently high


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         position in the QS rankings—placing us as 23rd in the world in 2018—also attests to our
         global recognition.

 Current Research Strategy
 After seven years of significant growth, our strategy for the next five years is to exploit this
 enhanced capacity for research in order to advance our position and esteem on a national and
 international level. While we will continue to be responsive to new and unexpected opportunities,
 our principal focus will be the development of current staff and areas of research excellence in
 (1) texts and manuscripts (Judaism, Christianity and Islam); (2) theology; (3) Islamic studies; (4)
 lived religion and its impact on society. We will pay particular attention to the following five
 activities:

   i.    Developing Interdisciplinary Partnerships.
         Humanities scholarship is often undervalued in comparison with scientific subjects,
         despite its significance for quality of life and understanding the human condition. Through
         our research and teaching, especially the activities of the SKBS group, we will seek to
         advance the integration of our expertise into activities across the University and with
         external partners, with the goal of increasing recognition of the value and distinctiveness
         of the humanities and social sciences.

   ii.   Prioritising Equality, Diversity and Inclusion.
         Theology and Religious Studies is a discipline which has at its heart questions of
         diversity. We will pay special attention to embedding this range of identities and
         experience into our research projects and public engagement, as well as ensuring
         increased representativeness in our staffing profile.

  iii.   Advancing International Partnerships.
         A remarkable range of international activity already happens within T&R. In the next five
         years, we will build on our key relationships with institutional partners in other countries
         to produce world-leading collaborative research outputs and to ensure ongoing access to
         funding opportunities, in order to ensure the sustainability and resilience of our research
         culture.

  iv.    Encouraging Aspirational Career Development.
         Staff development is key to the retention of excellent researchers. We will ensure that our
         established research leaders continue to thrive, while also devoting time and resources
         to developing the next generation. This will be achieved through enhanced mentoring
         schemes at all levels, leading to the sharing of experience, good practice and innovative
         ideas.

   v.    Embracing the Digital.
         Our research profile includes pioneers in the development of digital tools and resources
         for humanities research, and many of our collaborative and distance activities are
         sustained by communications technology. In the light of the broader adoption of these
         platforms and increased digital literacy during the pandemic, we will increase our activity
         in this area in order to widen participation and enhance our global reputation.

 c. Impact



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact has constituted a major part of our activity since REF2014. As expected, the ECC (called
 the Centre for the Public Understanding of Religion in REF2014) has proved to be a focus for
 engagement and influence beyond academia, developing global networks of theological experts
 in the public sphere and cultivating links with government and non-governmental organisations.
 This, along with T&R’s increased media involvement, has facilitated pathways to dissemination
 and impact both for individual staff members and for research projects. A dedicated Research
 Development Officer was appointed by the School in 2015 to assist with impact, public
 engagement and research communications. Our Impact Case Studies from Brown and Jhutti-
 Johal (REF3) have been selected as examples of the way in which this supportive context
 enables individuals to apply their expertise to shape social and political policy. The following
 three areas highlight some of our public involvement over the last seven years:

    a. Influence on National and International Policymaking.
       Members of T&R have occupied a number of high-profile advisory roles, particularly
       relating to research in Islamic studies. Cesari was a member of the Special Operations
       Command Central Group on ISIS in Iraq at the US Department of Defense and served on
       the working group on Religion and US Foreign Policy under the auspices of Secretary of
       State John Kerry until 2016. Cesari, Brown, Jhutti-Johal and honorary fellows from
       ECC have all addressed policymakers at the United Nations. Brown has provided expert
       evidence for the Home Office, the Joint International Counter-Terrorism Unit and the
       Foreign Office, as well as contributing to the Commission for Countering Extremism and
       High Court cases. Nielsen chairs the Advisory Board of the Erlangen Centre on Islam
       and Law in Europe and has developed training courses for the European External Action
       Service of the European Commission as well as the foreign ministries of the Netherlands,
       Poland, Czech Republic and Lithuania. Jhutti-Johal was a member of the Commission
       on Religion and Belief in British Public Life (Woolf Institute, 2013–15); she has worked
       closely with the Ministry for Housing, Communities and Local Government, participating
       in a Ministry of Justice working group on Sharia. In 2017, Davis was appointed as
       Advisor to the Minister for Disabilities and the cross-government Office for Disability
       Issues: this led to changes in procurement at a national level and the adoption of
       disability inclusion in regional industrial strategies.

    b. Engagement with Local Communities.
       Following the election of the first West Midlands Mayor, the ECC facilitated the inaugural
       Mayor’s Faith Forum, bringing religious leaders from across the region to the University.
       ECC also fostered links with local communities by hosting a five-day celebration of Guru
       Nanak Dev Ji, and a commemoration in 2016 of the 350th birthday of Sri Guru Gobind
       Singh Ji. The Birmingham Qur’an was exhibited at two locations in Birmingham in 2015,
       before a facsimile display at the Sharjah Book Fair close to the University’s new Dubai
       campus. Elsewhere, Kidwell’s mapping of faith communities developed into work with
       the Scottish government and NGOs such as A’Rocha, Christians Against Poverty and the
       Development Trust Association Scotland, while Augustine applied her research on
       social transformation and urban sustainability as advisor for the Cleveland Against Sex
       Trafficking initiative in Tennessee.

    c. Promoting Religious Studies in the Public Sphere.
       The media activity of Moss has been mentioned above; a recent audit estimated that
       since her appointment to Birmingham in 2017, her TV, radio and journalistic contributions
       have reached a global audience of over 100 million people. Hempel appeared on the
       BBC’s Any Questions? in 2018, while Brown, Houghton and Parker have spoken at the

                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Hay Festival. Drawing on her research on migration, Shanneik co-ordinated art
         exhibitions at the Council for British Research in the Levant in Amman, the Disability and
         Deaf Arts Festival in Liverpool, and the British Academy’s Summer Showcase in 2019.

 Impact Plans
 Over the next five years, we will seek to develop our strategy to promote impact through
 engagement with partners and practitioners in the following ways:

   i.    Expanding our Reach.
         This will include extending the activities of ECC into Asia and Australia, while also
         drawing on the University’s Dubai Campus as well as its India and China Institutes. The
         newly-established Guru Nanak Chair in Sikh Studies will significantly support our activity
         in India. Nationally, we will continue to broker new relationships with faith leaders in
         Higher Education, the NHS, schools, the military and the Third Sector.

   ii.   Increasing Individual Impact and Engagement Profiles.
         Experienced staff will share their skills through peer mentoring to ensure that all
         members of T&R develop initiatives to share their research and expertise in public fora.
         Our goal to promote a culture of high-quality engagement activities which reflect research
         excellence will be supported by the introduction of a University promotion path in 2021
         focussing on impact and engagement.

  iii.   Embedding Impact as a Student Activity.
         Communicating research findings to promote the discipline and stimulate public interest
         is also a skill to be cultivated among our doctoral candidates and, increasingly, our taught
         students. We will encourage activities such as the immensely-successful 3-Minute Thesis
         initiative to enhance the accessibility of our field and reach both traditional and new
         audiences. Students will be encouraged and assisted to develop their own profile and
         network, especially in the digital sphere.

 d. Interdisciplinarity, Open Research and Integrity

 Interdisciplinary Research
 The study of religion and its importance in human life demands a variety of complementary skills
 and approaches, drawing on multiple research fields and overcoming traditional disciplinary
 boundaries. Our 2014 focus on dialogue within the University resulted in extensive involvement
 in university-wide initiatives. For instance, Brown is a member of the University’s Institute for
 Conflict, Cooperation and Security, and with Nielsen convened a workshop on Muslim Societies
 and Islam under the aegis of Birmingham’s Institute for Advanced Study in 2017, alongside
 colleagues in History, Sociology and Education (REF5a, 2.3.2). ITSEE’s co-director (Ward) is
 based in Modern Languages: Houghton and Smith have formally assisted editorial projects
 across the College which have won external funding; they also co-supervise PGRs outside T&R.
 Shanneik’s research on pre-marital genetic screening in Dubai involves researchers based in
 the College of Medical and Dental Sciences as well as hospital practitioners and faith groups.
 Moves towards developing a centre of excellence in Islamic Studies have drawn members of
 T&R into dialogue with colleagues across the College. Meanwhile, ongoing research in this field
 within the Department combines historical and philological expertise with those skilled in the
 tools and approaches of social science. Scharbrodt’s ERC-funded team studying contemporary
 Shiism, for example, includes intellectual historians, political scientists and anthropologists.


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The attraction of the innovative SKBS research group to Birmingham has resulted in the
 incorporation within T&R of specialists in fields including Science Studies (Elsdon-Baker),
 Sociology (Jones), Psychology (Sharp) and History of Science (Hall). Having made this
 commitment to interdisciplinary research on religion and non-religion by recruiting this diverse
 group, our hope is that it will catalyse partnerships in research and teaching across the
 University while making the case for the distinctive contribution of humanities skills and expertise
 within domains traditionally regarded as scientific in nature.

 Open Research
 Members of T&R have availed themselves of institutional support for open research, including
 dedicated funds and arrangements with publishers for Open Access publication, online
 repositories and the posting of pre-prints online. Research projects and individuals have used
 social media to share details of their activities and findings. Staff are required to enter details of
 all publications on acceptance into a public-facing University research portal (REF5a, 2.2): this is
 supported by a dedicated Library team to ensure that outputs are made as widely available as
 possible. Take-up of this can easily be quantified: Houghton, for example, is the highest-ranked
 academic on Birmingham’s eData repository, while his 2016 book has almost 4,000 downloads
 from the portal. The University’s free online eTheses repository (REF 5a, 4.5) contains over 380
 postgraduate research theses from T&R.

 In the area of digital outputs, T&R has demonstrated a particular commitment to open research.
 Datasets from research projects are routinely made available online, such as the digital images,
 text files and databases for scholarly editions created within ITSEE and Kidwell’s geographical
 material. Houghton’s published advocacy of the release of manuscript transcriptions under a
 Creative Commons Attribution license in order to promote re-use led to its adoption by the
 International Greek New Testament Project. Software created by Kidwell and Smith is released
 on GitHub or Zenodo under GNU-GPL or MIT open licences, and has been adopted or
 integrated in a variety of platforms.

 Research Integrity
 Questions of research ethics and integrity are of particular interest within the School. Moss’s
 research on illegally imported biblical artefacts has served to make the field more aware of the
 issues involved, leading to the adoption of professional codes of conduct and the exclusion from
 publications of items whose provenance has not been appropriately established. Several
 members of T&R serve on the College Ethics Panel, which reviews all research, including
 postgraduate projects, ensuring that research practices are in line with the UK’s Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity (REF5a, 2.2). Regular audits are undertaken to ensure that GDPR
 requirements are observed and research data is stored on secure servers.

 2. People

 a. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 As noted above, there has been an increase from 14 core-funded staff at REF2014 to 25 in July
 2020: these comprise 9 professors, 2 readers, 7 senior lecturers, 4 lecturers and 3 research
 fellows on open-ended contracts. At the census date, the total of research-active staff in T&R
 (including those on externally-funded projects) stood at 38: of these, 19 are female (50%), 6
 identified their ethnicity as BAME (16%) and one declared a disability (3%). The percentage of


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 female or non-binary core staff has risen from 33% in REF2014 to 64%, including 11 of the 18 at
 senior grades. Several members of T&R staff have negotiated flexible patterns of work (including
 part-time employment) which take account of protected characteristics or other responsibilities
 and commitments. We have implemented effective succession management for four recently-
 retired senior professors (Anderson, Parker, Pattison, Thomas), whose research areas
 continue to be highlights of our portfolio.

 Our current staffing strategy centres on four priorities:

   i.    To retain and attract staff who are world-leading in their research quality and
         performance.
         T&R has built a strong critical mass of internationally-recognised researchers. 14 current
         core staff have joined the department through investment since REF2014, 5 Professors
         (Adams, Cesari, Elsdon-Baker, Moss and Scharbrodt), 2 Readers (Augustine,
         Vondey), 1 Birmingham Fellow (Vasalou; see REF5a, 3.4.1), and 6 Lecturers (Brown,
         Daughton, Jones, Kidwell, Shanneik, Todd). The recruitment of 4 members of SKBS
         was achieved through the University’s Dynamic Investment Fund. 12 applications for
         promotion to senior grades were successful between 2013–2020, 50% of which were by
         women.

   ii.   To maximise opportunities for Early Career Researchers.
         Externally-funded projects have supported 30 postdoctoral researchers in T&R between
         2013 and 2020, several of whom have gone on to further employment at Birmingham or
         other academic positions. 15 research fellows were in post on the census date (Al-
         Hudaid, Hall, Kadhum, Manafis, Mason-Wilkes, Mesbahi, Milton, Myshrall,
         Parpulov, Rasavian, Riley, Sharp, Shillitoe, Williamson Fa). In line with the Concordat
         to Support the Career Development of Researchers, they are mentored by their research
         leaders and have access to the same institutional support as core-funded colleagues,
         including centrally-run professional development courses (REF5a, 3.3). Although
         externally-funded staff do not qualify for research leave, the Department actively and
         successfully supports post-doctoral colleagues’ development, such as Parpulov’s visiting
         fellowship at Princeton in 2019.

  iii.   To encourage career planning and research development.
         All members of T&R develop their own rolling five-year research plans, updating them
         annually for discussion with the Head of School, School Head of Research and College
         Research Support team. An annual Performance Development Review for all staff also
         provides an opportunity to consider research aspirations and support for strategic
         objectives, including promotion. A Workload Allocation Model is deployed at
         departmental level, with allowances for designated strategic activities such as preparing
         major grant applications, impact and engagement. Staff on three-legged contracts are
         eligible to apply for up to two terms’ study leave every seventh term: between 2014 and
         2020, 15 terms of leave were awarded in T&R (7 to women, 8 to men).

  iv.    To train future leaders.
         Daughton’s leadership potential led to her appointment within months of arriving as
         Head of Department and a place on the University’s competitive Emerging Leaders
         Programme for 2020–21. Other investment in future leaders includes Cheetham and
         Hempel’s participation in the University’s Senior Leadership Programme, Houghton and
         Scharbrodt in the Research Leaders Programme, and Brown, Davies, and Kidwell as

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Emerging Leaders. Jhutti-Johal completed the Aurora programme in 2015 (REF5a,
        3.4.4).

 b. Research Students

 Pressing questions of religion and belief in public life across the world mean that the
 development of high-level expertise in the next generation of researchers in Theology and
 Religion is a priority. T&R has one of the largest cohorts of postgraduate researchers (PGRs) in
 the College. 137 postgraduate degrees successfully were completed in T&R between 2014–20.
 An upward trajectory in PGR numbers during the REF period has levelled at an annual total of
 140 or more over the last five years. No fewer than 45 students have been awarded
 scholarships: 6 from the AHRC Midlands4Cities doctoral training partnership (with another 3 co-
 supervised here); 16 supported by overseas governments (including Brazil, Canada, Ghana,
 Saudi Arabia and Singapore); 15 on College or School scholarships; 4 on ERC-funded projects;
 3 others, including 1 on the BA Global Challenges programme.

 Our PGR cohort is diverse in nationality and experience. The Distance Learning (DL) pathway
 has proved particularly popular, while around two-thirds of our PGRs are on part-time
 programmes. The current proportion of women is 41%, while annual figures of 37–43% since
 REF2014 have always exceeded the sector average. Data from the last five years illustrates
 other protected characteristics: during this period, PGRs have stated their ethnic origin as 27–
 35% BAME and 62–72% White; 13–17% have declared a disability; 7–11% identify as not
 heterosexual.

 Our approach to recruiting doctoral research students varies according to context. Open
 competitions are held to recruit PGRs on funded research projects. The majority of PGR
 applications are for independent research, and candidates are selected entirely on academic
 criteria: their previous track record, the quality of the research proposal and appropriate
 supervisory expertise within T&R. Applicants for the DL pathway are interviewed and a checklist
 completed to ensure that students have access to appropriate local research resources and
 technology. Adjustments required for protected characteristics are facilitated as part of the
 application process or during the course of the project with the help of our dedicated Wellbeing
 Officer (see §3b below).

 From 2016, all PGRs have been co-supervised by a minimum of two members of academic staff
 to ensure continuity; they are also allocated a mentor. Monthly supervision meetings (pro-rata for
 part-time students) are recorded on online forms completed by both student and supervisors,
 where expectations of progress are explicitly addressed. At the beginning of each PGR project,
 an Ethical Review and a Development Needs Analysis is undertaken along with the completion
 of a Data Management Plan. All doctoral students are required to attend a School Progress
 Panel in their first year of full-time study (or equivalent), for which a sample of work and thesis
 plan are submitted. Doctoral students whose progress is of concern may be recalled to panels to
 discuss how best to support them. In circumstances where progress remains a concern, a
 recommendation to withdraw is made. Research Masters students can ask to be considered for
 an upgrade to PhD through a Progress Panel. An annual Progress Review meeting is held
 between students and supervisors to review progress and the completion timetable.

 PGRs are members both of the University Graduate School and the CAL Graduate School,
 which organise a rich programme of development activities and online support. PGRs have
 access to individual desks within the Department’s own buildings, promoting the establishment

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of a local research community. Students on the DL pathway spend two weeks in Birmingham
 each full-time year. We also provide additional discipline-specific training for first-year PGR
 students. Development needs are reviewed every year to ensure that students identify and
 develop research and professional skills. A significant number of PGRs pursue projects aligned
 with the activities of one of the Department’s research centres where co-location enables them
 to be integrated in the day-to-day activities of these groups. For instance, doctoral students in
 ITSEE share space with postdoctoral staff and have access to shared electronic resources and
 a microfilm and book collection.

 PGRs participate in specialist seminars as well as wider T&R research events. In order to enable
 participation by DL students, these are increasingly live-streamed. During the Covid-19
 pandemic, Moss set up the Birmingham Bible Research Group on Zoom, supporting PGRs at
 multiple universities and addressing issues including the decolonialisation of research and
 teaching agendas and professional ethics. AHRC and ERC-funded students benefit from
 generous allowances to attend conferences, training courses and undertake fieldwork. Many of
 these events are open to non-funded PGRs across the Midlands Consortium; a CAL fund is
 open to all PGRs for the same purposes. T&R has a good record of successful funding bids to
 CAL in support of peer-led PGR events. T&R has also participated in College initiatives to
 support routes into research including paid undergraduate summer research internships.

 c. Equality and Diversity

 T&R’s commitment to equality and diversity is reflected in its staff profile and its research and
 engagement activities. Moss is part of a group of senior scholars supporting ECRs, especially
 women, whose research has been affected by the pandemic; to that end, she is co-lead of a
 mentoring scheme for ECRs under the aegis of the British New Testament Society. The Faith
 Communities and Government covenant authored by Davis, focussing on equalities in
 procurement, has now been adopted by local authorities covering a population of 6 million
 people within the UK. Davies works with majority-black churches as represented in the Free
 Churches Group and is currently involved in leading institutional strategy regarding
 underachievement in BAME students, while Cheetham was until recently College Equality and
 Diversity Lead (REF5a, 3.4.5).

 The diversity of research staff and students has been enumerated above (§2a). Women have
 consistently been prominent in leadership roles (Hempel as Head of School since 2020 and
 Director of the College Graduate School 2014–17; Daughton as Head of Department, following
 Brown; Moss as Edward Cadbury Chair; Elsdon-Baker as Director of SKBS). The School
 Executive committee includes an Equality and Diversity lead. All staff are required to complete
 Equality and Diversity training on a biennial basis. T&R ensures a balance of genders on all
 selection panels; a woman Chair is appointed for viva exams of women candidates when both
 examiners are men. Staff have benefitted from procedures to manage a phased return to work
 after family-related leave (including one-third of workload remission for the term following six
 months of leave). Others have adopted flexible working arrangements, including the option to
 move to a part-time contract for a period, as well as phased retirement. When applying for
 promotion, staff are encouraged to describe the impact of career breaks, disability or part-time
 working. T&R has created a supportive environment for disabled students and staff to enable
 them to work productively. Staff are also supported by the University’s Workplace Wellbeing
 team, which provides employee advice and listening services (REF5a, 3.4.5).



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A culture of diversity and equal opportunities is an integral element of the T&R ethos: both our
 UG and PG curricula contain popular modules that focus on gender, sexuality, multicultural
 contexts and religious diversity. T&R has recently created a set of bursaries to support students
 from lower-income backgrounds on postgraduate programmes in Islamic Studies, and also
 benefits from generous historic funds to support PGRs from South and South-East Asia (the
 Amphlett Scholarships). The PG Staff-Student Committee is an ethnically and gender balanced
 group which includes a BAME student representative, and there is a tutor for LGBTQ students.
 The appointment of a dedicated non-academic Wellbeing Officer has enhanced the School’s
 ability to ensure that appropriate adjustments are in place for students with temporary or
 permanent requirements.

 Matters of equality and diversity have been considered in the construction of our REF2021
 submission in accord with UoB’s REF2021 Code of Practice. Although membership of the
 reading panel was restricted to professorial staff, it was balanced in gender. The output selection
 group considered data on protected characteristics to ensure that the profile of our selected
 publications appropriately reflects our staff cohort. Both of our selected ICS leads are women
 and from different ethnic backgrounds. An initial draft of this environment template was
 circulated to all T&R staff for input and feedback.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 a. Income

 Our goal to increase external income has been achieved both by our support and
 encouragement of existing staff to pursue opportunities for individual and collaborative funding
 and through the strategic recruitment of world-leading researchers. T&R has been in the top two
 Theology departments nationwide for its research income every year since REF2014. Our total
 grant capture in 2014–20 from external bodies was £6,943,741. This includes two ERC
 Consolidator Grants (Houghton 2018, €1.76M and Scharbrodt 2017, €1.95M); a Templeton
 World Charities Foundation Project (Commonwealth Initiative for Freedom of Religion or Belief,
 Berridge and Davies 2015 £1.6M); three AHRC projects over £100K (Hempel 2018, £155K,
 Parker and Houghton 2018, £307K and Thomas 2016, £296K); a British Academy Sustainable
 Development Programme award (Shanneik 2018, £283K).

 Recent funding success in 2019–20 includes four Templeton Religion Trust projects (Elsdon-
 Baker, Hall, Jones and Sharp 2020, £2.27M; Elsdon-Baker 2019, £1.7M with an additional
 £1.7M match funding; Elsdon-Baker and Hall 2019, £175K; Jones 2020, £137K) and a further
 Templeton World Charities award (Elsdon-Baker 2019, £49K).

 T&R also received £105K from UK Charities, and £112K for ITSEE as a collaborating partner in
 an ERC Advanced Grant led by SOAS. Several consultancy activities have been undertaken,
 including supporting research projects funded by the Central European University and the
 Museum of the Bible. Funding from the Indian government for the Guru Nanak Chair has been
 mentioned above, as have governmental PGR scholarships from several countries.

 b. Research Infrastructure

 The management structure of the School and its Departments is flexible and allows for research
 groups to be guided by their leaders in consultation with the Head of School. Each centre has its


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 own director appointed from core-funded staff, with the remit of delivering its research, funding
 and impact goals. Principal Investigators of funded projects are responsible for the management
 of their research staff and budgets. Since 2020, the School facilitates regular meetings of PIs to
 share experience and best practice.

 T&R has monthly departmental meetings, supplemented by informal gatherings and events. The
 Head of Department, and School Research and Impact leads are members of the School
 Research and Knowledge Transfer committee. A School Away Day typically takes place twice a
 year for the purposes of training and strategic planning. During the Covid19 pandemic, more
 regular all-School meetings have taken place online.

 Academics in PTR work closely with a team of Professional Services staff, led by an Operations
 Manager. The appointment of a School Research Development Officer was noted above (§1c);
 in addition, the School created the post of Wellbeing Officer in 2016, providing local support for
 students, including doctoral researchers, putting students in touch with appropriate agencies and
 providers and ensuring that academics are appropriately informed. Most research projects have
 their own administrators, managed through Professional Services.

 All core-funded research active staff are entitled to an annual Personal Research and
 Knowledge Transfer allowance of up to £1,000, along with termly applications to the College
 Impact and Research Fund (total £35,000), the Birmingham International Engagement Fund,
 and other dedicated central streams. A College Research Support team provides bespoke
 support to individuals on external funding applications and post-award grant set-up, as well as
 hosting training and dissemination events. The Department benefits from a College Research
 Communications Manager to support profile-raising for both research and impact activities, and
 a full-time College Impact Development Officer. PGR students regularly win College funds for
 research trips and conference organisation. At School level, an annual discretionary fund of
 around £30,000 supports non-recurrent events. Islamic Studies in T&R receives a strategic
 allocation of £10,000 per year to host two annual conferences, one for staff and one for the
 student-led Islamic and Middle Eastern Studies Forum which brings together PGRs from across
 the University.

 c. Facilities

 Birmingham holds several important collections of primary sources for theological research,
 most significantly the Mingana Collection of Middle Eastern manuscripts, the Harold Turner
 Collection on New Religious Movements, the Church Missionary Society Archives and the
 archives of the Student Christian Movement. These are housed in the Cadbury Research
 Library, and attract researchers from across the world. A new state-of-the-art University Library
 opened in 2016, bringing together Birmingham’s extensive holdings in the area of theology and
 religious studies (REF5a, 4.3). Recent years have seen an emphasis on e-books and electronic
 subscriptions to journals, ensuring access to these resources for DL PGRs (and all students
 during the pandemic).

 Since 2016, there has been considerable investment in IT support for research. T&R benefits
 both from a designated CAL Research Software Engineer and a core-funded software developer
 within ITSEE (Smith) who supports a variety of digital editing projects. T&R researchers have
 used the University’s BEAR high-performance computing cluster for complex data analysis (e.g.
 applying algorithms to manuscript transmission), as well as its DataShare collaboration platform
 and its long-term research data storage (REF5a, 4.5).

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 a. Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 The fostering of research networks is a key part of T&R’s strategy to ensure that its research
 staff play a major part in internationally-leading activity. Among our research centres, the
 Science and Religion Exploring the Spectrum project (SKBS) has partners at University of
 Queensland (Australia), Austral University (Argentina), York University (Canada), Leipzig
 University (Germany), University of Barcelona (Spain), University of Colombo (Sri Lanka) and
 Kent State Ohio (USA). Individual staff are responsible for two AHRC-funded network projects
 through the Global Challenges Research Fund: “Humanities for Resilience” led by Brown with
 partners in Zambia, Lebanon and Pakistan, and “Women, Faith and Humanitarian Interventions”
 led by Wenell, with the NGO partner Global One focussing on Lebanon and Syria. Adams was
 invited to direct a “Religion on Campus” project by the Association of Commonwealth
 Universities, leading to collaboration with Dev Sanskriti Vishwavidyalaya University in Haridwar,
 India; he also runs a project on “Interreligious Literacy in Indonesia” with a partner from Berlin
 and works with the Anglican Bishop of Cairo to deliver a programme of Scriptural Reasoning in
 Egypt. In 2017, Hempel founded the Virtual Common Room, Second Temple Early Career
 Academy (STECA) as part of an AHRC Leadership Fellowship. This has supported
 postgraduates and early-career researchers from over 60 countries across 5 continents.

 Many of the activities of ECC involve partnerships with governments and NGOs, including our
 leadership of the Commonwealth Initiative for Freedom of Religion or Belief from 2015–18.
 Davies convenes the American Academy of Religion’s network of centres on Religion and
 Public Life, while Cesari leads the network of European Centres on Religion and Politics, under
 the auspices of the Foundation for Religious Sciences. Augustine participates in the quarterly
 Theological Roundtables of the Leadership Foundation (USA), where she has most recently
 been asked to address an online town-hall meeting reflecting on the pandemic; she also advises
 the Samaritans NGO (Stara Zagora, Bulgaria). Other public engagement activities are described
 in §1c above. It is through such examples of leadership and participation that the unit engages
 with diverse communities and publics through its research.

 The major editorial projects based in Birmingham have a global reach. The Bibliographical
 History of Christian-Muslim Relations (Thomas) involves 5 international core teams with 26
 scholars: over 1,000 contributors feature in the 16 volumes published so far. The edition of the
 Pauline Epistles overseen by Houghton has partners in North Carolina, Texas, Thessaloniki
 and Wuppertal, in addition to his collaboration with two long-term German Bible editing projects.
 From 2014–19, Scharbrodt was editor-in-chief of the Yearbook of Muslims in Europe, the
 primary reference work on developments in European Islam which includes authors based at
 universities in 45 different countries.

 The AHRC Midlands4Cities partnership (formerly Midlands3Cities) inaugurated the development
 of co-supervision with the University of Nottingham for 5 PGRs. T&R staff also co-supervise
 doctoral projects at KU Leuven, the Universities of Ghana, Babel (Iraq) and Toronto. Alongside
 our validation of taught courses at the Al-Mahdi Institute and St Mary’s Roman Catholic
 Seminary, New Oscott, T&R has a collaborative agreement for postgraduate research with
 Woodbrooke Quaker Studies Centre, involving a significant number of PhD students.



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 b. Wider Contributions to the Economy and Society

 In addition to our contributions to national and international policymaking described above (§1c),
 T&R staff have advised numerous organisations and overseen the implementation of their
 research. Davis was a non-executive director and Chair of Finance for the Solent NHS trust
 between 2016–19, where he also chaired hearings for detained psychiatric patients; he was
 appointed to the Advisory Committees of the Faith Research Centre, ResPublica, and St
 Ethelburga’s in 2017. Scharbrodt was official advisor to the new International Islamic University
 of Indonesia in Jakarta. Kidwell served as consultant to the Eco-Congregation Scotland and the
 Scottish Government Climate Change team. Guest was consulted by the Canadian National
 Headquarters of the Salvation Army for their positional statement on same-sex relationships,
 while Daughton was an ecumenical member of the Church of England Living in Love and Faith
 consultation on gender and sexuality. Davies manages the national training programme for faith
 leaders (FLTI) for the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government. Elsdon-Baker
 is on the advisory board of the “‘Science’ and ‘Religion’: Clarifying the Terms of the Debate”
 project run by the think-tank Theos and the Faraday Institute. Through such advisory roles and
 the forging of relationships with key research users the unit enriches the wider research
 environment.

 International invitations received by members of T&R demonstrate the significance of our
 contributions on a global scale. Visiting lectureships include the Sorbonne (Houghton, 2019)
 and Istanbul Sehir University (Jawad, 2018). Moss is a visiting fellow of the Institute for the
 Study of the Ancient World at New York University, while Vasalou was a fellow of the Library of
 Arabic Literature at NYU Abu Dhabi in 2017 and Cesari was the Dermot Dunphy Visiting
 Professor at Harvard Divinity School in 2018–19. Shanneik was invited in 2016 by the Centre
 for Woman and Family Research in Qom (Iran) to present a paper on Shia marriage practices in
 Europe.

 In 2015, Davis co-founded the Mental Wealth Festival with Baroness Hollins: this has become
 an annual event with a strong focus on faith and disability, run in partnership with the National
 Gallery and the British Museum. T&R also has honorary fellows engaged with national and local
 organisations: Conway-Jones was honorary secretary of the UK Council for Christians and
 Jews from 2014–17 and has advised the Church of England’s Faith and Order Commission;
 Dandelion and Grant direct the Centre for Research in Quaker Studies, which runs projects on
 behalf of Quakers in Britain.

 c. Contributions to the Sustainability of the Discipline

 T&R receives many applications for Visiting Fellowships. Fellows are allocated space in a
 designated room and play an active part in Departmental life, speaking at seminars and leading
 taught sessions. During their tenure, Fellows are required to produce an output equivalent to a
 peer-reviewed journal article. In 2012, BCPR started the William Paton Visiting Fellowships
 scheme, admitting up to 4 fellows each year for 3-month periods. A second William Paton
 Visiting Fellowship scheme has been developed in CPCS. The Amphlett Fund provides
 scholarships for students from Asia to study Theology at Birmingham. Hempel hosted a Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie Fellow from 2014–16, while a researcher from Rio de Janeiro was based in
 ITSEE under the Brazil Visiting Fellowship scheme in 2017–18.

 The Department holds two endowed lectures each year. The Edward Cadbury Lectures are a
 high-profile public event, recently held in city-centre locations including the Council House and

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cathedral. The lecturers since 2014 have been Amy-Jill Levine, William Lane Craig, Grace
 Davie, Candida Moss, Jose Casanova, and Miroslav Volf, who have also run workshops for staff
 and students. CPCS has an annual Walter Hollenweger Lecture, with speakers from across the
 world.

 In the last five years, we have hosted multiple national and international gatherings. In 2015 the
 British Association for Holocaust Studies held their annual conference here, followed by the sixth
 British Patristics Conference and the British Association for Jewish Studies in 2016. Thomas ran
 the eighth Mingana Symposium on Arab Christianity and Islam in 2017. ITSEE’s biennial
 Birmingham Colloquium on the Textual Criticism of the New Testament attracts participants from
 at least 10 countries. Vasalou hosted an international conference on Virtues of Greatness in
 2017 and, with Todd, on Sufism and Philosophy in 2019; Shanneik and Jawad organised a
 conference on Europe’s New Migrants: Marriage Practices and Policies in 2018; Jhutti-Johal
 organised a national conference on Gender Equality within Sikhism and the International Sikh
 Research Conference at Warwick in 2018; members of SKBS ran an international conference
 and networking workshops in 2019 with over 100 speakers from 23 countries. Hempel hosted
 an international conference on Ezra’s Legacy and the Dead Sea Scrolls in Birmingham in 2019
 alongside a series of ECR workshops in Birmingham, Berlin, and Helsinki. During the pandemic,
 Houghton initiated an online series of papers on textual criticism which led to the development
 of a dedicated YouTube channel.

 Kidwell is an executive board member of TRS-UK, of which Hempel is also a committee
 member. Hempel serves on the committee of the Society for the Study of the Old Testament.
 She has been on the AHRC Peer Review College since 2014 and a Strategic Reviewer since
 2016. Scharbrodt was elected to the council of the British Association for Islamic Studies. Until
 2020, Jones was General Secretary of the Muslims in Britain Research Network and Elsdon-
 Baker a member of the General Committee of the British Science Association, for which Hall is
 Section Recorder for the History of Science. Hall is also President of the International
 Commission on the History of Meteorology. Vondey is founding chair of the ecumenical studies
 group of the Society for Pentecostal Studies and on the steering committee of the European
 Pentecostal Theological Association and the European Research Network on Global
 Pentecostalism. Shanneik was a steering group member of the Irish Society for the Academic
 Study of Religions until 2015, and now advises the AHRC Re/presenting Islam on Campus. She
 is also a member of the Council for At-Risk Academics, and both she and Scharbrodt formally
 advise Syrian academics who have obtained refugee status in Turkey. Jhutti-Johal is on the
 board of the European Society for Intercultural Theology and Interreligious Studies, as well as
 being a member of the British Association of South Asian Studies and the Punjab Research
 Group. Houghton was elected as a UK representative to the Association Internationale des
 Études Patristiques in 2019.

 Members of T&R serve on steering groups for conferences across the world, including within the
 American Academy of Religion and Society of Biblical Literature (AAR/SBL). Houghton is on the
 panel for the Digital Humanities Consultation and chair of the Editio Critica Maior program unit at
 SBL; he is also a convenor of the Textual Criticism seminar at SNTS and from 2015–20 was a
 director of the International Patristics Conference. Augustine is on the steering committees for
 the Eastern Orthodox Studies Unit of AAR and the European Research Network on Global
 Pentecostalism. Adams serves on the Committees for Systematic Theology and Scriptural
 Reasoning within AAR.



                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Peer-review of grant applications is regularly undertaken at an international level, with 4
 members of T&R acting as expert reviewers for ERC Advanced Grant applications in this period.
 The list of funding agencies is extensive: 10 members of the department have served as
 reviewers for a total of 13 national research councils. Adams, for instance, is chair of the
 doctoral scholarships committee for Al-Azhar University in Cairo and evaluator for the Academy
 of Finland, while Hempel has reviewed for research councils in Germany, Switzerland, Belgium,
 France, Canada, Israel, Finland and Norway. Members of T&R regularly serve as external PhD
 examiners across the world.

 d. Editorial Appointments

 Several T&R staff hold prestigious editorial appointments. Parker is the first English scholar to
 be a member of the editorial committee of the United Bible Societies’ Greek New Testament and
 the Nestle-Aland Novum Testamentum Graece; he continues to serve as executive editor for
 John for the IGNTP and editor of the Editio Critica Maior of John. Houghton is IGNTP executive
 editor for the Pauline Epistles and was appointed by the German Bible Society as one of two
 General Editors for the Editio Critica Maior of Paul; in 2016, he was the first UK member of the
 Academic Board of the Corpus Christianorum Series Latina (Brepols). Hempel serves on the
 Advisory Board of Scripta Qumranica Electronica. Thomas was founding editor of The History of
 Christian-Muslim Relations, The Bibliography of Christian-Muslim Relations and Islam editor for
 The Encyclopedia of the Bible and its Reception.

 No fewer than 16 journals or book series are or have been edited by T&R staff since 2014, such
 as Global Pentecostal & Charismatic Studies (Davies), Perspectives on Religion and Politics
 (Cesari) Arbeiten zur neutestamentlichen Textforschung (Parker), or Dead Sea Discoveries for
 which Hempel was editor-in-chief from 2012–2018. Guest editorships include Shanneik for the
 Journal of Muslims in Europe (2017), Dandelion and Grant’s issue of Religions on
 interdisciplinary Quaker Studies, Scharbrodt for Contemporary Islam (2019) and Brown for
 International Affairs (March 2020). Both Cesari and Houghton have been invited to edit Oxford
 Handbooks, while Hempel co-edited the T&T Clark Companion to the Dead Sea Scrolls. 17
 academic journals have included at least one member of T&R staff on their board during this
 period including both Houghton and Moss to New Testament Studies. Nielsen and Shanneik
 have served on the Journal of Muslims in Europe.

 e. Awards and Recognition

 Two members of T&R have been awarded the OBE for services to Higher Education: Parker in
 2015 and Jhutti-Johal in 2019. Thomas was awarded an honorary DLitt by the University of
 Derby in 2016 and joined Parker and our emeriti professors Young and McLeod as a Fellow of
 the British Academy in 2018. Anderson was honoured with the Lifetime Achievement Award by
 the Society for Pentecostal Studies in 2019 and Cesari was presented with the Distinguished
 Scholar Award in the Religion and International Relations section of the International Studies
 Association in 2020.

 Cesari was appointed the inaugural President of the European Academy of Religion in 2018;
 Hempel was President of the British Association for Jewish Studies in 2016; Wollaston served
 as President of the British Association for Holocaust Studies in 2015. The number of keynote
 lectures, plenary addresses and endowed lectures delivered by members of T&R since 2015 is
 well above 30, including Augustine’s plenary address at the Annual Karl Barth Conference,
 Princeton Theological Seminary (2016), Cesari’s lectures to the International Association of

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sociology in Turin and the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Rome, Moss’s Newell Lectures at
 the Anderson School of Theology (2015) and her inaugural Wolfe lecture at Boston College
 (2018), and Houghton’s Graham Stanton Memorial Lecture in 2020.

 Moss’s Bible Nation was named one of the Top Ten Religion Books of 2017 by Publisher’s
 Weekly and Cesari’s What is Political Islam? won the Book Award of the Religion and
 International Studies Association in 2018. Vondey and Augustine won the Society of
 Pentecostal Studies Pneuma Book Award in 2018 and 2020 respectively.




                                                                                           Page 16
