Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Institution: The University of Leeds

    Unit of Assessment: 17 Business and Management Studies

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

    Leeds University Business School (LUBS) is an established centre of international research
    excellence, supported by an open and inclusive culture, good governance and sustained
    investment. Ranked 9th by GPA in REF2014, LUBS has built on its success through a significant
    programme of faculty growth, designed to expand our scholarly, international and inter-disciplinary
    reach, while consolidating core areas of research strength. The School has a pluralist research
    environment that enables new research to flourish within an overall ethos of advancing research
    excellence that makes a difference to economy and society. To achieve this, LUBS has created a
    collegiate and vibrant research culture that allows space for creative and innovative research,
    while providing pathways for relevance and influence through an extensive network of research
    partners and public actors (including private and public sector organisations, governmental
    bodies, the third sector and trade unions). Research underpins student education and we are
    committed to developing and nurturing future generations of post-graduate researchers (PGRs)
    and early career researchers (ECRs) through our doctoral and developmental programmes.

    Achievements during REF2021 include:

       Largest submission to-date, with 144.53FTE returned, double the 2014 submission of
        73.19FTE.
       Following the University’s open access policies (REF5a), LUBS deposited 1,537 outputs in the
        White Rose Research Online open access repository and 208 theses in its e-Theses Online
        repository (attracting 572,758 downloads from 205 countries).
       An increase of 82% in publications in FT50 journals (from 86 to 157: REF2014 to REF2021).
       Bibliometric analysis shows 1,971 Scopus-indexed publications by LUBS academics, across a
        broad inter-disciplinary spread, with a field-weighted citation index (FWCI)1 of 1.92 (80% of
        outputs are in Q1 Journal Quartile by CiteScore). More than half our outputs are the result of
        international collaboration.
       Internal research investment of GBP50.5m to ensure the vitality and sustainability of our
        research culture (averaging GBP7.1m p.a., compared to GBP4m p.a. for REF2014). This
        includes, since 2018, investment of GBP250k p.a. in a Challenge Fund designed to encourage
        collaborative and large-scale grant applications that has stimulated more UKRI applications.
       Increased level of external research income of GBP13.192m, compared to GBP5.920m in
        REF2014. Consistently ranked top 10 for research income for Business and Management by
        independent analysis by the Chartered Association of Business Schools (CABS).
       93 successful internal promotions, as a result of well-structured personal and career
        development processes, of which 36(39%) were female and 20(22%) minority ethnic staff.
       Award of 185.31FTE doctorates, compared to 89.97FTE at REF2014, supported by the ESRC
        White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership (WRDTP) and leadership of the Northern Advanced
        Research Training Initiative (NARTI).
       Introduction of a ‘Guide on Research Expectations’ that provides clarity for academic staff on
        performance against output, impact, funding, PGR supervision and wider collegiate standards.




1
 FWCI ratio of the total number of citations per output to the expected number of citations for
similar outputs in the subject field (1=expected average performance).

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Structure and Governance

 LUBS is a unitary faculty organised into six academic divisions: Accounting and Finance (A&F);
 Economics; International Business (IB); Management; Marketing; and Work and Employment
 Relations (WERD). Responsibility for the strategic direction and sustainability of research rests
 with the Faculty Research and Innovation Committee (FRIC), chaired by the Pro-Dean for
 Research and Innovation (R+I), supported by the Faculty R+I Office (FRIO) which has grown from
 4.8FTE in REF2014 to 11.2FTE in REF2021 (Figure 1). The Pro-Dean reports to the Dean and
 the Deputy Vice Chancellor for R+I (REF5a). Strategic plans and budgets are approved annually
 via the University’s Integrated Planning Exercise. Rolling five-year objectives for research quality,
 funding and impact are agreed based on a strategic, iterative dialogue with the Divisions, the
 School and the University. Research integrity, ethics and openness are promoted and supported
 by the Business, Environment and Social Science Research Ethics Committee (REF5a), as well
 as FRIC (section 3). Cutting across the six divisions are research centres, each led by a senior
 professor that champions their research objectives and provides support and development for
 ECRs and PGRs. Research centres deliver research excellence pertinent to their disciplinary
 domains and advance collaborative agendas that address the big societal, economic and
 managerial problems of the day. They act as conduits of collaboration, bringing together a critical
 mass of research expertise that connects knowledge with user communities, promotes impact and
 provides a vital, stimulating and supportive environment for members. Research centres are
 committed to inter-disciplinary and internationally-focused research, with a distinctive emphasis on
 research with impact. They are loosely grouped across four, overarching thematic interests,
 described below (pages 6-10).




                            Figure 1: LUBS Research Organisation Chart



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Delivering Strategic Objectives for 2014-2020

    LUBS’ research mission is nested within the University of Leeds strategy (REF5a): ‘to produce
    and disseminate world-class research, to increase knowledge, skills, understanding and impact’.
    Our REF2014 submission set six strategic objectives. Achievements and progress against
    objectives are:

    Objective 1: To invest further in research centres as sources of expertise, energy and
    development

    Research centres act as the ‘research home’ for academics and the key means by which staff
    engage within the discipline, with other faculties and externally with other universities and
    research users/beneficiaries. They act as ‘engines’ of research and a means to brand our
    research and build and sustain reputation. There has been a long-term strategic plan to grow our
    recognised centres, from 11 in REF2014 to 15 for REF2021.

       Formation of five new research centres, with one disbanded. Fintech is a new University
        initiative, led by Clacher in collaboration with Computer Science and Engineering. AIMTech,
        led by Allen, was established to utilise novel use of activity theory to evaluate the inter-
        relationship between new technologies, information systems, and organisational change in
        practical settings. CEES and WBRC were established following strategic investment in new
        Chair positions (Holt and Unsworth, respectively). Digit is supported by an ESRC centres
        award (GBP6.5m, 2020-2025), jointly directed by Leeds (Stuart) and Sussex, with LUBS
        match-funding of two PGR scholarships and a 5 year post-doctoral fellowship (PDF).
       Strengthening of research expectations for centres and academics, supported by an increased
        workload allocation for research-active staff (section 2). Research centres are expected to
        regularly review their thematic priorities and relevance, with strategic plans for long-term
        development, income, activity and PGR/ECR recruitment and progression reviewed annually
        through FRIC.
       Ensuring vitality through sustained investment in research infrastructure, capacity and
        capability, enhanced research support by FRIO in a wide range of areas including grants,
        training and development, communication, open access, and impact and engagement, well-
        structured personal and career development processes, active seminar programmes and
        annual doctoral conferences (sections 2 and 3).
       Sustaining research centres through the University Academic Fellow (UAF)2 scheme and a
        LUBS-funded two year PDF scheme that aims to retain our very best PGRs and attract
        exceptional external scholars. Dedicated mentors work with fellows on research activities, and
        guide their career trajectories. UAFs/PDFs contribute to high-quality outputs and the extension
        of networks as they become independent researchers.

    Objective 2: To strengthen the mechanisms through which we engage with users and
    achieve impact

    Impact and engagement have been central to the sustainability of our research strategy. Activities
    are designed to influence policy and practice at the highest level of government and corporate
    decision-making, regionally, nationally and globally (section 4). Mechanisms introduced to
    strengthen impact and engagement include:

       Introduction of a work-loaded Research Impact Champion at School level, who chairs a new
        Impact and Engagement Panel (FIEP) that leads our impact and engagement agenda (Figure



2
 GBP100m investment (from 2014) to recruit internationally competitive future academic leaders,
UAFs (REF5a).

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     1), supported by an enhanced Impact and Engagement Team of FRIO with four dedicated
     professional staff.
    Launch of an annual competitive GBP100k Impact Leadership Fund that aims to enhance the
     impact of research activities and sits within a well-resourced impact budget (section 3).
    The mainstreaming of impact across all research activity, beyond REF impact case studies.
     Impact is a core element in the ‘Guide on Research Expectations’. This has been supported
     by incorporating impact into the responsibilities of Divisional Directors of Research (DDoRs),
     an extensive array of developmental workshops, a Research with Impact (RwI) seminar
     series, and an innovative communication strategy (sections 2 and 3).
    Sustained engagement with external beneficiaries through regular Ideas in Practice (IiP)
     events that facilitate dialogue between LUBS academics and external stakeholders. Between
     June 2015 and March 2020, 45 IiP events were held in Leeds and London.
    An annual, one-day Festival of Ideas (FoI) showcases LUBS research to the wider University
     and external stakeholders, attracting on average 100+ delegates.
    Increased emphasis on disseminating research through public platforms, such as the
     Conversation (44 articles, 2015-2020), practitioner-related journals such as Harvard Business
     Review, Sloan Management Review, LSE Business Review, and other social media platforms
     and blogging.

 REF2021 Impact Case Study Submission

 Support for impact and a rigorous selection system for impact case studies was initiated
 immediately following REF2014. Potential case studies were identified early in the REF cycle, as
 major funded projects and research centre initiatives came to fruition. Authors received
 professional and financial support to engage beneficiaries, extend reach and translate research
 into practice. Periodic collaborative workshops helped develop cases, sharpen the narrative and
 ultimately aid selection. A workload allowance of 100 hours p.a. was allocated to authors and their
 work was profiled across LUBS through various communication channels to showcase success.
 Peer review and support was provided through FIEP. Our International Research Advisory Board
 offered external practitioner input. Cases were selected on the basis of merit against REF criteria:

 UOA17-1: (Allen): Collaborative research with UK police forces and government bodies informed
 the Digital Policing Portfolio to help make UK policing more effective.

 UOA17-2: (Brown): Research influenced a major revision of HM Treasury’s (HMT) ‘Green Book’
 guidance on public infrastructure valuation and helped other national and regional agencies
 evaluate their growth initiatives.

 UOA17-3: (Clacher): Developed a framework instrumental in transforming how UK pension fund
 trustees make decisions on pension fund investments, saving GBP3bn p.a. across the industry.

 UOA17-4: (Ingold): Research on employer engagement with employability programmes enabled
 providers to improve their services to the unemployed and informed industry and policy debate.

 UOA17-5: (Kaltenbrunner): Policy-focused research on currency internationalisation shaped the
 strategy of the Brazilian Central Bank and facilitated a regionalised trade-led currency
 internationalisation process.

 UOA17-6: (Pandza): Collaborative research with Ericsson AB, funded by the EU, shaped the
 development of organisational capabilities for innovation and supported the creation and growth of
 new businesses within the company.




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UOA17-7: (Robinson): Research on employee share ownership led a major scheme provider to
 improve their product offer and communications with scheme members, while research on
 employee-owned businesses supported growth of the sector and influenced policy.

 UOA17-8: (Vallascas): Developed an evaluative tool on banking failures, in collaboration with the
 EU Joint Research Centre, which informed European Commission banking regulation and
 legislative reform that helps mitigate future financial crises.

 UOA17-9: (Wilson): Research on the equity gap enabled HM Treasury to obtain EU State aid
 clearance and shaped policy and investment in UK regions.

 Objective 3: To develop strategic partnerships with an enlarged number of corporates

 Collaborative research with corporates intensified during the REF period, including externally
 funded co-produced research (section 3). The initial objective of building a corporate engagement
 strategy through the HEIF-funded Professional Services hub evolved into a new corporate
 relations function led by a dedicated Director of Corporate Engagement and Corporate Relations
 Team. Our overarching aim, aided by collaboration with the Nexus innovation hub (REF5a), is to
 create an integrated approach to external engagement focusing on productive partnerships with
 corporate leaders/managers, as well as broad research user groups including policy makers,
 practitioners and the public at local, regional, national and international levels. Strengthening
 executive education, underpinned by LUBS research, has been a priority. It has been advanced
 through leadership of the Goldman Sachs 10,000 Small Businesses and 10,000 Women
 programmes that involve working with SMEs worldwide. Blended learning solutions have been
 adopted through highly customised programmes to CPD courses and small business support,
 including the University’s first level-7 apprenticeship, MSc in Senior Leadership.

 Corporate engagement is seen as mutually-beneficial: LUBS research inspires corporate
 innovation, while challenges facing our partners guide new and novel research agendas. Strategic
 partnerships evolve out of our commitment to research with impact. The IiP events are supported
 by Squire Patton Boggs (SPB) solicitors, who connect LUBS to the business community and
 extend our networks. For example, joint organisation of a Northern Powerhouse Workshop on
 Industrial Strategy led to a co-authored report with SPB that has been widely disseminated to
 business and policy audiences, and helped strengthen links with leading firms such as PwC and
 Clipper Logistics (including KTP investment).

 Research centres are also encouraged to develop specific programmes of collaborative research
 with industry. For example, CDR, CIBUL and GLOSMARC have worked with Marks & Spencer
 (M&S) on sustainability and international franchising. M&S also collaborated on an ESRC-funded
 (GBP519k) project on diversity and inclusion. COSCR leads the Supply Chain Council (SCC), with
 members including Yorkshire Water, British Steel, Turner & Townsend and regional/national
 industry representatives. The SCC holds an annual Supply Chain Summit and acts as a forum for
 sharing the latest thinking in supply chain management. Fintech has worked on a range of
 projects partnered with industry, including: the application of smart ledgers/blockchain
 technologies in pensions (Zyen and Cardano Foundation); the development of an investment
 modeller (Redmayne Bentley); and the application of artificial intelligence in credit scoring (Hitachi
 Capital). International partnerships include a long-term collaboration with Ericsson AB, as part of
 the Complex and Open Innovation for Networked Society industrial doctorate network, led by
 Pandza.

 Objective 4: To invest in international research collaborations at institutional and individual
 levels

 The international dimension of LUBS research is a distinctive strength. LUBS has over 200
 partner institutions across the world and is involved in three consortiums that facilitate the
 development, implementation and impact of our research. Investment in international
 development has included structural and seedcorn support. Structurally, a new Pro-Dean for
                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International was established in 2017, supported by Divisional Directors of Internationalisation and
 an International Manager. A new GBP200k International Fund seeds collaborations, exchanges
 and partnerships, through an annual process of competitive applications. LUBS remains a
 committed member of the Worldwide Universities Network (WUN), is a founding member of the
 Alliance of Chinese and European Business Schools, a consortium with a mission to facilitate joint
 research, researcher mobility and knowledge exchanges, and joined the Alliance of Belt and Road
 Business Schools (ABRBS), founded in 2017, which serves as an open international platform for
 cultural exchange, technology transfer, research, and high-level training. Section 4 provides
 examples of individual collaborations.

 Objective 5: To extend our doctoral provision

 LUBS’ doctoral provision is detailed in section 2. It has been enhanced through the successful re-
 accreditation of the White Rose Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership (WRDTP), while our
 PGR cohort, number of successful completions and investment in scholarships have increased
 and our PGR support has been enhanced since REF2014.

 Objective 6: To invest in shaping and anticipating the trajectory of social-science research
 through large cross-disciplinary collaborations

 LUBS has continued to shape and anticipate the trajectory of business, management and social-
 science research through large cross-disciplinary collaborations involving natural sciences and
 technology. Our academics have established collaborations with all other faculties, through
 externally funded projects, leadership roles in University themes and platforms (REF5a), and
 cross-disciplinary networking. Examples include: leadership of FESSUD (Financialisation and
 Sustainable Development) (EU-FP7 EUR9.98m) which brought together an international, inter-
 disciplinary network from 14 countries to understand how finance can better serve economic,
 social and environmental sustainability following the 2008 economic crisis; collaboration with
 Healthcare, e.g. ‘Relationship between Care Home Staffing and Quality of Care’ (National Institute
 for Health Research GBP1m) (Charlwood); and Earth and Environment, Geography, Medicine,
 and Transport Studies, e.g. Consumer Data Research Centre (CDRC) (ESRC GBP5.67m and
 transition funding GBP1.26m) (Leonidou C., Liu). Further examples are shown in section 3.

 LUBS academic leadership roles in university research themes/platforms connect LUBS to the
 University’s centres of excellence. Examples include two Co-Directors of the Cities Theme,
 Director and Deputy Director of the Leeds Institute for Social Sciences (LSSI), Deputy Director of
 the Priestley International Centre for Climate, founding Coordinators of the Migrant Research
 Network and theme leader in the N8 Police Research Project. Three LUBS research centres were
 established in collaboration with University-wide constituencies: STC (Engineering; Physical
 Sciences), CDR (various) and Fintech (Computer Science; Engineering).

 Research Themes: Facilitating Collaboration and Inter-disciplinary Research

 Our research strategy builds on the twin tenets of disciplinary excellence and cross-cutting,
 challenge-led thematic research that draws together researchers from across LUBS. Research
 centres are located around four themes that have evolved from those listed at REF2014, as a
 result of cross-centre collaboration, new initiatives and the consolidation of existing strengths.

 Theme 1: Governance, financial systems and economic well-being

 This theme builds on longstanding strengths in finance, governance, economic modelling and
 decision-making, and has contributed to five REF impact case studies. Five research centres -
 Credit Management Research Centre (CMRC), International Banking Institute (IBI), Centre for
 Financial Technology and Innovation (FinTech), Applied Institute for Research In Economics
 (AIRE), and Centre for Decision Research (CDR) - provide an intellectual home and focus for
 inter-disciplinary research, fostering collaboration with university platforms, corporate partners and


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    UK governmental bodies (e.g. HMT, BEIS, HMRC, Department for Environment, Food & Rural
    Affairs (DEFRA), Department for Work & Pensions, and Meteorological Office).

    Governance and financial systems: Credit and debt markets are vital for economic development.
    Research has focused on credit, debt, risk and financial stability (Wilson, Mohamed) and the
    decision-making processes in both commercial and consumer settings, including credit scoring,
    commercial credit, risk and propensity modelling. FinTech (Clacher) has developed innovative
    research on artificial intelligence in financial services, supported by investment in a UAF. Banking
    research addresses issues of governance, capital adequacy, systemic risk and bank failure with
    contributions to policy making in the UK and European institutions (Keasey, Vallascas). Capacity
    building in finance is harnessed via a dedicated doctoral school (CASIF). New professorial
    appointments (Chen, Dinger, Mohamed) have increased capacity on corporate finance and
    banking as well as extending our international connections.

    Financial and other personal decision-making: Decision-making research has a strong inter-
    disciplinary focus. In contrast to most behavioural decision research based on psychological
    laboratory settings, research at CDR (Bruine de Bruin and Summers), focuses on the
    examination of real-world decision outcomes and utilises experimental methodology and data
    analytics to inform individuals, groups and organisations on how to improve decision-making on
    finances, health, transport and infrastructure, and climate change. Collaboration between CMRC
    and FinTech has also assessed artificial intelligence in financial decision-making (Clacher,
    Wilson, Omidivar).

    Economy, value and productivity: Understanding crisis is a concern of researchers in AIRE.
    Building on the FESSUD project, research has examined the benefits for society of regional
    investment, most recently with reference to post-COVID-19 recovery (Brown, Dymski, Spencer).
    Inter-disciplinary collaboration and industrial co-production is advanced via networks that include
    Leeds City Council, the West Yorkshire Combined Authority, UK Core Cities Confederation and
    government departments. Internationally, Seth and Yalonetzky have actively engaged with the
    UN and other international financial organisations to create more comprehensive indices of
    poverty and deprivation. Research (funded through the ESRC ‘Rebuilding Macroeconomics’
    initiative and ‘Productivity Insights Network’) on the national productivity paradox (Dymski) has,
    through advisory work with the Debt and Development division of the UN Conference on Trade
    and Development (UNCTAD), contributed to the establishment of a new multi-lateral sovereign
    debt negotiation agency.

    Theme 2: International business, marketing management and business networks

    This theme is recognised as world-leading, being ranked 7th out of 847 worldwide academic
    institutions and 3rd out of 332 European institutions by adjusted output published between 2001-
    20153. Research has explored how competitive advantage is built and sustained through the
    dynamics of internationalisation, entrepreneurship, strategic marketing, and collaborative
    networks. It also investigates the influence of foreign direct investment, international strategic
    alliances, and corporate decision-making on home and host countries, industry competition and
    firm performance. International marketing research has also examined the intersection of strategic
    marketing, consumer behaviour and branding by focusing on the issues of sustainable
    consumption, corporate social responsibility and green marketing strategies. Incorporating four
    research centres - Centre for International Business at the University of Leeds (CIBUL), Global
    and Strategic Marketing Research Centre (GLOSMARC), Centre for Operations and Supply Chain


3
  AÏssaoui, Geringer, Livanis (2020), “International collaboration and European contributions to
international business research”, Management International Review, 60, 827-868.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11575-020-00435-6.



                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Research (COSCR), and Centre for Enterprise and Entrepreneurship Studies (CEES) - critical
    mass has been enhanced by key professorial appointments (Devinney, Glaister, Holt, Hult,
    Love, Morgan, Menguc, Pitelis, Rose, Wei) that consolidate emergent research agendas on
    global value chains, their sustainability and impact on countries, industries and entrepreneurship.

    International strategy and business: Founded in 1995 by Buckley, CIBUL is the most established
    International Business research centre in the UK. Leeds research has pioneered the concept of
    the Global Factory (Buckley); a concept that underpins CIBUL research on the ownership and
    locational strategies of multinational enterprises (MNEs) and has informed international policy
    makers (e.g. UNCTAD, ASEAN). International standing is evidenced by six Fellowships of the
    Academy of International Business, the largest concentration of such scholars outside the USA,
    and six medals of achievement from the pre-eminent journal in the field, Journal of International
    Business Studies (JIBS) (FT50) (section 4).

    Marketing management and consumers: Katsikeas, Morgan, Leonidou L., and Menguc were
    placed among the top 140 (2%) marketing scientists worldwide based on career-long citation
    impact4. Research at GLOSMARC is at the forefront of the field, evidenced by members’
    representation as senior editors of JIBS and 4 marketing journals, editorial boards of leading
    journals in business and management (section 4), and an invitation to host the 53rd AMA Sheth
    Foundation Doctoral Consortium, only the second time that this prestigious event has been held
    outside North America since its establishment in 1966.

    Sustainable and ethical consumptions and supply chains: Through leadership in CDRC,
    Leonidou C. and Liu drive the collection and utilisation of data on ethical/sustainable
    consumption. COSCR studies end-to-end supply chain integration among business networks in
    local and international supply chains and issues related to resilience, sustainability and, more
    recently, viability of global supply chains. A British Academy/DFID award (Voss, Davis)
    addressed the topic of tackling modern slavery in global supply chains with advice given to a
    leading, British multinational on how to manage its suppliers in India and China.

    International entrepreneurship and developing countries: This distinctive body of research focuses
    on people, places and institutions that face significant barriers to engaging in business. It
    addresses social and environmental barriers to enterprise and entrepreneurship in the developing
    world or areas of deprivation in the UK (Holt, Rose, Williams). Holt led a commissioned report
    for the United Nations Department for Economic and Social Development on Exploring Youth
    Entrepreneurship.

    Theme 3: Technology, innovation and management practices

    This theme investigates organisational challenges in strategic planning and the management of
    innovation. Research focuses on the implementation and deployment of technology investments
    and the ways in which systems thinking and design can result in better outcomes for the
    organisation of work and the safety and security of members of the public. The research
    integrates the people element, organisational capabilities and managerial processes into domains
    typically dominated by science, medicine and engineering, in order to advise organisations and
    policy makers on strategy, processes and implementation. A distinctive strength of the three
    research centres located within this theme (Adaptation, Information Management and Technology
    (AIMTech); Centre for Technology, Innovation and Engagement (C-Tie); and Socio-technical
    Centre (STC)) is their long-standing engagement with corporate practice, including collaborations
    with Ericsson AB, Rolls-Royce, UK police forces, Cabinet Office and Home Office.




4
  Ioannidis, Boyack, Baas (2020), “Updated science-wide author databases of standardized citation
indicators”, PLoS Biology, 18(10), e3000918. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3000918.

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Managing disruptive and open innovation: For more than a decade C-Tie (Pandza) has
 researched how high-tech companies manage innovation and strategize to remain competitive.
 This includes research that significantly influenced Ericsson’s innovation strategy through a
 developmental ECR research programme that was the only industrial doctoral programme funded
 by the EU at the time. Jaspersen’s inter-disciplinary research funded by an ESRC Impact
 Acceleration Account award (ESRC/IAA) looks at medical device technology and collaboration on
 community-based rehabilitation in rural India.

 Technology and public services: An active body of research has evaluated the use of technical
 systems in public services. AIMTech (Allen) applies the co-production model to influence the
 strategic deployment of mobile technology in policing and emergency services, notably the UK
 Fire & Rescue Services. Adopting a systems approach to understanding complex organisations,
 STC research has examined the impact of cultural aspects in the management of emergencies in
 public transport (Robinson, Cichomska, Davis – Horizon 2020, EUR207k), and applied
 computer modelling, simulation and socio-technical systems analysis to improve NHS dementia
 care (Hughes, Davis). The team has a long-standing collaboration with Rolls-Royce where
 people and design issues are examined in a highly technical environment.

 Theme 4: People, work and workplace

 This theme brings together expertise from employment relations, human resource management
 (HRM), economics, geography and organisational psychology to offer a distinctive perspective on
 the changing world of work. The theme builds on internationally recognised research strengths, to
 examine highly topical workplace issues, such as digitalisation and the future of work, precarity,
 big data and HR analytics, personal performance and the well-being of employees.

 Work, employment relations and HRM: Research is led by the Centre for Employment Relations,
 Innovation and Change (CERIC), one of the UK’s largest academic groups specialising in
 employment relations. Pre-eminent standing is evidenced by its (four-year) editorship of the
 journal Work, Employment and Society (CABS4) (Stuart, Grugulis, Tomlinson, Forde, Hardy,
 Charlwood) and (three-year) Stewardship and presidency of the British Universities Industrial
 Relations Association (Stuart, Forde, Greenwood, Holgate). The group has an international
 reputation for the institutional regulation of work, skills and training, equality and diversity, HRM
 and organisational restructuring, union strategy and representation at work. Its thematic priorities
 are reviewed annually and currently focus on social inequalities, voice and representation, and
 digital futures at work. CERIC has pioneered three new avenues of research during REF2021,
 supported by investment in two UAFs. HR analytics (Charlwood, Valizade) includes
 commissioned research for the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development that has
 shaped professional standards. Second, researchers have charted the contemporary rise of
 precarious employment and the experiences of different groups of insecure workers, including an
 edited special issue of Work, Employment and Society (Alberti, Bessa, Hardy, Trappmann,
 Umney), coordination of a comparative study of young, precarious workers in Germany and
 Poland, funded by the German Research Council (EUR800,000 - Trappmann), and numerous
 projects on migrant labour, including participation in an ESRC (GBP603k) project on migrants in
 northern England post-Brexit (Ciupijus) and work with Leeds City Council on the examination of
 migrants’ experience of work and integration within local communities (Alberti). Third, is research
 at the forefront of contemporary debate on digital platform work, specifically in terms of social
 protections, which included two commissioned reports for the European Parliament (EUR127k)
 and design of a novel, global index of platform worker protest, supported by the International
 Labour Office (Bessa, Umney, Trappmann, Stuart). Further recognition includes the ESRC
 award to establish the new Digital Futures at Work (Digit) research centre (Stuart).

 Workplace behaviour and well-being: Expertise has been strengthened through three professorial
 appointments (Song, Unsworth, Wu) who lead inter-disciplinary research from an organisational
 psychology perspective via the Work Behaviour Research Centre (WBRC). Research focuses on
 providing data-driven insights at the intersection of organisational success and social impact,
 notably in terms of how well-being is linked to workplace outcomes such as productivity and
                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    resilience (Song, Wu), and how ‘job crafting’ by employees affects outcomes for individuals and
    employers (Unsworth).

    Research Ethics

    All our research must comply with the University’s Research Ethics Policy (REF5a). Staff and
    students have access to comprehensive training programmes to support their research and
    ensure principles of ethical research conduct are understood and met. LUBS has five members of
    staff who act as ‘School Ethics Leads’ and take overall responsibility for the ethical review
    process, as well as the current Chair of the Business, Environment and Social Sciences Research
    Ethics Committee. Their expertise encompasses diverse methodologies and academic fields, e.g.
    expertise in researching with vulnerable groups, minors, health settings, visual methods, and
    disability studies. They offer support and advice ahead of applications, helping to deliver an
    efficient and effective review process. The cross-Faculty Committee also routinely conducts audits
    of completed/ongoing projects to ensure that governance and funder requirements are met, to
    understand where additional support or training is needed, and to improve the ethical review
    system and process. Approximately 120 applications are received from LUBS p.a.

    Open Access (OA)

    Following the University’s OA policies for both outputs and data (REF5a), LUBS encourages
    Green OA and provides funding for Gold OA charges for articles accepted for publication in 4*
    CABS-rated journals to ensure that our best outputs are made publicly available at the point of
    publication. LUBS’ OA contact (a member of FRIO) is the first point of call for researchers who
    have OA queries, and provides assistance with using Symplectic, the University Publications
    Database and depositing accepted manuscripts to the institutional repository. LUBS and the
    Library regularly conduct monitoring to ensure compliance. Out of 220 REF selected outputs in
    scope, only two (<1%) are not compliant and do not have an exception. LUBS researchers have
    deposited six datasets in the Research Data Leeds Repository, one in Open Science Framework
    platform and one in Figshare.

    Strategic Development 2021-2026

    A well-established and embedded research culture means that LUBS’ future research strategy
    can build from a basis of strength. With the appointment of a new Executive Dean (Bennell) in
    January 2020, LUBS has embarked on a ‘strategic refresh’ with the aim to launch a new strategic
    vision for implementation from September 2021. The ‘refresh’ programme will be complemented
    by a capital investment of GBP75.7m in new buildings designed to provide an environment
    conducive to high-quality teaching, research and external engagement (section 3). Central to our
    evolving environment will be ongoing commitment to an inclusive research culture, guided by a
    clear action plan following our Athena Swan (AS) Bronze Accreditation in 2020 (section 2).

    As part of the ‘refresh’ programme we anticipate consolidating areas of research strength, with
    targeted investment in building clusters of international research leadership. A key aim will be to
    develop a series of mission focused research priorities designed to address the UN Sustainable
    Development Goals (SDGs). This will be achieved through giving priority to the following research
    objectives:

       Research centres will progressively reorganise their efforts across inter-disciplinary,
        collaborative and socially relevant themes focused on key SDG priorities. Recent analysis of
        FT50 journals by SDG priorities ranked LUBS 2 nd amongst Triple Crown accredited business
        schools5. LUBS is uniquely placed to contribute to addressing profound societal challenges,
        such as climate action; reducing inequalities; decent work and economic growth; industry,


5
    Weighing up business schools’ work on sustainability | Financial Times (ft.com)

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     innovation and infrastructure; and sustainable cities and communities. We will build on the
     recently launched LUBS-led, cross-faculty Systems Level Sustainability Research Group
     (LESS) to strengthen links with the faculties of Earth and Environment and Engineering, and
     the University of Southern California (Adler) on the transition to a sustainable and just society,
     including positive change in food waste behaviour (Kaptan, UKRI/ESRC, 2020-2022), the role
     of SMEs in net zero business models (Unsworth) and rapidly developing areas such as
     sustainable supply chains, new business models (e.g. Konwar’s Michael Beverley Innovation
     Fellowship from 2021), eco-innovation (Kesidou) and green finance. Strategic investment will
     strengthen our expertise on reducing inequalities and decent work and economic growth,
     deepening understanding of gender inequalities (Tomlinson), job quality (Spencer) and
     modern slavery (Davis), while our international leadership of Digit (Stuart) will offer novel
     insight into the impacts of digital transformation on working life. We will actively grow expertise
     in improving social equality, financial inclusion and economic productivity through leadership
     of Fintech (Clacher) which will facilitate collaboration between leading centres of research
     excellence and corporate actors. Supporting post-COVID-19 economic and societal recovery
     will underpin investment that helps build new models of industry, innovation and infrastructure
     and addresses the challenge of sustainable cities and communities, putting Leeds centre
     stage in the rebuilding of local, regional and national institutions (Brown) and post-Brexit
     migration (Alberti).
    Increase and diversify research income – LUBS will continue its annual Challenge Fund
     investment. A target will be set for 80% of academics to have participated in at least one
     funding application by 2025. Increased focus on SDG-related research will expand
     opportunities across UKRI investments and wider international funding sources. A priority will
     be leading and participating in large, inter-disciplinary applications, particularly for new
     research centre calls. Illustrative future applications will focus on smarter manufacturing
     (collaborating with Engineering, and partners at Imperial and Bath) and green finance (with
     Oxford). Internal processes will be enhanced and larger applications will receive dedicated
     advice from an external grant training consultancy. LUBS aims to double its level of research
     income by 2027.
    Further enhance external engagement and impact – This will be achieved by a new five-year
     impact plan led by the FIEP, designed to embed the impact and engagement agenda across
     research activity, leverage relations with business through Nexus and expand our network of
     international partnerships. There will be a focus on early identification of potential impact
     cases, supported by the FRIO, dedicated workload and periods of study leave for authors, and
     an impact incentive scheme.
    Sustaining research excellence post-COVID-19 – LUBS supported research activity through
     the pandemic, recognising work-life constraints. Longer-term research expectations aim to
     significantly increase the number of publications at 4* level with a target for all staff to produce
     four papers at 3 level and above every five years. This will be supported through an enhanced
     mentoring scheme organised across research centres and clusters, an updated incentives for
     publication scheme, and regular evaluation of equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) outcomes
     underpinned by targeted supports (such as reduced teaching allocation for those returning
     from maternity leave) and sustained investment in ECRs/PGRs.

 2. People

 Staff strategy

 LUBS has grown significantly over the last ten years and has developed a staff strategy designed
 to deepen capacity and expand areas of strength. Balancing teaching and research needs, we
 have focused on the strategic recruitment and retention of high-calibre staff across all levels and
 with diverse backgrounds. The environment supports future leaders to reach their goals and fulfil
 their potential. We equip staff with the time and resources to achieve world-leading and
 internationally excellent outputs. Since REF2014, LUBS has recruited: 20 Professors, 22
 Associate Professors, 56 Lecturers (Teaching and Research), and 38 Lecturer (Teaching and

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Scholarship)/Teaching Fellows. There is strong commitment to the recruitment and development
 of early career talent, evidenced by the appointment of seven UAFs (Aliyev, Aulakh, Bessa,
 Jaspersen, Omidvar, Taylor, Zorina) and 45 post-doctoral researchers. The diversity of our
 faculty has improved: 39% of staff are female and 48% of staff are non-UK nationals (representing
 49 countries). Our commitment to EDI is at the core of our research strategy and we continue to
 build on our Athena Swan (AS) Accreditation.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 LUBS aims to ensure that everyone feels that they can be their true-selves at work and that
 opportunities are open to them in a supportive and vibrant environment. We are committed to
 promoting EDI, fully recognising that there is not ‘a level playing field’ and that strategies are
 required to achieve this. We are conscious of inequalities in opportunity across the life course and
 aim to support those from minority and less advantaged groups to achieve their potential through
 our equality frameworks and a visible commitment to an inclusive and open culture. Through our
 AS process there has been a concerted effort to address the gender and ethnic diversity of staff,
 through external recruitment, internal promotions and appointments to senior leadership positions.
 Our strategy is underpinned by the University Equality and Inclusion Frameworks, mandatory staff
 training on EDI and professional behaviour, and a faculty Equality & Inclusion (E&I) Committee
 responsible for strategic leadership. LUBS is also proactive around awareness of and policy to
 support those with protected characteristics, evidenced through our AS action plan and activities
 led by the E&I Committee. University-wide support mechanisms through E&I Governance include
 policies covering Dignity and Mutual Respect, Supporting Disabled Staff, Trans Equality, Flexible
 Working, and supporting staff with caring responsibilities, ill-health or other equality-related
 circumstances (REF5a). We have invested in staff networks (gender, LGBTQ+) and undertake
 research culture surveys. Feedback has led to adjustments for staff with disabilities and long-term
 illness to assist working at LUBS.

 Staff Well-being

 LUBS adopts policies, organisational structures and processes to support staff well-being that
 relate to a wide-range of personal circumstances. It facilitates flexible and remote working and
 supports staff with caring responsibilities, ill-health or other personal problems. Through University
 services, a wide range of resources are available to support staff well-being, e.g. occupational
 health services, staff counselling, mental health, menopause, pre-retirement, and quit smoking
 sessions for staff and for students.

 The Guide on Research Expectations also acknowledges individual staff circumstances. Where
 staff have taken leave of absence (e.g. maternity/paternity leave, absence due to ill health, or
 caring responsibilities), research expectations are amended and evaluated accordingly. Support is
 provided during absence, with training and guidance upon return to facilitate a smooth re-
 integration back into work. A policy to support staff/PGRs with caring responsibilities provides up
 to GBP500 p.a. to enable participation in conferences, training courses and professional activities.

 Career progression and development

 A sustainable and vibrant research culture requires continuously developing research capacity
 and capability. This is delivered through external strategic appointments and internal schemes,
 including the Mentorship Scheme, Annual Academic Review (AAR) and Research Training and
 Professional Development programmes offered by the faculty, divisions and research centres.

 Joining LUBS

 Our external strategic recruitment takes a dual approach, balancing professorial appointments
 that aim to strengthen intellectual research leadership and expand research in new directions, and
 those of high-potential ECRs through both UAF and PDF schemes. All job adverts for recruitment
 include a statement highlighting that flexible working and job share arrangements are considered.

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Gender-balanced shortlisting is recommended and line managers adopt good practice.
 Unconscious bias training has been in place since 2017 and mandated for panel chairs from June
 2019.

 New staff participate in a University Induction day and are inducted at local level by their Heads of
 Division. New starters are supported at divisional level and through the Organisational
 Development and Professional Learning (ODPL) programmes. Academic staff are typically
 appointed on a two-year probationary period, with objectives and targets agreed and monitored
 through regular meetings with probation advisors and mentors. Probationers at Grades 7/8 also
 receive a 10% workload allowance to assist initial teaching preparation and focus research output.

 At professorial level 35% of new appointments were women (Bennell, Dinger, Holt, Rose, Song,
 Unsworth, Wei). Since 2014, LUBS has appointed two female deputy Deans (Bennell, Cassell)
 with Bennell becoming Executive Dean in 2020. Women make up 47% of the Faculty Executive
 Group.

 Early Career Researchers

 Supporting the personal development and career progression of ECRs is an integral part of our
 staff strategy and is central to the mission of research centres and divisions. Senior academics
 provide support, resources, access to opportunities (e.g. participation in grants, external
 networking) and nurture ECR career development and progression. The PDF scheme enables top
 performing PGRs to convert to a postdoctoral research role for two years, bridging the gap
 between doctoral studies and full-time academic roles (section 1).

 ECRs are provided with additional support to develop their potential through the mentorship and
 training schemes, co-authorship and workload allowance for participating in professional
 development activities such as the Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice. They are
 encouraged to apply for internal funding schemes, to build up their experience of grant
 applications and to develop their research portfolio through internal and external research
 networks. ECRs participate in PGR supervisory teams with guidance and leadership from senior
 academics to develop supervision skills, enabling them to become future research leaders. ECRs
 also benefit from the University’s “Next Generation Researcher” programme (REF5a).

 Academic Review

 All academic staff have an Annual Academic Review (AAR) where they discuss and agree an
 individual plan with their reviewers (senior academic leaders). As part of the discussions they are
 encouraged to participate in the University’s internal development programmes (REF5a), and
 external programmes, e.g. the CABS Development Programme for Directors of Research,
 LinkedIn Learning, and Women’s Development Programmes including Springboard, Aurora and
 Women Rising.

 The University has implemented the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers, with further support and guidance provided within the Faculty. Academic line
 managers adhere to Concordat principles ensuring a positive work culture whereby researchers
 are treated with integrity and given full opportunity for career development, training and
 progression.

 Promotion

 Applications for promotion are permitted throughout the year, allowing for a streamlined process
 that promptly recognises achievements. Specific LUBS benchmarks complement University
 criteria for promotion, ensuring transparency in expected levels of achievement, including desired
 inputs and outputs. Staff are offered advice and guidance on promotion through workshops led by
 the Deputy Dean and School HR and the mentoring process. LUBS has made significant effort to
 ensure equality and inclusivity in internal promotion. The HR team ensures processes are

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 followed to treat applicants fairly at every stage of the process and advises on the composition of
 promotion panels. Applicants for promotion can access a range of support and mentoring
 opportunities, and are provided with extensive developmental feedback.

 The Mentorship Scheme ensures that mentors are available for all staff as required,
 complementing the AAR. Mentoring provides one-to-one support on learning, development,
 advice on progressing research agendas, career pathways and networking. LUBS support for
 career progression and effective mentoring is evidenced by the number of successful internal
 promotions since 2014, including 11 promotions to Professor (Accounting & Finance (Scott,
 Bozos); Economics (Brown); IB (Plakoyiannaki, Voss); Management (Allen, Summers,
 Underwood, Williams), Marketing (Leonidou, Spyropoulou)), 56 to Senior Lecturer/Associate
 Professor and 24 from Grade 7 to 8 Lectureships.

 Out of 93 successful internal promotions, 36(39%) were female and 20(22%) were minority ethnic
 academics. Through the open promotion process, we have appointed 15 women and seven
 minority ethnic academics to faculty leadership roles, significantly raising their visibility and
 presenting role models to colleagues.

 Researcher Training and Development

 FRIC has the responsibility for the provision of advanced research skills training and development
 in collaboration with the divisions and research centres. Extensive disciplinary training provision is
 provided at divisional and centre level. At the university level, the ODPL unit delivers a wide range
 of courses (REF5a). Faculty-wide provision, co-ordinated by FRIO, includes:

    Advanced methods and professional skills training is delivered via NARTI, co-founded by
     Leeds, Lancaster and Durham with ESRC support. NARTI involves 17 business and
     management schools, each contributing financially to the network. LUBS provides leadership
     and organisational support as Co-Chair (Williams), hosting the Network Manager role
     (Garrick) and acting as budget holder.
    Distinguished Speaker Series - where world-leading scholars in business and management
     deliver research seminars and engage with our academic community. Examples include:
     Herman Aguinis (George Washington University School of Business), Paul Beamish (Ivey
     Business School), Nicolai Foss (Copenhagen Business School), Ans Kolk (Amsterdam
     Business School).
    Paper Development and Writing Retreats facilitated by leading international scholars, such as
     Joep Cornelissen (Erasmus), Deanna Geddes (Temple), Robin Holt (Copenhagen), and
     Emmanuella Plakoyiannaki (Vienna).
    Publishing Workshops with editors of world-leading journals, including Academy of
     Management Review, Journal of International Business Studies, Journal of Management,
     Journal of Management Studies and Strategic Management Journal. Lunchtime Editor
     Sessions are delivered by LUBS staff with experience of editing journals.
    Seminars/Workshops of Research Interest Groups facilitate engagement and collaboration
     across emergent areas of research strength, e.g. Qualitative Research Methods; Corporate
     Social Responsibility; Technology and Innovation; and Policy.

 Recognition and support

 Time

 All academic staff, regardless of contractual status, are given the time and resources needed to
 support their research activities, to deliver on our commitment to building and sustaining world-
 class performance and promoting organisational well-being. Dedicated research time is facilitated
 through a norm-based, workload model that was increased during the REF period from 450 hours
 to 600 hours, in addition to 100 hours for personal development, to ensure academic staff have at
                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    least 40% protected time for research. Divisions are encouraged to concentrate teaching into
    single semesters to facilitate dedicated research time. All research-active staff can apply for study
    leave every seventh semester. Applications are reviewed by a study leave committee, with end-of-
    leave reports submitted to FRIC and discussed with mentors to ensure that outcomes are
    beneficial for career development. Staff are encouraged to develop their international networks
    during study leave periods, supported by the Study Leave Travel and Research Support Scheme,
    with staff spending extended visits at, e.g., Harvard (Williams), Sydney (Holgate), Tokyo
    (Graham), Wake Forest (Okan), amongst many others. Study leave was granted to 85 staff during
    REF2021, constituting an investment of GBP2.25m.

    Resources

    Staff have an annual allocation of GBP3,000 to their Personal Development Account (PDA)
    (increased from GBP1,000 in 2017) that accrues year-on-year to support research activities and
    professional development, with an additional GBP2,000 p.a. for conference attendance. They are
    encouraged to participate in at least one national or international conference per year. GBP903k
    has been invested in conferences since 2014. Other support is available to pump-prime new
    research projects, grant applications, impact activity and international mobility (Table 1). Research
    excellence is rewarded through the Publications Scheme, which has disbursed GBP822k during
    the REF2021. Staff receive a reward (into PDAs), of up to GBP5,000 for publication in world-elite
    and FT journals, the latter of which has increased by 82%.

    Research students

    The recruitment and training of outstanding PGRs is a strategic priority for LUBS. There has been
    a focused plan for quality, following growth in the previous REF period. The annual intake has
    averaged between 100-120 new registrations during REF2021 with 185.31FTE successful
    completions. This trajectory is anticipated to continue, but with recruitment adjusting to our
    increase in research-active staff.

    Recruitment Strategy

    We maintain a rigorous approach to quality recruitment. In keeping with the University’s PGR
    strategy of producing future leaders and innovators (REF5a), our enhanced interview-based
    recruitment policy incorporates a skills-led perspective. During REF2021, 4% of applicants were
    accepted. Recruitment is worldwide, supported by digital marketing and webinars. 73% of PGRs
    are from overseas, representing 44 countries. High-performing undergraduate and taught
    postgraduate students are encouraged to explore PhD opportunities through personal tutors, the
    Laidlaw Undergraduate Research and Leadership scheme, and Q-Step6 research projects that
    include mandatory research methods training. Undergraduate students can also opt for an MRes,
    as a research entry point.

    LUBS invests substantially in scholarships and other funding opportunities (e.g. match-funding of
    Research Council awards). Since REF2014, GBP9.22m scholarship funding has been awarded.
    This includes 37 full ESRC PGR scholarships, 2 EPSRC CASE studentships, 58 University of
    Leeds PGR scholarships,100 internal LUBS PGR scholarships, and 28 discounted fee
    scholarships to Leeds graduates. Externally funded and miscellaneous visiting scholarships, plus
    Masters-stage funding, add a further 56 scholarships.

    Research Community




6
 Leeds’ membership of Q-Step, aimed at addressing the shortage of quantitative skills in social
sciences, led to new modules to build these skills and enhance student employability.

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 LUBS views PGRs as junior faculty and an integral part of our academic community, contributing
 to our inclusive, open, inter-disciplinary research environment. PGRs are encouraged to
 participate in the activities of research centres, through organising external speakers, presenting
 to peers through internal seminars and doctoral conferences, and through presentations at
 national and international conferences. PGRs are also able to showcase their projects and
 achievements externally through individual profiles on LUBS’ website and through contributions to
 the Research and Innovation blog and podcast. Outstanding contributions are recognised at
 graduation, and through faculty newsletters.

 International networking opportunities are facilitated by divisions and research centres. For
 example, CIBUL participates in NORD-IB, an international collaboration of methodological and
 disciplinary training, and CIBUL and CERIC each host annual Doctoral conferences. Further
 opportunities are available through the British Academy of Management, the Marie Curie
 Industrial Doctorate partnership with Ericsson AB, and specialised doctoral consortia. The LUBS
 Graduate School also runs an extensive suite of developmental programmes that typically employ
 expert input ranging from experienced media professionals (e.g. ex-BBC producers) to
 professional coaches (e.g. to improve presentational skills).

 Supervision

 PGRs receive dedicated support from admission to graduation, provided by supervisors, divisions,
 research centres, LUBS Graduate School team, FRIO, and the Leeds Doctoral College (LDC)
 (REF5a). To ensure the provision of high-quality supervision, all new supervisors undertake a
 PGR supervisor’s course run by the ODPL. The supervisory team model ensures that PGRs can
 draw on a broader range of expertise. It also encourages less experienced academics to team up
 with senior academics, to allow them to develop supervisory skills under the guidance and
 leadership of more experienced staff, contributing to research sustainability. Each supervisory
 team is allocated 100 workload hours p.a. per student. PGRs and supervisors are required to
 meet monthly and record the meetings using GRAD, an online system, summarising the student’s
 progress, mutual expectations, planned actions and training targets.

 Pastoral Support

 In response to COVID-19 restrictions on face-to-face contact and travel, support functions were
 enhanced. In addition to University support and further supervisory support (e.g. weekly
 supervision meetings for PGRs studying remotely), LUBS offered extra computing (e.g. laptops on
 loan) and software resources, financial supports (e.g. six PGRs whose funding came to an end
 between April-September 2020 received additional funding), online social events (e.g. weekly
 Divisional events and fortnightly faculty events), and pastoral support by dedicated college
 officers. Moreover, to help mitigate COVID-19 restrictions, the LUBS Graduate School worked
 with the Faculty International Office to connect PGRs, who returned home or started their study
 remotely, to our international partner networks, allowing these students to engage with local
 research communities. A LUBS Hardship Fund, which can dispense non-repayable awards and
 bridging loans, is available in addition to the University of Leeds Hardship Fund.

 Resources

 Investing in and developing PGRs is integral to our research strategy, emphasising capacity-
 building through investment in resources and facilities, funding for studentships, training subject
 knowledge and basic and advanced research skills, access to industry, and employability.

 Each PGR has an allowance of GBP3,000 over their period of study to cover research-related
 expenses and travel. This is supplemented by research centres and divisions, typically to support
 international conference attendance and fieldwork. Membership of major international research
 associations is subsidised by LUBS.



                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Investment in PGR facilities has been considerable. All full-time PGRs have access to their own
 desk and computer, within a dedicated cluster positioned to facilitate co-location with PGRs
 working in similar subject areas, and a room for survey work. Part-time PGRs have permanent
 study centre access. PGRs working on big data projects also have access to a dedicated space
 managed by Leeds Institute for Data Analytics (LIDA), offering state of the art facilities, and
 hosting CDRC.

 Training

 LUBS collaborates regionally, nationally and internationally in PGR (and ECR) training and
 development. In addition to leadership in NARTI, LUBS acts as the management/business
 pathway lead for the WRDTP.

 PGRs undertake 60 credits of compulsory assessed training accredited to M-level. Students follow
 one of three tailored, modular pathways delivering subject knowledge and generic research skills
 for Business/Management, A&F and Economics. These pathways are regularly updated and can
 accommodate two annual start dates in October and February, the latter of which helps meet visa
 and progression rules for international applicants. Training is block-scheduled, to facilitate access
 for part-time PGRs. Each training pathway also has its own research training master’s degree
 programme structure, to facilitate follow-on recruitment from undergraduate level.

    For advanced methods, professional skills and inter-disciplinary pathway training for higher
     level research, all PGRs enjoy access to events organised by the WRDTP, NARTI and LSSI-
     funded masterclasses.
    ESRC funded students enrolling on the masters stage of the ESRC 1+3 programme receive
     intensive M-level training tailored to learning outcomes best suited to the students.
    PGRs seeking teaching experience can follow the ‘Learning to Teach’ programme and,
     additionally, through one-to-one and group mentoring by Senior Fellows of the Higher
     Education Academy (SFHEA) and FHEA faculty members, can work towards becoming an
     Associate Fellow of the HEA.
    Complementing Doctoral College activities (REF5a), LUBS organises highly successful
     collaborative PhD conferences with the Universities of York and Sheffield as part of WRDTP
     engagement. Shared annual events, funded internally or by the Society for the Advancement
     of Management Studies, include writing retreats and impact events.
    For research ethics, all PGRs attend a compulsory workshop on good academic practice and
     a whole-day workshop on research ethics in their first year. The latter is delivered by expert
     speakers exploring different aspects of ethical research, ranging from basic principles to the
     nuts and bolts of ethical compliance and the ethics of publishing.

 Student Achievement

 The success of our investment in and development of PGRs is evidenced by their achievements,
 including journal publications, best conference papers and other external recognition. PGRs are
 encouraged to present their work at academic conferences, to co-author with core academic
 faculty and to support, where appropriate, research projects led by core faculty. In total, 43 papers
 co-authored by PGRs, with supervisors or fellow PGRs, were published or accepted during
 REF2021, including: Information Systems Research, Psychological Science, Research Policy,
 International Journal of Operations and Production Management, Journal of Travel Research,
 Journal of World Business, Sociology and Work, Employment and Society. Selected
 achievements include:

     o   Liang Cheng and Janja Annabel Tardois (CIBUL) – the Michael Z Brookes Doctoral Prize,
         2015 AIB (UK & Ireland) Conference;
     o   Vedran Lesic (CDR) – Best Student Paper Award, 2017 Society for Risk Analysis
         Conference;
                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     o   Assadinia Shahin (GLOSMARC) – S. Tamer Cavusgil Award, Journal of International
         Marketing - for significant advancement of the practice of international marketing
         management;
     o   Hanna Szymborska (AIRE) – 2016 EAEPE-Simon Young Scholar Prize for best
         conference paper;
     o   Krystal Wilkinson (CERIC) – Nomination for the 2018 Rosabeth Moss Kanter Award for
         Excellence in Work-Family Research.

 Engagement

 PGRs are actively embedded in our research culture. Participation and engagement are viewed
 as essential to a vibrant research environment. The PGR Forum, chaired by a PGR, feeds into the
 main decision forum for LUBS graduate school activities and NARTI events. Workshops and
 masterclasses developed through Q-Step have been designed for PGRs/ECRs, while PGRs
 contribute to the delivery of Q-Step activities by providing teaching assistance at the Q-Step
 summer school. We support a Doctoral Seminar Series, organised by PGRs, and help recruit
 speakers and advertise events.

 Relationships with Industry are essential to our PGR strategy. We leverage the substantial
 network of international ties with industry to facilitate access and internships for PGRs, e.g.,
 Thales NT, BT, West Yorkshire Police, Yorkshire Water, Balfour Beatty, Cisco, Arup, and Ericsson
 AB.

 Employability

 Our PGR programme aims to create first-class researchers who go on to enjoy exceptional
 careers. Employability is excellent. Selected examples include:

    In addition to internal appointments that contribute to the sustainability of our research base,
     PGRs have secured academic appointments at top UK universities (e.g. Birkbeck,
     Birmingham, Cambridge, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Liverpool, Newcastle, Oxford, Queen Mary,
     Sheffield, and Warwick) and internationally (e.g. Bangkok University, EDHEC Business
     School, European University of Cyprus, Humboldt University, Rikkyo, Melbourne, Utah State
     University, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam).
    Alumni occupy senior positions of influence working for government, finance or industry, e.g.
     World Bank, Bangladesh Central Bank, Bank of Botswana, BEIS, Government of Lithuania,
     Ministry of Finance of Indonesia, HMRC, Sheffield City Council, Fox Corporate Finance
     Munich, Bureau of Public Enterprises Nigeria, and Credit Suisse UK Ltd.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Funding

 Income

 LUBS regards research funding as a vital input to our research activities, providing the means to:
 pursue large-scale, longitudinal programmes of research; address major societal and economic
 challenges; build dedicated research teams; and generate external impact. In response to a
 challenging external funding environment, LUBS has regularly reviewed and enhanced our
 support for funding applications. During REF2021, support was provided for 320 applications for
 circa GBP59m of research funding, of which 101 were successful, a success rate of 31.5% (well
 above standard ESRC benchmarks), generating total income of GBP13.192m. Annual research
 income for REF2021 grew by 59% compared to REF2014, at GBP1.885m p.a. This compares
 well with other leading UK business schools. The latest CABS analysis of research funding (May
 2020) ranks Leeds 6th in the Russell Group for cumulative research income (2013/14-2018/19),


                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 while analysis of HESA data (2015/16-2018/19) ranks LUBS 6th, on average, for overall research
 income.

 Sources

 LUBS looks to secure research funding from diverse sources, including prestigious Research
 Councils, international funding agencies, charities and industry. A deliberate policy has driven
 research income from larger, inter-disciplinary Research Council grants and collaboration with
 external bodies to reflect the relevance of our research to practice and enhance its impact.
 Research Council funding increased more than three-fold during REF2021 to GBP5.2m
 (REF2014: GBP1.6m), including grants from ESRC, EPSRC, AHRC, BBSRC and NERC. Notable
 examples include participation in the GBP5.67m ESRC Consumer Data Research Centre (which
 also secured transition funding, GBP1.26m) and ‘iBUILD: Infrastructure Business Models,
 Valuation and Innovation for Local Delivery’ (EPSRC/ESRC GBP3.5m), and co-directorship of the
 GBP6.5m ESRC Digital Futures at Work Research Centre. In addition, LUBS researchers
 participated in large engineering, EPSRC funded projects involving external partners, including
 ‘balancing the impact of city infrastructure engineering on natural systems using robots’ in
 collaboration with Robotic (EPSRC GBP4.2m) and research on modelling and optimising
 volunteer participation in online citizen science with Zooniverse (total value GBP903k).

 Further funding sources included UK charities, for example, British Academy funded research on
 modern slavery in the fashion and textiles industry (GBP191k), Nuffield Foundation research on
 immigration and well-being (GBP129,758) and a study on improving web-based communications
 about cervical cancer screening funded by Cancer Research UK (GBP186,952).

 International funding included Pandza’s leadership of the Complex and Open Innovation for
 Networked Society project, in partnership with Ericsson AB, supported by an EU Horizon 2020
 Marie Skłodowska-Curie grant, which formed the basis for an impact case study (EUR1.366m).
 Further EU funding, which increased 2.5 fold during REF2021, included Murgia’s ERC Fellowship
 investigating hybrid forms of self-employment (EUR1.258m), European Parliament research on
 the social protection of workers in the platform economy (EUR130k) and Kaltenbrunner’s Starebei
 programme Fellowship funded by the European Investment Bank (GBP38k).

 Private sector and industry related funding included six KTP awards, as well as grants from, for
 example, the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, Solicitors’ Regulation Authority, Climate and
 Development Knowledge Network, and the International Labour Office. Long established industry
 relations saw a total of seven additional projects with Rolls Royce (GBP643k), and others with:
 TUC unionlearn for ongoing evaluation of the Union Learning Fund (GBP112k), Airwave Solutions
 (now Motorola) (GBP75k) on police mobile ICT, as well as funding from five UK police forces
 (GBP99k).

 Strategies for generating research income and impact

 Responsibility for grant planning rests with FRIC, supported by FRIO, with a focus on encouraging
 funding applications through targeted support structures and internal investment.

    Ensuring sustainable levels of external funding has meant extending the pool of applicants
     ensuring that ECRs and mid-career researchers especially were given time and expert support
     to prepare bids. Support has focused on encouraging all research-active staff to explore
     appropriate avenues of funding, and for those with track records to target larger grants as lead
     applicants. This is led by DDoRs and directors of research centres, who actively promote
     funding opportunities, look to match funding calls with specific academic interests, encourage
     teams to collaborate on applications and oversee the internal peer review process for
     applications.
    Dedicated support for funding applications is provided by FRIO, which includes early stage
     intelligence of funding calls and tailored support for costing grants, impact pathways, linking up
     with external partners and the longer-term preparatory work for large grant schemes (such as
                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     the ESRC Research Centres initiative). FRIO also works closely with research centres in
     identifying staff best suited for applications for Fellowship schemes.
    Financial support for external grant applications is available through internal research support
     schemes as detailed in Table 1. During REF2021, GBP350k was disbursed through a
     research support scheme, to pump-prime new research projects that often generate early
     stage ‘proof of concept’ data to assist funding applications. More strategically, a Challenge
     Fund (GBP250k p.a.) has been established to seed ‘big ideas’ for new collaborations and
     large grant applications. Funding is available through an annual competitive process that
     includes a sandpit for shortlisted applicants, whereby ideas are reviewed, specific external
     funding calls identified and new collaborations encouraged. The key aim is to provide staff with
     dedicated resources for the careful preparation of funding applications, including research
     assistance and teaching buy-out. In total, 16 projects were funded under the first two rounds,
     which resulted in a 61% increase in overall external funding applications during 2019/20,
     including submissions to ESRC, EPSRC, Hans Boeckler Foundation, Nuffield Foundation
     Strategic Fund, UKRI GCRF, and NERC. Notable outcomes include a GBP4.4m bid to the
     EPSRC for a ‘Circular Economy Centre for Foundational Materials’ in collaboration with the
     faculties of Engineering and Environment (led by Trappmann).
    As detailed in Table 1, LUBS has invested significant internal resources to ensure the vitality
     and sustainability of its research culture, with a total investment of more than GBP50m.
     Investments in dedicated research time, PDA allowances and rewards for publications,
     discussed in section 2, all contribute to the development of high-quality output, while
     investments in pump-priming funds (e.g. seedcorn and Challenge Fund awards) constitute
     focused investment to sustain and expand applications for external funding. The impact
     budget promotes and supports impact achievement throughout the research ‘lifecycle’. The
     Impact & Engagement Support Fund (open applications up to GBP2,000) seeds the initial
     translation of research to external beneficiaries, while the Impact Leadership Award (five
     awards annually of GBP20k) supports significant engagement with external partners to deliver
     impact.
     Table 1: The distribution of internal research budget on investment, 2013/4-2019/20 (GBP)

               Research Workload Allocation                                39,400,000
               Study Leave                                                  2,200,000
               Study Leave Travel and Research Support Scheme                   58,000
               Personal Development Allowance (PDA)                         3,200,000
               Databases                                                    2,500,000
               Conference Match Funding Scheme                                903,000
               Publication Scheme                                             822,129
               Research Support Fund (including Small research                350,000
               grant; Support of workshops and research groups
               activities, and Journal submissions/open access)
               International Visiting Staff Fund                                96,000
               International Researchers Mobility Fund                          12,349
               Impact and Engagement Support Fund                             248,217
               LUBS Challenge Fund                                            500,000
               Total research investment                              GBP50,516,882




                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Infrastructure and facilities

 University research infrastructure (REF5a) and LUBS facilities comprise financial, managerial and
 administrative support (see sections above) that support a vital and sustainable research
 environment. This includes:

    A well-resourced professional service team, through the FRIO, that supports our academic
     community across the full range of research-related activity, including: pre- and post-award
     grant support; assistance with grant preparations; support with impact-related activities; and
     well-developed expertise on dissemination, project management, external communications
     and social media. A strength is the adaptability and flexibility of this service. For example, in
     response to the COVID-19 pandemic, research support was refocused to ensure that LUBS
     researchers were able to continue their research and respond, where appropriately, to new
     funding calls and calls for academic analysis of the pandemic. Notably, more than 20
     applications were submitted to the UKRI COVID-19 rapid response call. Members of FRIO
     who usually provide other aspects of support were mobilised to provide additional pre-award
     support, such as enhanced internal peer review, to ensure quality control and fast-track
     costing and approvals of bids.
    LUBS has expanded its University campus physical presence and has plans for further capital
     investment in new buildings and the redevelopment and refurbishment of space over the next
     10 years. In collaboration with the School of Law, LUBS has implemented the LUBS LAW
     Transformation programme with capital investment of GBP75.7m. The building programme
     includes collaborative spaces, improved facilities for virtual meetings, behavioural labs, a
     smart research lab and the potential for inbuilt software for transcription that will provide
     enhanced infrastructure to support research activity within the School. Following the
     University’s Carbon Management Plan, all new builds are designed to meet targets to achieve
     net-zero carbon emissions by 2030. The development will improve disabled access to campus
     infrastructure.
    LUBS has invested GBP2.5m in databases to support scholars that use secondary data for
     their research, including Amplify Trading, Audit Analytics, Beauhurst, Bloomberg, Boardex,
     Compustat, Concord, Creditsafe, CRSP Chicago Booth, CSMAR, EMIS, FAME, Fitch
     Connect, Institutional Shareholder Services, Morningstar, Orbis, Ratewatch, Refinitiv, S&P
     Execucomp, WRDS Platform, and Xitracs. Three Research Data Officers provide specialist
     support for financial data resources.
    LUBS’ institutional memberships enable our academics and PGRs to access support networks
     (e.g. LSSI, LIDA, NARTI, WRDTP and NORD-IB) and additional funding resources. For
     example, through LSSI, academics have received awards from ESRC/IAA (Responsive Mode
     Fund and Knowledge Exchange Fellowships), ESRC NGO Fund, Research England QR-SPF
     Fund, and the International Strategic Partnership Fund. As a member of the WUN, LUBS
     researchers are able to access the Research Development Fund and participate in its
     Research Mobility Programme. A recent example is the project on “Covid-19 and Migration
     Systems in Transition”, led by Forde (CERIC), in collaboration with the Universities of Western
     Australia and Renmin.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our contribution to the research base is evidenced by our participation in leading journals,
 academic and professional institutions and international conferences. Our extensive international
 networks and collaborations underpin our research quality and commitment to generating impact.
 We collaborate with companies, policymakers and non-academic institutions to make a difference
 to economy and society in the UK and internationally.

 Networks and Collaboration

 LUBS researchers are actively embedded in collaborations, networks and partnerships through an
 extensive programme of regional, national and international joint projects. Such collaborations are
                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fostered by a strong tradition of inter-disciplinarity, evidenced by active participation in cross-
 faculty research streams that reach out to wider academic networks and generate extensive co-
 authorship across disciplines. An analysis of 1,971 articles in Scopus illustrated that 71% were in
 non-business and management subject areas, including social sciences (24%), psychology and
 decision sciences (18%), engineering (6%), arts and humanities (6%) and a further 10% across
 environment, medicine and mathematics. Inter-disciplinary engagement and network building is
 supported through the array of investments detailed in Table 1, including an International Visitors
 scheme and the professional support of the FRIO for sustaining networks through workshops,
 conferences and the hosting of leading international conferences.

 Taken together, LUBS research centres have active collaborations with all faculties of the
 University, with STC and Fintech co-directed in collaboration with Engineering and Computer
 Science respectively. AIRE has acted as the co-lead for the University’s Cities Theme and has
 participated extensively in collaborative research designed to meet governmental priorities of
 addressing societal challenges (e.g. energy, sustainable development, clean water, digitalisation,
 poverty, and well-being). From leadership of the FESSUD project, AIRE researchers have
 participated in more than GBP20m of UKRI funded projects. Illustrative collaborations include the
 Productivity Insights Network (ESRC GBP1.5m), involving 11 UK universities (including Sheffield,
 Cardiff, Cambridge, Durham and Glasgow) and iBuild (EPSRC/ESRC GBP3.5m, with Newcastle
 and Birmingham), which contributed to an impact case study that influenced HMT Guidance on
 valuing infrastructure provision.

 Participation in, and leadership of, major ESRC funded research centres also connects LUBS
 researchers to notable national networks. On big data and analytics, researchers from CDR,
 GLOSMARC and CMRC are members of CDRC which brings together world-class researchers
 from Leeds, Liverpool, Oxford and UCL in a collective ambition to use consumer data to provide
 unique insight into a diverse range of societal and economic challenges (including food waste,
 sharing economy, sustainable food consumption and travelling). Similarly, Digit represents a
 LUBS co-led collaboration with Sussex, Aberdeen, Cambridge, Manchester, and internationally
 Monash, to investigate the impact of digital technologies on the future world of work; an issue of
 pressing significance as the economy looks to grow out of the COVID-19 crisis.

 A notable strength of LUBS’ research networks and collaborations is their international reach.
 International networks are encouraged through the activities of research centres, and are evident
 in collaborative projects and joint publications. This activity is supported through our Publication
 Scheme and International Visiting Staff Fund. Since 2014, LUBS researchers have co-authored
 more than 1,100 outputs in collaboration with 429 universities and research institutes in 53
 countries, accounting for nearly 55% of total publications. Analysis of Scopus ranks LUBS 5th by
 publication in the Russell Group (2014-20) for percentage of international collaboration, with top
 international co-authoring institutions including Carnegie Mellon, Erasmus, Michigan State and
 Georgia State.

 Mechanisms for fostering international networks include the hosting of regular international
 symposia and conferences and the exchange of international visitors. LUBS researchers
 organised 504 workshops, symposia and conferences during REF2021. For example, LUBS
 hosted the 45th annual European International Business Academy conference in 2019, with over
 500 delegates, and the 2016 Work, Employment and Society conference, with over 400
 delegates. GLOSMARC’s annual Marketing Research Camp has led to co-authored papers in
 Journal of Marketing and has been instrumental in the invitation for GLOSMARC to host the AMA
 Sheth Foundation Doctoral Consortium.

 LUBS encourages exchange with leading international scholars through a Visiting Titles Scheme,
 the International Visiting Staff Fund and the Distinguished Speaker Series. Since 2014, LUBS has
 awarded 274 visiting titles (94% to international scholars), which can cover a period from four
 weeks to up to three years. Academics are actively encouraged to take-up visiting positions during
 study leave (section 2), and in many cases, this can lead to long-term affiliations and external
 positions. For example, Lichtner was awarded a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Global Fellowship to
                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 carry out research with UCL School of Pharmacy and Macquarie University (H2020-MSCA-IF-
 2016 - EURO276,107), Buckley holds a fractional appointment at University of Queensland
 Business School, and visiting positions at Open University Hong Kong and University of Macerata,
 Italy. Alberti has developed a collaborative project on the hospitality sector and migrant labour
 with researchers at Padova University funded by an Erasmus Plus mobility partnership.

 More illustrative networks, include:

    CDR researchers are deeply embedded in an international decision research network focused
     on addressing global challenges, across multiple projects. Examples include: Okan’s Cancer
     Research UK Fellowship (GBP183k) on cervical cancer screening, in collaboration with the
     University of Oklahoma, Wake Forest University and the Spanish Association against Cancer;
     Kaptan’s participation in an 11 country network, led by the Universities of Pennsylvania and
     Konstanz on food eating habits (funded by the German Research Foundation); and Bruine de
     Bruin’s involvement in the Network for Studies on Pensions, Aging, and Retirement led by the
     University of Maastricht.
    Trappmann led a major project - Prework – funded by the German Research Council
     (EUR800k, 2016-2020), in collaboration with the University of Wrocław, the SGH Warsaw
     School of Economics and the Free University Berlin, that examined precarious working lives
     amongst young people in Germany and Poland. Output was published in Sociology; Work,
     Employment & Society and a book that attracted wide coverage by the German and Polish
     media.
    Umney was co-investigator on an ERC starter grant (led by Greer, Cornell, 2014-2016,
     EUR1m) focused on establishing a new strand of comparative, institutional analysis of
     marketization, with collaborators from Cornell, Helsinki and Bremen. Output was published in
     Human Relations; British Journal of Industrial Relations, and Organization Studies.
    CEES researchers have led academic networks in Eastern Europe and the global south.
     Williams investigated returnee entrepreneurship to Bosnia and Herzegovina (B&H) and
     Kosovo (with British Academy and Leverhulme funding), in collaboration with the Universities
     of Prishtina, Sarajevo and George Washington. Holt, with NRF ESRC support, established the
     South African PhD Partnering Network for Inclusive Growth, with the Universities of
     Witwatersrand, Pretoria and Nelson Mandela Metropolitan, and, in collaboration with Federal
     University of Amazonas, leads a Newton Impact award ‘Visualising and Enhancing Value
     Chains in the Amazon’.
    Bodrozic is the joint coordinator (2021-2024) of the Standing Working Group, Organizational
     Studies in the Anthropocene: System Change, not Climate Change, for the European Group of
     Organizational Studies conference, with colleagues at the Universities of Southern California,
     Lund, and Victoria.

 Relationship with key research users and contribution to economy and society

 LUBS has a strong track record of research with relevance beyond the academy that has
 demonstrable economic and societal benefits regionally, nationally and internationally. Our efforts
 to support engagement and relationship building and mainstream impact (section 1) are directed
 by the Impact Champion, with FRIO’s professional support and internal funding schemes
 (sections 2 and 3), including access to ESRC/IAA funding via LSSI. Our RwI and IiP seminar
 series act as effective pathways to build relationships with a broad range of external beneficiaries,
 through knowledge exchange, business, academic and policy dialogue, and network building.
 They help increase knowledge and interest amongst ECRs of the impact agenda, as well as
 facilitating the sharing of best practice and ideas for more established researchers. The 45 IiP
 events held since 2016 were attended by 1,440 delegates onsite and 302 online, welcoming
 speakers from, amongst others, Avon and Somerset Police, Barclays, Ericsson AB, Ernst &
 Young LLP, Grant Thornton, IBM, Marks & Spencer, Santander, SPB, British Museum, UK
 Fashion & Textile Association and FCO. Our impact case studies showcase our researchers’ very
 best impact work, with local, national and international impact. The examples detailed here
                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 include research engagement and user-group impact that has been achieved but is not covered in
 our submitted impact case studies.

 Governance, Financial Systems and Economic Well-being

    Seth contributed expertise on poverty measurement methodologies to a United Nations
     Development Program report in support of SDG1, ‘to end poverty in all its forms everywhere’,
     with collaborators at Oxford University. The research developed a Global Multi-dimensional
     Poverty Index (MPI) that helped policy-makers better target aid and poverty relief, through
     improving their understanding of poverty variation in their country or region according to
     health, education and standard of living measures rather than just income. The research
     attracted international media attention following a high-level launch event by UNDP.
    Lancheros collaborated with the West Yorkshire Combined Authority (WYCA) and Leeds City
     Region Enterprise Partnership (with ESRC Productivity Insights Network funding) to evaluate
     the benefits of different financing mechanisms for assisting SME innovation. Also at a local
     level, Dymski coordinates Leeds ACTS (an academic collaboration with the third sector) to
     address local societal challenges, including inequality, through innovative, research-led
     solutions.
    Taylor and Summers’ behavioural science research has helped improve, through
     collaboration with the UK Meteorological Office (ESRC, GBP166k), how the public are
     informed about extreme weather and climate information to help improve individual and
     organisational decisions about climate and weather risk. Taylor has extended this work
     internationally, via a Newton Fund grant (GBP340k), collaborating with the Chinese
     Meteorological Administration to develop evidence-based recommendations for climate
     information providers in China. Subsequently, Taylor joined the World Meteorological
     Organisation’s High Impact Weather (HIWeather) initiative that aims to improve the provision
     of severe weather warnings around the world, and is the current co-leader of the HIWeather
     Task Team.
    Bown and Kaptan ran a three-year ESRC-funded seminar series ‘Food Options, Opinions
     and Decisions’, bringing together academics and industry partners including DEFRA, Food
     Standards Agency, and WRAP. The partnership resulted in a UKRI Ideas to Address COVID-
     19 grant ‘Capitalising on COVID-19 as a Trigger for Positive Change in Food
     Waste Behaviour’ (GBP422k) (Kaptan) with WRAP and Zero Waste Scotland.
    McNair helped the Citizens Advice Bureau develop a brochure targeted at increasing the
     uptake of financial advice by helping debtors to overcome psychological distress, as part of a
     Leverhulme Trust Early Career Research Fellowship (GBP150k).

 International Business, Marketing Management and Business Networks

    CIBUL researchers have contributed to the policy and practice of International trade and
     foreign investment. Voss and Davis’ research on modern slavery in international supply
     chains in the textile industry (British Academy funded) helped a British multinational to
     implement best practice in supply chain management, and fed into the deliberations of the
     House of Commons Environmental Audit Committee’s report “Fixing fashion: clothing
     consumption and sustainability” (2019), thereby contributing to the design of the UK’s Modern
     Slavery Act. Munjal and Buckley’s research on the reduction of transaction costs in Foreign
     Direct Investment in India helped guide the launch of the ‘Intra-Commonwealth Small
     Business Association’ (ICSA), formed jointly by the Ministry of Commerce, Government of
     India and the Commonwealth Secretariat in June 2016, and subsequently paved the way for
     an India-Commonwealth SME Trade Summit. As a member of the Uzbekistan government’s
     experts’ council for a “Prosperous Future” since 2017, Aliyev produced a report,
     ‘Uzbekistan2035’ that offered a roadmap for future national economic reform.
    In collaboration with two large, Greek supermarket stores, Theotokis developed experimental
     marketing techniques to demonstrate the effectiveness of complement-based assortment
                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     organisation for the retailer’s sales and profit. The output won a best paper award in Journal of
     Marketing Research.
    Robson, Clegg, Kadile and Watson partnered on a Knowledge Exchange grant (ESRC
     GBP153k) with M&S to develop a ‘Best in Class International Franchising Model’ to optimise
     the international performance of UK retailers and help shape the company’s international
     strategy.
    Basu’s experimental research, in collaboration with Nanyang Business School, on consumer
     choice decisions when shopping was published in Harvard Business Review and informed a
     methodology created by Norman Vogel consultancy that was included in Google’s Design
     Sprint toolkit.
    Biraglia was invited by the Government Office for Science (GO-Science) to join a 'Local and
     national growth' task force, feeding in to the UK Government's COVID-19 recovery strategy.
    Wong led a KTP (Innovate UK GBP131k) with Southerns Office Interiors (Yorkshire) Limited
     that utilised supply chain management systems and tools that enhanced the efficiency of the
     business and created new business opportunities through the provision of managed services.
     An additional KTP (Innovate UK GBP138k), with Clipper Logistics plc, deploys predictive
     analytics techniques to help reduce costs and improve the processing efficiency involved in
     handling product returns arising from fast fashion e-commerce transactions.

 Technology, Innovation and Management Practice

    Hughes and colleagues designed a Systems Scenario Tool to help (re)design work systems
     at, amongst other, Rolls Royce and the National Health Service, with key impacts published in
     an award-winning article in Ergonomics.
    Robinson, with colleagues from STC, developed an agent-based computer simulation model,
     in collaboration with researchers at VU University, as part of an EUH2020 (EUR1.5m) seven
     country project that helped transport companies in three major terminals (in Italy, Poland and
     Turkey) to better plan and manage crowds of passengers in terminals and in transit.
    Hodgett, Summers, and Siraj, led a KTP (Innovate UK GBP178k) in collaboration with British
     record label, All Around the World, to develop a system to support and enhance the
     identification of new pop talent and maximise the utility of the identification process.

 People, Work and Organisations

    Tomlinson, Aulakh, Charlwood and Valizade were commissioned by the Solicitors’
     Regulation Authority (GBP25k, 2016) to conduct a diversity analysis of the solicitors’
     profession. Their analysis of the employment records of every practising solicitor since the
     1940s contributed to a ‘risk assessment of the profession’ and the introduction of an SRA
     diversity toolkit designed to assist the solicitors’ profession in its approach to recruitment,
     retention and progression.
    Watson’s ESRC collaborative project with Marks & Spencer - Raising the Ceiling on Diversity
     & Inclusion (GBP519k), with Birmingham and Durham universities - utilised an action research
     model that directly influenced the company’s Inclusion Strategy and implementation of
     diversity, inclusion and career progression initiatives. Subsequent research for the West
     Yorkshire Police (Watson and Hughes) identified recommendations for diversity policy that
     was implemented as part of a new BAME inclusion strategy.
    Charlwood was instrumental in the (2018) set-up of the HR Analytics Think Tank (HRTT) in
     partnership with the Jon M. Huntsman School of Business, Utah State University, and 3n
     Strategy (run by LUBS alumni Nigel Dias). The HRTT hosts an international network of HR
     professionals and academics, responding to demand from practitioners for rigorous, impartial
     evidence on the application of data analytics for people management. Practitioners from over
     200 companies world-wide have participated in HRTT research, including Microsoft, ING,
     Aviva, Merck (US), Nestle and Nokia (as advisory board members), with analyses
                                                                                           Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     disseminated to a network of 180 practitioner members in 30 countries. Following a
     commissioned report by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD),
     Charlwood’s research has informed the development of a new International Standard for
     human capital reporting (ISO 30414) and shaped new CIPD professional standards for people
     analytics.
    Greenwood led the research and drafting of the All-Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on
     Steel and Metal Related Industries report, ‘Steel 2020’. Described by Lord Brookman, in
     House of Lords Debate (Hansard, April, 2017), as ‘first class’ research, the report has enabled
     the APPG to more effectively lobby Government for targeted action following the 2016 steel
     crisis, including Industrial Strategy Challenge Funding and increased transparency of
     Government steel procurement information.
    Forde and colleagues’ European Parliament Economic and Scientific Policy Department
     report on the ‘social protection of workers in the platform economy’ (IP/A/EMPL/FWC/2013-
     021/L – EURO127k) informed EU-level policy debate on the employment rights and status of
     platform workers. Following this, a team of CERIC researchers (including Bessa, Stuart,
     Trappmann, Umney) developed the Leeds Global Index of Platform Labour Unrest, which
     has contributed to a European Trade Union Institute policy briefing and the International
     Labour Office’s World Employment and Social Outlook Report for 2020.

 Contribution to the Research Base

 Given the international standing of LUBS researchers, they actively contribute to and lead the
 development of their respective disciplines and professional associations.

 Editorial roles: During REF2021, staff have held 84 Editor or Associate Editor positions, and
 edited 89 journal special issues, including: Katsikeas (Area Editor), Cavusgil and Devinney
 (Consulting Editors), Journal of International Business Studies; Rose (Founding Editor), Academy
 of Management Collections and (Senior Editor), Journal of Management; Devinney (Co-Editor),
 Academy of Management Perspectives; Katsikeas (Area Editor), Journal of the Academy of
 Marketing Science; Morgan (Co-Editor), Journal of Marketing; Stuart and Grugulis (Co-Editors-
 in-Chief), Work, Employment & Society; Toms (Joint Executive Editor), Business History; Pitelis
 (Editor), Cambridge Journal of Economics; Katsikeas, (Editor-in-Chief), Journal of International
 Marketing; Unsworth (Associate Editor), Human Relations; Tomlinson (Associate Editor),
 Gender, Work and Organization; Leonidou, C. (Associate Editor), Journal of Business Research;
 Zaefarian (Associate Editor), Industrial Marketing Management.

 In addition, 76 staff sat on the editorial boards of 163 leading international journals.

 Invited conference contributions and keynotes: Staff delivered 312 invited conference
 presentations (154 internationally, 158 in the UK), of which 106 were keynote addresses (58
 international, 48 UK). Keynote highlights include:

     o   Buckley: World Investment Forum, UNCTAD, Geneva (2018)
     o   Charlwood: CIPD Applied Research Conference, London (2015)
     o   Clacher: Westminster Employment Forum, London (2014)
     o   Kaltenbrunner: Workshop on International Currency Hierarchies, Berlin (2018)
     o   Trappmann: Polish Sociological Association, Katowice (2017)
     o   Umney: Kevin McMahon Memorial Lecture, Dublin (2018)
     o   Williams: United Nations Development Programme, Kosovo (2017)
     o   Wong: International Symposium on Supply Chain and Service, Guangzhou, (2017)

 Fellowships and contributions to professional associations and learned societies: Faculty hold 28
 prestigious individual Fellowships, including: eight Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences
 (Bruine de Bruin, Buckley, Devinney, Glaister, Grugulis, Love, Moizer, Stuart), two Fellows of
 the Royal Society of Arts (Buckley, Mearman), six Fellows of the Academy of International
 Business (Cavusgil, Clegg, Devinney, Hult, Rose, Buckley), three Fellows of the British
                                                                                            Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Academy of Management (Buckley, Clegg, Glaister), and three Fellows of the Psychonomic
 Society (Bruine de Bruin, Okan, Konstantinidis). Pitelis is a Life Fellow of Queens’ College,
 University of Cambridge.

 Leadership roles of academic associations, external bodies and funding committees: Staff held
 291 external roles since 2014, contributing to the sustainability and vitality of the wider academic
 community through leadership of academic associations, advisory roles with professional bodies
 and membership of grant awarding bodies. Indicative examples include: Clegg – President of the
 Academy of International Business and co-founder and co-chair (with Plakoyiannaki) of the British
 Academy of Management Special Interest Group in International Business and International
 Management; Summers - President of the European Association for Decision Making; Bennell –
 Vice President of the European OR Society and Chair of the European Working Group on Cutting
 and Packing; Stuart – President of the British Universities Industrial Relations Association and
 Chair of the International Section of the Labour and Employment Relations Association; Wei -
 President of the Chinese Economic Association; Okan - President of the Society for the
 Advancement of Judgment and Decision-Making Studies; Katsikeas – Vice-President
 (Membership-International) of the Academy of Marketing Science; Fontana – President of the
 Association for Social Economics; Saridakis - national (UK) representative for the European
 Academy of Marketing; Song and Voss - representatives at large for the International Association
 of Chinese Management Research.

 In addition, staff held 63 advisory and committee roles for a diverse range of professional,
 practitioner and governmental bodies. Notable positions include:

     o   Brown – Task Force member, HMT
     o   Davis – Expert member of the UK Ministry of Defence Research Ethics Committee
     o   Devinney – Director, Social Science Research Network (SSRN)
     o   Grugulis – OECD Expert Group on ‘Better using skills in the workplace’
     o   Javornik – Acting Director General of Higher Education Directorate, Government of
         Slovenia
     o   Kaltenbrunner – Trustee of the Foundation for European Economic Development
     o   Moizer – Chair of the Chartered Association of Business Schools; Trustee of Board of
         EFMD
     o   Stuart – REF2021 subpanel (17) member for Business and Management

 There were 32 panel memberships for UKRI, charitable and international funding bodies and
 colleges (eight ESRC, one NERC, one ARC, five UK charitable bodies and eight international
 funding bodies) and nine other assessor/expert panel memberships. For the ESRC, Charlwood is
 a Grant Assessment Panel (D) Member for the Secondary Data Analysis initiative, Love chairs
 the ESRC Seminar Grants Panel, and Wei was a panel member for the ESRC-DFID China and
 Africa Research Programme. Rose acted as panel member for the British Academy Small Grants
 Scheme. Holt is a panel member for the British Council Newton Fund, Social Science. Grugulis
 is a panel member for the Singaporean Workforce Development Applied Research Fund.

 Awards for academic contributions (selected): Faculty won 119 awards, including 37 awards for
 academic achievement and 82 awards for academic output. Notable achievement awards include:

    Academic achievement awards:
     o   Academy of International Business: distinguished service, women of achievement (Rose);
         the UK/Ireland chapter John H Dunning Prize for Lifetime Achievement (Buckley);
     o   Academy of Management: outstanding reviewer (Solarino x2 and Davis), impact award
         (Devinney);
     o   American Marketing Association: global marketing research award (Katsikeas);
     o   Journal of Academy of Marketing Science: outstanding editor award (Katsikeas);
     o   Journal of International Business Studies: the sole Platinum Medal for Scholarship
         (Buckley), Gold Medal (Cavusgil), and four Silver Medals (Clegg, Hult, Love and Rose);

                                                                                                Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     o   Awards to ECRs and mid-careers included: 2019 Morosoli Prize in Economics (Burdin),
         the 2018 Stockholm Business School Emerging Markets Inspiration Conference
         Distinguished Scholar (De Mattos), and the Academy of International Business young
         scholar award (Heinberg).

    Journal article and conference best paper awards: JIBS decade award (Buckley, Clegg,
     Voss); Review of International Business and Strategy outstanding paper (Rose); Journal of
     International Marketing annual article award (Hultman) and most significant long-term
     contribution article (past five years) (Leonidou); Journal of Consumer Psychology best paper
     (Ulquinaku); Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science (Morgan). Indicative conference
     awards include: Careers Division at Academy of Management Meeting (Wu); British Academy
     of Management Conference (Clacher, Davis, Glaister, Holt, Jackson, Kesidou,
     Plakoyiannaki (x2), Viragos).




                                                                                         Page 28
