Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Institution: Durham University

  Unit of assessment: 27, English Language and Literature

  Section 1: Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


  Context and Structure
  Research in the Department of English Studies is distinguished by:
      Historical, linguistic and generic range, with substantial depth in each of: medieval and
        early modern studies, eighteenth- and nineteenth-century literature, modernisms and
        post-Second World War literary cultures, critical theory and world literatures
      Leadership in interdisciplinary methods and fields, notably cognitive and medical
        humanities, cross-period initiatives and intellectual history
      Particular attention to theory, poetics, archival sources and editorial practice
      Integration of applied research and practice, notably in medieval and Renaissance
        drama, contemporary poetry, creative writing, modernism and medical humanities.

  English Studies is one of seven departments in the Faculty of Arts and Humanities. At 31 July
  2020, it comprised 55 REF-eligible staff (48.81 FTE) including two postdoctoral researchers,
  and 50 registered PhD students. Substantial University investment has increased permanent
  staff numbers by 57% (from 35 in REF 2014). Dedicated administrators in the Faculty and in
  Research and Innovation Services assist with grant applications, research administration and
  PhD administration. Research is overseen by a Research Committee, led by the Director of
  Research alongside deputies for impact and grants and ethics. PGR co-directors oversee
  postgraduate research. Research Committee liaises with the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
  committee and reports to the Board of Studies (all staff members) and Faculty and University
  committees.

  The vitality of the department’s research environment is rooted in its range and depth,
  chronologically, geographically and methodologically, within which there is significant thematic
  intersection. It is founded on an ethos of collaboration: in building period bases, promoting
  cross-period initiatives, developing innovative interdisciplinary methods, working with external
  partners, enabling creative and risk-taking research and extending the discipline of English
  studies. Commitment to international excellence is balanced by regional commitment. Six
  primary areas of research describe existing strengths and strategic direction. They are closely
  linked to University Centres, Institutes and wider networks. This structure nurtures long-
  standing areas of excellence while foregrounding trans-historical expertise and emerging
  strengths and enabling interdisciplinary research within and across clusters of researchers.
  Regular research seminars with invited speakers allow development and sharing of research
  and foster community in each area.

  1. Medieval and Early Modern Studies. An unusually broad range of expertise in medieval
  languages and literatures includes Old English, Old Norse, Old French and Latin. Thirteen staff
  and postdoctoral researchers participate in the Institute for Medieval and Early Modern Studies
  (IMEMS), one of eight University Research Institutes (Research Director, Ravelhofer, co-leader
of multi-volume projects on the collected works of James Shirley and Records of Early English
Drama – North East [REED, see ICS-4]). There have been six funded postdoctoral fellows in
medieval and early modern studies during this REF cycle.

2. Eighteenth- and Nineteenth-Century Writing links to the Centre for Nineteenth-Century
Studies (CNCS), and includes expertise in American, Irish, and continental European writing as
well as British. Focal points for research are drama, Romanticism, editing, narrative forms in
England and Ireland, and Victorian poetry and non-fiction.

3. Modernisms and Post-War Cultures. Work spans sensory studies, environment, publishing
networks, editorial practice, cognitive theory, and Irish modernism. Impact Case Study (ICS-3)
springs from connections between mountaineering and modernism. A significant cluster
researches post-World War Two British and American literary cultures with a particular Cold
War focus. The Centre for Modern Conflicts and Cultures (CMCC), founded and led by Smith,
hosts a Leverhulme project on the Political Warfare Executive, covert propaganda and British
culture (PWE).

4. World Literatures and Literary Theory identifies a new focus enabled by expansion. It
includes South East Asian, African and Caribbean literatures, world systems theory, gender
and race, and Marxism. It links research in ecocritical theory, environment and precarity to the
Centre for Culture and Ecology (Co-Director: Sheils) and the Institute for Hazard, Risk and
Resilience (IHRR) (Co-Director: Botha).

5. Critical Medical Humanities. The department has led the development of critical medical
humanities, bringing together work in medical humanities, cognitive studies, affect and critical
theory. This focal point of research strategy since 2008 draws in colleagues from medieval
studies, nineteenth- and twentieth-century literature, cognitive studies, theory, and other
disciplines, and is a major source of grant income (section 3), supporting ICS-1 and ICS-2. Six
staff are centrally involved in the Institute for Medical Humanities (IMH), the first such institute
of its kind, jointly funded by a £1 million Wellcome grant (extended by a further award of £1.25
million, Oct. 2020) and the University (Co-Director: Saunders; Deputy Director: Woods). There
have been six funded postdoctoral fellowships jointly in English and IMH during this cycle.

6. Poetry and Poetics and Creative Writing is supported by the Centre for Poetry and Poetics
(CPP), led by Regan, and includes six highly acclaimed creative writers working in poetry,
fiction and non-fiction. This cross-cutting theme connects with research in all above areas,
including on the history of poetic theory from the Renaissance to the present, in the
development of poetic forms, and has a focus on research-in-practice. There have been three
funded postdoctoral fellows in modern poetry during this cycle.

Achievement of stated aims in REF 2014
The four overarching aims stated in REF 2014 have all been achieved:

Aim (i) To produce world-leading research
Publication of 28 original and influential monographs and major scholarly editions, ranging from
transmission of texts in medieval Europe to contemporary Indian and Pakistani women’s fiction.
Research includes studies of important approaches (ecocriticism, Marxism and world literature,

                                                                                                       2
screen adaptation, intellectual history), forms (the sonnet, minimalism), influential essay
collections across all fields, and critically-acclaimed fiction and poetry (See REF2).

Aim (ii) To extend the department’s international profile, especially through collaborations
New initiatives in renaissance drama, modernist studies and cognitive humanities have
extended research collaboration (see also section 4), including through Theatrum Mundi (led
by Ravelhofer), a large-scale research-in-practice conference in early modern drama,
sponsored by the Société Internationale pour l’Etude du Théâtre Médiéval and Records of
Early English Drama North East (see ICS-4), and Cognitive Futures in the Humanities (founded
2012, led by Garratt).

Aim (iii) To strengthen the environment for early-career researchers
Continuation and expansion of the AHRC Northern Bridge consortium has secured
postgraduate funding, matched by University-funded studentships. Research projects awarded
by Leverhulme and Wellcome contribute further funded places. All these provide inter-
institutional and/or interdisciplinary supervisory teams, administrative assistance, non-
academic collaborative opportunities and career guidance. PhD awards this REF cycle have
risen nearly 100% on REF 2014.

Career development for 18 early-career researchers (ECRs) has been provided through large
project grants and prestigious independent fellowships: 14 have obtained further academic
appointments, 4 permanent academic posts. Bernini and Botha, early-career researchers on
large-scale funded projects, have been appointed to Assistant Professorships at Durham;
Lynes to a fixed-term lectureship and three-year research fellowship.

Aim (iv) To extend the amount and range of awards in research income
Research income has increased over 350% since 2014, to £4.78 million (Chart 1).


                                  Chart 1: Department of English Studies Research Income 2008-2021
   Resarch Income 2008-2021




                              0            1              2                  3            4          5
                                                              Amount in £m

                                                         2008    2014    2021


The department played a leading role in securing multi-million pound awards from the
Wellcome Trust. Significant income from AHRC, Leverhulme and British Academy has been
supplemented with awards from Arts Council England, the Heritage Lottery Fund, the ERC and
individual fellowships.


                                                                                                         3
Research and Impact Strategy


These achievements are rooted in the department’s ambitious research strategy over the past
decade. University strategy prioritised six departments including English for substantial
expansion on the basis of increased student intake (maintaining a staff:student ratio of 1:15),
leading to a revised departmental strategy (2015). This (i) identifies areas for recruitment and
opportunities for high-level collaboration, (ii) sets objectives for the department collectively, and
(iii) describes the mechanisms to achieve high-quality research and impact across the cycle of
design, collaboration, completion and dissemination. Strategy is regularly reviewed by the
Director of Research and Research Committee. Away Days and similar events offer
department-wide opportunities to share research, consider curriculum development and EDI
issues, and review aims.

      Foremost are recruitment policy and staff development (see section 2), aimed at hiring
       outstanding researchers, focusing on appointment of earlier career researchers
       alongside strategic enhancements of leadership in important areas. Priorities have been
       to: extend key areas of recognised strength (medieval studies, poetics, nineteenth- and
       twentieth-century writing), build capacity in previously under-represented areas
       (eighteenth-century literature, creative writing), and diversify into cognate areas that
       develop the curriculum, provide PhD supervision, attract funding, and extend
       partnerships and impact potential (world literatures, cognitive studies, medical
       humanities).

      The department places high strategic value on its leadership in medical humanities
       internationally, reflecting engagement with this field for over a decade. Its central role in
       the IMH (see section 1) enables researchers across English Studies to collaborate with
       other disciplines, health professionals and ‘experts by experience’ to explore issues
       such as voice-hearing, breath, affect, trauma, vulnerability, cognition and narratology.

      Strategic value is placed on research-in-practice – a close integration of critical
       analysis, textual study, performance and creativity, especially in drama, poetry and
       creative writing, modernism and medical humanities. Commitment to regional
       regeneration and promoting the centrality of culture through the arts is reflected in work
       with New Writing North, the Durham and Edinburgh Book Festivals, local writers and
       artists, film-makers and directors. Departmental, Faculty and external investment have
       enhanced the CPP, which brings together criticism and creative talent: led by Regan, it
       has digitised the magazine Poetry Durham (1982-94), revived a local poetry group,
       published award-winning poetry, and generated new collaborations with the Northern
       Poetry Library and the Poetry Book Society. This approach benefits research findings
       and changes practices, expanding the discipline’s intellectual horizons and identifying
       new audiences. Ravelhofer has tested the practical viability of late-medieval dramatic
       scripts (ICS-4); Garrington’s research in modernism and mountaineering led to
       partnerships with major cultural institutions and artists that have shaped her research
       (ICS-3).

      Interdisciplinary collaboration plays a vital role in framing research questions, grant
       writing and impact, and is achieved through work with Centres and Institutes, including

                                                                                                        4
       collaboration with the Centre for Visual Arts and Culture and research in the Centre for
       Modern Conflicts and Cultures. Working alongside colleagues in arts, social science,
       psychology and neuroscience, and medical practitioners, patients and support groups,
       the Hearing the Voice project has developed cross-disciplinary methods that also break
       new ground in literary studies; its ‘Working Knowledge’ series of Project Shorts is
       dedicated to the practicalities of interdisciplinary research, from design to social media.
       Interdisciplinary collaboration also offers career development through team work,
       leadership, training and learning new methods.

      External research funding enables collaboration across disciplines, completion of
       publications and impact work. Constructive internal peer-review leads to carefully
       nurtured applications and high success rates (section 3).

      Individual research and smaller-scale collaborations are encouraged through
       department, Faculty and Institute funding. Over the 2014-2020 REF period the Faculty
       has allocated just over £1.1 million to support both individual research and strategic
       research initiatives. Individual research allowances for, for example, conference
       attendance and archival work have been increased to £1,000/year for all REF-eligible
       staff (see REF5a 3.3). The Faculty offers funding for international travel and PhD
       students. Research leave, and formal inclusion of research time in workload models, is
       integral to completion of projects.

      Open Research Environment. Open access is actively promoted, following University
       policy. Staff publications are deposited in Durham Research Online (DRO), promoting
       research sharing; some research funders (e.g., Wellcome) require Gold Open Access.
       The department hosts PG English, an MLA-listed online postgraduate journal founded
       by Clark in 2000, and the Open Access online archive of The Wellsian, the scholarly
       journal of the international H. G. Wells Society. Since moving to Open Journal Systems
       in 2013, abstracts of PG English have been viewed 277,373 times, and PDFs of articles
       downloaded 175,783 times; The Wellsian is viewed c.3,000 times/month.

      Ethics. The Concordat to Support Research Integrity, adopted by the University in 2019,
       underpins research. All funding applications and relevant unfunded research require
       ethical approval; ethics is a standing Research Committee item. IMH has contributed to
       University and national discussions of good practice.

Impact strategy is focused on production of research that changes public understanding,
contributes to health, well-being and community, works with national and regional partners and
schools, and/or promotes arts and culture through exhibitions, festivals and events.
Interdisciplinary methodologies, co-production of research, and engagement of staff and PGRs
are central to strategy. Impact is overseen by a Deputy Director of Research, who advises on
opportunities and development of case studies, and works closely with the Faculty Impact and
Engagement Manager.

Case studies are rooted in long-standing collaborative and interdisciplinary work, assisted in
three instances by large-scale funding awards, and build on strategic research areas: medical
humanities: ICS-1 New Perspectives on Hearing Voices; ICS-2: Changing Approaches to

                                                                                                     5
Breathing and Breathlessness; modernist studies: ICS-3 Heroism and Expeditionary Archives;
and medieval and early modern studies: ICS-4: Cultural Heritage of North-East England.
Strategic focus on poetry and poetics is reflected in the substantial impact and public
engagement work of the CPP and creative writers.

Impact strategy comprises:

(i) Training. Staff attend University workshops in media presentation, public writing and working
with the heritage industry. Research and Innovation Services (RIS) provides ‘bespoke’ training,
including for early-career researchers. PhD students benefit from training through the AHRC-
funded Northern Bridge consortium and involvement with ICSs, Research Centres and
Institutes. The Faculty’s Impact Assistant Fund has helped develop all four impact case
studies, and trained PGRs in impact work. Specific expertise is available within IMH on working
with patient and community groups and data analysis.

(ii) Funding. The Impact Officer assists staff with applications to competitively-awarded
University-wide impact funds: over £70,000 has been awarded to English since 2015,
supporting all four case studies and additional projects by funding travelling exhibitions, public
performances, creative collaborations and participation in Durham Book Festival and Durham
Arts Festival. Many externally-funded projects include impact and engagement in research
design: Wellcome funding has enabled work in ICS-1 and ICS-2 and the appointment of
professional support staff; the AHRC has supported ICS-3 and ICS-4.

(iii) Creative collaboration. The department promotes a culture of embedding practice, critical
reflection and creative work, seen through the roles of writers-in-residence in ICS-1 and ICS-2,
and in the dramatic performances of late-medieval and Renaissance spectacles (ICS-4), in
collaboration with a visual artist (ICS-3), and in co-operation between creative writers, CPP and
local and national arts and poetry organisations.

(iv) Engagement of diverse audiences and promotion of open access generate co-production of
research. Engagement promotes impact through:

Social Media. Staff, post-docs and PhD students blog at Read English at Durham (READ) --
http://readdurhamenglish.wordpress.com/, updated at least weekly. Since 2014, it has had
241,000 views and has 2,321 subscribers; posts have been shared 7,803 times; it is linked to a
busy Facebook page, with c.5,500 monthly views of posts, and a Twitter feed with 3,747
followers. READ’s reach is both cultural and economic: it promotes events by many regional
organisations, and has 393 subscribers including schoolteachers and reading groups. Linked
videos and podcasts of public lectures, interviews, and performances have been
viewed/listened to over 25,200 times and REED-NE (ICS-3) 30,947 times. A blog for IMH,
relaunched as The Polyphony: Conversations across the Medical Humanities in 2018 (founding
editor, Woods), has over 8,500 international followers and attracts over 6,000 views per month.
The PWE project has its own website and blog (5010 visitors, 8,285 page views and 480
Twitter followers).

Broadcasting. Staff have contributed to the BBC Proms, BBC One’s Future Tense, BBC R4’s In
Our Time and R3’s The Essay and Free Thinking, and the World Service, and acted as

                                                                                                     6
consultants on films and documentaries. Egbunike produced the documentary In the Shadow
of Biafra (2020); Masud has been selected as a BBC / AHRC New Generation Thinker.

Public Writing. Colleagues write for newspapers and public-facing journals, including London
Review of Books, Dublin Review of Books, New York Times and The Lancet. Staff and post-
graduate researchers regularly contribute to The Conversation: an article by Sheils was
republished internationally by The Independent, RTÉ, the Smithsonian Institute, The Hindustan
Times and viewed online over 160,000 times; an article co-authored by Woods 308,849 times.

(v) Working with national and regional cultural partners. Collaboration with cultural
organisations promotes the arts to diverse audiences and initiates and develops new work,
sharing good practice. This includes longstanding regional collaborations with New Writing
North and Durham Book Festival (see section 4), and, through IMH, an ongoing partnership
with the Edinburgh International Book Festival (ICS-1). ICS-4 involved work with the National
Galleries of Scotland and the Royal Geographical Society. James has worked closely with Arts
Council England.

(vi) Opening access to University archives. The department has used Durham’s special
collections (including its medieval manuscripts and early printed books, modernist magazine
collection and Oriental Museum archive) to illuminate issues of public concern (breath and
breathlessness, voice-hearing, poetry and the North-East, folk belief and cultural boundaries),
and mounted public exhibitions of its research in the University’s exhibition space, the Wolfson
Gallery (ICS-1 and 2, plus exhibitions staged by James, Terry, Regan, and Flood), and at the
Oriental Museum and Ushaw College (the former Roman Catholic seminary, just outside
Durham) (ICS-3). University and external funding has enabled four exhibitions to tour beyond
Durham, including in pop-up exhibitions nationally and internationally.

(vii) Education. Impact strategy seeks to involve school children from the city and the region, by
staging events in schools and designing accessible introductions to research ideas, including
through exhibitions and other activities. ICS-2 and ICS-3 included educational events for school
children, designed by the Palace Green Library’s 4schools team, and at the Oriental Museum.
ICS-4 held workshops with young children who subsequently participated voluntarily in a range
of dramatic productions. Schoolteachers and pupils are invited to the postgraduate-led Late
Summer Lectures Series (1,130 invitations, 2020).

(viii) Key to impact strategy are collaborations with healthcare organisations, in many cases
fostered for over a decade, and leading to ICS-1 and ICS-2: Tees, Esk and Wear Valleys,
Northumberland, and Tyne & Wear NHS Trusts; Royal College of Physicians; British Lung
Foundation; Hearing Voices Network. Staff also work closely with practitioners, support groups,
patients and service-users. Partners have contributed to co-produced research, design of
practical applications and initiatives directed to changing public understanding (ICS-1 and ICS-
2).




                                                                                                   7
Research Objectives 2020-2030


Objectives for the next decade are to:
    publish research of the highest quality in all six research areas
    promote innovative collaborations with cultural and social benefits, addressing urgent
       questions relating to health, the environment, arts and culture, and the digital and
       cognitive humanities
    play a leading part in interdisciplinary and international research projects in all six
       research areas
    further integrate early-career researchers, including postgraduates, in the research
       environment, including by extended training, funding and mentoring
    continue to promote equality, diversity and inclusion across the spectrum of
       researchers, identifying any areas for improvement
    form new, more diverse audiences and collaborations, including through recent
       investment in research in world literatures.

The expansion of the department over the years 2017 to 2020 (section 2), alongside strategic
recruitment, development of influential interdisciplinary research methods, sharing of practice,
close collaboration with and leadership in Research Centres and Institutes, and enhanced
administrative and funding support all contribute to the vitality and sustainability of research
and the likelihood of achieving these objectives.

Plans include to:
    establish an international reputation in world literatures, through publications,
       conferences, staff and PhD recruitment
    play a leading role in the next stage of international medical humanities research,
       responding to global challenges through new work on hidden health conditions, stigma,
       trauma, affect and the interface of cognitive and literary studies. English Studies will be
       a driver of IMH’s development, including through an application for Wellcome Research
       Centre status in 2021, and development of a three-year ECR training programme.
       Research is supported by a recent extension to IMH’s Wellcome Development Grant
       (£1m).
    enhance the international profile of the Centre for Modern Conflicts and Cultures,
       including through important volumes on British and American literary culture in the
       Second World War and Cold War and work on the history of disinformation; and to
       further interdisciplinary modernist studies through work in sensory studies, history of
       emotions, modernism and the environment, and the 1922 centenary
    develop collaborative research on twenty-first century writing, on futurity, risk,
       vulnerability, environmental and digital humanities, bringing together work in cognitive
       studies, medical humanities and critical theory
    enhance the profile of CPP through research on the history and theory of poetics
       including The Oxford History of Poetry in English (Regan), influential creative writing
       and impact
    further work in arts and culture, including heritage, and put criticism, creativity and
       practice into ever-closer alignment



                                                                                                     8
       extend international profile in medieval studies and Renaissance literature, working with
        IMEMS to secure external funding and promote the use of Durham’s archives through
        residential Library fellowships (section 4).
     enhance an open research culture by engaging communities in substantially more
        published research through open access, online, free-to-view channels, anticipating
        Plan S.
The sustainability and vitality of the department within the current challenging context of
COVID-19 and in a period of national retraction are evidenced by the University’s commitment
to the recruitment of five new posts in 2021-22, which will further enhance early modern,
nineteenth- and twentieth-century and contemporary studies, medical humanities and areas
such as cognitive, environmental and digital humanities.


Section 2. People
Following recent expansion, the department has become one of the largest English
departments in the UK: 55 staff at July 2020. The female:male staff ratio is 40:60 with six
identifying as from a BAME background and twelve with part-time roles: six male; six female.
Robust processes, including of recruitment and induction, maintenance of staff:student ratio at
1:15, and career development for all staff are essential. Active commitment to equality,
diversity and inclusion in this REF cycle is reflected in the award of an Athena SWAN Bronze
Award in May 2020. Values of equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) are integral to staff and
postgraduate recruitment and development, and fostered through such mechanisms as the EDI
Open Committee which meets termly. A self-assessment team oversees implementation of the
Athena SWAN action plan. EDI is integrated into departmental practice, in recruitment,
promotion, research leave, training and working patterns, in alignment with University policies
(see REF5a 3.1-4,6).

Recruitment Policy
During this REF cycle, the department has made 25 appointments, largely in the period 2017–
2020, with four further appointments starting from Sept. 2020. 22 appointments have been at
early or mid-career with some senior roles to contribute to leadership of particular areas of
growth.

Following the University’s revision of recruitment processes in 2016 (see REF5a 3.1 and 3.2),
international job searches are undertaken for all appointments. Long- and short-listing panels
evaluate publications and research and teaching plans, with input sought across the
department; all search committee members undertake unconscious bias training. Long- and
short-lists are checked against discipline and sector EDI norms.

Recruitment strategy was to: (i) stage new posts incrementally in order to assist induction of
new staff; (ii) enhance established strengths in specific periods, genres and themes; and (iii)
invest in world literatures in English as a field that extended the research base, diversified the
curriculum, addressed urgent current issues and offered opportunities for new collaborations
and supervision. A new post in medical humanities was created through a funding award, and
University restructuring enabled further expansion in this field.




                                                                                                     9
Category A ‘permanent’ appointments complement and extend existing strengths in the six
primary areas of research:

Medieval and early modern studies: Bridges in medieval literatures; Brljak in early modern
poetics; Lawton, a senior appointment in Chaucer and medieval poetics; Swann in early
modern intellectual history (a post dedicated to interdisciplinary research); Huxtable in
medieval literature and science (from Oct. 2020).

Eighteenth- and Nineteenth-Century Writing: Valladares in Romantic-period drama,
complementing strengths in Romantic poetry; Dubois in Victorian poetry; Robertson, a senior
appointment ranging across this period with a transatlantic specialism. Rohrbach in British and
comparative Romanticisms; Riley in nineteenth- and twentieth-century American poetry and
critical theory (both Oct. 2020).

Modernisms and Post-War Cultures: Garrington and Sheils in twentieth-century writing,
complementing strengths in affect, environment, world literature and Irish studies; Pugh in post-
War American literature; Short (2019-21) in modernist fiction, embodiment and gender.

World Literature and Literary Theory: Mirza in Pakistani and Indian women’s fiction; Hartley in
theories of world literature and Marxism; Botha in minimalism, theory and South African
literature; Egbunike in Nigerian writing and culture (Oct. 2020).

Critical Medical Humanities: Bernini in cognitive studies and modernism, to the first lectureship
in cognitive literary studies in the UK; Woods in cultural theory and contemporary writing,
previously an honorary fellow in English, joining from the School of Medicine, Pharmacy and
Health, with two postdoctoral fellows, a creative facilitator and an administrative team; Riddell
in nineteenth-century and fin-de-siècle literature (2019-23, funded by medical humanities
awards).

Poetry and Poetics and Creative Writing: Booth and Sahota, both renowned novelists; Harman,
an award-winning biographer and life-writer; acclaimed poets Chingonyi and Riviere; Riley (see
above).

Warwick, appointed as Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research (2015) and now full-time in English
Studies, brings new strengths in digital humanities. High value is placed on emeritus staff:
Fuller has been retained part-time to work on Shakespeare, Romantic poetry, aesthetics and
medical humanities; McKinnell was PI on ‘Records of Early English Drama’ to 2018 and is
active in REED initiatives.

Staff development
Responsibility for development of research is shared between the Head of Department,
Director of Research, directors for impact and grants, and Research Committee, liaising with
the Staff Development Officer, a newly-created role. New staff are assigned a mentor who
advises on teaching, research, and career development. Whenever possible, short-term
appointments are designed as both research and teaching posts to enable career
development: Huxtable, previously temporary lecturer, was appointed to a permanent post;
Lynes previously research fellow, to a temporary lectureship and three-year fellowship; Short to

                                                                                                  10
a second, two-year lectureship, all in the department. Induction meetings take place with
department, Faculty and research support staff. Probation for all University academic
appointments, including early-career researchers and postdoctoral scholars, is for one year.
Research goals and objectives are agreed with the Head of Department. New staff are assisted
by workload reductions (c.85% teaching and examining load without significant administrative
offices), mentoring and staff reviews. All new staff have been confirmed in post during this
cycle.

Each year staff complete a Personal Research Plan (PRP), specifying short- and longer-term
research goals, grant and impact plans, and training needs. This is discussed with individual
mentors and forwarded to the Director of Research, who with the deputy Director of Research
(Grants) assists with research and grant planning. This enables career development and
collaboration with colleagues and other departments, and identifies issues for collective
discussion.

Training for all staff and PGRs is provided through the Durham Centre for Academic
Development, including in postgraduate supervision skills, research methods, project
management, and research dissemination. RIS provides regular, tailored workshops, open to
postdoctoral researchers, on external funding in conjunction with the Faculty and successful
applicants to disseminate good practice (see section 3). RIS provides an Arts and Humanities-
dedicated specialist impact manager, experienced in working with cultural and heritage
organisations.

Staff at all levels act as research mentors where appropriate: for example, relatively early-
career lecturers may gain experience in mentoring postdoctoral researchers. A workload model
operates in a transparent and proportionate way: 50% of each workload is allocated to
research; all administrative roles have a specific workload allocation; and in term-time all staff
are guaranteed at least one day per week without teaching.

All staff benefit from the University’s provision of regular research leave (without teaching,
examining or administrative duties) of one term in every seven. Applications state specific
goals, and a report is submitted at the start of the following term: all applications since 2014
have been successful. During the period, six staff have gained additional leave terms in an
internal research fellowship competition administered by the Institute of Advanced Study (IAS)
and in Faculty-wide competition; four previous additional leaves supported research for outputs
submitted in REF2021. Colleagues returning from parental/adoption leave are granted an
additional term of research leave.

In 2017 the University revised promotion processes and renamed career grades as Assistant,
Associate, and full Professor. Following University practice (see REF5a 3.2), the Department
Promotion and Progression Committee considers all eligible members of staff for nomination to
the Faculty Promotion Committee, ensuring parity of consideration at all levels and guarding
against gender bias (a self-nomination system is retained for exceptional circumstances).
World-leading quality of publications (appropriate to career stage) is specified in University
benchmarks as an essential criterion; impact is an explicitly stated desirable criterion. The
department provides detailed information on benchmarks. A statement on contribution to
equality and diversity is mandatory. The Chair of EDI Committee or a nominated colleague sits

                                                                                                 11
on Department Promotion and Progression committee. Staff are mentored throughout the
promotion process: the Head of Department and other senior staff offer feedback at all stages;
all staff are invited to consult a senior mentor nominated by EDI Committee.

It is standard to progress from Grade 7 to Grade 8 on meeting probation targets. Since 2014,
20 members of staff have been promoted, including 4 professorial promotions (3 further
promotions, 1 professorial, announced Oct. 2020 due to COVID-19 delays). All staff are eligible
for discretionary awards for exceptional contributions, including impact achievements; the
department has a good record of achievement.

Staff are encouraged to take up leadership roles within the University and beyond, including
this cycle: Deputy Executive Dean (Research) for Arts and Humanities (Robertson; previously
Nash), University Council (Saunders). Warwick was chair of Russell Group PVC Research
working group; Woods and Terry participated in the UK Leadership Foundation for Higher
Education Aurora Development Programme. Leadership roles, including in Centres, Institutes
and large-scale research projects, bring dedicated administrative support and reduction of
departmental workload.

The department’s EDI Committee has emphasised work-life balance as a key issue, resulting
in alterations to timings of research seminars and meetings. A well-being policy is promoted to
staff and PGRs and the resources offered by Organisation Development and Occupational
Health are recommended. In response to individual circumstances colleagues at all levels,
including ECRs, have been granted ‘flexible working’ rights to alter hours and patterns of work,
including moving to part-time contracts or taking extended parental leave. In this cycle, ill
health, caring responsibilities, disability and serious adverse circumstances have also been
adjusted for through support for working from home, purchase of specialist equipment, altered
workloads and additional administrative support. Part-time and fixed-term staff are entitled to
the same level of research funding and support as full-time ‘permanent’ staff. Teaching fellows
have access to career development funding to further their research.

Early-Career Researchers
The University has won an HR Excellence in Research award from the European Commission;
it implements in full the European Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers. This provides a set of values that inform support for ECRs: training for career
development; equality and diversity in opportunity; personal well-being; and access to
academic guidance, facilities and funds. Initiatives are overseen by Postgraduate Committee
and Research Committee. Advice is offered on all aspects of job applications and support
given through personal research funds. Postdoctoral teachers are supported through career
development funds.

Durham University operated a very successful programme of two-year Junior Research
Fellowships co-funded by the European Union's Seventh Framework Programme, 2014–2019,
which enabled eight early-career researchers in the department to initiate and complete
independent projects following from doctoral work. The department has secured numerous
highly competitive externally funded fellowships including four Leverhulme Early Career
Fellowships (since 2014), and has employed seven postdoctoral research associates as part of
externally-funded projects. All such researchers are full members of the department, supported

                                                                                               12
by the mentoring, research funding, training and seminars available to all staff. They are given
office space and teaching opportunities, and attend the Board of Studies. Success is evident in
the fact that five have now secured permanent posts at research-intensive universities; and two
hold prestigious research fellowships.

Research students
Since 2014, English Studies has expanded the size of, and provision for, the research student
community, enhancing funding, supervision, review and career development. This strategic
development is reflected in 96 successful PhD completions, compared to 49.4 in REF 2014.
The gender balance was 35:65 male:female; 31 were international students. Numbers were
spread across the department’s research areas: 44 completed PhDs in post-1900 literary
studies; 21 in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century writing; 21 in medieval and early modern
literature and 10 in world literatures and theory. Recent recruitment extends supervisory
capacity in world literatures, which has rising numbers of students, and in 2016-17, the
department launched a new PhD programme in creative writing.

The department has expanded the funding sources which support students. Its range of
supervisory expertise and research strengths, and its robust processes, were central to the
University’s successful application to the AHRC’s BGP2 scheme, Northern Bridge (see REF5a
3.5). Since 2014, the department has won 12 Northern Bridge doctoral studentships, and an
additional 11 fully-funded Durham Doctoral Studentships (fees and maintenance grants). The
50 current registered PGRs include students supported by scholarships from Wolfson, the
Leverhulme Trust, the Wellcome Trust and the AHRC (REED project). PGRs have also been
funded by the British Council, Charles Wallace Pakistan Trust, China Scholarships Council,
Egyptian Cultural Bureau, and Algerian government. In total, 35 students have been fully
funded through doctoral study in this REF cycle (32 in REF 2014). Bridges has won a British
Library Collaborative Doctoral Fellowship (2020-24). Placements are now built into Northern
Bridge Fellowships and have been held in publishing, archives and heritage.

Co-Directors of Postgraduate Research advise PGRs, who are integrated with staff and
postdoctoral researchers through various means. Research seminars are held regularly for
both staff and PGRs; PGRs are responsible for organising the seminar series Inventions of the
Text, also attended by staff and (since 2010) an annual, public Late Summer Lectures series
(c.8 weekly lectures with internal and external speakers). Specialist staff-student reading
groups, often led by PGRs/ECRs, include in this cycle: Old Norse, Medieval Latin, literary
theory, Irish studies, and mid-twentieth century literature. Research Institutes and Centres
including IMH and IMEMS, the Centre for Culture and Ecology, the Durham Centre for Ancient
and Medieval Philosophy and the Centre for Visual Arts and Culture hold regular staff-PGR
reading groups. PGRs funded by Northern Bridge benefit from generous research funding,
enabling attendance at conferences and archival work; staff and PGRs often present at the
same conferences, for example, the International Medieval Congress at Kalamazoo and the
British Association of Modernist Studies conference. All PGRs, postdoctoral researchers and
other staff in English Studies are invited to a weekly informal lunch, promoting wellbeing and
integration. (Like seminars, this has been held virtually during the COVID-19 pandemic).

PGRs work closely with a main supervisor, usually meeting fortnightly in term-time, and at least
one secondary supervisor, usually with an 80/20 or 60/20/20 split. Department procedures

                                                                                                13
have been revised to give students further guidance, assist timely completion and promote
well-being. Progress is reviewed by another staff member at three stages: progression review
after eight months, confirmation review after 20 months, and completion review to prepare for
submission and viva, with a further review for students on continuation. Reviews include
feedback on written work and individual meetings.

All PGRs receive training in research methods including use of special collections, as well as
for career development: publishing, social media, conferences, networking. The Durham
Centre for Academic Development operates a range of year-round courses in, for example,
languages, presentation skills, viva preparation and publishing. Departmental training was
redesigned in 2019 to introduce more regular cross-disciplinary training seminars and events
such as meetings with publishers. Teaching Assistantships allow development of teaching
skills through tutorial teaching. All PGR teachers undertake thorough departmental induction
and the Durham University Learning and Teaching Award, accredited by the HEA, which
provides transferable skills and is a recognised benchmark for teaching practice. Assigned
mentors oversee preparation and assessment, and offer feedback on teaching.

This combination of academic supervision, skills training and departmental integration
contributes to a vibrant research community the quality of which is reflected by its
achievements in:

(i) Publishing. PGRs have published in Medium Ævum, Victorian Literature and Culture,
Modern Fiction Studies, Essays in Criticism, Cambridge Quarterly, Journal of Modern
Literature, Modernism/Modernity, Review of English Studies, Textual Practice. PGRs edited
special issues of Brontë Studies, Romanticism, and in this cycle alone c.10 dissertations have
been published as monographs. Two editors for PG English are trained annually. A strong
creative writing culture is fostered by CPP: the student-led literary magazines Durham English
Review, The Gentian and From the Lighthouse and the online journal The Bubble are
supported by the staff through contributions and advice. Notable awards won by recent
students include the Eric Gregory Award, Foyle Young Poet of the Year and Christopher Tower
Poetry Prize; novels and poetry have been published by HarperCollins and The Poetry Review.

(ii) Career Trajectory. The department prepares PhD students for work (academic or non-
academic) through a Research Assistantship scheme (begun in 2009). Each year, 8-10 PGRs
are appointed, after advertisement, to assist staff members on research projects, receiving
training in archival research, transcription, editing or bibliographical work. PGRs have gone on
to further academic careers at seven UK universities including Durham, and at universities in
Australia, Canada, China, Egypt, India, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Africa,
Taiwan, Turkey and the United States.

(iii) Subject Contribution. PGRs provide leadership in regional groups, such as the North East
PGR Group in the Long 19th Century, organised from Durham, and the regular ‘Mother
Tongues’ Medieval Seminar (co-funded by IMEMS). A medical humanities network for
PGRs/ECRs received funding from the Wolfson Institute. Woods won funding from the British
Academy for a three-day workshop for early-career researchers on ‘Collaboration in the Critical
Medical Humanities’ (2017), from Wellcome for a New Generations programme, and is
developing a Wellcome-supported Cultures of Collaboration training programme (2021-).

                                                                                                   14
(iv) Non-academic partnerships. Departmental training in impact, including writing for non-
academic audiences, has produced regular PGR contributions to READ; to a Medieval and
Early Modern Studies community course; and to the impact work of major funded projects (for
example as RAs for all four ICSs). Collaboration with strategic partners such as New Writing
North provides training for PGRs in arts management and the cultural sector. All PGRs
contributing to Postgraduate English are invited to contribute a blog to READ and offered one-
to-one training in public engagement.

(v) Conferences. In addition to financial support for archival visits and conference participation
and organisation – available from department, Faculty and Colleges – staff mentor PGRs in
devising and running conferences, developing management and budget-holding skills. Since
2010 an annual research assistantship has been offered for a PGR to organise a conference in
Durham; a selection of proceedings appears in PG English. Such conferences have included
‘Abnormality and the Abnormal in the Nineteenth Century’ (2015), ‘Literary Birds’ and ‘Elegy:
New Approaches’ (2018), ‘Consent’ (2019) and ‘Humour and Satire in British Romanticism’
(2019) (papers to be published in Romanticism). PGRs co-organised the annual international
Gender and Medieval Studies Conference (2019) and the 2017 Brontë Society international
conference, both in Durham. With IMH, Woods has developed conference policies concerning
respect, which form part of training and conference organisation for staff and PGRs.

(vi) Interdisciplinary research. IMH, IMEMS and CNCS provide focused environments for
specific forms of interdisciplinary work. The Medieval and Early Modern Student Association
hosts fortnightly seminars, augmented by workshops, colloquia, and a summer conference.
PGRs have contributed to major IMH, IMEMS and CNCS conferences, including ‘Life of
Breath’, ‘Personification Across Disciplines’ and ‘Medieval Theatre Forum’. A PGR in literary
modernism is the only non-scientist invited to the Arctic Frontiers conference in Norway.


Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


Research Income, Strategy and Organisation
The department has increased its external research income from £1.3 million for REF 2014 to
£4.78 million, a rise of over 350%. This includes three major Wellcome-funded collaborative
awards in medical humanities – Hearing the Voice, Life of Breath and a Development grant –
all of which brought posts and further awards to the department.

The department is placed in the top third of English departments in the Russell Group for grant
income, attesting to the innovation, quality and sustainability of its research culture. A
conservative projection of £450,000 per annum for the next REF period, much of this income
already guaranteed by current awards, reflects success and ensures future development.
Research awards have generated major collaborative research projects, and led to numerous
high-quality publications, prominent interdisciplinary and methodological work, an expansion of
funded doctoral and postdoctoral places, and enhancement of postgraduate and ECR
communities. They are highly influential in sustaining the discipline, including through the
creation of major edited collections; developing new interdisciplinary fields, such as in medical


                                                                                                 15
and cognitive humanities; and forming new collaborations with cultural and health sector
organisations.

Strategy and organisation:

1. Diversification of income by research area. Income at REF 2014 was itself a 300% rise on
2008, but reflected reliance on specific staff members. Awards in the current cycle (see Chart
2) reflect both consolidation of success and applications from a wider range of staff. The closer
organisational link with IMH, with Woods moving to English, has increased the department’s
share of Wellcome Trust funds, also awarded to Saunders and Waugh. Significant income has
been won from AHRC and Leverhulme, for major projects and individual fellowships, for
example, Smith, Political Warfare Executive, Covert Propaganda, and British Culture
(Leverhulme, £320,000); Mack (Leverhulme Research Fellowship, £46,000), and from the EU
for co-funded research fellowships.


                             Chart 2: Department of English Studies
                                       Research Income
                                 1 August 2013 - 31 July 2020




                                                                          MHRA, £5,770

                                                                            Other Funding
                                    The Wellcome Trust,                    Sources, £6,574
                                        £2,806,619
                                                                              The British
                                                                              Academy,
                                                                               £40,810

                                                                                Russkily Mir
                                                                                Foundation,
                                      Arts and
                                                                                   £84,723
                                     Humanities                         European
                                      Research                         Commission,
                                       Council,                         £298,824
                                      £881,212
                                                               The Leverhulme
                                                               Trust, £653,249



2. Collaboration. Centres and Institutes have been notably successful in generating
collaborations that lead to funding. Smith is PI of the PWE project, developed in collaboration
with the Centre for Modern Conflicts and Cultures (Waugh, Co-I; Fox, Co-I is historian at
School of Advanced Study, University of London). The project COVID-19 Rumours in Historical
Context (Fox, PI; Smith, Co-I; AHRC-funded, Oct. 2020) was developed in this cycle in
response to the pandemic. The REED project, partly developed with IMEMS, involves
collaboration with an international team of editors. The IMH model (see Chart 3) is founded on
collaboration with academic and non-academic partners, also facilitating interdisciplinary
methods. The Hearing the Voice and Life of Breath projects bring together researchers from all


                                                                                                16
three Faculties with health practitioners and those with lived experience. Hearing the Voice was
awarded the 2020 AHRC/Wellcome Medical Humanities Award for ‘Best Research’.

3. Building on Success. Grant awards have led to further success. Chambers, for example,
employed on the REED project, was Co-Investigator on the AHRC-funded Lexis of Cloth and
Clothing in Medieval Royal Wardrobe Project, awarded follow-on impact funding of £79,000.
Investment in medical humanities as an emerging field more than a decade ago has influenced
the formation of research in cognitive humanities, as in A History of Distributed Cognition
(Garratt Co-I; AHRC Standard Grant, £8,266).

4. Impact. Research grant income assists in development of impact and engagement work. In
addition to supporting case studies, funding enabled other non-academic collaborations. James
was awarded a Creative Economy Engagement Fellowship with New Writing North (AHRC,
£44,689).


             Hearing the Voice 2                 The Life of Breath: Breathing in Cultural,
                                                      Clinical and Lived Experience
            Woods Co-Director
        Saunders and Waugh Co-Is               Macnaughton (Anthropology) Co-Director
   Collaborative Award in Humanities and               Saunders Collaborator
               Social Sciences                        Senior Investigator Award
               Wellcome Trust                              Wellcome   Trust
         Total award value: £2.9m                     Total award value: £1.5m
      Award to English Studies: £1.9m            Award to English Studies: £187,000
                                     Chart 3: Major
                                    Critical Medical
                                  Humanities Awards
                                           at
                                   Durham University
                                                   Centre for Medical Humanities
 The Matter of the Mind: Transdisciplinary
 Consciousness in Contemporary Fiction
                                                Macnaughton (Anthropology) Director
                                                     Saunders and Woods Co-Is
                Waugh Co-I
                                                        Development Award
             Studentship Award
                                                           Wellcome Trust
               Wellcome Trust
                                                       Total award value: £1m
     Award to English Studies: £79,500
                                                 Award to English Studies: £262,000



5. Training and Community. Funding boosts training programmes, enhances integration of
communities, and builds networks of researchers. Staff actively mentor prospective applicants
to postdoctoral schemes, with notable success. Seventeen postdoctoral researchers have
been funded in this cycle, with support from: AHRC, European Commission, Leverhulme and
Wellcome, including four prestigious Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships. The Leverhulme
PWE award funds one PhD student and one postdoctoral researcher. AHRC BGP-2 funding
provides support for the PGR community (see section 2).

6. Equality and Diversity. A positive and supportive research strategy has shaped an inclusive
research culture. This is borne out in the gender balance of grant awards: of the 34 successful

                                                                                                  17
applications between July 2013 and August 2020 led by English Studies primary investigators,
19 had female PIs, including 4 of the 5 largest grants awarded to the department.
Recommendations from the Athena SWAN process have refined practices such as mentoring,
early-career induction processes, and follow-up meetings with unsuccessful applicants, to
ensure support at key career points for all staff, including those from under-represented
groups.

7. Planning and Peer Review. All staff annually make and review plans for external funding
(see section 2): emphasis is on submitting applications that are likely to be competitive rather
than meeting annual targets. A Deputy Director of Research deals with grant applications,
discusses projects and scheme expectations, and organises peer reviews. Further support is
provided through internal and external-led workshops targeted at specific schemes, organised
by the department, Faculty and Research Office. A database of successful applications across
the Faculty is available for consultation. A two-tier peer-review system ensures all applications
are read both in the department and elsewhere in the Faculty for a cross-disciplinary
perspective. These processes underpin a success rate for English Studies grant applications of
28% (2014-2020).

Operational and scholarly infrastructure: estate, staff, equipment
There have been significant developments in the infrastructure to support research since 2014.

The University’s commitment to updating its estate and facilities has considerably enhanced
literary research through Library expansion and postgraduate workspace (see REF5a 4.2). The
current annual library budget for English is £101,500 (a 13% increase on 2015): all staff order
in their research areas, including electronic resources, back-runs, out-of-print and one-off
items. All significant journals in the field, and many smaller ones, are available online and often
in hardcopy. The Library holds over 120 relevant online databases and funds major electronic
resources through central funds.

In 2016 the University introduced a research incentivisation scheme by which a proportion of
overheads is contributed to a personal research fund for the successful PI and a similar
amount to the department research fund. These monies have been used to support
international workshops, conference travel and archival visits for staff and PGRs, and to fund
departmental research seminar programmes.

All researchers in English have access to a network of archives and special collections across
Durham, including the Cathedral Library, the internationally renowned Special Collections
department of the University Library, and the library of Ushaw College (see REF5a 4.3), which
holds medieval manuscripts and rare printed collections, including of eighteenth and nineteenth
century literature. Holdings in these libraries and elsewhere, such as at The Bowes Museum
(Barnard Castle), are searchable through the University online catalogue. Staff across English
use: (i) Bishop Cosin’s Library, Palace Green and Cathedral collections of medieval
manuscripts and early printed books (Archibald, Bridges, Cartlidge, Saunders), together
forming one of the richest pre-Reformation libraries in the world; (ii) archives in the Cathedral
Library and Ushaw College library, essential to the REED project (Ravelhofer) and work in
medieval and early modern studies; (iii) the Old Norse collection (Ashurst), begun in the 1960s
and one of the best in the UK; (iv) a collection unparalleled in the UK outside copyright libraries

                                                                                                 18
of decadent, aestheticist and modernist periodicals, and the William Plomer collection of letters
between the publisher and leading 20th century writers (James, Harding); (v) the Basil Bunting
archive (acquired 1987) of papers and recordings of the Northumbrian poet, enhanced by the
Anne Stevenson Collection of contemporary poetry (2020) and the acquisition (through the
CPP) of early manuscript drafts and rare printed works by Irish poet Ciaran Carson (Regan and
others in CPP).

University custodianship of Ushaw College Library led to an agreement with Durham Cathedral
Library to create a unified Durham Residential Research Library (DRRL) in 2017 (see REF5a
4.3). Thirty visiting fellowships in arts and humanities, funded by the University and donors, and
open to non-academic applicants, are administered by the DRRL Steering Committee
(including Faculty and IMEMS representatives) and enable research drawing on Ushaw,
Cathedral library and University special collections. Nash oversaw the academic programme at
Ushaw (Regan and Ravelhofer coordinated conferences and visiting speakers), leading to the
creation of the RRL and its fellowship scheme: in 2018-19, the inaugural year, six were in
English, enhancing research collaboration. Fellowships, lectures and a new exhibition space
(used in ICS-3) have notably increased public access to Ushaw College.


Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Through its research excellence and impact, and its collaborations within and beyond English
studies, the department plays an influential role in the field nationally and internationally. It
promotes collaboration with academic and non-academic partners, to extend the reach and
diversity of audiences, facilitate interdisciplinary research, and contribute to the research base.
Departmental, Faculty and University funds are available for development of grant applications
or potential impact work; Centres and Institutes host visiting fellows and fund initial stages of
collaborative projects.

Department and University structures (section 1) facilitate collaboration as a series of steps
from small-scale links, through formal networks, to large funded multi-institutional projects, the
creation of strategic partnerships, co-production of research with academic and non-academic
partners, and ability to impact wider, non-academic audiences. The example of REED-NE
illustrates stages and support mechanisms: (i) initial local links between McKinnell and
Ravelhofer’s shared interest in late-medieval performance, assisted by recruitment strategy
and research seminars; (ii) application to join international REED network (based in Toronto)
facilitated by grant development support, assisted by Faculty and IMEMS peer review; (iii)
creation of research fellowships and non-academic partnerships through grant award,
attracting additional PhD students (iv) research-in-practice, funded by grant and University
impact funding including a PhD student impact assistant, allows joint amateur-professional
staging of Renaissance drama testing performance practice; (v) supported by internal funds,
further events enabling wide range of groups and volunteers to gain exposure, develop skills
and enhance well-being (see ICS-4) (vi) AHRC follow-on fund application submitted. This
project grew out of many years of international partnerships with researchers and practitioners
(in particular in Canada, France and Belgium), and has established new relationships with
heritage institutions, schools, churches, cultural and dramatic organisations and groups,
contributing to the cultural identity of the North East through its excavation and revival of ritual
and performance, including in relation to costume, embroidery, music and dance.
                                                                                                       19
Academic events, local interdisciplinary collaboration, co-production of research and impact
events are encouraged in all research areas. Some collaborations lead to multi-institutional
scholarly projects, others generate far-reaching social benefits. Collaboration is enabled
through:

(i) Smaller-scale innovative interdisciplinary research that seeks to extend the frontiers of
English studies. IAS funding enabled Harding and Nash to stage workshops for linguists and
classicists leading to Modernism and Non-Translation. The IAS, IMH and department co-
funded two public lecture series on ‘Beauty’ underpinning volumes published in this cycle, The
Recovery of Beauty, (co-ed. Fuller, Macnaughton, Saunders) and The Persistence of Beauty
(co-ed. O’Neill, Sandy, Wootton). The North-East Forum for Eighteenth-Century Studies holds
regular seminars, co-convened by Skinner; Robertson and Skinner have established a cross-
disciplinary Long Eighteenth Century Research Group collaborating with Palace Green Library
to draw on archives and special collections.

(ii) Visiting Fellows
The department regularly hosts research fellows and practitioners for extended visits and
public engagement. The IAS sponsored a Visiting Research Fellowship for Peter Hansen, the
world’s leading historian of mountaineering, supporting ICS-3; the Hearing the Voice project
funded a fellowship for world-leading professor of clinical psychology Louis Sass (Rutgers);
Sheils and Bristow won funding from IHRR for psychoanalyst Sally Weintrobe to give a public
lecture on the psychology of climate change.

(iii) Strategic partnerships with regional and national organisations.
The department values longstanding strategic partnerships that have grown from local-level
involvement. In addition to those described in the case studies, the department and CPP
promote Durham and the region as an important national focus for poetry. The Durham Book
Festival (DBF) has been a regional success story for over a decade, attracting major authors
and generating much tourism and revenue for the area. James and Regan are on the DBF
programme committee. The CPP, through Regan, Batchelor, Chingonyi and Riviere, has
worked with DBF and Northern Poetry Library, the Poetry Book Society and T. S. Eliot
Foundation to encourage the performative and textual life of poetry in the region, and to
showcase, encourage and commission new work, countering London-centric trends. The
department supports DBF by annually funding and appointing a festival laureate who produces
a new poem inspired by the region (recent laureates include Simon Armitage, Helen Mort and
Raymond Antrobus). Booth is a judge for New Writing North’s Sid Chaplin Award for working
class writing and Young Writers Awards, and mentors recipients of their annual award in novel
writing.

The University has Memoranda of Agreement with The Bowes Museum, leading to online
cataloguing, and Auckland Castle: the Auckland Project has established the new Zurbarán
Centre for Spanish and Latin American Art involving members of the Department; Robertson is
a member of the Steering Committee. Warwick’s research on digital eye tracking is in
partnership with Bowes, Auckland and staff in modern languages.




                                                                                               20
(iv) Research engaging new and diverse audiences
To support engagement with audiences potentially unfamiliar with literary research and/or
University life, the department and University fund events, lecture series, meetings, workshops
and visits. According to the ‘Changing Lives’ report by the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport
Committee in the House of Commons, work undertaken by James at Frankland Prison, one of
the highest-security prisons in the UK, ‘allows prisoners to interact with each other more freely’
and provides ‘a framework for ethical debate’ assisting prospects of rehabilitation.

Research by Woods and Waugh engages the voice-hearing community, many of whom
experience severe mental health problems and come from socio-economically disadvantaged
groups, through partnerships with Waddington Street Community Centre (Durham), local and
national Hearing Voices Movement, and consultancy for films addressing mental illness. Work
in medical humanities leads to publications co-authored with scientists published in high-profile
scientific journals, for example, The Lancet Psychiatry.

(v) Contributions to national debates
Departmental strategy encourages ambitious engagement in national debates, exemplifying
the vitality of English studies. Colleagues have made important public contributions regarding
innovation, creativity, diversity, open access and children’s education. Waugh wrote a section
on complexity and narrative thinking for Sir Mark Wolpert’s first 2014 Report to the Government
on Science, Risk and Innovation, circulated among European policy makers. Additional
research leave allowed James to be principal investigator and write the report for the joint Arts
Council–Durham University Commission on Creativity and Education (2017-19), reflecting on
school curricula. He contributed to the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Children’s Oracy.
Chingonyi gave the inaugural Sylvia Winter Lecture in London, addressing the representation
of ‘people of minoritised subjectivities’ in authority positions. Warwick served on the JISC /
Elsevier Open Science steering group (2017-19).

(vi) Non-academic collaborations
Departmental impact strategy encourages and funds conversations with non-academic
audiences and organizations. Bridges has composed librettos based on her work, including for
Durham Vocal Festival (2019). Brljak edited a freely accessible interactive colloquy on allegory
for Arcade, Stanford University’s ‘virtual salon’ for ‘literature, humanities and the world’. James
co-curated an exhibition on ‘H.G. Wells: Time Traveller’ at the University of Illinois Library
which won the Leab Exhibition Award (2018). O’Connell is a member of an Irish network
‘Gastronomy’, collaborating with chefs and catering professionals. Swann co-curated an online
exhibition hosted by the Fitzwilliam Museum. Wootton is Co-Director of the International Keats
Conference, in partnership with the Keats House in Hampstead and the Keats Foundation.
Chingonyi’s collaborative poetics of place project includes a residency at Hadrian’s Wall.

Contribution to research base and sustainability of the discipline


The department contributes extensively to the research base through:

1. International scholarly editions
Colleagues have led, and contributed to, international collaborative projects, often funded by
large grants, leading to major publications which expand the disciplinary research base. As

                                                                                                  21
works of reference in use for many years, authoritative scholarly editions sustain the discipline.
The following resulted from multi-person editorial projects in the late medieval and early
modern period, romantic studies, and modernism:
    The Letters of William Godwin, 6 vols (gen. ed. Clemit)
    T.S. Eliot’s Complete Prose, vol.4 (Harding)
    Records of Early English Drama North-East, 5 vols (McKinnell, Ravelhofer)
    The Complete Works of James Shirley, 10 vols (gen. ed. Ravelhofer).

These projects have made archival discoveries widely available to the scholarly community and
non-academic audiences.

2. Leadership in new fields of enquiry
The department and University nurture dynamic interdisciplinary research which makes timely
and influential interventions, including through inter- and cross-disciplinary dialogue, theoretical
work to establish new methodologies, and exploration of previously under-explored archives.
Interdisciplinary research is promoted through Centres, Institutes and collaborations (see
above), high-profile events and innovative online fora.

The PWE project led by Smith has opened up archives to new audiences, including through
social media, to illuminate the history of disinformation. Waugh’s work adapts medical
humanities approaches to shape new directions in intellectual history, modernism and cognitive
studies. This distinctive intellectual initiative is further vitalised by Bernini’s work in narratology
and cognition and the international research network Cognitive Futures in the Humanities. This
emerging research field has resulted in major publications including The Cognitive Humanities:
Embodied Mind in Literature and Culture, a further AHRC-funded project A History of
Distributed Cognition, and Garratt’s appointment as general editor of Routledge’s three-volume
Nineteenth-Century British Literature and Philosophy. Woods has been at the forefront of
articulating critical medical humanities, including through the first edited collection, The
Edinburgh Companion to the Critical Medical Humanities.

A new emphasis on global humanities enabled by the recruitment strategy is evident in work on
South African literatures (Botha), world systems theory (Hartley), Indian and Pakistani women's
writing (Mirza), Nigerian writing (Egbunike). Strategic focus on modern conflicts has enabled
writing on global risk and transatlantic projects (Harding, Smith, Thomas), and on futurity, anti-
racism and feminism (Terry). New methodological work carries potential for the discipline to
develop in ways as yet unforeseen: Clark is at the forefront of research in ecocriticism and eco-
deconstruction.

3. Organisational Leadership
The department’s vitality is demonstrated in leadership offered to national and international
organisations, contributing to the longer-term co-operation that sustains the discipline. Waugh
was a founding member of the AHRC’s ‘Science and Culture’ advisory panel (2014-17) and
has served on the Wellcome Trust’s selection and interview panel. She has served on the
English RAE and REF panels, as has Robertson who also contributed to the 2018 New
Zealand Performance-Based Research Fund Quality Evaluation. Warwick was UK facilitator for
the UKRI / Irish Research Council Collaboration in Digital Humanities Research, in which open
access and open data are prominent themes. Woods currently chairs the Wellcome Trust Early

                                                                                                     22
Career Researcher Interview Panel and has served on the Expert Review Group since 2017.
Garrington’s service on the Advisory Council of the Institute of English Studies has a particular
emphasis on support for ECRs. Members of staff have served as executive committee or board
members for many national and international societies, including International Arthurian
Society, British Association of Romantic Studies, British Association for American Studies,
International Byron Society, Wordsworth Conference Foundation.

4. Peer Review
As the bedrock of disciplinary standards, all colleagues participate in peer review, internally
and externally: experience in external evaluations assists constructive and successful internal
reviews (section 3), and encourages challenge and innovation, strengthening rigour, enhancing
co-operation, sparking new thought and disseminating good practice. Colleagues undertake
appraisals for 30 journals including Chaucer Review, Shakespeare Quarterly, Renaissance
Quarterly, Journal of American Studies, Psychoanalysis, Culture and Society, Modern
Language Review, Review of English Studies, LIT, Literature and Medicine, Open Library of
Humanities, Contemporary Women’s Writing, Gender and the Black International, Journal of
Commonwealth Literature, and PMLA. Many peer review book proposals and manuscripts for
leading publishers of academic books.

Staff review grants for a wide range of funding bodies and research councils, including all
major UK funders, Carnegie Trust, and international research councils including the European
Science Foundation and funding agencies in Australia, Ireland, Norway, and Switzerland.

5. Editorial work reflects leadership in the field and in academic standards, and encourages
good peer review practice. Editors work closely with colleagues across the globe to encourage
new work and promote shared understanding and rigorous debate. Colleagues edit leading
journals, including one of the foremost theory journals, Oxford Literary Review (Clark), a
leading medieval journal, Medium Ævum (Saunders), and Notes & Queries (Robertson).

Many staff have guest-edited journals during this period. Others contribute to editorial boards,
providing expert advice and strategic direction to societies and major journals in the discipline,
in addition to peer review, for example, Revue Période, Journal of American Studies, Textual
Practice, Year’s Work in Critical Theory. Several staff undertake editorial roles in book series.

6. International research dissemination and conference organisation. Staff have given
numerous invited keynote lectures at symposia worldwide, including in Europe: Austria,
Belgium, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and
beyond: Australia, Canada, India, Japan, Singapore, Turkey and the US, as well as hundreds
of other lectures and chairing roles at international conferences.

The department has organised and hosted c.495 conferences, workshops, lectures and other
events during the period, including major field conferences such as Modern Literature, Culture,
and the Archives of the Secret State (2014, funded by the British Academy), Risking the Future
(2016, with School of Modern Languages and Cultures) and the Joint Congress of the John
Gower Society and Early Book Society (2018, 150 delegates), welcoming delegates from
across the globe.


                                                                                                     23
7. Training, especially for early-career researchers, contributes to the sustainability of the
discipline: see above on research students and early-career researchers. Woods won a
Wellcome award to train researchers in ten universities through formation of the Northern
Network for Medical Humanities Research.



Prizes and Awards
International recognition is reflected in the award of prestigious international fellowships at the
University of Stockholm; Australian National University; Humanities Research Centre; and
Moore Institute in the University of Galway; as well as a FRIAS (Freiburg) Research
Fellowship; DAAD Visiting Professorship, Freie Universität Berlin; Research Associateship,
Rikkyo University Tokyo; Royal Literary Fund Fellowship, St Hilda’s College, Oxford;
Huntington Library Fellowship; and Baylor University Armstrong Browning Library Fellowship.

Waugh’s major contribution to the field is reflected in her appointment as Fellow of the British
Academy and Fellow of the European Academy. Robertson is Fellow of the Society of
Antiquaries. Harman and Sahota are Fellows of the Royal Society of Literature, and Harman is
President of the Alliance of Literary Societies. Archibald, James, Regan, Saunders and Waugh
are Fellows of the English Association.

Such recognition is also reflected in the award of academic prizes including: The Review of
English Studies Prize (Brljak), Elma Dangerfield Prize awarded by International Association of
Byron Societies (Wootton), Distinguished Scholar’s Award, Keats-Shelley Association of
America (O’Neill), Poetry Book Society Special Commendation (O’Neill), Philip Leverhulme
Prize (Smith), Forward Prize for Poetry and Tom-Gallon Award for Short Fiction (Harman),
Saboteur Award for Best Novella (Booth), International Dylan Thomas Prize and Somerset
Maugham Award (Chingonyi), European Union Prize for Literature, South Bank Sky Arts Award
for Literature, and Man Booker Prize shortlist (Sahota).




                                                                                                      24
