Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL)

 Unit of Assessment: 28 - History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Since REF2014, UCL’s History UoA has maintained its vibrant research environment, achieved
 substantial new institutional investment and significantly enhanced its contribution to
 collaborative and interdisciplinary scholarship. Support for high-calibre individual research
 projects and methodological pluralism has remained a core feature of our research environment.
 Continued staff growth has underpinned a significant expansion of our areas of expertise—a key
 strategic goal. African history, Asian history, histories of colonialism, histories of race, gender
 and sexuality, medical humanities and public history are among the areas that have enhanced
 staffing, postgraduate training capacity and impact activities. The diversity of our staff profile has
 increased with respect to gender, race and LGBT+ inclusion. Our chronological range from
 3000BC to the present is now complemented by a geographical reach that is close to global.
 The UoA’s collaborative partnerships and external funding profile have benefited from this
 strategic expansion. Grant capture has been marked by greater diversity (in terms of funding
 bodies and schemes, staff profile and collaborative partners) and by expanding topical and
 methodological ambition. UCL’s Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS), established in 2015, has
 created interdisciplinary opportunities for permanent staff, postdoctoral researchers and
 postgraduate students not envisioned in REF2014. Institutional investment in the fully open
 access UCL Press (UCLP) in 2015 has likewise offered cutting-edge facilities for both
 established and early career historians to share their scholarly outputs with much wider
 audiences, allowing us to build on and beyond the ambitions for public engagement and impact
 we articulated in REF2014.

 Structure of the UoA:
 In REF2014, UCL’s History UoA comprised 43 staff: 32 from the History Department (HD),
 seven from Science and Technology Studies (STS), and four from other UCL academic units.
 In REF2021, our staff census comprises 54 researchers from three academic units: 44 from HD,
 nine from STS and one from IAS. These units span three of UCL’s 11 Faculties. HD is in the
 Faculty of Social & Historical Sciences (SHS); all eligible HD staff are returned in UoA28.
 Research in HD ranges from ancient to contemporary history; research collaboration reflects
 geographical or chronological alignment and/or shared research questions or methodologies,
 rather than formal research groups. Many HD staff participate actively in interdisciplinary
 research groups that operate within the IAS, particularly its African Studies Research Centre,
 Centre for the Study of South Asia & the Indian Ocean World, China Centre for Health and
 Humanity and Middle East Research Centre. STS is a department within the Faculty of
 Mathematical & Physical Sciences (MAPS). Just under half of STS staff are returned in
 UoA28; most other STS researchers are returned in UoA30 (Philosophy). The History of Science
 staff returned in our UoA form one of STS’s three formal Research Clusters, alongside Science,
 Culture and Democracy, and Philosophy of Science. The cross-Faculty IAS is a research unit
 predominantly focused in (and funded by) SHS, the Arts & Humanities Faculty and the School of
 Slavonic and East European Studies. With seven permanent academic staff, IAS fosters
 interdisciplinary research, early career researcher (ECR) training and public engagement, and
 hosts national and international visiting research fellows. UoA staff play key roles in IAS: N.Miller
 is Director, Vaughan Deputy Director and both Lally and Lo lead research centres under its
 aegis.

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Strategic aims in REF2014:
 In REF2014, we highlighted our commitment to producing world-leading publications which
 reflect the discipline’s full chronology, intellectual diversity, geographical range and
 methodological pluralism. We underlined an ambition to allow our researchers ‘a high degree of
 freedom to pursue their evolving intellectual interests’. We underscored our intention to
 optimise opportunities for innovative interdisciplinary research—an integral aspect of work
 undertaken (for example) by staff in STS, who engage with science policy, philosophy of
 science, sociology of science and science communication. Our goals included building local,
 national and international collaborations that would strengthen our impact activities. We
 described our strategy for grant capture as ‘selective’: nearby research facilities (such as the
 British Library, British Museum, Institute of Classical Studies, Institute of Historical Research,
 Warburg Institute and Wellcome Collection) together with institutional leave policies and internal
 funding schemes enable staff to conduct much research without substantial external income.
 Our grant strategy has thus typically focused either on supporting individuals to undertake major
 new book projects (requiring a year or more of relief from teaching and administration) and/or
 creating collaborative research groups that enable ambitious comparative histories, develop our
 impact and public engagement activities and/or provide career opportunities for ECRs. We
 identified additional funding for postgraduate research students (PGRs) from the AHRC’s
 collaborative doctoral partnerships programme as a strategic priority that would also promote
 wider engagement with cultural organisations and museums. While taking the considered
 view that institutional targets are not an appropriate means of enhancing the quality of research,
 supporting staff morale or indeed increasing grant capture, we articulated an aim to expand the
 range of our external awards where the intellectual and academic demands of specific projects
 supported that ambition. This strategy was also designed to enhance our public engagement
 and impact profiles, building on the success of the Legacies of British Slave-ownership (LBS)
 project.

 Achievement of these aims:
 Realisation of the UoA’s goal of fostering high-calibre research outputs that reflect disciplinary
 diversity, range and pluralism is evidenced by the 32 monographs and scholarly editions
 submitted for REF2021. Spanning from ancient to modern times, they explore the cultural,
 economic, intellectual, political and social histories of Africa, the Americas, Asia, Australia,
 Europe (including Britain) and the Middle East. Methodologically, they draw from fields that
 include anthropology, archaeology, area studies, gender studies, material culture,
 postcolonialism and science studies. To date, nine of these books have garnered national or
 international prizes.

 Several first monographs produced by ECRs funded by British Academy (BA), Leverhulme
 Trust and Marie Skłodowska Curie postdoctoral research fellowships (PDRFs) number
 among our outputs, reflecting our own and UCL’s commitment to supporting ECR careers
 (REF5a, 3.3-3.4). These include titles by Dale (Inauguration and Liturgical Kingship in the Long
 Twelfth Century, 2019), Martín Romera (Redes de Poder, 2019), Hanley (Beyond Slavery and
 Abolition, 2018, winner of the 2019 Royal Historical Society [RHS] Whitfield Prize) and Morris
 (Soldiers, Saints and Shamans, 2020). Staff in permanent posts with first monographs in this
 submission include Corran, Gibbs, Gouyon, Lally, Lantschner, Leong, Sabapathy, Selinger,
 Stewart, Sutcliffe-Braithwaite, Tousignant and Tuncer. Of their books, Lantschner’s Logic of
 Political Conflict in Medieval Cities won the College of Europe’s 2016 Bronisław Geremek

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Prize; Leong’s Recipes and Everyday Knowledge won the History of Science Society’s 2019
 Rossiter Prize, Sabapathy’s Officers and Accountability in Medieval England won the RHS’s
 2015 Whitfield Prize and Tousignant’s Edges of Exposure won the Society for Social Studies
 Science 2020 Ludwik Fleck Prize.

 Sole-authored monographs published by established researchers are also prominent in
 REF2021, including books by Agar, Conway, D’Avray, Hoppit, Jennings, Kaplan, Körner,
 N.Miller, Robson, Schröder, A.Smith, M.Smith and Werrett. Three of these books by senior staff
 won international prizes. Körner’s America in Italy received the American Historical Association’s
 Marrano Prize in 2018; A. Smith’s Stormy Present won the American Civil War Museum’s 2017
 Jefferson Davis Award; Werrett’s Thrifty Science received the German Chemical Society’s
 2020 Paul Bunge Prize. That over half of these 13 monographs were produced by Professorial
 staff who began their careers at UCL as Lecturers demonstrates the ability of our research
 environment to promote excellent scholarship over the full career cycle. In 2017, emerita
 professor Hall–whose co-authored Legacies of British Slave-ownership was published by
 Cambridge in 2014—became the first woman to receive the History of the Ruhr Foundation’s
 Bochum Prize, awarded every three years to honour an historian’s lifetime achievement. Our
 appointment of new Professorial staff such as M.Smith, whose Liberty, Fraternity, Exile won the
 Haitian Studies Association’s 2015 Haiti Illumination Project Book Prize, further consolidates
 a tradition of scholarly excellence upon which we plan to build in coming years.

 Our links with cultural organisations have strengthened significantly since 2014, in ways
 that connect these institutions and their publics with our research and expertise and reflect
 UCL’s strategic aim of ‘delivering impact for public benefit’ (REF5a, 2.1). Stokes’s AHRC-
 funded ‘Remembering British Cinema-going in the 1960s’ project saw a collaboration with the
 British Film Institute that introduced a new generation of school pupils to twentieth-century
 cinema. Working with local archives and charities such as the Historical Association, Draper,
 Hall and their LBS colleagues have developed both schools-outreach programmes and new
 initiatives with the National Portrait Gallery (NPG) and Tate Britain that use their research to
 foreground Black histories in museum collections. Outside London UCL historians have also
 actively promoted and contributed to museum-based research and exhibitions. Sutcliffe-
 Braithwaite’s AHRC-funded ‘Women in the Miners’ Strike’ led to a 2020 exhibition at the
 National Coal Mining Museum, Wakefield, that showcased oral histories undertaken from
 Kent to Fife, from South Wales to South Yorkshire. Page’s Leverhulme Trust project led to
 ‘Spellbound: Magic, Ritual and Witchcraft’, a major exhibition at Oxford’s Ashmolean Museum.
 Robson’s award of £1.82 Million from the AHRC to fund the four-year ‘Nahrein Network’ is a
 collaboration with several Iraqi universities and the Ashmolean Museum, opening up public
 history to new practitioners in the Middle East. The range of heritage institutions with which we
 collaboratively supervise AHRC-funded PhDs has expanded during the assessment period. It
 includes co-supervisions with the Birmingham Museums Trust, British Museum, National
 Maritime Museum, Royal Society and Science Museum. Each of the UoA’s five impact case
 studies (ICSs) includes at least one collaboration with a cultural organisation or museum.

 Active participation in open access (OA) initiatives (REF5a, 2.2.1) increasingly amplifies our
 engagement with wider public audiences, nationally and internationally. In addition to routinely
 depositing publications in the university’s OA repository, staff have been early adopters of ‘Gold’
 OA book publication via UCL Press. Between March 2017 and July 2020, readers in nearly
 200 countries downloaded Gold OA UCLP publications by UoA authors 166,242 times. Several

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff have supported Gold OA publication beyond UCLP to increase the reach and impact of
 their own and the wider discipline’s research. Agar founded and edited the OA journal BJHS
 Themes (2016-2018); Werrett became editor of this journal in 2019. H.Jones was among the
 seven General Editors leading the Online Encyclopedia of the First World War project, the
 largest network of First World War researchers worldwide, spanning more than 50 countries and
 containing over 1,000 peer reviewed OA articles. Lo published Imagining Chinese Medicine OA
 with Brill in 2017; Arena’s co-edited special issue on ‘Reconstructing the Republic: Varro and His
 Citing Authorities’ appeared OA in Res publica litterarum in 2018. Sabapathy’s Individuals and
 Institutions in Medieval Scholasticism (co-edited with a former HD PhD student) was published
 OA with the University of London Press in 2020. Contributions to open scholarship are also
 evident in new research collaborations. Peacey is Co-I of ‘The Power of Petitioning in
 Seventeenth-Century England’ (AHRC, 2019-20), a Birkbeck-based project transcribing over
 2,500 British petitions held in local and national archives. Making texts freely available on British
 History Online since September 2019 (and achieving 11,552 page views by July 2020), it offers
 researchers and the interested public rich new resources for analyses of state authority.

 Our strategy for developing grant applications is governed by an ethic that respects career stage
 and family life and actively fosters both monograph-production and collaborative research while
 identifying leadership opportunities, rather than imposing arbitrary individual or departmental
 targets. This targeted approach has seen a broader range of staff at all levels win external
 funding for their projects. Several staff have benefitted from grants supporting 6-12 months of
 residence at European research centres. Stewart began researching his second monograph
 during his 2018-19 tenure at the Institut d’Études Avancées de Paris, while Rieger’s 2015
 Alexander von Humboldt Foundation Prize supported research on his third monograph.
 Schröder has held three such international awards during the assessment period: a Wiedemann-
 Research-Fellowship at Herzog August Bibliothek Wolfenbüttel (2014); a Senior Research
 Fellowship at the Central European University Budapest (2016); and a Senior Research
 Fellowship at the Max Weber Centre for Advanced Cultural and Social Studies, University
 of Erfurt (2016-17). Leverhulme Major Fellowships of three years’ duration were held by
 N.Miller on public knowledge and nation-building in Latin America (2014-17), by Körner, on
 transnational monarchy in the Habsburg Empire (2015-18) and by Hoppit, on public finance and
 the United Kingdom (2016-19). Providing time and funding for extensive archival work as well as
 writing, these grants have significantly enhanced the quality of our publications.

 Future aims and strategies:
 Affording staff the time, intellectual space and funding to produce outputs that reflect
 international standards of excellence will remain a core component of our research strategy. Our
 guiding principle remains the belief that high levels of intellectual freedom contribute significantly
 to scholarly quality in History. The Philip Leverhulme Prize Sutcliffe-Braithwaite will take up in
 2021 and SHS’s continued co-funding for Leverhulme PDRFs in 2021-22 illustrate this
 commitment. Fostering medium- and long-term excellence, rather than focusing on short-term
 targets, will remain central to our approach post-REF2021. A second strand of our future
 strategy also rests on existing foundations: we intend to continue to play pioneering roles in
 disseminating our research through high-quality, Gold OA research outputs. Edited
 volumes now under contract with UCLP by Dale, Finn and Sutcliffe-Braithwaite are among our
 early pledges to deliver on this commitment.




                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A third component of our existing strategy dovetails well with UCL’s goal of ‘supporting social
 equity’ (REF5a, 2.1). We intend to amplify the UoA’s contribution—through research, ECR
 training and leadership—to intellectual developments within History as a discipline by fostering
 equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI), including critical reflections on the historical and
 structural bases of inequality and exclusion. During much of REF2021 period, this goal drew
 inspiration from the LBS Centre’s research (showcased in an ICS) which inserts histories of
 race and racism into standard narratives of British modernity. Our hiring strategy, area
 studies centres, internal institutional engagement, external research grant portfolio and public
 impact have significantly augmented our potential to build on LBS’s work, positioning the UoA to
 expand this strategic goal in coming years. Dinwoodie (who researches indigenous nations in
 postcolonial North America), Frost (who interrogates nationalist developments in South Asia
 through a postcolonial lens), Ireton (who explores intellectual histories of slavery in the
 Caribbean and Spanish America), Jennings (who uses oral history to illuminate LGBT+ lives in
 Australia and Britain) and M.Smith (a specialist in the racial and national histories of Jamaica
 and Haiti who now directs the LBS Centre) are among the appointments who will enable us to
 develop this strategy in new directions. The appointment of Rossi, who joined HD in autumn
 2020 with a European Research Council (ERC) Advanced Grant on ‘African Abolitionism: The
 Rise and Transformations of Anti-Slavery in Africa’ bridges longstanding research by the LBS
 team and the work of Africanists newly appointed in REF2021. Robson’s collaborative Nahrein
 Network, funded by the AHRC’s Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) since 2017 to
 enable Iraqis to reclaim and reinterpret their extended national and imperial histories, will from
 2021 benefit from a 10-year philanthropic donation of £11 million. This transformative funding
 will extend the Iraqi-British network’s inclusive, decolonised approach to research, research
 development and policy advocacy on using Iraq’s past to support a sustainable future, to 2031.

 Two new interdisciplinary foci are especially salient in our forward plans. Established in 2020,
 UCL Anthropocene is an initiative based in (and funded by) SHS. It brings together researchers
 from across the full range of UCL disciplines to articulate and address the problems that the
 Anthropocene poses for our collective future. Among UoA’s researchers, Lally, Page, Sabapathy
 (institutional co-lead for this initiative) and Vaughan are especially active in UCL Anthropocene,
 a collaboration which complements research on topics such as biological warfare, toxicity and
 environmental hazards undertaken in STS by Agar, Balmer and Tousignant. UCL
 Anthropocene’s online seminars already attract lively global audiences and are establishing a
 new interdisciplinary network on broadly conceived environmental histories. Activities include
 research clusters (on toxicity, temporalities, imagined futures, and cultural ecology) and a series
 of events developed both before and around COP26. Likewise, the new Stratford-based campus
 of UCL East (REF5a, 1) offers an innovative catalyst for the UoA’s public engagement and
 impact activities. Since 2016, our researchers have collaborated with staff in Anthropology,
 Archaeology, Art History, and Information Studies to design innovative, shared research and
 training spaces at UCL East. Frost’s appointment in 2020 brought a practitioner with extensive
 museum and documentary filmmaking expertise to lead HD’s participation in UCL East. Due to
 open in 2022, its ‘Memory Workshop’ and ‘Urban Room’ will provide state-of-the-art facilities for
 postgraduate training in oral history methodologies, exhibition design, audio and film
 documentaries and digital curation. UCL East will be a locus for collaboration with academics,
 museum professionals and local public history groups based in East London.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Our staff census encompasses all eligible HD staff, but only half of submitted STS staff and a
 quarter of submitted IAS researchers. The profile of IAS and STS staff in our UoA is not
 representative of these departments as a whole, e.g. nine out of 19 STS staff (47%) are women,
 but only two of nine STS staff submitted in this UoA (22%) are female. Consequently, the
 following analysis draws qualitative examples across all three units, but only uses quantitative
 EDI data to evidence HD’s personnel and policies.

 Staffing strategy:
 Intellectually, both consolidation and renewal are evident in our staffing strategy. HD and STS’s
 History of Science research group have appointed to new posts as well as making proleptic and
 replacement appointments to established positions. Where these established Departments have
 strengthened existing chronological, topical or regional research areas by reappointing to
 established posts, they have brought new methodologies or research questions into their
 provision. Gender historian Satzinger was thus replaced upon retirement by Jennings, whose
 work added LGBT+ histories to our profile, while Rieger’s replacement in comparative European
 history (H.Jones) added war and memorialisation to our twentieth-century research profile. Other
 appointments have added new research fields—and a new continent, Africa—to our profile,
 reflecting changing strategic priorities within the UoA, new opportunities at faculty or university
 level and wider intellectual developments in and beyond the discipline. Ireton’s appointment to a
 new post added a specialist in early modern Iberia and Spanish America to HD’s already strong
 cohort of modern Latin Americanists; Tousignant’s appointment brought STS’s History of
 Science research group its first extra-Europeanist while further augmenting new Africanist
 expertise in the UoA—now comprising three permanent staff. All IAS staffing is new since
 REF2014. IAS appointments are designed to strengthen discipline-based departments’
 access to interdisciplinary knowledge and research leadership. Vaughan joined in 2015
 and works alongside three senior colleagues, including cultural theorist Gilroy (appointed in
 2019), the Founding Director of IAS’s Sarah Parker Remond Centre for the Study of Racism
 & Racialisation (REF5a, 1).

 The commitment to geographical diversity, chronological range and methodological pluralism
 that marks our research collaborations and outputs is also evident in the UoA’s appointment
 strategy. Our 51 permanent staff include 22 new appointments made during REF2021, of whom
 13 (59%) were appointed to new posts. Appointments have enhanced the scope and
 methodologies of existing research areas (such as ancient, medieval and intellectual history)
 while also adding substantially to our range within the ‘Global South’ (especially African,
 Caribbean, Middle Eastern and South Asian histories). Heffron for example is an archaeologist
 of ancient Anatolia whose work explores the convergence of material culture and textual history.
 Ceccarelli, an historian of classical Greece, has brought new perspectives on performance
 culture and historiography to our ancient history offer. Lantschner deploys comparative and
 transnational approaches to study Europe and the Islamic world in the late Middle Ages; he has
 added new capacity to research and supervise postgraduates with Arabic sources to our already
 strong medievalist profile. New appointments have created opportunities for dialogue within our
 UoA across regions and time periods. Dinwoodie, an historian of nineteenth-century North
 America, replaced A. Smith, who took up the Directorship of Oxford’s Rothermere American
 Institute in 2019. Her work on the displacement of indigenous American peoples complements
 Gibbs’s analysis of forced removals in South Africa under apartheid. Goodall’s research explores


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 nineteenth- and early twentieth-century transnational histories of the US, the Caribbean and
 Central America, dovetailing with M.Smith’s research on political culture, dissent and nationalism
 in modern Haiti and Jamaica. Stewart researches French intellectual history, including liberal
 politics, complementing both Selinger’s research on comparative intellectual histories of modern
 British and European democracy and Sutcliffe-Braithwaite’s work on British neoliberalism.
 Appointments to Lectureships in the UoA are often made before a first book is published (or
 under contract). Bulstrode, Heffron, Ireton, Lally, Stewart and Sutcliffe-Braithwaite all exemplify
 this pattern, which reflects our confidence that the UoA’s research environment will enable
 publication of excellent monographs.

 Staff development:
 Success in attracting externally-funded PDRFs, an increase in grant-funded collaborative
 projects with Postdoctoral Research Associates (PDRAs) and the opportunity to appoint a
 significant number of new permanent staff have encouraged us to enhance provision for staff
 development. These practices have developed within UCL’s overarching staffing strategies and
 policies (REF5a, 3,1), but we have also taken proactive steps to design frameworks that
 optimise the environment for undertaking historical research. In doing so, we have been mindful
 of the challenges for historians trained in individualist scholarly traditions of conducting
 collaborative projects and of the competing demands placed on staff by caring responsibilities,
 on the one hand, and historians’ need to travel to distant archives or field-sites and to devote
 extended periods to research and writing for monograph projects, on the other. Our practices
 take account of individuals’ career stage, research aspirations and family circumstances.

 All independent PDRFs have a dedicated mentor, selected prior to their external funding
 application. PDRAs are assigned a staff mentor upon their appointment, in consultation with the
 relevant Head of Department (HoD). Mentors encourage PDRAs and PDRFs to develop their
 publications, networks and impact skills by applying for the full range of available internal funding
 schemes. A grant of £2,200 from UCL Culture’s 2019 Seed Funding competition, for example,
 supported BA PDRF Dale to collaborate with a KCL academic and opera producer Sinéad O'
 Neill, to produce a new piece of music based on a German medieval text. 2019 also saw Dale,
 together with her mentor (Sennis), receive an award of £1,765 from UCL’s Centre for Critical
 Heritage Studies and £1,000 from UCL’s Grand Challenges fund for 'The Interpretation of
 Medieval Hospitals: Wellbeing and the Historic Environment', a public-facing project to design a
 historical walking tour in Maldon, Essex, previously the location of the St Giles Leper Hospital.
 UCL Culture’s Beacon Bursaries (£2,000) have similarly enabled PDRAs to advance their own
 research and develop public engagement skills. Dawson, PDRA on Sutcliffe-Braithwaite’s AHRC
 project, used a 2019 Beacon Bursary to undertake an oral history project (in conjunction with the
 Rugby History League) on women’s attendance at cup finals at Wembley.

 The career outcomes of both PDRFs and PDRAs attest to the success of these mentoring
 practices. For example, Summerlin (BA PDRF) took up a Lectureship at Sheffield University in
 2016, Wragge-Morley (Leverhulme PDRF) an Assistant Professorship at New York University in
 2018, Hanley (BA PDRF) a Lectureship at Exeter University in 2019 and Martín Romera (Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie PDRF) a Lectureship at Complutense University, Madrid in 2020. Several
 fixed-term PDRAs have also moved to permanent academic posts during REF2021. K.Smith,
 PDRA on Finn’s ‘East India Company at Home’ Leverhulme project, was appointed to a
 Lectureship at Birmingham University in 2014. M.Jones and Pett, respectively, took up



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lectureships at De Montfort University (2014) and UEA (2015), having been PDRAs on Stokes’s
 AHRC-funded ‘Remembering British Cinema-going of the 1960s’.

 HD and STS operate bespoke workload models to allocate teaching and administrative duties
 fairly. Probationary Lecturers are mentored by a senior colleague who provides guidance on
 research, publication and teaching and undertakes annual progress reviews. All new permanent
 staff in HD enjoy a reduced teaching load in the first year of their appointment, to smooth their
 transition to UCL and to afford time to design teaching modules that foster their research
 interests. For probationary staff, reduced teaching and administration continues through their
 second year, tapering until they assume a standard load in year three. All new staff undertake
 UCL’s mandatory induction modules, including training on health and safety, GDPR, diversity
 and unconscious bias. Staff serving on appointment panels complete additional, mandatory
 training designed to promote EDI in hiring. All researchers attend regular department-based
 staff development sessions (on topics such as OA publishing, research ethics and disabilities
 issues) and have access to university-wide training (on topics that include grant applications and
 PDRA management). Three staff have completed UCL’s ‘Taking the Lead’, a leadership
 workshop that supports UCL’s wider wellbeing initiatives by developing strategic and proactive
 approaches to tackling bullying and harassment (REF5a, 3.2). In HD, the HoD supports multi-
 person funded projects through light-touch annual progress reviews with PIs and their project
 staff, further contributing to our implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers.

 All STS staff have a research mentor, who operates outside line-management structures; the
 co-HoDs of STS undertake all annual appraisals. In HD, the HoD conducts annual appraisals for
 Professorial staff; the other Professors share responsibility for appraisals for non-Professorial
 colleagues. Building on STS practices, HD instituted a voluntary research mentoring scheme
 in 2018-19 to provide additional support; it has been taken up by over 85% of academic and
 research staff.

 Regular periods of study leave, in which staff retain PhD supervision but are released from
 teaching, marking and administrative duties, play a key role in the progression of non-
 Professorial staff and promote the vitality of staff research at all levels in the UoA. STS operates
 a study leave schedule (ranging from one term to one year) which sees 10% of staff on research
 leave in any year. HD operates a variation on the standard UCL leave scheme calculated to
 increase sustained research time: staff teach more intensively for three successive years, and
 then take two terms of study leave (autumn and winter), returning to marking and meetings in
 term three and resuming normal teaching and administration in the autumn. Designed to
 facilitate research in distant archives and libraries, this scheme also enables work on demanding
 comparative or transnational projects. Staff returning from periods of maternity leave enjoy a
 full term of additional research leave, to support their adjustment to the dual demands of
 parenthood and research. Heffron and H.Jones both benefitted from this provision in 2014-20.
 Notwithstanding the impact of COVID-19, both HD and STS have maintained their standard
 research leave policies for 2020-21 and are now scheduling research leaves for 2021-22.

 In REF2014, the UoA’s major externally-funded collaborative awards were held by senior
 researchers. Although Professorial staff such as Finn (AHRC and Leverhulme), Hall (AHRC and
 ESRC), Körner (Leverhulme), Peacey (AHRC), Robson (AHRC), Stokes (AHRC) and Vaughan
 (Wellcome Trust) have all held such awards during REF2021, our research strategy has actively

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 expanded the number of staff at Lecturer, Senior Lecturer, Reader (and, more recently,
 Associate Professor) level who have garnered external funding as PIs or Co-Is. Grants to staff
 then at the Lecturer career stage have included Tuncer’s BA Newton Fund Advanced
 Fellowship on ‘Democracy, Autocracy and Sovereign Debt’ in Europe, the Middle East and
 Latin America’ (Co-I, 2016-19, £96,399) and Sutcliffe-Braithwaite’s AHRC-funded ‘Women in
 the Miners’ Strike’ (PI, 2018-20, £200,871). Staff then at the Associate Professor, Senior
 Lecturer or Reader level won several awards of this type, supported by targeted departmental
 mentoring. Examples include Page’s Leverhulme Trust ‘Inner Lives: Emotions, Identity and the
 Supernatural, 1300-1900’ (Co-I, 2015-18, £73,438), and Lo’s Wellcome Trust Seed Award for
 ‘China and the Cross-Cultural Humanities in a Digital World’ (PI, 2017-18, £60,979). Arena’s
 ERC Consolidator Grant, ‘Ordering, Constructing, Empowering: Fragments of the Roman
 Republican Antiquarians’ (PI, 2020-2024, €1,902,704) exemplifies our effort to broaden the
 range of staff who successfully bid for ambitious research collaborations, and is HD’s first ERC
 award.

 Staff promotions reflect recognition of the success with which our staff navigate their research
 careers. Prior to 2018, promotion from Lecturer progressed either to Senior Lecturer or Reader;
 since 2018, the titles Senior Lecturer and Reader have been subsumed for new promotions by
 Associate Professor. Of the 51 permanent staff included in our census, 14 were appointed at
 Professorial level or promoted to Professor prior to January 2014. Of the remaining 37
 permanent staff, 18 (49%) were promoted within REF2021: 11 to Associate Professor/Senior
 Lecturer/Reader (Arena, Ceccarelli, Collins, Gouyon, Jennings, Lantschner, Mata, Sabapathy,
 Sim, Sutcliffe-Braithwaite and Tuncer) and seven to Professor (Lo, Page, Peacey, Robson,
 Schröder, Stokes and Werrett). UCL and UoA promotions are proceeding in 2020-21, rather
 than being suspended in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, with appropriate adjustments to
 criteria to accommodate restrictions on travel, collaboration and caring responsibilities.

 Postgraduate training and supervision:
 Postgraduate students are an integral part of our research environment. The 104.2 PhDs
 awarded since REF2014 have benefitted from robust support structures, an active research
 culture and diverse sources of funding. All students have either a primary and a secondary
 supervisor or two co-supervisors. Co-supervision with staff in UCL’s School of Slavonic and East
 European Studies and its Institute of the Americas enhances the range and interdisciplinarity of
 supervisory expertise. Supervisions are held at least monthly for established students and more
 frequently for those in their first six months of study. The university maintains an electronic log of
 supervisions, progress reports and upgrade exercises, fostering consistency across different
 departments. The Graduate Tutor supports HD’s PhD students, assisted by a member of
 professional services staff. They convene a regular Research Training Seminar (RTS)
 attended by students until completion of their upgrade from MPhil to PhD status in year two (pro-
 rated for part-time students). RTS introduces students to academic and non-academic career
 pathways suitable for PhDs and provides a forum for presentation of their research. Normally
 held at fortnightly intervals, RTS shifted to weekly, virtual meetings to enhance support during
 the COVID-19 pandemic. In STS, new PGRs attend Key Concepts in STS and thereafter
 regular Work-in-Progress seminars, which give all PGRs opportunities to receive constructive
 feedback. RTS, Key Concepts and Work-in-Progress seminars are all open to PGRs across the
 UoA’s departments. The UoA supports several more specialised reading groups and seminars
 that foster intellectual exchange across departmental lines. The postgraduate-run UCL



                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Interdisciplinary Medieval and Renaissance Seminar, for example, has attracted national and
 international speakers to lively discussions of research on medieval history writ large since 1998.

 UCL Arena (which orchestrates a scheme of awards accredited by the Higher Education
 Academy), provides PGRs with a wide range of training. The IAS, the UCL Doctoral School and
 the AHRC London Arts & Humanities Partnership (LAHP) augment PGRs’ research training.
 They have offered 127 events—on topics that included archival research, digital humanities,
 podcasting and public engagement—during REF2021. Since 2018, Vaughan has provided an
 annual doctoral training course on ‘Interdisciplinarity’, harnessing the expertise of senior
 researchers across UCL to provide presentations that explore the challenges, benefits and
 limitations of stepping outside disciplinary norms. Staff also use central UCL funding and
 infrastructure for workshops and seminars that enrich postgraduate training. The Institute of
 Making supported Werrett’s 2014 ‘Emotions, Transformations, Restorations’ project with £4,459,
 allowing a dozen PGRs and ECRs to work with professionals and academics in three workshops
 that explored emotional responses to materials and material culture. Most PGRs attend
 seminars at the nearby Institute of Classical Studies (ICS) and/or Institute of Historical
 Research (IHR), many of which are convened by UoA researchers.

 Funding for our PGRs comes from a wide range of sources. The LAHP AHRC consortium has
 funded 13 students during REF2021. AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Partnership
 Studentships have funded an additional five PhDs, offering an insider understanding of
 museum collections, curation and public engagement while affording full access to academic
 training and teaching opportunities. Wolfson Foundation funding and Wellcome Trust
 Fellowships supported a further cohort of Home/EU PGRs; PhD fellowships provided by the
 Chilean, Chinese, Japanese and Thai governments have funded many international students.
 In addition to these external fellowships, UCL Overseas Research Scholarships and (for
 Home students) Graduate Research Scholarships, which cover full fees and maintenance,
 have supported our PhD cohort. In 2019, UCL instituted a Research Opportunity Scholarship
 programme, providing full fees and maintenance for five new BAME PhD students annually
 (REF5a, 3.2). The scheme’s first 10 recipients included a postgraduate student in the UoA.

 Reflecting the quality of our training and mentoring, several of the UoA’s former PGRs have won
 competitive postdoctoral research appointments, nationally and internationally. Their
 research spans from ancient to contemporary history and ranges from Britain and Europe to
 Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Middle East. Ancient historian Konijnendijk (2015, supervised
 by Van Wees), held first a Past & Present Fellowship at the IHR and then a Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship at Leiden University, publishing his monograph with Brill in
 2018. Medievalist Corran (2015, supervised by D’Avray), following a four-year JRF at Oxford,
 was appointed Lecturer at UCL, publishing her monograph with OUP in 2018. Van Meesbergen
 (2014, supervised by Kaplan), was appointed Assistant Professor of early modern global
 history at Warwick University following a Max Weber Fellowship at the European University
 Institute and a Leverhulme PDRF at Warwick. Modern British historians Saunders (2015,
 supervised by Collins) and Redhead (2020, supervised by Finn) also both took up research
 positions at Warwick: Saunders a three-year Wellcome-funded PDRA on the ‘Cultural History
 of the NHS’ project and Redhead an ESRC PDRF to complete a monograph on sickle cell
 anaemia in the postcolonial National Health Service. Gatica Mizala (2015, supervised by
 N.Miller), holds a Chilean government CONICYT PDRF at Pontificia Universidad Católica de
 Chile, to continue her research on cinema-going in Buenos Aires and Santiago. We recognise

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 that not all PGRs seek academic employment and provide training (for example, in RTS) to
 foster alternative careers that deploy their postgraduate skills. Jansari (2016, supervised by
 Robson), is the Tabor Foundation Curator of the British Museum’s South Asian Collections.
 Taylor (2015) and Guyon (2016), both supervised by Collins, are respectively Policy Adviser to
 the Communication Workers Union and Head of Knowledge and Research at Advance HE
 (Scotland). Legon (2015) and Ewen (2017), both supervised by Peacey, have combined
 academic and heritage sector employment—Legon moving from Historic Royal Palaces to a
 Lectureship in heritage management at QMUL and Ewen from a Hallsworth Research
 Fellowship at Manchester University to a new curatorship in inclusive history at Historical
 Royal Palaces.

 Support for EDI:
 The UoA’s policies and hiring profile in REF2021 reflect both our commitment to equality,
 diversity and inclusion, and UCL’s overarching EDI strategies (REF5a, 3.2). UoA staff have
 undertaken systematic research to expose structural inequalities in History as a discipline and
 engaged actively in training designed to redress them. As a Vice President of the Royal
 Historical Society (RHS), N.Miller was the primary author of its pioneering 2015 Gender
 Equality and Historians in UK Education report, with follow-up workshops in (for example)
 Dublin, Leeds and London. Based on quantitative survey data as well as qualitative evidence, it
 laid the groundwork for three subsequent RHS EDI reports, each commissioned and co-
 authored by Finn as RHS President. In 2018, Miller was lead researcher and author of the
 second report, Gender Equality in UK History. This year also saw publication of Race,
 Ethnicity & Equality in UK History: A Report & Resource for Change, the first systematic
 analysis of race and racism to focus on History in UK universities. Finn led several workshops
 (for example, at the Universities of Kent and Manchester and the Scottish universities’ AHRC
 doctoral network) on the report, which also featured at international conferences such as the
 2019 North American Conference on British Studies. It was followed by annual Roadmap for
 Change updates co-authored by Finn, documenting good-practice across the UK to implement
 RHS recommendations. In 2020 the RHS published LGBT+ Histories and Historians,
 configured along the lines of its three predecessors but augmented by additional online
 resources.

 Several initiatives and policies have embedded EDI within the UoA. STS was an early recipient
 of a Bronze Athena SWAN award in 2015. Commended as ‘a very pleasing example of an
 application that demonstrates great self-reflection’, this precedent is informing HD’s current work
 toward its Bronze application in 2021-22. Work with the RHS race report began in 2018 and has
 continued in HD through termly EDI committee meetings, chaired by the HoD. In 2019, as part of
 a wider SHS assessment of priorities for the next decade, HD undertook a major strategic
 review of its priorities. Histories of race and racism, and of inequalities, difference and
 intolerance, emerged from this review as key departmental priorities for research, postgraduate
 training and appointments. STS’s interrogation of histories of racism in REF2021 has included
 Cain’s membership of UCL’s 2019-20 Eugenics Inquiry, leading to a programme of change
 that included the removal of Francis Galton’s name from a major UCL lecture theatre. Vaughan’s
 Wellcome-funded research on health inequalities in the Global South has actively promoted
 research and publication by scholars based in sub-Saharan Africa. Staff in the UoA’s three
 component units share and learn from each other’s EDI action plans.




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In devising its REF2021 policies, the UoA has ensured that our processes reflect our EDI
 commitments. UCL’s Code of Practice explicitly prohibits information on Output selection from
 use for appraisal, salary increments and promotion, a point consistently underscored in staff
 communications. A group of eight UoA staff, of whom half were women, conducted assessment
 of outputs. Undertaken by three UoA staff who had completed UCL’s mandatory REF EDI
 training, selection of outputs was also monitored centrally prior to finalisation. These data
 confirmed that publications by male and female staff were selected at statistical parity (1.01
 male, 0.98 female). BAME staff were somewhat more likely to have Outputs selected than non-
 BAME staff (1.17 BAME, 0.96 ‘white’). Evidence for staff with other protected characteristics
 was insufficient for meaningful analysis: enhanced data on staff with disabilities will be
 particularly desirable going forward. Our gender data for ICS selection compares favourably to
 the disciplinary norm in History in REF2014, in which over 70% of named PIs in ICSs were men.
 Women PIs led four of our five REF2021 ICSs (up from two of five in REF2014).

 REF2021 has seen a significant improvement in the gender balance of our staff and
 continued improvement in the racial and ethnic diversity of our permanent staff
 establishment. New appointments have improved HD’s gender profile: in REF2014, 10 of HD’s
 31 permanent staff (32%) were women; in REF2021,16 of 41 (39%) are female. Among HD’s six
 Professorial promotions during REF2021, half (Lo, Page and Robson) were women. As
 underlined in the 2018 RHS report, History is the fifth least diverse UK university subject in terms
 of race and ethnicity. Our appointment in 2019 of M.Smith, to a new chair and the Directorship
 of the LBS Centre, raised the number of black Professors in UK History departments from 3
 (2.2FTE) to 4 (3.2 FTE). This appointment enhances the UoA’s ability to provide a welcoming,
 inclusive research and training environment for BAME PhD students and ECRs. More broadly,
 our staffing profile reflects commitment to embed EDI in our hiring practices. Of 52 researchers
 in the UoA with a declared race, 45 (86.5%) are white and 7 (13.5%) BAME (an improvement
 from 8.11% in REF2014). In comparison, HESA statistics in the 2018 RHS race report found that
 93.7% of UK History staff were white and only 6.3% BAME. The UoA has a long road to travel to
 achieve comprehensive equality, but we are actively shaping disciplinary approaches to that
 goal while taking concrete steps to build EDI into our constituent units.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 HD, IAS and STS are located at the heart of UCL’s Bloomsbury campus. HD and STS are based
 in adjoining Georgian townhouses; IAS and its versatile, bookable Common Ground and
 Forum facilities (for public events and research workshops) are adjacent, in the building that
 houses UCL Library’s main History collections. HD, IAS and STS hold separate budgets, host
 distinct academic programmes and are administratively independent of each other. However,
 REF2021 has seen increasing collaboration among their researchers, exemplified by our
 successful bid for 2 Wellcome Trust University Awards in 2018. This joint initiative led to the
 appointment by HD of Leong (early modern European medicine and material culture) and by
 STS of Tousignant (twentieth-century African medicine). A common theme across the three units
 that compose our UoA is a significant growth in staff, resources and interdisciplinary research
 activity over REF2021.

 Grant applications and Income:
 The UoA’s externally-funded research benefits from comprehensive institutional support. Our
 ambition to support local, national and international collaborations aligns well with UCL’s


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 overarching research strategy. Our achievements since REF2014 complement UCL’s ambition
 ‘to nurture research leadership’ by maximising opportunities and career development while
 ‘amplifying the impact of their research’ (REF5a, 2.1). This robust infrastructure is reflected in
 the £8,136,946 research grant spend and £9,398,461 of new research awards reported by our
 UoA in REF2021.

 Although located in different Faculties, the UoA’s units draw from many common UCL facilities
 and support services—including the Library and UCL’s OA repository, UCLP, the European
 Research and Innovation Office and the Office for the Vice-Provost for Research (OVPR).
 They also benefit from distinctive support mechanisms at Faculty and Departmental levels.
 Enhanced support from professional services staff with expertise in grant capture, grant
 management and public engagement has assisted staff to apply for both individual and
 collaborative awards. Prospective PIs receive advice—ranging from help identifying appropriate
 funding schemes to detailed feedback on draft applications and mock-interviews—from a three-
 person team in OVPR. Since 2018, prospective HD Co-Is have also been supported by a
 dedicated staff member in SHS. Two full-time SHS professional services staff, appointed during
 REF2021, assist staff with planning, executing and reporting public engagement and impact
 activities. Staff in both OVPR and UCL Culture provide advice, funding (for example, the
 Beacon Bursary scheme) and training for public engagement and impact activities. Access to
 these experts—several of whom have previously worked at major funding bodies—has reduced
 the transaction costs and increased the success rates of our applications.

 Faculty and university pump-priming funds have also played an important part is diversifying the
 spectrum of staff making major grant applications. Funding tapped by Arena illustrates the range
 of these sources. In 2015 she received a £4,000 award from UCL’s ‘Grand Challenges’
 scheme to support her ‘Liberty: An Ancient Idea for the Contemporary World?’ conference,
 resulting in a special edition of the Journal of European Ideas (2018). In 2016, the Joint Faculty
 Institute of Graduate Studies awarded her £1,500 for ‘Reconstructing the Republic: Varro and
 His Citing Authorities’. A 2017 SHS Faculty Award (£2,000) then funded her ‘Digital Prototype
 for a Database of Republican Antiquarians’; in 2018, SHS Seed Funds of £2,000 supported her
 ‘Fragments of the Roman Republican Antiquarians’. The culmination of these successive small
 grants, which allowed a major project to develop organically over time, was Arena’s first
 collaborative project award in 2019, her ERC Consolidator Grant, ‘Ordering, Constructing,
 Empowering: Fragments of the Roman Republican Antiquarians’ (€1,902,704).

 To maximise the ability of staff and prospective PDRFs and PDRAs to benefit from these UCL
 resources, HD created a Director of Research (DoR) position in 2014. In addition to assisting
 staff and postdoctoral applicants with identifying external funding opportunities and providing
 detailed feedback on drafts of grant applications, the DoR advises on target journals and
 presses for book projects and on the design and delivery of impact agendas. They convene
 HD’s termly Research Committee, which since 2016 has included both Vaughan from IAS and
 an STS representative. The HoDs of both HD and STS sit on this research committee and
 collaborate in the UoA’s development of its REF strategy. Another essential aspect of the DoR’s
 role in staff development is systematic support for applications to assist Lecturer-level staff
 to obtain their first external grants. A grant from the BA/Leverhulme Small Grants scheme, for
 example, is supporting Ireton’s completion of her first monograph on ‘Untraceable Ideas? Black
 Thought in the Early Iberian Atlantic’ (2019-21); another has afforded Gibbs additional funding to
 make the transition from a first, dissertation-based book on Mandela’s Kinsmen (2014) to a new

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 project on taxation and state formation in South Africa (2019-22). Research for Sabapathy’s
 second monograph, a wide-ranging study of 13th-century Europe for the new Oxford History of
 Medieval Europe series, was likewise enabled by a twelve-month Leverhulme Trust Research
 Fellowship (2018-19).

 Infrastructure and facilities:
 The UoA’s research is strengthened by access to world-class libraries and rich collections
 in local archives and museums, amply supported by UCL collections. UCL Library’s annual
 expenditure of over £10 million on scholarly materials (REF5a, 4.2.3) affords first-rate access to
 scholarly journals, books and primary sources, enhancing the research of all researchers in the
 UoA. Electronic access to books in collections such as the Cambridge Core and to the many
 new digitised archival and newspaper collections purchased by UCL Library since 2014
 assists research undertaken remotely—an especial boon during the pandemic. Examples
 include China Online Journals, Civil War: Antebellum to Reconstruction, Index to Medieval Art,
 Latin American Weekly Report, and Mass Observation Online. Less than five minutes away,
 Senate House is one of the UK’s largest academic libraries for Arts, Humanities and Social
 Sciences, including over two million books, 50 special collections and 1,8000 archival
 collections. The SOAS Library (essential for Gibbs, Heffron, Lally, Lantschner, Lo, Robson and
 Tuncer) and the Wellcome Library and Collections (used extensively by Leong, Page,
 Tousignant, Vaughan and Werrett) are likewise immediately at hand. The British Library
 provides a primary research base across all time periods and geographical regions for our
 researchers. As the UoA’s profile has expanded geographically, the strength of its African and
 Asian Collections has further increased its importance for our research.

 Pre-existing institutional frameworks (operational during REF2014) have continued to enhance
 our interdisciplinary research environment while fostering public engagement. Work with
 UCL Museums and local cultural organisations illustrates our use of these resources. At UCL’s
 public Octagon Gallery, both STS’s Maclehose and HD’s Page were co-curators of ‘Eights’ in
 2015. An interdisciplinary public exhibition funded by UCL Culture, ‘Eights’ explored the
 function of the number eight in medieval and renaissance systems of measurement, cosmology,
 design and creativity. The same year saw Cain and Werrett (both STS) collaborate with Finn
 and PhD student Ewen (both HD) as co-curators of an exhibition at UCL’s Grant Museum.
 Entitled ‘Strange Creatures: The Art of Unknown Animals’, it historicised the first European
 painting of a kangaroo, a portrait by Stubbs saved for the nation by the National Maritime
 Museum (NMM), Greenwich.

 UCL’s European Institute—founded in 2010 and co-funded by SHS—has been a European
 Commission designated Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence since 2016, annually working with
 over 30 UCL Departments. It supported Körner’s ‘Passionate Politics’ programme (2014-17),
 which explored emotion and affect at key turning points in European history from 1789 to the
 present from historical, philosophical and political perspectives. Undertaken in collaboration with
 the Centre for Transnational History (which Körner has led since 2008), it offered workshops,
 ECR reading groups and an international symposium—all amplified by a website that had nearly
 153,000 unique page views between its launch in May 2015 and May 2016. A five-year award
 ($500,000) from Harvard University’s Hutchins Center for African & African American Research
 in 2015 supported the establishment of the Legacies of British Slave-ownership (LBS)
 Centre, building on externally-funded research undertaken in HD since 2009 and attesting to
 international recognition of the value of the project team’s work for trans-Atlantic collaborations.

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 New infrastructure developed since REF2014 also enriches our research. Staff in the UOA
 have proactively developed UCL’s OA infrastructure through UCLP. Cain, Finn and N.Miller
 all serve on boards that manage or oversee UCLP and its publications, providing leadership for
 an initiative that fully-funds the OA book publication costs for all UCL staff. Spanning topics from
 Ancient Knowledge Networks: A Social Geography of Cuneiform Scholarship (Robson, 2019) to
 Being Modern: The Cultural Impact of Science in the Early Twentieth Century (James, 2018),
 our eight UCLP books attest to the UoA’s commitment to reach audiences outside the academy,
 notably in the Global South. Staff at all career stages have made use of UCLP’s fully-funded
 OA platform. Teaching Fellows Jeppesen (now a Research Associate at Cambridge) and
 A.W.Smith (now a Senior Lecturer at Chichester) were the first History staff to exploit this
 opportunity, publishing a volume of essays based on a UCL conference they co-organised with
 HD financial support. Between March 2017 and July 2020, their Britain, France and the
 Decolonization of Africa was downloaded 55,925 times in 193 countries and territories, including
 42 African nations. Finn’s East India Company at Home, based on a Leverhulme Trust grant that
 engaged over 200 non-academic project associates, was accessed 58,443 times in 161 counties
 and territories between February 2018 and July 2020; its top downloading nations included India
 and Pakistan. Supported by professional expertise in UCL’s Information Services Division
 (ISD), staff in the UoA have also contributed to open scholarship by making large datasets and
 primary source materials available OA to other researchers and the public. LBS’s searchable
 database (documenting slave-ownership in the British Caribbean and compensation payments
 made by the British government after abolition) has added OA records of 16,000 new individuals
 and more than 7,000 estates since REF2014; on average, its website had 21,000 users per
 month during REF2021.

 Several University-wide funding streams enrich our international research. Global
 Engagement Fund partnership awards made to eight UoA staff, for example, enabled
 collaborations with the Universities of Osaka, Peking, Tohuku, Toronto and Witwatersrand. The
 UoA’s strategic goal of increasing opportunities for interdisciplinary research has also benefited
 from substantial new investment in REF2021. Central funding—such as the three-year award of
 over £481,000 from the Provost, which made the establishment of the IAS possible in 2015,
 and more modest sums accessed by individual researchers through both the Beacon Bursary
 and Grand Challenges schemes—have been instrumental for these new initiatives. The cross-
 Faculty IAS has provided a major mechanism for enabling collaborative research projects,
 building local, national and international networks while developing staff leadership potential.
 IAS’s constituent research centres provide interdisciplinary structures that have supported well-
 established and new foci of research in the UoA alike, demonstrating both the sustainability and
 the vitality of our research environment.

 UoA staff have been especially active in IAS’s ‘Area Studies Remapped’ initiative, a framework
 that explores and challenges area formation and sedimentation from multiple geo-political
 locations and disciplinary perspectives. Lo has convened the UCL China Centre for Health and
 Humanity, which now operates under the aegis of the IAS, since its establishment in 2011. The
 Centre brings together researchers in areas such as anthropology, architecture, global health
 and history, hosting ongoing postgraduate and postdoctoral exchanges with Peking University.
 In 2015, IAS enabled the creation of a new African Studies Research Centre, in which Gibbs,
 Tousignant and Vaughan all actively participate, as well as the Centre for the Study of South
 Asia & the Indian Ocean World (CSSA), of which Lally is the founding co-director and Finn and

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Frost members. 2020 saw these units augmented by the IAS’s Middle East Research Centre,
 with which Heffron, Robson and Tuncer are affiliated.

 Activities organised under these area studies rubrics benefit from space, staffing and publicity
 provided by IAS; they are further bolstered by funding from other IAS centres and central
 university schemes. Hosting a seminar series, ECR training workshops, debates, film showings
 and book launches, CSSA for example has supported initiatives that include its 2017-18 ‘India
 Voices’ series. With an interdisciplinary programme highlighting community-based and
 academic research and policy engagement (spanning history, geography, anthropology, biology,
 art, and healthcare), the Centre has drawn on awards to Lally that include £1,000 from IAS’s
 Centre for Critical Heritage Studies, £2,000 from UCL’s Global Challenges Fund and £5,000
 from UCL Grand Challenges. Both junior and senior staff in the UoA have gained research
 leadership experience at the helm of these structures (REF5a, 2.2.2): Lally joined HD as a
 Lecturer in 2014, while Lo was promoted to Professor in 2020. IAS support has enabled the UoA
 rapidly to establish a profile in fields previously absent from or under-represented in our
 research, embedding new and established researchers in interdisciplinary networks that also
 provide enhanced training opportunities for PGRs, ECRs and permanent staff.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Researchers at all levels within the UoA contribute actively to the local, national and international
 research base in History. Their contributions are both encouraged (with departmental financial
 support) and valued (in workloads and promotion cases, at Department and Faculty level). The
 range of our research collaborations, networks and partnerships reflects the broad spectrum of
 our research profile. We value diversity, and do not expect all staff to work in collaborative teams
 or to contribute in identical ways to the research base. Rather, we understand that the nature
 and extent of collaboration will vary among staff and over time and seek to support colleagues in
 securing funding and administrative support to develop partnerships, networks and
 collaborations appropriate for their career stage, family circumstances and research agendas.

 Conference, seminar, workshop and summer school organisation:
 Conference and workshop organisation allows staff to hone their articles and book chapters,
 enhance the training of PGRs and ECRs and test the potential of future joint projects. Some (but
 by no means all) of these contributions to the research base will result in edited volumes and/or
 substantial grant proposals. Recent examples of conference organisation include Tuncer’s
 (2018) joint LSE-UCL international conference ‘Beyond Decline: Globalisation and the
 Transition to Modernity in the Middle East and South Asia, 1600-1914’ and Lally’s 2018 ‘Putting
 South Asia on Display’, a workshop organised in conjunction with the British Museum.
 Werrett’s AHRC Network Grant (2016-18, £8,897) brought early career and senior researchers
 together with experts from the NPG, Natural History Museum, NMM and the Royal Society to
 explore ‘Joseph Banks and the Making of the Indo-Pacific World’. Geographically, the UoA’s
 collaborations in REF2021 have extended from the UK to research partners in (for example)
 Brazil, China, Ghana, Kurdistan, Malawi, Mexico and the US.

 The annual ‘London Summer School in Intellectual History’, co-convened by UCL and
 QMUL historians each year since 2012, exemplifies our use of London-based international
 collaborations to enhance training provision for the next generation of historians. Hosted by each
 university in alternate years, the School was held at UCL in 2015 (Lifschitz as director), 2017


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Stewart as director) and 2019 (Gowland as director). It is typically attended by c. 50
 participants, of whom c. 40 are PGRs and ECRs. At the Summer School, researchers at the
 start of their careers from the UK, continental Europe, North and Latin America and (in 2017)
 Ethiopia attend special workshops and masterclasses, receive feedback on their current
 research and advice on writing and publishing while discussing new publications in intellectual
 history with senior scholars.

 Collaboration centred in the research institutes such as the University of London’s School of
 Advanced Study is the most widely pervasive aspect of the UoA’s contributions to the research
 base. At the Institute of Classical Studies (ICS), ancient historians take turns to co-convene
 the ICS seminar, with Robson and van Bremen for example convenors in summer 2016.
 Heffron co-convenes the London Centre for the Ancient Near East’s seminar series at SOAS;
 Robson co-convenes the ICS Digital Classicists seminar. At the IHR, UoA staff in medieval,
 modern and early modern history co-convene a rich array of fortnightly seminars, together with
 researchers from over 20 UK universities. These forums play an instrumental role in developing
 PGR and ECR researchers nationally and internationally. As COVID-19 shifted IHR seminars
 from Bloomsbury to Zoomsbury, the international dimensions of this contribution to the research
 base increased apace. In total, 24 staff in the UoA have co-convened one or more IHR seminar
 series since 2014. Arranged in broadly chronological order, this includes: Sennis, ‘Earlier Middle
 Ages’; Corran, Dale, D’Avray, Lantschner, Page, and Sabapathy, ‘European History 1150-1550’;
 Gowland and Selinger ‘History of Political Ideas’; Peacey, ‘British History in the 17th Century’;
 Kaplan, ‘Low Countries Seminar’; Hoppit and Tuncer, ‘Economic and Social History of the Early
 Modern World’; Finn, ‘British History in the Long Eighteenth Century’; Finn, Hall and Sutcliffe-
 Braithwaite, ‘Reconfiguring the British’ (now ‘Britain at Home and Abroad’, with Sutcliffe-
 Braithwaite continuing as a convenor); Stewart, ‘Modern French History’; Körner, ‘Modern Italian
 History’; Goodall, Sim and A.Smith ‘North American History’; H.Jones, ‘War, Society and Culture’
 and N.Miller and Rath, ‘Latin American History’.

 Editorial and scholarly leadership:
 Contributions to editorial boards reflect the full range of staff expertise and both national and
 international recognition of the high calibre of research conducted in the UoA. Since 2014, 20
 staff, at all career stages, have acted as editorial board members of nearly 40 journals. A
 selective illustrative list includes: Balmer, Medicine, Conflict & Survival (2014-present);
 Ceccarelli, Journal of Epistolary Studies (2018-present); Goodall, Journal of American Studies
 (2015-present); Gouyon, Public Understanding of Science (2016-present); Hall, History
 Workshop (2014-present); Heffron, Archaeology and Text (2016-present); Hoppit, Economic
 History Review (2014-16); James, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews (2014-present); Jennings,
 Women’s History Review (2016-present); H.Jones, Journal of First World War Studies (2018-
 present); Kaplan, Tijdschrift voor geschiedenis (2014-present); Lo, Asian Medicine Tradition and
 Modernity (2014-present); Mata, Journal of Economic Methodology (2014-preesent); Peacey,
 History Compass (2014-present); Rath, Journal of Latin American Studies (2019-present);
 Schröder, Staatsdiskurse (2014-present); Sennis, Journal of Medieval Monastic Studies (2016-
 present); and Vaughan, Past & Present (2014-present).

 Several staff have also undertaken more substantial editorial roles. Agar was editor of British
 Journal for the History of Science (2014-16) and of BJHS Themes (2016-18); Robson was
 editor-in-chief of IRAQ (2017-18) and remains on its board; Werrett, is editor of British Journal
 for the History of Science (2018-present) and advisory editor of Isis (2018-present). Satzinger

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 was co-editor of Medizinhistorisches Journal (2015-18) and Sutcliffe-Braithwaite co-editor of
 Renewal: A Journal of Social Democracy (2016-present). Conway has been reviews editor of
 English Historical Review since 2016; Sabapathy was reviews editor of Speculum (2018-20).
 Monograph series likewise draw on the research expertise of senior staff in the UoA. Finn was
 an editor of Cambridge Social & Cultural Histories (2014-18) and is a series editor of CUP’s
 Modern British Histories (2019-present). Peacey is a series editor of Manchester University
 Press’s Politics, Culture and Society in Early Modern Britain (2014-present); Vaughan was an
 editor of Palgrave’s Cambridge Imperial & Postcolonial History (2014-17).

 Our staff are actively involved in learned societies across a range of specialisms. Ceccarelli
 was a Council Member of the Society for the Promotion of Hellenic Studies (2018-2020); Heffron
 is Secretary and Membership Secretary of the British Association of Near Eastern Archaeology
 (2017-present) and a Steering Committee member and Membership Secretary of the London
 Centre for the Ancient Near East (2015-present); Robson chaired the British Institute for the
 Study of Iraq (2012-17). Tuncer served as a Council member of the Economic History Society
 (2018-20). Commitment to the leadership and governance of the RHS, which is based
 physically in UCL’s main Library, is longstanding and substantial. A.Smith was Honorary
 Secretary (2013-16); Miller VP Research Policy (2013-16) and Finn successively President-elect
 (2015-16) and President (2016-20).

 Several senior staff have been members of major funding panels. Within the BA, Hoppit
 chaired the Early Modern History section’s grants panel from 2015-19. Balmer was member (and
 acting chair) of the ESRC’s GAP Panel B (2017-18). Finn served on the History sub-panel in
 REF2014 and is deputy chair of the REF2021 sub-panel. With Lo she served as a member of
 the Wellcome Trust’s 2018 Medical Humanities Expert Review Group. Satzinger was a
 member of ERC’s SH6 panel for Consolidator Grants (2014-18). Robson served on the 2019
 selection panel for UKRI’s GCRF Network Plus programme. Vaughan was a review panel
 member for the Medical Research Council’s GCRF Foundation Awards (2016-17) and for the
 Academy of Medical Sciences GCRF Foundation Awards (2017-18).

 Public engagement and pathways to impact:
 UoA researchers engage actively with multiple non-academic publics. These contributions
 include, but are not confined to, research on externally-funded collaborative projects. Casting a
 wide net, they predominantly focus on school pupils and teachers, the historically-curious
 general public, NGOs, government policy-makers and cultural and heritage organisations,
 spanning from public engagement to co-production. Featured in our five ICSs, the AHRC-funded
 projects of Stokes and Sutcliffe-Braithwaite, for example, use oral history interviews, witness
 seminars, public history events, film screenings and an exhibition to engage community
 members with their own histories even as they work to produce new primary sources for future
 generations of academic and public historians. Also showcased in an ICS, Robson’s AHRC-
 funded Nahrein Network collaborates with the Ashmolean Museum and Middle Eastern
 academics to develop a new generation of public historians in Iraq and neighbouring countries.

 Schools engagement is well-developed in the UoA. It has been undertaken locally and
 nationally by 20 staff since 2014, with sessions offered by Balmer, Collins, Conway, D’Avray,
 Draper, Gibbs, Goodall, Gowland, Heffron, Jones, Kaplan, Lally, Page, Peacey, Sennis, Sim.,
 A.Smith, Stewart, Sutcliffe-Braithwaite and Werrett. Lectures for school pupils and the ensuing
 discussions they prompt reflect specific research projects and publications undertaken in the

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoA. Balmer for example has lectured in London and North Yorkshire on the history of chemical
 and biological warfare; Conway has spoken in Northamptonshire, Hackney and Haringey on the
 American Revolution; Heffron has discussed her archaeological fieldwork in Turkey with
 students in North London; H. Jones shared her research on Germany, WWI and the Weimar
 Republic in both Coventry and Leicester; and Peacey lectured on the trial of Charles I, with
 repeat performances at two London schools stretching from 2014-19.

 Reflection on how to engage pupils meaningfully with history, notwithstanding the limitations of
 school curricula and finances, is informed within the UoA by active public engagement with a
 range of organisations outside the higher education sector. A.Smith’s 2014 BBC Radio 4
 programme, ‘How Do Children Learn History?’, drew on expertise honed by his membership of
 the AQA’s Advisory Board for History and Politics. Heffron has contributed to four schools-facing
 conferences at the British Museum and the Royal Asiatic Society (2016-18) engaging sixth-
 form pupils in the study of ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia. Sim’s 2016 schools’ engagement
 activities included an American Studies day for widening participation students at the British
 Library. Several staff have undertaken work with teachers to introduce their recent research to
 the curriculum. Goodall’s 2017 and 2018 lectures on the Cold War at the Prince’s Teaching
 Institute formed part of a subject training course for new teachers. The 2019 Teacher
 Fellowship programme undertaken by Draper and other LBS staff in conjunction with the
 Historical Association showcased LBS research on slavery and abolition, working with 29
 schoolteachers from across the UK to co-produce new resources for teaching these topics.

 In keeping with UCL’s longstanding commitment to ‘disruptive’ thinking (REF5a, 1), the UoA
 encourages staff to develop diverse pathways for public engagement. Several colleagues
 have brought challenging issues of identity and power, grounded in their research, into the public
 domain. Rath participated in a 2014 English PEN roundtable on freedom of expression in
 Mexico. His 2015 ‘Ayotzinapa: One Year After’ at UCL drew on his research to inform and
 contextualise public discussions of gross human rights violations in Mexico; his 2016 Senate
 House Library talk on ‘Authoritarianism and Resistance in Mexico, 1968-2000’ was informed by
 research in the Library’s collections and attracted an audience of c. 50. Sutcliffe-Braithwaite’s
 2015-16 public engagement activities included panel participation on Thatcherism and New
 Labour’s languages of class at the Southbank Centre and ‘Women of Battersea: From Protest
 to Punk’ at the Battersea Arts Centre. A 2016 invitation to participate in a Sydney book event,
 designed to introduce the general public to key Australian authors who had published on LGBT+
 themes, saw Jennings read a section of her Unnamed Desires to an audience of c. 400. Frost’s
 BA-funded Living with Violent Heritage Exchange offers multidisciplinary insights into
 relationships between heritage and conflict in post-war Sri Lanka, working collaboratively with
 academics at the Universities of Colombo, Melbourne and Western Australia.

 Expertise in contemporary politics and policymaking underpins our many engagements with
 government and NGOs. Agar served as the historical expert on the BA/Royal Society Data
 Governance working party (2016-17), leading to a report that culminated with the Prime
 Minister’s announcement of a Centre for Data Ethics. He also serves on the Royal Society’s
 Science Policy Expert Advisory Committee (2017-present). Balmer addressed WHO and
 United Nations audiences in Geneva (2015-16), drawing on his extensive research on chemical
 and biological warfare; in 2017, he participated in a Cabinet Office roundtable on international
 norms prohibiting chemical and biological weapons. In 2017. Sutcliffe-Braithwaite was co-
 organiser and speaker at a House of Commons Labour Party seminar on ‘Tacking Inequality’;

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in 2018, she was a keynote speaker (with MP Rachael Reeves) at the House of Commons at a
 seminar on contemporary political economy. Outside the UK, staff likewise work actively with
 government representatives and NGOs. Morris is co-author of a 2019 report on the effects of
 increased U.S. fentanyl use on opium production in Mexico which has major ramifications for
 international counter-drug efforts. Gibbs’s research in South Africa (2017-2019) entailed
 collaboration, interviews and policy engagement with the National Education Collaborative Trust,
 Mthatha and Mdukatshani (a rural development trust), with whom he co-authored a policy paper
 published by the (South African) Institute for Poverty Land and Agrarian Studies. Robson’s
 extensive work with governments and NGOs on cultural heritage preservation in Iraq features in
 our ICS submission.

 Museums and other cultural organisations are the institutions in which the largest number of staff
 engage adult public audiences. Examples include Balmer’s 2016 presentation at the Science
 Museum on the history and ethics of warfare; Conway’s 2017 National Gallery lecture on the
 Seven Years’ War, H.Jones’s 2018 presentation on Europe in 1918 at the Musée des Armées,
 Les Invalides, Paris; Kaplan’s 2014 lecture at the National Gallery on religion in Rembrandt’s
 Holland; Lo’s 2015 lecture at Kew Gardens on Sichuan pepper; and Peacey’s lecture at a
 Royal Academy ‘Lates’ evening, attracting 300 attendees. UoA staff have played sustained
 roles shaping cultural organisations’ research agendas and exhibitions. Rieger, an expert on
 modern technologies, was a conceptual adviser in 2017 for the V&A’s ‘Ocean Liners: Glamour,
 Style and Speed’ exhibition; H.Jones, who is a Fellow of the Imperial War Museum's Institute
 for the Public Understanding of War, was a consultant for IWM’s planned exhibition on ‘Sexual
 Violence and War’. Lally served as an external consultant for the Manchester Museum’s
 development of a new, permanent South Asia Gallery (2016-2020). Agar’s roles at the Science
 Museum include advising the Trustees’ Strategy Board and serving on the Collections and
 Research Committees; he is also a trustee and adviser to the British Library’s National Life
 Stories oral history projects. As a trustee of the V&A (2014-2018), Finn chaired the Museum’s
 Research Committee and served on its Collections Committee; in 2018, she was a member of
 the international panel that undertook a strategic review of the British Museum’s research
 profile for its trustees.

 Working in multiple languages and deploying a wide, interdisciplinary range of methodologies,
 the UoA has proactively engaged a broad spectrum of public and scholarly audiences. From
 outreach activities with schools designed to inspire the next generation to editorial work and
 collaboration with museum professionals, NGOs and government that advance new research
 frontiers, our staff have made sustained contributions to the History research base throughout
 REF2021.




                                                                                           Page 20
