Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Bradford

 Unit of Assessment: B11 Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure of the Unit

 Research in UoA B11 is based in the Faculty of Engineering and Informatics, with our
 academics drawn from the Department of Computer Science and the Department of Media,
 Design and Technology. The current horizontal Faculty structure, including six departments, with
 no hard-disciplinary borders, underpins a fundamentally interdisciplinary approach to research,
 while at the same time preserving the core identity of each department profile. This results in
 robust research interconnections across the computer science, media and engineering
 disciplines which emerge from fundamental research developed in each of them. The UoA B11
 research is organised through three Research Units (RUs), which are listed below.

 Artificial Intelligence and Visual Computing Research Unit

 This RU focuses on developing Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Visual Computing (VC)
 fundamental and applied research. Members of this RU have an established track record in the
 development of knowledge and technologies in Artificial Intelligence, Visual Computing, Data
 Mining, Machine Learning, Image and Signal Processing, Big Data, Data Analytics, Digital
 Health and medical imaging/diagnostics. Staff members are Abdullatif, Elshehaly, Mehmood,
 Neagu, Qahwaji, Trundle, Ugail, Wan and Zhang

 Computational Modelling Research Unit

 The RU contributes to theoretical aspects of (unconventional) computational models, quantum
 and membrane systems, formal verification and testing, and dynamic system safety analysis,
 with a proven strong international track record, publishing in high-impact journals and top
 conferences. The RU members have developed applications spanning qualitative and
 quantitative analyses of complex, concurrent and stochastic systems in high-performance
 computing environments, the use of computational models in manufacturing, as well as practical
 software engineering solutions to industrial problems and cross-disciplinary applications. Staff
 members are Gheorghe, Konur, Lefticaru, Lei and Vourdes.

 Internet of Things, Cyber Security and Networks Research Unit

 This RU contributes to cutting edge research in the development of knowledge and technologies
 in smart cities, citizen science, semantic stream processing, semantic deep learning, intrusion
 detection systems (IDSs), malware analysis, network traffic modelling, performance optimisation,
 mobile, wireless and satellite communication, and vehicular communications networks including
 aircraft and trains. The RU has strong interdisciplinary national and international collaborations
 through funded projects, research labs working on smart cities and Internet of Things (IoT)
 challenges such as Amsterdam Data Science, and organisations such as Digital Catapult, and
 West Yorkshire Combined Authority. Staff members comprise Awan, Connolly, Ghafir, Hu and
 Thakker.

 This organisational structure encourages fundamental research in core computer science areas
 and multi-disciplinary applications. New research facilities supporting multi-disciplinary research
 have been developed, such as the Centre for Visual Computing, the Advanced Automotive
 Analytics Lab, the IoT Innovation Lab, Cybersecurity Lab, the Computing Enterprise Centre and
 the Multimodal Biometrics Lab. More details are provided in Section 3.

 Research in the three RUs is managed by the Department Research Committee (DRC), which
 develops, monitors, nurtures and reviews research plans and decisions in accordance with the
 University’s strategy, evaluates research impact, sets priorities, allocates necessary resources
                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and provides consistent communication, and also supports and mentors research staff (in
 particular recently employed and junior staff).

 Research and Impact Strategy

 The Department’s post REF2014 strategic plan was based on the vision of developing high-
 quality fundamental and applied research, whereby personal research interests and genuine
 curiosity are merged with the University research strategy and growing sustainably through
 identifying and nurturing relevant research areas. This vision is supported by the following
 research objectives and an action plan.

 Research Objectives

 1. Improving the quality and quantity of research produced.

 2. Exploring and identifying emerging and futuristic research areas and key challenges.

 3. Developing strong and sustainable research infrastructure and organisation.

 Action plan

 The research objectives have been agreed with the Faculty Research Committee (FRC) and the
 DRC, and are implemented through a set of coherent actions, A1 to A5, leading to research
 outcomes.

 A1: Continuous improvement of the research outcomes [supporting objective 1]

 A list of highly regarded journals and conferences and research grant opportunities has been
 identified by DRC and staff members are encouraged to prioritise publishing and apply for
 projects, respectively. Both the FRC and the DRC have supported staff members by organising
 scientific seminars and establishing a Faculty-wide Early Career Research Forum (ECRF). The
 submitted research outputs and the volume of research and knowledge transfer grants (Section
 3) demonstrate the quality of our research outcomes.

 A2: Fostering new collaborations [supporting objective 1]

 A broad spectrum of collaborations, including projects, research seminars, visits and organizing
 joint events, with other high-profile national and international University research units (e.g. UK:
 Sheffield, Newcastle, Warwick, Nottingham; Europe: Genoa, Seville, Vienna; Other countries:
 UAE, Japan, India, China) and professional societies (e.g. British Computer Society (BCS),
 Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET), IEEE) are encouraged and supported in the
 UoA by the Department, Faculty and University. Joint seminars and talks, sandpit events and
 workshops are organised on regular basis, benefitting from our active representation with BCS,
 IET, Digital Catapult and funding through the successful Erasmus+ networks managed by the
 University and funded H2020 RISE projects.

 A3: RKT grants [supporting objective 1]

 The FRC actively monitors this activity and provides support to early-career staff members and
 peer-review of grant applications for all staff.

 A4: Identify and invest in strategic research areas [supporting objective 2]

 Our staff are involved in core and multi-disciplinary strategic research activities, such as Digital
 Health, AI, Multimodal Biometrics, Remote Sensing, Aeronautical Communications, 5G Wireless
 Communication and Systems, Networks, Smart Technologies, IoT, Cyber-Security, Automotive
 Analytics, Modelling and Formal Verification, Membrane Computing, Quantum Computing and
 Systems, High-Performance Computing, and Computational Biology. All staff members recruited
 during the REF period work in these areas. RUs are encouraged to strengthen their research in
                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 these areas by applying for internal and external research funding, advertising new multi-
 disciplinary PhD projects on FindaPhD, organising specialist events, publishing in high impact
 research avenues (as illustrated by the research outputs submitted), developing new external
 and internal, academic and industrial collaborations.

 A5: Organising the research and building infrastructure [supporting objective 3]

 The process of re-organising the research started by clustering RUs around three main research
 themes, encompassing the strategic research areas (mentioned above). These RUs represent
 the backbone of our research environment. Research at every level is supported by a nurturing
 environment that encourages cutting-edge and impactful research.

 As shown in Section 2, this UoA went through a major process of staff recruitment, since 2015
 we have appointed an anniversary chair (Gheorghe) and ten lecturers (Abdullatif, Connolly,
 Elshehaly, Ghafir, Konur, Lefticaru, Lei, Mehmood, Thakker, and Zhang).

 Our research environment enabled the production of significant impact in many disciplines:
 automated solar activity prediction (Qahwaji with NASA, Impact Case Study (ICS) B11-1
 “ASAP system makes prediction of solar activity faster, automated and more accurate”), and
 advanced face recognition (Ugail, ICS B11-2, “Deep face recognition accurately identifies
 suspects in international criminal investigations”).

 Our staff continue to make significant contributions supporting the University’s key research
 themes of Advanced Health Care, Innovative Engineering and Sustainable Societies. We have
 strategically targeted fundamental research contributions and applications in the UoA relevant
 interdisciplinary areas to these themes, as illustrated by projects mentioned in Section 3.

 Open Access and Ethical Policies

 The University has implemented a series of initiatives that encourage and incentivise staff to
 meet, not just the basic open access (OA) requirements of the REF process, but that go beyond
 these. Within UoA B11 DRC members have adopted the following practices:

 1. We actively promote OA and open research. OA promotion activities include presentations
    to faculty assemblies, checking open access compliance of publications and data, and
    advising academics on all aspects of OA.

 2. We operate a system of mandatory peer review of all grant applications. This process
    includes an element where OA considerations must be addressed. We ensure that we
    implement stringent data management plans for all data arising which may include, but is not
    limited to:

        •   Simulation results and experimental data are shared for use in validation or
            reproduction of the work undertaken. Readme files are included alongside all core
            data sets clarifying file naming conventions, units, acronyms and any other relevant
            information.

        •   Source codes are archived using the GitHub version control system, usually with an
            interface allowing non-specialists to gather data for their work.

        •   All public data sets could be given a DOI to aid discovery and linking e.g., by the
            promotion of data sets on academic social media and the study website.

 3. The peer-review process also requires reviewers to consider the extent to which applications
    have OA activities and funds embedded within them (where permitted by the funding
    agency). For example, funds may be requested to store data in national or international



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    database(s). Staff from the central Research and Innovation Services (RaIS) team will also
    check for the inclusion of OA activities when reviewing applications before submission.

 4. The University holds an annual open research day at which delegates can learn from experts
    about a variety of OA issues, such as optimisation of social media exposure, OA success
    stories from within the University, and guest speakers from external organisations such as
    the Patent Agency and ‘The Conversation UK’. Alongside the Open Research Day, the
    University holds pop-ups in key locations across the campus throughout the week.

 5. We actively encourage our staff to apply for the University's Research Development Fund
    (RDF), offering funds for gold OA publication of non-UKRI funded outputs and a monthly
    publication award, a requirement of which is that the output is available via OA, so
    incentivising OA compliance. Furthermore, access to any element of the RDF (e.g. pump-
    priming funds or conference attendance) is only available to staff whose outputs are OA
    compliant.

 6. We take the necessary steps (via the RUs) to make sure staff adhere to the University and
    funders’ publication policies, requiring that staff check with repository staff regarding OA
    compliance of their chosen journal.

 7. Social media workshops form part of the diet of training available to researchers. These
    workshops focus on the use of social media to open up the process of research, from
    ideation, to launch, to progress updates, to outputs and data beyond the researchers’ usual
    ambit. In addition, the OA team offers presentations at research away days, research group
    meetings, and research committees.

 The University of Bradford has its own Ethics Policy based on the UUK Concordat for Research
 Integrity. We rigorously ensure that those of our projects that involve healthcare aspects (e.g.
 gestational diabetes) or collection of personal data (e.g. H2020 eBORDER project) have the
 necessary ethical approval. We recognise that all researchers have an obligation to ensure that
 their research is conducted with honesty, integrity, openness, minimal possible risk to
 participants and themselves, and respect for other people, their values and their cultures. Our
 policy makes it clear that conducting research with integrity requires embracing intellectual
 honesty and accepting personal responsibility for one’s own actions. Researchers are expected
 to consider the ethical implications of their research and, depending on its nature, the cultural,
 economic, and social consequences of it. Researchers are also required to consider issues
 related to Trust and Privacy especially when processing personal data in line with the GDPR.

 Our researchers are required to consider their research from the perspective(s) of the
 participants and any other people who may be affected by it and are encouraged to undertake
 the University’s unconscious bias e-learning training module to assist with this.

 Research misconduct is monitored via the University’s management structure or the University’s
 whistleblowing procedures. Both routes require reporting the misconduct to the Chair of the
 Committee for Ethics in Research and via that body, to the University’s Ethics Committee. An
 annual research misconduct report is produced by the Chair of the Committee for Ethics in
 Research. This is presented to University Council and made publicly available via the University
 website, in accordance with the concordat for research integrity to which the University is a
 signatory.

 Comprehensive training in the application of research ethics is available at the University. There
 is mandatory training for newly appointed researchers as part of their induction process. All
 researchers are required to undertake a training session, which is available twice a year.




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People

 Our staffing strategy aims to create critical mass in research activities by supporting research
 groups’ activities while giving individuals the freedom to pursue new opportunities. Our staffing
 strategy starts with initial recruitment and includes the management and retention of competent
 and motivated staff carrying out the right roles at the right time to meet their personal,
 departmental and wider university goals. We have clear leadership roles, to create sustainable
 and vibrant teams able to work in a supportive environment while working across discipline
 boundaries to deliver our vision.

 Our priority has been to recruit high-quality academics with an international reputation and
 excellent research promise. Each member of the staff is part of one or more of the three RUs.
 Since 2014, a significant number of new staff members have been appointed who each enhance
 the research portfolio of every RU. An Anniversary Chair (Gheorghe), and ten Lecturers (three in
 2014-2015 and the rest in 2019) joined one or more of our three RUs as core or associate
 members. The ten lecturers are Konur, Thakker, Lei (all in 2014-15), Mehmood, Ghafir,
 Abdullatif, Lefticaru, Zhang, Elshehaly, and Connolly (in 2019). They have received University
 and Faculty support for their research development and expansion of their grant portfolios - all
 staff members recruited in 2014-2015 have secured considerable grant income as Principal
 Investigators, as demonstrated in Section 3. Among these new staff, there has been one
 promotion to Reader (Konur) and two to Senior Lecturer (Thakker and Lei).

 Each RU comprises a dynamic blend of senior staff, providing research leadership, and high-
 calibre early career researchers (ECR) working together in a highly collaborative environment.
 Career development is a priority for the UoA and is addressed via an annual performance
 review. Academic staff workload is managed by allocating credits for publication of research
 outputs, research project management, proposal writing, postgraduate researcher (PGR)
 supervision, scholarship activities and conference attendance as well as research-related
 management and academic citizenship roles. Performance of staff is monitored regularly and
 reviewed annually, where staff development, goals and mechanisms for support are discussed,
 and individual action plans developed. Academic staff are actively encouraged to take
 leadership courses offered by the University and other organisations regionally and nationally.
 Examples of these leadership courses include the Bradford Leader programme (nine days
 residential) and the Bradford:Fellowships programme.

 Each ECR is assigned an experienced staff member, who is not their line manager, as a mentor
 to support their academic career development, including support for professional development
 and qualifications. The mentor gives appropriate guidance in all aspects of their roles, including
 research activity planning, publication targets, grant applications, collaborative developments in
 academia and industry, recruitment of PGRs and RAs, and attendance at relevant conferences.
 ECRs have a reduced or minimum teaching load and no administrative duties for their first three
 years, providing them with more time and freedom to focus on their research activities and
 development. They are supported by the Faculty to attend conferences and networking events.
 ECRs are required to complete the Bradford:Fellowships programme, which provides training in
 teaching and knowledge transfer skills. ECRs prepare a research development plan, supported
 by their mentors and in line with the Faculty’s strategy and plans, highlighting their career
 development opportunities and setting personal development goals aimed at enhancing their
 research profiles. ECRs are encouraged and supported to progress to principal PhD supervisor
 status through initial involvement as Associate Supervisors. The intention is that, by the end of
 the planned period, the new members will have developed the required skills and competencies
 for research. Newly appointed ECRs review and discuss with mentors their research plan
 annually, over three years.

 Early career academics in the UoA are part of the faculty-wide ECRF, which aims to provide a
 supportive and vibrant environment for ECRs to interact in an interdisciplinary forum, conducive
 to the achievement of personal and Faculty strategic goals. The forum participants meet monthly
 and receive support in the development of their research, including finding collaborations, advice

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and help on research funding and grant writing, and overall research matters. In the last few
 years, the ECRF has organised events on topics such as grant applications (EPSRC New
 Investigator Grant, writing your proposal step-by-step), industry-focused R&KT funding,
 Intellectual Property (IP) development, the Researcher Development Concordat, and the
 Research Information System.

 Support capability for the UoA is complemented by the central RaIS team who support staff
 training in IP protection, business development, grant development and submission, industrial
 partnerships, and local business engagement, amongst other activities. RaIS helps with
 identifying appropriate research funding and developing and submitting applications. A wide
 range of training events is available for all staff members to develop and enhance various
 research competencies, including finding research funding, writing successful grant applications,
 effective research supervision, research ethics, and using social media for supporting research
 activities. Also, RaIS circulates regular research bulletins and newsletters by email. Our staff are
 supported in preparing high-quality research applications by rigorous internal peer review by two
 senior colleagues and by our dedicated Faculty Research & Knowledge Transfer Business
 Development Manager and RaIS.

 Post-Doctoral Research Assistants (PDRAs) & Visiting Research Fellows

 The nature of our research has facilitated a high number of externally funded PDRAs and visiting
 research fellows working alongside our research-active staff. Over the REF period, we have had
 20 externally funded PDRAs and visiting researchers (mainly from overseas research
 institutions). All these PDRAs and visiting researchers have contributed significantly to our
 research environment, providing a comprehensive global view and additional maturity of thought
 and practice to support our research culture, in particular our PGR progression. All the PDRAs
 working with us have improved their academic and technical skills and progressed with their
 careers. Some examples include:

 -   Dr Saeed Sharif who worked on NHS Funded project with Qahwaji went on to become
     Senior Lecturer at the University of East London

 -   Dr Raluca Lefticaru worked with Gheorghe (2016-2018) and then joined the University of
     Sheffield as PDRA until Sept 2019, then joined the University of Bradford as a lecturer.

 -   Dr Longzhi Yang worked with Neagu as PDRA and now is an Associate Professor at
     Northumbria University

 -   Dr Moi Hoon Yap worked with Ugail as a postdoctoral researcher is now a Reader at
     Manchester Metropolitan University

 -   Peter Lowry worked with Ugail as a KTP associate now is a full-time forensic scientist at
     Acume' Forensics

 -   Dr Cheng Yong Qiang with Hu as a PDRA (2013-2015) and went on to become a Senior
     Lecturer in the University of Hull

 -   Dr Adeel Ahmed with Hu as a RA (2017-2018) and now a Data Engineering Manager at the
     Adecco Group

 -   Dr Fouad Benamrane with Hu as a PDRA (2018-2019) and now a NPI Nuage/SDN
     Consultant in Nokia, Morocco

 -   Dr Doanh Kim Luong with Hu as a PDRA (2018-2021) and now a software developer at
     SAP, Belfast.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 PGR Recruitment, Supervision and Submission

 During the REF period, we revised PGR processes to encourage the recruitment of quality PhD
 students. The PGR processes include competitive advertisement of PhD applications on
 platforms such as FindAPhD, with staff competing for advertisement slots; reaching out to
 various strategically important geographical areas for recruitment through marketing and
 outreach activities; a three-step verification process for selection of the candidates including
 interviewing every candidate; the encouragement of cross-disciplinary supervisory team
 formation and inclusion of relevant ECRs; and documenting the process of selection. Staff are
 encouraged to bid for studentships to provide fully-funded PhD positions available through
 research bid funding and industrial partnerships – a proportion of our PGR community over the
 period of this REF period has resulted from such scholarship (notable funders include
 Commonwealth Scholarship, EU, PTDF Nigeria, and EPSRC). The supervision and PGR
 progresses are strictly monitored by the PGR office – monthly, annually, and at three other
 milestones of the PhD (transfer to PhD, transfer to write-up, and viva voce thesis defence).

 During the census period, our research groups have supervised to graduation 79 PGRs, which
 includes a significant number of students holding prestigious Research Council awards, and
 international government funding (from Iraq, Libya, Nigeria, Oman, Egypt, Jordan, Pakistan,
 Japan).

 Our PGRs benefit from studying in an interdisciplinary academic environment with access to an
 excellent range of well-equipped research and office facilities. All PGRs are provided with a
 desktop computer, access to our laboratory facilities, technician support and funds for travel and
 conference attendance. PGRs receive an annual subvention of £500 towards research
 expenses, to cover the costs of laboratory work, field research and conference attendance. For
 seminars, we have a monthly ‘best presentation’ award. The Faculty holds an annual PGR
 conference (Annual Innovative Engineering Research Conference (AIERC)) for postgraduate
 students, who are all encouraged to participate. This gives opportunities for PGRs to present
 their research, discuss new research ideas, and get feedback. It is also a good opportunity to
 gain valuable experience in presentation and communication skills. At this conference we have a
 number of awards including ‘best paper’, ‘best-published work’, ‘best presentation’, and ‘best
 poster’ - all these awards monetarily contribute to research and training expenses for PGRs. We
 also run a PGR research seminar series where the students present their work weekly to an
 audience of fellow PGRs, staff, and members of the public. These seminars have continued
 virtually during the pandemic. One PGR is selected each month for a ‘Monthly Best Presentation
 Award’ – decided by a panel of three reviewers. In addition, our researchers (PhD, PDRA,
 visiting research fellows and full-time staff) are encouraged to work together to share ideas and
 to generate lively discussion through seminars and workshops. In 2020 we established a new
 “IET on Campus” PGR society which is managed and led entirely by our PGR students under
 the mentorship of a senior staff member (Qahwaji). This PGR society will organise events and
 activities which will be funded and sponsored by IET.

 All PGRs have a support committee, with a Principal Supervisor and one or two Associate
 Supervisors. PGR progress monitoring, in ensuring support for students to timely completion, is
 a high priority for the PhD supervisors. All PGRs are required to agree a Personal Development
 Plan with their supervisors at the beginning of their study, and there is a rigorously enforced
 system for recording both PGR progress and regular formal meetings between PGRs and their
 supervisors. In addition to the monthly monitoring process, an annual monitoring report is
 formally completed by the PGR and main supervisor, allowing for progress issues or skill
 development needs to be identified and tackled by the supervision team and PGR director.

 We place great emphasis on PGR training and support, integrating students into the research
 community, supporting them to fulfil their development plans and providing them high quality
 personal, professional and career development opportunities. The University is a signatory to the
 Researcher Development Concordat and fully committed to implementing its principles for the
 career development of researchers. In addition to the technical skills and development training

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 programmes provided by the Faculty, the University library and staff development provide a
 comprehensive programme of research and transferable skills training (including employability
 skills).

 Towards the end of their first year PGRs are required to prepare and submit a Transfer Report
 that is read by two assessors, not involved in the supervision of the student. There is then a viva
 voce assessment at which a decision is made to recommend the student’s transfer to full PhD
 registration status or to propose additional work that is required before this recommendation can
 be made. This supporting environment has helped boost our PGR completion rates. During this
 REF period, there were 79 PhD completions.

 Equality and Diversity

 All staff involved in the recruitment and selection process are trained on equality, diversity and
 unconscious bias by completing an e-learning modules, followed by one day of directed training.
 We are proud that our staff come from diverse backgrounds, which enables us to build a more
 inclusive culture for supporting staff and students.

 For both staff and students, there is explicit information in our recruitment literature to encourage
 applications from minority backgrounds and female computer scientist/engineers, to widen
 access to computer science. Three new female members of staff (Lefticaru, Elshehaly, and
 Connolly) were recruited recently and a number of female PDRAs are contributing significantly to
 the delivery of our funded projects ( Sadaf, Palczewska, Kotiyal).

 All our 19 staff are permanent staff with no known disabilities. There are 15 male and 4 female
 staff members.

 The ethnic status of staff is shown below.

   Ethnic Status                       Headcount       Percentage

   Arab                                2               10.5%

   Asian or Asian British - Indian     1               5.3%

   Asian or Asian British - Pakistani 2                10.5%

   Chinese                             4               21.0%

   Other Asian Background              1               5.3%

   Other Ethnic Background             4               21.0%

   Other White Background              1               5.3%

   White                               4               21.0%




                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Contract levels are shown below:

     Contract levels (HESA Codes)       Headcount       Percentage

     F1 (Professor)                     7               36.8%

     I0 (Reader, Senior Lecturer)       2               10.5%

     J0 (Lecturer B)                    6               31.6%

     K0 (Lecturer A)                    4               21.1%



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Computer Science Funding Profile

 Our grant applications and awards are diverse and the funder base for our UoA has three main
 components. Firstly, RKT applications and awards with industrial partners targeting Innovate UK
 or Access Innovation funding schemes. Secondly, a solid profile of EPSRC and European Union
 grant applications and awards schemes and calls. Thirdly, industry funding, including multi-
 disciplinary collaborations with other University departments (e.g. Automotive Engineering,
 Wolfson Centre for Applied Health Research, DVC (Research, Innovation & Engagement) HEIF
 grants) and organizations such as the NHS National Innovation Centre, Digital Catapult and
 Translate Medical Technologies.

 Given the growing visibility of and interest in digital technologies (including AI and Big Data),
 Computer Science funded projects cover all three of the University’s main research themes:
 Advanced Healthcare, Innovative Engineering, and Sustainable Societies. Some relevant
 examples are shown below, demonstrated by externally funded RKT projects:

 Advanced Healthcare:

 Some examples include:

 -    “Efficient 3D Corneal Modelling”, Oct 2013 – Oct 2017, value GBP250,000, externally funded
      by NHS National Innovation Centre.

 -    FP7 SEURAT-1 COSMOS project “In Silico Models for the Prediction of Human Repeated
      Dose Toxicity of Cosmetics to Optimise Safety”, Jan 2011-Dec 2015, value EUR572,000 for
      Bradford from EUR6,790,000 project.

 -    Three Small Grants funded by the Digital Catapult on 5G and Healthcare, 2018, value
      GBP10,000.

 -    Digital Health Projects funded by Translate, 14 funded student summer projects, GBP2,500
      each, 2017-2020.

 -    HEIF projects funded through internal PVC Research Office call on COVID-19 impact in
      2020, total GBP60,000.

 -    HEIF projects funded through internal grant schemes on Air Quality monitoring in 2020-2021,
      total GBP50,000.



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Innovative Engineering:

 Some examples include:

 -   EU H2020 SESAR JU SINAPSE – “SDN Architecture with AI to improve aeronautical
     communictions, performance, security and efficiency”, 2020-2022, total value EUR853,000,
     Bradford EUR284,000.

 -   EU H2020 Cleansky2 JU COMET – “Future Cockpit Network Communications Environment
     Testing”, 2018-2022, total value EUR9,600,000, Bradford EUR907,000.

 -   Innovate UK SINCBAC: “Secure Integrated Network Communications for Broadband and
     ATM Connectivity”, 2012-2014, total value GBP1,000,000; Bradford GBP588,000.

 -   Innovate UK “HARNet Harmonised Antenna, Radio and Networks”, 2014-2015, total value
     GBP11,500,000; Bradford GBP766,000.

 -   EPSRC project: “Light-weight Verification of Synthetic Biology”, 2018-2021, GBP352,000.

 -   H2020 project funded by European Commission Research and Innovation call: H2020-
     MSCA-ITN-2016 (Marie Skłodowska-Curie Innovative Training Networks), “SECRET: SEcure
     Network Coding for Reduced Energy nexT generation Mobile Small cells”, November 2016-
     November 2020, EUR3,300,000.

 -   FP7 project “First European Comprehensive SOLar Irradiance Data exploitation”,
     EUR2,000,000.

 -   Jaguar Land Rover AAA project Advanced Powertrain Reliability R&D - Intelligent
     Personalised Powertrain Health Care (InPowerCare), in excess of GBP500,000.

 -   European Space Agency (ESA) funded project: “Solar Events Prediction system For Space
     Launch Risk Estimation”, In collaboration with the Technical University of Catalonia and the
     University of Malaga (Spain), Sep 2014-2016, EUR100,000.

 -   Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions, Research and Innovation Staff Exchange (RISE), Call:
     H2020-MSCA-RISE-2019, "Secure and Wireless Multimodal Biometric Scanning Device for
     Passenger Verification Targeting Land and Sea Border Control", EUR1,000,000, between
     five European partners.

 -   Six Innovate UK KTP and EU Access Innovation projects with industry (e.g. Intelligent
     Manufacturing for Rakusen’s Ltd., 2017-2019, Smart Network Traffic Monitoring with Xalient
     Ltd., 2020-2022).

 -   InnovateUK funded KTP project with Hebe Works Limited, Leeds, 18-month project, 2015-
     2016, GBP104,000.

 -   KTP with Exa Networks, “Classification of Web contents using Machine Learning”,
     GBP140,000, Funded by Innovate UK and Exa Networks Ltd, June 2018-May 2020.

 -   MotiVar: Motivating weight loss through a personalised avatar - with collaborators from
     School of Health, University of Bradford, King’s College London, University of Leeds and Mid
     Yorkshire Hospitals, funded by NIHR, value GBP252,000, April 2017 – September 2020.

 -   ‘Fragmented Heritage' From the Kilometre to the Nanometre: Automated 3D Technology to
     Revolutionise Landscape, Site, and Artefact Analyses, AHRC Digital Transformations
     Programme Theme Large Grant awarded– with Dr Andrew Wilson and Dr Adrian Evans
     (School of Archaeological and Forensic Sciences), and external/international collaborators
     such as Dr Nicholas Ashton (British Museum) and Dr Louise Leakey (East Africa), value

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     GBP1,900,000, July 2013 – December 2020; joint award with the School of Archaeological
     and Forensic Sciences.

 -   Development of the HALO Biometric Custody Suite - with Acume’ Forensics, KTP funded by
     Innovate UK, GBP153,000, June 2016 – January 2018.

 Sustainable Societies:

 Some examples include:

 -   European Council (ERDF Interreg North Sea) funded project on Smart Cities and Open Data
     REuse: SCORE, 2017-2021, grant value: EUR2,800,000.

 -   British Council SITARA project on sustainable smart grids, 2016-2018, GBP150,000.

 -   Innovate UK funded KTP project on Artificial Intelligence in Immigration Law with A, Y & J
     Solicitors, London. 24-month project, 2020-2022, funded for GBP175,000.

 -   Innovate UK and direct industry-funded projects, such as KTP “Decision Support System for
     Sustainable Housing” with Incommunities, 2015-2017, GBP120,000;

 -   KTP “Open Data for Smart Cities” with HebeWorks Leeds, Innovate UK Urban Living:
     Integrated Products and Services competition: Binnovation - Using IoT technology for
     household waste, 2015-2017, value GBP104,000.

 -   Connected Placed Catapult project on Horizon Scanning of Integrated Urban Planning for
     Net Zero Carbon Emissions, GBP15,000.

 -   GCRF funded PhD studentship on the use of drones for undiscovered landmines in
     archaeological sites, GBP73,000.

 As explained in Section 2, we have appointed new staff members (with a mixture of experienced
 staff and ECRs joining across all our RUs). They are starting to contribute significantly to our
 research bidding activities, also bringing their own industry and network opportunities. Today the
 largest rise in grant bidding in this UoA comes from joint funding applications submitted by ECRs
 and senior staff working together. This is a direct result of the implementation of the support
 mechanisms described above to support all staff, in particular ECRs.

 The UoA has maintained its strong industrial links over the REF period, undertaking research
 and knowledge transfer contracts with industrial funders (such as Jaguar Land Rover: over
 GBP£500,000 in the AAA Lab). Examples also include knowledge transfer with SMEs, for
 example, Exa Networks, A Y & J Solicitors, Xalient Ltd, with a value exceeding GBP600,000.

 Looking forward we are committed to continue our engagement with EPSRC, EU and Innovate
 UK, and enlarge our international collaborations and funding (e.g. in direct-funding calls with
 Canada, Brasil, China, India, Japan, and EU countries). Our research groups and research
 directions are aligned with the priority areas of these funding bodies. All research groups are
 also encouraged to diversify their funding portfolio and apply for grants from, for example, the
 Royal Society, MRC, NIHR, Wellcome Trust and ESA.

 Infrastructure and facilities

 Our physical infrastructure is based around specialised spaces housing offices and specialist
 labs for individual research units. The highly-specialised labs support the depth and breadth of
 experimental and computational activities required to develop the quality output and impact
 delivered within the research themes:

 •   The Centre for Visual Computing (CVC) brings together computational, physiological and
     psychological expertise to undertake world-class research and development in digital
                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     imaging, visualisation, human visual perception, computer-based simulations and machine
     learning. Research within CVC utilises a suite of modern 3D non-contact scanning and 3D
     printing devices, visible and thermal imaging systems, eye trackers, an industry standard 21
     camera motion capture system and a state-of-the-art digital arts centre.

 •   The Advanced Automotive Analytics (AAA) Laboratory is an interdisciplinary
     collaboration between researchers in Computer Science and the Automotive Engineering
     Research Centre, focused on research and development of big data science methods and
     solutions to enhance vehicle reliability throughout the lifecycle – from design to service and
     reuse. The AAA Lab provides a set of world-class computational and analytics research
     expertise and facilities (internal and cloud big data storage, access to the UoB High
     Performance Computing (HPC) Cluster, big data analytics processing GPGPU hardware and
     software). These are used for knowledge discovery from complex automotive engineering
     challenges with fresh innovative machine learning techniques, funded by renowned industry
     partners and organisations (Jaguar Land Rover, the SAFI consortium original SAFI
     Consortium Partners: Airbus, Renault, PSA and Valeo, IAV) and University competitive HEIF
     calls.

 •   Bradford Computing Enterprise Centre (CEC) is a software development unit providing
     knowledge transfer and custom software solutions to clients using a combination of
     academic researchers and students' problem-solving expertise and skills. The beneficiaries
     of short-term projects are local SMEs, funded through a variety of sources including Access
     Innovation, the former European Commission Erasmus+ programme, Innovate UK and
     industry funded projects. Expertise is provided by academic staff supported by a full-time
     R&KT Development expert and R&KT Business Development Manager, with teams of
     undergraduate second and final year, Masters and PhD students. Facilities include a
     dedicated specialist CEC computing lab, meeting and interview facilities with a variety of
     hardware equipment (data servers, workstations, laptops, EPOC+, R-Pi etc) and access to
     online storage and processing equipment.

 •   Interdisciplinary Research Centre in Cyber Security (IRC Cyber Security) brings
     together academics from Computer Science, Engineering, Peace Studies, Social Sciences,
     Management, and Law to work on cybersecurity and cloud computing-related research
     projects in a lab with a variety of state-of-the-art computing facilities. This research centre
     has strong links with members of the West Yorkshire Police Counter Terrorism unit and
     works on joint projects.

 •   The CS Arrack lab was recently built to facilitate various testing methodologies for
     developing effective techniques to detect and/or prevent various sophisticated current and
     potential future cyber-attacks. The test laboratory includes state-of-the-art computing
     facilities and powerful switches to analyse high volumes of traffic.

 •   The IoT Innovation Lab provides physical and collaboration infrastructure to support
     research in IoT and Smart Cities. The lab has state-of-the-art equipment, including sensors,
     drones, network traffic monitors, high-performance computing, and dedicated datasets, for
     supporting research, development, and teaching. The lab’s facilities were part of our
     expertise/offerings in six successful research proposals (combined value for UoB share of
     over GBP700,000 from European Union, Innovate UK, Digital Catapult, and HEFCE).

 •   The Future Ubiquitous Networks Research Lab with state-of-the-art facilities including a
     high-performance computer for data-intensive AI training, an ADS-B radio transceiver set for
     anti-jamming trials, an inhouse flight simulator, a CISCO switch and a Software Defined
     Networking software platform.

 •   The Multimodal Biometrics Lab, which is the newest lab in CS, fully funded by the H2020
     project eBORDER, to establish biometric data capturing suite for capturing 3D facial images
     and videos and other biometric data (e.g. fingerprints, iris, etc). The lab contains a variety of
                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    3D cameras, infrared cameras, iris scanners, fingerprint scanners, powerful workstations,
    and secure data storage facilities. The lab focuses on the development of cutting-edge
    imaging and machine learning technologies coupled with data fusion techniques for
    delivering real-time automated person identification technologies.

 Computer Science researchers also have access to several university research facilities such
 as:

 The High-Performance Computing (HPC) Cluster facility, which provides a powerful platform to
 accommodate large memory and parallel processing applications. The HPC provides over 10
 times the capacity available on a typical desktop workstation, allowing otherwise impossible
 calculations to be carried out. With a diverse range of benefits, the HPC is providing solutions in
 processing real-life big data using advanced deep learning technologies.

 Digital Health Enterprise Zone (DHEZ) programme is a GBP13,000,000 partnership led by the
 University of Bradford and backed by investment from the City of Bradford Metropolitan District
 Council and the UK government. The DHEZ facilities include business incubation space, a
 lecture theatre with Tech-Living Lab observatory space, Exhibition space, a Healthcare Analytics
 lab and a Technology House/Living Lab. The Technology House is a two bedroom house, built
 within the campus, containing advanced sensor technology designed to monitor and capture
 data on movement and daily living activities. The property utilises state-of-the-art technologies
 including embedded electronics, mobile, wireless and satellite communications, biosensors and
 biomaterials, and big data analytics.

 The Wolfson Centre for Applied Health Research (CAHR) brings together researchers from the
 Universities of Leeds and Bradford with clinicians from Bradford Teaching Hospitals NHS
 Foundation Trust to do research on three UK health priorities, which are Healthy Childhood,
 Healthy Ageing and High Quality and Safe Care.

 Staff and PGRs in the UoA have access to extensive general and dedicated computing facilities
 within the Faculty and across the university. Each researcher is provided with hi-spec desktop
 PCs suitable for the level of their computational investigation, installed with generic research
 software (e.g. MATLAB, visual studio, AutoDesk, others). The Faculty annually renew the
 license of specialised software for research purposes, for example, MATLAB. Both the faculty
 and the university provide dedicated IT support teams to provided professional and technical
 service to all staff and students. Grant holders are provided with virtual machines for hosting
 project web pages and code repositories.

 Technical support is provided by 14 Technicians plus two apprentices. We have signed up to the
 Technician Commitment which provides development opportunities via the National Technicians
 Development Centre (https://nationaltechnicianscentre.ac.uk).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Overview

 Most of our research is multidisciplinary and our staff are highly collaborative. Since 2014 we
 have worked on funded projects with around 20 companies and more than 50 universities;
 examples are given below. During the same period, we have published with over 250 co-authors
 that are external to this UoA, including more than 130 international collaborators, over 100
 outside Computer Science and over 20 industrial/clinical. These collaborations are vital for our
 research strategy and successes. The great majority of our funded research projects involve
 substantive collaboration with internal and external researchers, businesses, or medical
 partners.

 We have strong research links with Bradford Council, Bradford Royal Infirmary, Leeds Institute
 of Health Sciences, Leeds General Infirmary (Neurology Dept), Bradford Institute for Health
 Research (BIHR), the Wolfson CAHR, and tens of SMEs. The collaborations include publishing
                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 joint papers, joint supervision of PhD students, access to specialised datasets for analytics
 purposes, and joint applications for research funding. For example, our collaboration with
 Biomedical and Electronics Engineering resulted in many H2020 projects (e.g. eBORDER,
 SECRET, SESAR, Cleansky2), a funded PhD project with LGI (Ramzi Jaber) and a new pending
 KTP application with Vision Surgery Ltd. Working with colleagues from other disciplines and
 other research units is a common practice for staff in our UoA. This is evidenced by the
 tremendous breadth of disciplines and processes, such as synthetic biology (funded through
 EPSRC research grants), optimising industrial processes (Innovate UK KTP projects), creating
 cloud-based data analytics environments for monitoring computer networking activities (Access
 Innovation funding), multimodal biometrics (H2020 eBORDER), 5G technologies (H2020
 SECRET), EU project Smart Cities and Open Data REuse (SCORE), two Digital Catapult funded
 projects on 5G and Urban Planning, 3D modelling of the Cornea (NHS-funded 3D Cornea
 project), the prediction of Solar Energetic Particles (ESA-funded project).

 Our researchers are also involved in cutting edge research and the development of technology,
 in collaboration with prestigious national and international collaborators. Some examples are
 shown below:

 The development of the Communication Management Platform (CMP), which is fundamental in
 the modernisation of air traffic management (ATM) systems in Europe and was also integral to
 the realisation of the EU Single European Sky ATM Research (SESAR) vision to progressively
 increase the level of automation support, the implementation of virtualisation technologies and
 the use of standardised and interoperable systems.

 The development of Data and Model Governance for Predictive Toxicology, an integral part of
 the COSMOS Space platform, which has been taken to industry level by partner R&D
 companies.

 The development of a smart production control system for Rakusen's Ltd (UK-based food
 manufacturer) to improve the production of quality products based on real-time data-driven
 decision-making models. The project has been shortlisted for KTP Best of Best 2020. The
 success of the project has been in several media outlets, including The Manufacturer and Food
 Manufacture.

 The development of an automated content classification system for optimal web content filtering
 performance. The system is developed in collaboration with Exa Networks, one of the key
 Internet Service Providers for Schools across the UK, where web filtering solutions have a major
 impact on end-users (primary and secondary school children).

 Development of a technology-centric Citizen Science as a Service (CSaaS) framework for event
 monitoring - used in real-world flood monitoring use cases with two large communities in
 England and Scotland.

 Development of an UrbaN observatory for Indoor air Quality monitoring (UNIQ) using low-cost
 IoT devices and used to support Bradford's Clean Air Zone.

 Other examples include an advanced communication management platform (Hu with Thales),
 monitoring network traffics (Konur with Xalient), intelligent monitoring of web contents (Lei with
 Exa Networks), AI-based decision support system for UK Immigration Law (Thakker with A Y & J
 Solicitors) and extracting patterns from automotive powertrain health care data (Neagu with
 Jaguar Land Rover).

 Involvement with Professional Societies

 The UoA strategy to actively engage and facilitate innovation bridges to sister disciplines has
 promoted active staff memberships in professional bodies’ (IET, BCS) events. Some of our staff
 are fellows of BCS (Awan), IET (Qahwaji), Institute of Physics (Vourdas), IEEE (Zhang -Senior
 Member), founding members of the IET executive committee on Healthcare (Qahwaji), the IET
                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Engineering Safety Policy Panel (Qahwaji), IET Technical Assessors (Qahwaji), and members of
 the International Membrane Computing Society (Gheorghe, Konur).

 Our staff are also serving on the boards of Digital Catapult, West Yorkshire Combined Authority,
 Industrial Centres of Excellence (ICE), Bradford District & Craven Digital Programme Board, IET
 Executive Committee on Healthcare. Additional benefits of our interdisciplinary research include
 collaborations with industry and colleagues in research-informed teaching, industry participation
 in showcases and the Industry Advisory Board and participation in knowledge transfer for SMEs
 through schemes such as Access Innovation and direct funding.

 Supporting Academic Activities

 Our staff serve as Associate Editors for journals such as IEEE Access, Expert Systems, Journal
 of Intelligent Manufacturing (JIMS); Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory (SIMPAT,
 Elsevier); PLOS ONE; PeerJ Computer Science; and Journal of Membrane Computing
 (Springer). They also serve as guest editors for established journals such as Expert Systems,
 Multimedia Tools and Applications (Springer), Multimedia Systems (Springer), IEEE Access,
 Future Generation Computer Systems (Elsevier), Computers, Materials and Continua (Tech
 Science Press), Mathematical Problems in Engineering (Hindawi), Concurrency and
 Computation: Practice and Experience (CCPE, Wiley), Neural Computing & Applications
 (Springer), Soft Computing (Esevier), Theoretical Computer Science (Elsevier), Natural
 Computing (Springer), and Biosystems (Elsevier).

 Our researchers are heavily involved, as reviewers, in supporting the peer-review process for
 many leading journals such as: IEEE Access, IEEE Industrial Informatics, IEEE Transactions on
 Reliability, IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing, IEEE Transactions on
 Control Systems Technology, IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, IEEE Transactions on
 Industrial Informatics, IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, IEEE Systems, IEEE
 Internet of Things, Solar Physics, ACM Transactions on Autonomous and Adaptive Systems,
 Expert Systems, Artificial Intelligence, Microelectronics, Multimedia Tools and Applications,
 Future Generation Computer Systems, Journal of Supercomputing, Space Weather, Neural
 Computing and Applications, Reliability Engineering and System Safety, Fuzzy Sets and
 Systems, Defence Technology, Algorithms, Engineering Computations, Royal Society Open
 Science, Journal of Intelligent Systems, Journal of Software Engineering and Applications,
 Energy and Environment, Sustainable Cities and Society, Theoretical Computer Science,
 Information Systems, and more.

 As further evidence of esteem, UoA staff have been invited to deliver many talks including Data
 Science in Spacecraft Missions & Space Research workshop (Royal Statistical Society-London
 2016), IEEE ICSPIS 2018 (Dubai), Industry 4.0 HTU 2019 (Amman) United Nations Institute for
 Training and Research (UNITAR) Digital Policing Conference 2020, 1st and 2nd International
 Forum on Frontiers of Automation and Artificial Intelligence (FAAI 2019 & 2020), Cyberworlds
 2020, UTM Distinguished Lecture, AI Tech North (2019, 2020), 35th Asian Bankers Association
 General Meeting and Conference, SKIMA 2017, ACIT2015 and ICIT2015. Our staff are also
 involved in the organisation of international conferences acting as conference chairs for many,
 such as IEEE FiCloud, MobiWis, CMC2019, CMC2017, SSBSE 2019, A-MOST 2020, A-MOST
 2021, BDCloud-2020, DSS-2018, OBD 2015, UKCI2014, and EDMA 2019, EDMA 2020.

 Our researchers (Neagu, Gheorghe, Hu, Ugail, Vourdas, Ugail, Qahwaji, Konur, Thakker) are
 recognised as experts and are members of the EPSRC Peer Review College or are frequently
 asked to review UKRI applications, evaluating proposals for funders including EPSRC, NERC,
 BBSRC, MRC, NIHR, Innovate UK, British Council, EC H2020 (expert evaluators), and Sêr
 Cymru II (Welsh Government fellowship programme). Our staff are also involved in the
 evaluation of international projects for international award funding bodies such as The Swiss
 National Science Foundation (SNSF), the Cyprus Research and Innovation Foundation, the King
 Fahd University of Petroleum & Minerals (KFUPM – KSA), MITACS Canada, and the Austrian
 Research Promotion Agency (FFG).

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Engagement with research users and the public

 Engagement with research users is an important aspect of our research strategy and culture.
 Our researchers are actively working with multidisciplinary partners delivering smart
 technologies to different users. The current users of our technologies include space agencies
 (NASA, ESA), various elements of the NHS (including Bradford and Craven Clinical
 Commissioning Group), local authorities (e.g. Bradford Council, Aberdeen City Council),
 charities (Well Bradford), and industry (from local SMEs to large multinationals (e.g. Thales). We
 have established different points of access to our experts and research to enable external
 interaction. During the REF period we have been delivering several IET sponsored events every
 year (e.g. seminars, workshops, public lectures) delivered by our experts and collaborators and
 usually attended by professionals and members of the public. These events have proven to be
 very successful for engaging both the public and professions, and for providing excellent
 networking opportunities. These events have continued online during the pandemic. Some of the
 topics covered in these events include 5G technologies, Digital Health, Space Weather
 Prediction, Smart Cities, Agile Techniques, IoT, AI and Big Data. The National Science and
 Media Museum hosts public nights, called Lates Nights, and we contributed to different Lates
 events on topics related to Space, Human Faces, and Games. These events are attended by
 several hundreds of members of the public. Our staff have also delivered public talks to different
 astronomical societies, such as the West Yorkshire Astronomical Society and Huddersfield
 Astronomical Society. Our experts were also involved in different events sponsored by the
 Digital Catapult and Satellite Applications Catapult. Our EU funded projects (SECRET,
 eBORDER, SCORE) run dedicated knowledge transfer events informing the public and
 interested professionals about our research and development activities in cutting edge topics
 such as AI, 5G, IoT, and Multimodal Biometrics. Our staff are frequently interviewed by media
 outlets and newspapers discussing news events such as the Khashoggi murder, solar storms,
 air quality, 5G developments, healthcare technologies, and women in STEM. In addition, our
 staff are actively engaged, through cross-sector and community-led programmes, in several
 initiatives to bridge the digital divide in Bradford and equipping secondary school students with
 the digital skills necessary for the post-pandemic recovery of the city.




                                                                                           Page 16
